ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

Building on the heritage of its futures exchanges (CME, CBOT, NYMEX and COMEX), CME Group serves the risk management and investment needs of customers around
the globe. CME Group, formerly known as Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc., became publicly traded in December 2002. We completed our acquisition of CBOT in July 2007 and NYMEX in August 2008.

Our customer base includes professional traders, financial institutions, institutional and individual investors, major corporations, manufacturers,
producers and governments. We break our member customers into four segments based on trading activity: proprietary trading firms (primarily algorithmic); banks and investment banks; top hedge funds; and “other,” which includes smaller
member firms and individual traders. We also have a fifth segment of customers, which is comprised of our non-member customers who pay higher fees than the member category. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 140 clearing firms. One
firm represented 11% and one firm represented 10% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue in 2009. Should a clearing firm withdraw, we believe that the customer portion of the firm’s trading activity would likely transfer to another
clearing firm of the exchange. Therefore, we do not believe we are exposed to significant risk from the loss of revenue received from a particular clearing firm. Our trading volume can be seasonal, and historically, we have experienced higher
sequential volume during the first and second quarters followed by decreases in the third and fourth quarters of the calendar year.

During
2009, our industry, and the financial services area in particular, faced many challenges. However, we sought opportunities amongst the challenges, and we were steadfast in pursuing and executing on these opportunities as described in this Report.

Highly Liquid Markets

Most Diverse Product Line

We serve the risk-management needs of customers around the globe, offering the widest range
of benchmark products available on any exchange and covering all major asset classes. Our products provide a means for hedging, speculation and asset allocation relating to the risks associated with, among other things, interest rate sensitive
instruments, equity ownership, changes in the value of foreign currency and changes in the






prices of commodities. These include products based on the entire U.S. interest rate yield curve, equity indexes, foreign exchange, agricultural commodities, energy, metals and alternative
investment products.

Futures and options provide a way to protect against—and potentially profit from—price changes in financial
instruments and physical commodities. Futures contracts are legally binding agreements to buy or sell something in the future, such as livestock or foreign currency. The buyer and seller of a futures contract agree on a price today for a product to
be delivered and paid for in the future. Each contract specifies the quantity of the item and the time of delivery or payment. An option on a futures contract is a right, but not an obligation, to buy or sell a futures contract at a specified price
on or before a certain expiration date.

Superior Trading Technology

We strive to provide the most flexible architecture in terms of bringing new technology, innovations and solutions to the market. Our CME Globex electronic
trading platform is accessible virtually 24 hours a day throughout the trading week. Our platform offers:



•high speed trade execution;



•vast capabilities to facilitate the most complex and demanding trading;



•direct market access;



•fairness, transparency and anonymity; and



•global distribution and international telecommunications hubs in key financial centers in Europe, Asia and Latin America.

Customers benefit from direct connectivity, ongoing development efforts, a single source for customer support and highly efficient access to real-time
market data. The platform is continuously enhanced to serve our customers’ needs for high-speed, high-volume capacity, improved options trading capabilities and a range of new products. In 2009, we were named the number one technology innovator
byInformationWeek. It was also the sixth consecutive year we were named to this prestigious list of technology innovators. CME Globex handled an average daily volume of 8.3 million contracts in 2009. Our all-time record of
20.5 million contracts was on January 22, 2008 (representing volume of 13.2 million CME products, 6.1 million CBOT products and 1.2 million NYMEX products). To ensure that we can meet the heavy demands placed on our systems,
we have rigorous requirements for the performance, scalability, reliability, ease of use and costs of our infrastructure.

Global Reach

We offer a number of programs and products designed specifically to appeal to a global audience. Customers from all over the world
trade our products, primarily electronically. As described below under “Growth Strategy—Globalizing the Business,” we continue to expand our business globally by educating non-U.S. customers on the benefits of our product suite and by
entering into strategic alliances, such as our relationships with BM&FBOVESPA S.A. and the Korea Exchange Inc. and our most recently completed partnership with Bursa Malaysia Derivatives Berhad.

Financial Safeguards

We own our own
clearing house—CME Clearing. Our integrated clearing function is designed to ensure the safety and soundness of our markets. CME Clearing protects the financial integrity of our markets by serving as the counterparty to every
trade—becoming the buyer to each seller and the seller to each buyer—and limiting credit risk. It is responsible for settling trading accounts, clearing trades, collecting and maintaining performance bond funds, regulating delivery and
reporting trading data. CME Clearing limits the accumulation of debt from trading losses with twice daily mark-to-market settlement.






In 2009, our industry was subjected to increased concerns about counterparty credit risk stemming from the
financial crisis that began in 2008. During such times, our financial safeguards continued to provide our customers with transparency and liquidity in all asset classes. Importantly, none of our customers incurred a financial loss due to a
counterparty failure. Following our merger with NYMEX, we extended the benefits of our clearing model to the over-the-counter market through CME ClearPort, which is a comprehensive set of flexible solutions for mitigating counterparty risk in
over-the-counter trading. In December 2009, we also began providing clearing services for credit default swaps. Basically, a credit default swap contract provides the buyer with protection against specific credit risks. We believe that providing
clearing services to the credit default swap market will provide greater transparency, security and stability to that marketplace.

As of
December 31, 2009, we maintained approximately $83.7 billion in cash, investments and letters of credit related to performance bonds, security deposits and other collateral of which $11.4 billion was in excess of the clearing house requirements
we set for our customers. Performance bonds are deposits required from our clearing firms to ensure that they can cover potential losses in connection with their trading positions. We require these deposits as part of our financial safeguards to
help ensure that clearing firms can meet their obligations to their customers and to CME Clearing.

Ownership of our clearing house also
enables us to more quickly and efficiently bring new products to market through coordination of our clearing functions with our product development, technology, market regulation and other risk management activities.

History

CME was founded in 1898 as
a not-for-profit corporation. In November 2000, CME demutualized and became a shareholder-owned corporation. As a consequence, we adopted a for-profit approach to our business, including strategic initiatives aimed at optimizing trading volume,
efficiency and liquidity. In December 2002, CME Holdings completed its initial public offering of its Class A common stock. In July 2007, CME Holdings completed its merger with CBOT Holdings. As a result, we acquired CBOT. CBOT is a leading
marketplace for trading agricultural and U.S. Treasury futures as well as options on futures. In August 2008, we merged with NYMEX Holdings and acquired NYMEX and COMEX, its wholly-owned subsidiaries. On NYMEX, customers primarily trade energy
futures and options contracts, including contracts for crude oil, natural gas, heating oil and gasoline. On COMEX, customers trade metals futures and options contracts, including contracts for gold, silver, copper and aluminum.

Our principal executive offices are located at 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606, and our telephone number is 312-930-1000.

Growth Strategy

Increased market awareness
and acceptance of derivatives, increased price volatility, technological advances and the increasing need for counterparty risk mitigation and clearing services create significant opportunities for growth. We believe that we can capitalize on these
trends and build on our competitive strengths by implementing the following strategies:



•growing the core business, including expanding into complementary businesses;



•globalizing the business; and



•serving the over-the-counter markets.

Growing the Core Business.We intend to advance our position as a leader in the futures industry by growing our core business. As part of this initiative, we plan to continue to generate
organic growth through the launch of new products, expanding on the strength of our existing benchmark products and by enhancing our customer relations to allow us to cross-sell our products.






We plan to continue to work with existing and potential customers to develop new futures and options
products that provide an array of relevant risk management tools. We are also enhancing our marketing capabilities with a focus on customer education, advertising and public relations to cross-sell our existing products to our current customer base.
We continue to communicate our unique benefits—a secure, effective and cost-efficient place for customers to come and manage their risk through our diverse products, liquidity, anonymity and central counterparty clearing. We continue to look
for ways to build upon our success as we continue to grow our business in areas such as emerging markets and the over-the-counter market.

On
February 10, 2010, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement with Dow Jones in which we would take a 90% ownership interest and Dow Jones would own the remaining 10% in a new joint venture that will own the Dow Jones Indexes,
which include the Dow Jones Industrial Average and approximately 130,000 index properties. Pending regulatory approval and completion of customary closing conditions, the transaction is expected to close during the first quarter of 2010. This
venture creates a new opportunity for us to grow our index business and to further diversify our revenue streams by building on our existing brands and expanding the global reach of Dow Jones’ index creation and calculation services businesses
across complementary asset classes, including cash, derivatives and customized over-the-counter markets.

Globalizing the Business.

We will continue to explore opportunities to position CME Group to benefit from growth in key geographies by targeting global customers, making strategic investments and leveraging our diverse product offerings.

Serving the Over-the-Counter Markets.We continue to expand our business serving the over-the-counter markets by developing over-the-counter
products and services along with new capabilities and functionalities and entering these markets through acquisitions, strategic partnerships and commercial arrangements. As a result of our merger with NYMEX Holdings in 2008, we now own ClearPort.
Launched in 2002 to provide centralized clearing services and mitigate risk in the energy marketplace, CME ClearPort now clears transactions across a broad array of products around the world with tailored offerings for the needs of each market with
the benefit of central counterparty clearing. During 2009, we launched more than 330 products on CME ClearPort and cleared an average of more than 494,000 contracts daily.

In 2009, we restructured our joint effort with Citadel Investment Group related to credit default swaps to target clearing-only services. Beginning in December 2009, we began providing our clearing
solution for the credit default swap market which delivers:



•customer segregation and a portability framework that protects customer positions and margin in the event of a clearing member default;






•clearing of credit default swap trades at the point of execution, which provides immediate cleared trade confirmation and settlement, thereby limiting
credit exposure;



•migration of legacy non-cleared positions to cleared trades;



•the ability to leverage existing relationships with our clearing firms; and



•our more than 100 years of experience in clearing, settlement and risk management.

Our cleared credit default swap products comprise the highest volume Markit CDX and Markit iTraxx indices. They are designed to mirror bilateral
over-the-counter contracts. We also support trade submission through CME ClearPort, enabling connectivity from any affirmation/confirmation or trading platform.

Products

Interest Rate Products.Our interest rate products enable banks and other financial institutions worldwide to hedge interest rate risks, and in turn help to reduce the overall cost of borrowing and financing. Our interest rate
products allow our customers to execute transactions across the entire U.S. dollar-denominated yield curve using some of the world’s most actively traded futures and options products. Customers may manage short-, medium- and long-term interest
rate risk using our products based on Eurodollars, U.S. Treasuries, swaps and other dollar-related instruments. In 2009, we extended our relationship with the British Banker’s Association with a long-term agreement for our use of its London
Interbank Offered Rate to settle various interest rate products, including our benchmark Eurodollar contract. As a result of our acquisition of CBOT, our interest rate products include CBOT’s thirty-year U.S. Treasury bond futures and options
on futures; ten-year, five-year and two-year U.S. Treasury note futures and options; interest rate swap futures and options; and federal funds futures and options. In 2009, we launched three-year Treasury note futures. In January 2010, we launched
our Ultra T-bond futures contract. To date, this is the most successful new interest rate product launch in our history in terms of volume and open interest growth since launch.

Forty-two percent of our overall annual trading volume in 2009 and 26% of our clearing and transaction fees was based upon our interest rate products. In 2009, we experienced an overall decline in
interest rate volume due largely to the credit crisis and the Federal Reserve Bank’s zero interest rate policy for short-term interest rates. Several macroeconomic factors that drive interest rates have begun to stabilize over the course of the
year, including improvements in liquidity and credit spreads, but areas of weakness remain. In 2010, we plan to continue our efforts to expand our customer base and increase international participation through additional marketing efforts and
educational programs. We will also look to expand our benchmark products.






Equity Products.Our equity products permit investors to obtain exposure, for hedging or
speculative purposes, to changes in the weighting of one or more equity market sectors more efficiently than by buying or selling the underlying securities. By allowing investors to effectively manage stock market risks, our equity products increase
investor confidence and overall participation in these important markets.

We are a leading equity index marketplace, offering futures and
options products (including our E-mini contracts) on key benchmark equity indexes covering small-, medium- and large-cap companies in the U.S., Europe and Asia. These include the Standard & Poor’s, Dow Jones, NASDAQ, Nikkei, MSCI and
FTSE/Xinhua indexes, and others. We have exclusive licensing arrangements with Standard & Poor’s Corporation (S&P), NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. (NASDAQ OMX) and Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (Dow Jones), which allow us to offer
futures and options on futures on their indexes, including our contracts based on the S&P 500 Index, the NASDAQ-100 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average. As previously discussed, we have also entered into a definitive agreement with Dow
Jones to create a joint venture which will create new opportunities for growing our index business. For a detailed description of these licensing arrangements, see the section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled “Item 1.
Business—Licensing Agreements.”

Trading in our equity products represented 28% of our total trading volume and 24% of our clearing
and transaction fees during 2009.

We believe our leading market position in equity products is a result of the liquidity of our markets, the
status of the S&P 500, the NASDAQ-100 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average indexes as the principal U.S. financial standards for benchmarking stock market returns, and the appeal to investors and traders of our E-mini products and other
equity products and our CME Globex platform. These investors include public and private pension funds, investment companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and other financial services companies that benchmark their investment performance to
different segments of the equity markets.

We believe future growth in our equity products will come from continued counterparty credit
concerns, continued education of our customers as to the benefits of our equity product portfolio and our trading platform to serve their risk management needs, and the benefits of futures products over cash equities. We believe that our equity
volumes may continue to be impacted by and are in large part influenced by the trading volume levels of the underlying markets as well as the level of market volatility.

Foreign Exchange Products.

Today, we offer approximately 40 foreign exchange futures
and approximately 30 foreign exchange options on futures products, covering major as well as a broad array of emerging market currency pairs in more than 20 different currencies.

In 2009, we saw an average daily volume of 624,000 foreign exchange contracts, with a notional value of $79.8 billion a day. Trading in our foreign exchange products represented 6% of our total trading
volume in 2009 and 6%






of our clearing and transaction fees. In 2009, while the broader over-the-counter FX market volume declined by roughly 25% based on central bank turnover statistics, CME Group’s average
daily volume for foreign exchange products was flat when compared with 2008. We believe this result is largely due to the breadth of our product coverage and diversity of our customer base as the global FX market was marked by extreme market
volatility, changes in global interest rates and increased risk aversion by market participants resulting from the credit crisis.

We believe
future growth in our foreign exchange product line will come from expanding and diversifying our product suite and customer base. We continue to expand our foreign exchange options product suite to appeal to a broader array of customer segments. As
we continue to expand our global footprint in the foreign exchange market, we expect increased trading volume from customers outside of the United States. We also expect an increased demand in the over-the-counter market for cleared products, which
we have been targeting to serve.

Commodity Products.Our commodity products help establish benchmark prices and play an
important role in risk management. These products provide hedging tools for our customers who deal in tangible physical commodities, including agricultural producers of commodities and food processors. Commodity products were our only products when
our exchange first opened for business. We have maintained a strong franchise in our commodity products, including futures contracts based on cattle, hogs, pork bellies, lumber, dairy products, soybeans, corn, wheat, oats and rough rice. We also
added 11 agricultural swaps on CME ClearPort. Commodity products accounted for 7% of our trading volume and 10% of clearing and transaction fees during 2009.

Energy Products.Following our acquisition of NYMEX and COMEX, we now offer the most extensive and liquid energy complex in the world, including Light Sweet Crude Oil (WTI), Natural Gas
(Henry Hub), and electricity products. Many of our energy contracts are benchmarks that set the price for these resources worldwide. In 2009, we launched over 300 new energy products on CME ClearPort in response to customer demand stemming from
counterparty credit risk concerns. Energy products accounted for 15% of our trading volume and 29% of clearing and transaction fees during 2009.

Metal Products.Our metals futures markets include full-size contracts on gold, silver, platinum, palladium, copper and steel; as well as E-mini contracts for gold, silver and copper. We also extended our CME ClearPort
clearing services to London gold futures. Metal products accounted for 2% of our trading volume and 5% of clearing and transaction fees during 2009.

Market Data and Information Products.Our markets generate valuable information regarding prices and trading activity in our products that we believe enhances the appeal of our products. The dissemination of real-time data
generates revenues and supports our customer base with timely market information. We sell our market data, which includes information about bids, offers, trades and trade size in our products, to banks, broker-dealers, pension funds, investment
companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, individual investors and other financial services companies or organizations that use our markets or monitor general economic conditions. We distribute our market data over the CME market data platform
directly to our electronic trading customers as part of their access to our markets and to quote vendors who consolidate our market data with that from other exchanges, other third-party data providers and news services, and then resell their
consolidated data. Revenues from market data products totaled $331.1 million, or 13% of our total revenues, in 2009.

Sophisticated
quantitative approaches to risk management as well as customer time sensitivity have created new needs, uses and demands for trading-related data and analytics. This timely information has become even more important in light of the volatility and
uncertainty in today’s markets. We continue to enhance our current market data and information product offerings by creating new value-added services to complement our market data products, including databases, analytical tools and other
services to assist end-users. Our market data was significantly enhanced in 2009 with the expansion of futures market depth to include additional order information. Our real-time web-based market data application, CME E-quotes, experienced growth in
subscribers in 2009 as we added NYMEX and COMEX data and as subscribers looked for a more cost-effective solution. CME DataMine, our historical market data service, continued to have strong demand from the hedge fund and algorithmic trading
community to power their trading models.






As part of our market data and information products business, we also supply services to S&P and the
Dubai Mercantile Exchange in connection with the usage reporting, contract administration and associated billing and revenue collection for the display and integration of their market data into our standard market data distribution. We are the
exclusive distributor of Dow Jones Index data from our market data distribution platform. We also provide access to all prices for products listed on the Minneapolis Grain Exchange and the Kansas City Board of Trade, which are available for
electronic trading on CME Globex. In 2009, we began offering real-time market data on our CME market data platform for BM&FBOVESPA as well. We believe that there will be further opportunities to continue leveraging our market data distribution
capabilities with new or existing strategic partners.

We believe that there has been a decline in subscriptions of market data due primarily
to the consolidation of many of our customers and related headcount reductions as a result of the recent financial crisis. Based upon historical trends, we believe that real-time market data subscribers will increase again as unemployment numbers
begin to improve in the financial services industry.

Execution

Our primary trade execution facilities consist of our CME Globex electronic trading platform and our open outcry trading floors in Chicago and New York City. These execution facilities offer our customers
immediate trade execution and price transparency and are supported by substantial infrastructure and technology for order routing, trade reporting, market data dissemination and market surveillance and regulation. In addition, trades can be executed
through privately negotiated transactions that are cleared and settled through our clearing house.

Electronic Trading.Our CME
Globex electronic trading platform maintains an electronic, centralized order book and trade execution algorithm for futures contracts and options on futures contracts and allows users to enter orders directly into the order book. In 2009, 81% of
our average daily trading volume was executed electronically, compared with 80% in 2008. During 2009, approximately 72% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue was derived from electronic trading.

Open Outcry Trading.We also offer our members the ability to execute transactions in an open-auction format on our trading floors—a
centralized meeting place for traders and floor brokers to trade our products. Orders by market participants not physically located on the trading floor are communicated to floor brokers. Current market information and news are displayed on
wallboards hung above the trading pits. In the second quarter of 2008, we integrated the CME and CBOT trading floors at one location at 141 West Jackson Boulevard in Chicago. As a result of our acquisition of NYMEX, we now operate open outcry
trading in New York City at One North End Avenue. We completed the integration of the NYMEX and COMEX trading floors into one floor in the second quarter of 2009. During 2009, approximately 11% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue was
derived from open outcry trading.

Privately Negotiated and Over-the-Counter Transactions.In addition to offering traditional
open outcry and electronic trading through the CME Globex platform, we permit qualified customers to trade our products by entering into privately negotiated transactions, which are reported and included in the market data we distribute. We
also clear, settle and guarantee these transactions through our clearing house and CME ClearPort. These transactions provide our customers with the flexibility to negotiate their own prices, trade a wide array of financial and commodity products,
and still take advantage of our financial safeguards. During 2009, approximately 17% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue was derived from this type of trading.

Clearing

We own and operate our clearing house—CME Clearing—that clears, settles
and guarantees every futures and options contract traded through our exchange, in addition to over-the-counter products cleared through CME ClearPort and credit default swap contracts. Our integrated clearing function is designed to ensure the
safety and






soundness of our markets. Ownership and control of our own clearing house also enables us to retain the revenue associated with both the trading and clearing of our products. By owning our
clearing house, we control the cost structure and the technology development cycle for our clearing services. It helps us manage our new product initiatives without being dependent on an outside entity. It also benefits our customers by creating
operational, risk management and product benefits. Additionally, owning our own clearing house allows us to generate additional revenue by providing clearing services to other exchanges.

In 2009, our clearing house cleared an average of 10.3 million contracts daily and 2.6 billion contracts overall. As of December 31, 2009, we maintained approximately $83.7 billion in cash,
investments and letters of credit related to performance bonds, security deposits and other collateral deposited by our clearing firms and, during 2009, we transferred an average of approximately $3.0 billion a day in settlement funds through our
clearing system. In addition, our clearing house guarantees the performance of all our contracts with a financial safeguards package of approximately $9.3 billion (as of December 31, 2009). During 2009, we submitted an application to the
Financial Services Authority to become a UK Recognised Clearing House. Based on growing demand for centrally cleared solutions in global financial markets, our efforts to launch CME Clearing Europe are intended to provide greater efficiencies to our
European customer base during local market hours. The EMEA region has been a significant source of growth for our business, and we have experienced volume growth during non-U.S. trading hours. As part of our global growth strategy, CME Clearing
Europe will help to extend the safety and security of central counterparty clearing to our European clients, both through our initial offering of credit default swaps clearing and additional locally relevant products we plan to offer in the future.

The clearing function provides three primary benefits to our markets: a reliable credit guarantee; efficient, high-volume transaction
processing; and cost and capital efficiencies. The services we provide can be broadly categorized as follows:



•market protection and risk management;



•transaction processing and position management;



•settlement, collateral and delivery services;



•cross-margining and mutual offset services; and



•investment services.

Market Protection and Risk Management.Our clearing house guarantee of performance is a significant attraction, and an important part of the functioning of our exchange.

Central counterparty guarantee.Because of this guarantee, our customers do not need to evaluate the credit of each potential counterparty or limit
themselves to a selected set of counterparties. The benefits of centralized clearing have been made even more apparent during the recent period of financial uncertainty. Although not a guarantee of future performance, in our more than 100 year
history of trading, we have never had a default or a loss of customer funds resulting from the failure of a clearing firm.

Performance
bond requirements.Performance bonds are deposits that must be made by our clearing firms to ensure that they can cover potential losses in connection with their trading positions. Performance bonds are calculated by our Standard Portfolio
Analysis of Risk (SPAN) system that is used by approximately 50 exchanges and clearing organizations around the world. SPAN evaluates overall portfolio risk by calculating the worst possible loss that a portfolio of derivative and physical
instruments might reasonably incur over a specified time period (typically one trading day). This is done by computing the gains and losses that the portfolio would incur under different market conditions. Additionally, the substitution of our
clearing house as the counterparty to every transaction allows our customers to establish a position with one party and then offset the position with another party. This contract offsetting process provides our customers with flexibility in
establishing and adjusting positions and provides for performance bond efficiencies.






Twice daily mark-to-market process.At each settlement cycle, our clearing house values, at the
market price prevailing at that time, or marks-to-market, all open positions and requires payments from clearing firms whose positions have lost value and makes payments to clearing firms whose positions have gained value. Our clearing house
marks-to-market all open positions at least twice a day, and more often if market volatility warrants. In select circumstances where CME has introduced clearing services to newer markets, positions are market-to-market daily, with the capability to
mark-to-market more frequently as market conditions warrant. Marking-to-market provides both participants in a transaction with an accounting of their financial obligations under the contract. Having a mark-to-market cycle of a minimum of two times
a day helps protect the financial integrity of our clearing house, our clearing firms and market participants. This allows our clearing house to identify quickly any clearing firms that may not be able to satisfy the financial obligations resulting
from changes in the prices of their open contracts before those financial obligations become exceptionally large and jeopardize the ability of our clearing house to ensure performance of their open positions. This transparency makes it difficult for
traders to hide losses or disguise unusual profits.

Segregation of customer funds.Regulations require our clearing firms to
separately account for and segregate customers’ positions and monies from their own (requirements that also extend to CME Clearing). If a clearing firm becomes financially unstable or insolvent due to a financial issue, a customer’s funds
held in such a segregated account (provided the customer is not involved in the financial issue itself) will not be subject to the clearing firm’s creditor claims. In situations where a clearing firm were to become insolvent, the customer
accounts could be transferred to another clearing firm.

Twenty-four hour monitoring by risk management team.In order to ensure
performance, we establish and monitor financial requirements of our clearing firms. We employ more than 100 employees who use a variety of sophisticated tools to observe risk in our markets 24 hours a day, six days a week. These employees work
closely with other teams across the organization in products and services, legal and market regulation as well as with our clearing firms to help our customers manage risk during periods of economic uncertainty.

Multi-billion dollar safeguards package.CME Clearing’s approximately $9.3 billion financial safeguard system (as of December 31, 2009) is
designed for the benefit and protection of both clearing members and their customers and is described in more detail on page 84 of “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.”

Credit default swaps margining.In connection with our provision of clearing services for the credit default swap market, we modified our framework
to address the unique characteristics of these products. In addition to our traditional risk management procedures described above, we use a multi-factor model for margining designed to address the risk factors relating to these products.

Transaction Processing and Position Management.Our CLEARING 21 system processes reported trades and positions on a real-time
basis, providing users with instantaneous information on trades, positions and risk exposure. CLEARING 21 is able to process trades in futures and options products, securities and cash instruments. CLEARING 21 can also support complex new product
types. Through CLEARING 21 user interfaces, our clearing firms can electronically manage their positions, exercise options, enter transactions related to foreign exchange deliveries, manage collateral posted to meet performance bond requirements and
access all of our other online applications. Together with our order routing and trade matching services, we offer straight-through electronic processing of transactions in which an order is electronically routed, matched, cleared and made available
to the clearing firm’s back-office systems for further processing.

Settlement, Collateral and Delivery Services.We manage
final settlement in all of our contracts, including cash settlement, physical delivery of selected commodities, and option exercises and assignments. Because some initial and maintenance performance bonds from clearing firms, as well as
mark-to-market obligations on some of our contracts, are denominated in various foreign currencies, we offer multi-currency performance bond and settlement services.

Generally, although most of our futures contracts are liquidated before the expiration of the contract, the underlying financial instruments or commodities for the remainder of the contracts must be
delivered or cash






settled. We act as the delivery agent for all contracts, ensuring timely delivery by the seller of the exact quality and quantity specified in a contract and full and timely payment by the buyer.

To administer its system of financial safeguards efficiently, our clearing house has developed banking relationships with a network of major
U.S. banks and banking industry infrastructure providers, such as the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications. Among the key services provided to our clearing house by these banks and service providers are a variety of custody,
credit and payment services that support the substantial financial commitments and processes backing the guarantee of our clearing house to market participants.

Cross-Margining and Mutual Offset Services.Cross-margining arrangements reduce capital costs for clearing firms and customers. These agreements permit an individual clearing house to
recognize a clearing firm’s open positions at other participating clearing houses, and clearing firms are able to offset risks of positions held at one clearing house against those held at other participating clearing houses. This arrangement
reduces collateral deposits by the clearing firm. For example, our cross-margining program with the Options Clearing Corporation, which celebrated its 20thanniversary in 2009, reduced performance bond requirements for our clearing members by an average of approximately
$2.2 billion per day utilized in 2009. We have implemented cross-margining arrangements with the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation. We also previously had an arrangement with LCH.Clearnet Group for positions at the London International Financial
Futures and Options Exchange Limited that were cleared through LCH.Clearnet Group. This arrangement was terminated in February 2010. In addition, our mutual offset agreement with the Singapore Exchange Limited allows a clearing firm of either
exchange initiating trades in certain products on either exchange to execute after-hours trades at the other exchange in those products and then transfer them back to the originating exchange. This mutual offset arrangement enables firms to execute
trades at either exchange virtually 24 hours per day.

Investment Services.In order to achieve collateral efficiencies for our
clearing firms, we have established a number of collateral programs under the designation Interest Earning Facility. Under this program, our clearing firms may select from different programs to meet their individual needs. The programs are designed
to enable our clearing firms to make optimal use of the demand deposit cash accounts and security accounts they have established to satisfy their performance bond requirements. We earn fee income in return for providing these value-added services to
our clearing firms.

Our clearing house launched a securities lending program in 2001 using a portion of certain securities deposited to meet
the proprietary performance bond requirements of our clearing firms. Under the securities lending program, we would lend a security to a third party and receive collateral in the form of cash. The majority of the cash was then invested to generate
interest income. The related interest expense represented payment to the borrower of the security for the cash collateral retained during the duration of the lending transaction. Securities on loan were marked-to-market daily and compared to
collateral received. In 2008, we suspended the program due to high volatility in the credit markets. We continue to monitor the credit markets on a regular basis and may restart the program when conditions are appropriate.

Technology

Our operation of both
electronic and open outcry trading facilities and a clearing house has influenced the design and implementation of the technologies that support our operations.

Trading Technology.We have a proven track record of operating successful electronic and open outcry markets by developing and integrating multiple, evolving technologies that support a
growing and substantial trading volume. The integrated suite of technologies we employ to accomplish this has been designed to support a significant expansion of our current business and provides us with an opportunity to leverage our technology
base into new markets, products and services.






As electronic trading activity expands, we continue to provide greater match engine functionality unique to
various markets, market models and product types. We have adopted a modular approach to technology development and engineered an integrated set of solutions that support multiple specialized markets. We continually monitor and upgrade our capacity
requirements. Our goal is to design our systems to handle at least one-and-a-half times our historical peak transactions in our highest volume products. Significant investments in production planning, quality assurance and certification processes
have enhanced our ability to expedite the delivery of the system enhancements that we develop for our customers. We continue to implement technology upgrades that provide speed and functionality enhancements. Also, our proposed transaction with
BM&FBOVESPA will further expand the breadth of our technology and distribution capabilities into the global cash equities and options markets. The new platform will offer customers an integrated technology solution and we along with
BM&FBOVESPA will have the ability to license the platform to other exchanges internationally.

The technology systems supporting our trading operations can be divided into five major categories:



DistributionTechnologies that support the ability of customers to access our trading systems from terminals through network access to our trading floor and/or electronic trading
environments.Order routing/order managementTechnologies that control the flow of orders to the trading floor or electronic trading systems and that monitor the status of and modify submitted orders.Trade matching (electronic market)Technologies that aggregate submitted orders and electronically match buy and sell orders when their trade conditions are met.Market dataTechnologies that distribute order information to our end user customers on our market data platform.Trading opportunitiesTechnologies that maximize market participants’ ability to capitalize on opportunities present in both the trading floor and electronic markets that we
operate.

The CME Globex electronic trading platform includes the distribution, order routing, order management, trade matching
and market data technology. CME Globex’s modularity and functionality enable us to selectively add products with unique trading characteristics onto the trading platform.

The distribution technologies we offer differentiate our platform and bring liquidity and trading volume to our execution facilities. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 900 direct
connections with our systems for






customers across the globe. Many of these customers connect through a dedicated private network that is readily available, has wide distribution and provides fast connections in the Americas,
Europe and Asia. We have telecommunications hubs in Amsterdam, Dublin, London, Milan, Paris, Sao Paulo, Seoul and Singapore to respond to customer requests and reduce the cost of trading for our foreign customers. We plan to add a hub in Kuala
Lumpur in the first half of 2010.

In order routing and management, we offer a range of mechanisms and were among the first U.S. derivatives
exchanges to implement the FIX protocol—the standard order routing protocol used within the securities industry. In addition, our order routing and order management systems are capable of supporting multiple electronic trading match engines.
This functionality gives us great latitude in the types of markets that we choose to serve. In 2009, we deployed an optimized order routing gateway that resulted in a significant reduction in CME Globex latency. We also implemented additional risk
management tools for our clearing firms, including providing risk administrators with manual and automated credit controls.

Several key
technology platforms and standards are used to support these activities, including fault-tolerant HP Integrity NonStop Blade Systems, IBM mainframes, Hitachi and EMC storage area networks (SAN equipment), HP servers and CISCO routers and switches
for hardware. Our software vendors include Oracle and DB2 databases, LINUX, UNIX, Novell, TIBCO middleware and multi-vendor network solutions.

Our futures match engine design was based upon a computerized trading and match software known as the NSC system. During 2009, we continued the migration of our futures products from the NSC system to our internally designed options
platform in connection with our enhancement of our options engine. Our options match engine was designed and built at CME with focus on the speed of matching buy and sell orders and fault tolerance for 24-hour trading. This transition to a single
match engine will bring better system performance and more opportunity for combination futures/options trading, while allowing us to more easily and cost-effectively scale our system for future growth. All existing functionality is present and we
expect that the migration will be relatively seamless to the end customer. During 2009, we completed the migration of our FX currency futures and equities complexes and expect to complete the migration of our remaining product suites by early 2011.
We continue to work on enhancements to our match engine to build a fully-functional electronic marketplace for unique trading demands where our customers can offset their risk with as much ease as in our open outcry trading facilities.

Over the last three years we have made significant investments in market data technologies to support increased trading and messaging
volumes. Enhancements include performance improvements, scalability with a new multicast distribution platform, and a FIX 5.0 compliant messaging format. These implementations benefit our customers by reducing required bandwidth and costs
as well improving performance.

Clearing Technology.CLEARING 21, SPAN and CME ClearPort form the core of our clearing
technology.

CLEARING 21 is a system for high-volume, high-capacity clearing and settlement of exchange-based transactions. The system offers
clearing firms improved efficiency and reduced costs. CLEARING 21’s modular design gives us the ability to rapidly introduce new products. The software can be customized to meet the unique needs of specialized markets.

Our SPAN system is a highly sophisticated methodology that calculates performance bond requirements by analyzing the “what-ifs” of virtually any
market scenario. Developed and implemented in 1988 by CME, SPAN was the first system ever to calculate performance bond requirements exclusively on the basis of overall portfolio risk at both the clearing firm and customer level. In the years since
its inception, SPAN has become the industry standard for portfolio risk assessment. It is the official performance bond (margin) mechanism of approximately 50 registered exchanges, clearing organizations, service bureaus and regulatory agencies
throughout the world.






CME ClearPort is our flexible, internet-based system that provides clearing services of over-the-counter
transactions. The system lets market participants take advantage of the financial depth and security of our clearing house. Through this technology, customers can conduct their own transactions, negotiate their own prices and still take advantage of
our central counterparty clearing.

Building Services

Following our mergers with CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings, we now own and manage real estate, with approximately 1.5 million square feet of commercial space in the central business district of
Chicago and approximately 500,000 square feet in downtown New York City. As of December 31, 2009, our real estate was approximately 94% occupied, with nearly 38% of the total space used by us. In the second quarter of 2009, we completed
consolidation of the NYMEX and COMEX trading floors located at One North End Avenue in New York City.

Tenants pay market rates for rent.
The majority of tenant leases have terms of one to five years, with large tenants generally having leases for up to fifteen years. As of December 31, 2009, the largest tenant in Chicago, other than us, leased approximately 9% of the total area
and the next five largest tenants leased about 14% of the total area. In New York City, the largest tenant leased approximately 12% of the total area. We manage both the real estate and the general services relating to our real estate such as
cleaning, power and telephone services. Building services generated about 1% of our total revenues in 2009.

Business Continuity Planning

We continue to strengthen and upgrade our disaster recovery facilities and capabilities. We have dedicated significant resources to
improve our continuity planning. For example, our disaster recovery infrastructure and activities include:



•Formal disaster recovery testing conducted twice a year at each of our data centers.



•Network disaster recovery testing conducted monthly.



•Participation in an annual industry-wide disaster recovery test sponsored by the Futures Industry Association.



•Bi-annual functional exercises utilizing remote access to our systems with employees responsible for our critical business unit procedures.

Additionally, in order to ensure proper coordination during a potential crisis, we have established relationships with the
local business community, law enforcement, and local and regional governmental emergency agencies as well as our regulators.

In 2010, our
production electronic trading environment will be operational in our third data center, further enhancing our disaster recovery facilities.

Strategic Relationships

We continually review our growth strategy and whether it is in the interests of our shareholders to
engage in discussions with other parties regarding various strategic acquisitions, partnerships, divestitures and other arrangements and alliances. The following is a summary of our key strategic relationships:

BM&FBOVESPA.To increase liquidity and expand the international market for our customers, we have established a partnership with
BM&FBOVESPA, the leading exchange in Latin America. Pursuant to an order routing agreement, its products can be traded by participants connected to our CME Globex platform, and our products can be traded by participants connected to
BM&FBOVESPA’s Global Trading System platform. We






currently own an equity stake of approximately 5% in BM&FBOVESPA and it owns an equity stake of approximately 1.8% in us. On February 11, 2010, we announced a non-binding letter of
intent with BM&FBOVESPA to expand our existing strategic partnership to develop a new multi-asset class electronic trading platform that will be deployed by BM&FBOVESPA for use in its own cash equities and derivatives markets, and both of us
will have the ability to license the platform to other exchanges internationally. The new platform will offer customers an integrated technology solution for global derivatives and non-U.S. equities trading. We have agreed to an exclusive
negotiation period to enter into definitive agreements. Development of the new system will begin immediately and is expected to launch in early 2011. As part of the expanded partnership, BM&FBOVESPA will increase its ownership interest in us to
5%, the same approximate stake we currently have in BM&FBOVESPA. Consummation of the transaction is subject to the negotiation of definitive agreements, approval by the regulators, completion of customary closing conditions and BM&FBOVESPA
shareholder approval. In connection with the proposed transaction, our board authorized a plan to repurchase up to 2.35 million shares of our Class A common stock. We also agreed to nominate a senior representative of BM&FBOVESPA to
our board in connection with the closing of the transaction.

Bursa Malaysia Derivatives.In 2009, we acquired a 25% equity
stake in Bursa Malaysia Derivatives and also entered into a trade matching services agreement and a product licensing agreement. Pursuant to these agreements, we will provide CME Globex services to Bursa Malaysia for all of its derivatives products.
We also will have the right to use its crude palm oil futures settlement prices to develop our own U.S. dollar denominated contract. An additional telecommunications hub is planned for Kuala Lumpur in the first half of 2010. The partnership will
also further enhance our globalization efforts by facilitating our customers’ access to its important markets and will increase our presence in Asia.

Dubai Mercantile Exchange.We own an approximate 28% interest in the Dubai Mercantile Exchange. In February 2009, DME futures contracts became exclusively traded electronically on our CME
Globex platform. The listing of the DME Oman crude oil futures contract on CME Globex further enhances the value proposition of DME as they seek to establish Oman crude oil—which is currently used to establish the pricing of oil shipped from
Oman and Dubai—as the leading world benchmark for pricing East of Suez crude oil shipments.

Green Exchange Venture.Green
Exchange Holdings LLC is a joint venture among CME and a consortium of banks and brokers. The Green Exchange venture plans to take over a number of products currently listed on NYMEX once it receives regulatory approval to operate as a designated
contract market. Current products listed on NYMEX include futures and options on European Union Allowances, carbon allowances tied to the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, and other greenhouse gas markets.

Korea Exchange.In 2008, we finalized our five-year agreement with the Korea Exchange to list the KOSPI 200 futures contract on CME Globex
during after-hours trading in Korea. Trading began in November 2009. As part of the agreement, we created a telecommunications hub in Seoul. We are also committed to pursue with the Korea Exchange a potential bi-directional order routing initiative
that would be modeled after our arrangement with BM&FBOVESPA.

Singapore Exchange Limited.In October 2006, we renewed our
mutual offset agreement with the Singapore Exchange for an additional three-year term with automatic renewals for one year each unless terminated by either party. The current term is through October 2010. This relationship, which has been in effect
since 1984, allows a clearing firm of either exchange initiating trades in certain products on either exchange to execute after-hours trades at the other exchange in those products, then transfer them back to the originating exchange.

As a result of our merger with CBOT Holdings, we also list the products of the Minneapolis Grain Exchange and the Kansas City Board of Trade on the CME
Globex platform and act as their sole distributor of market data.






Marketing Programs and Advertising

Our marketing programs align our core business objectives and product line goals with positioning, messaging and customer targeting strategies designed to increase awareness and use of our products and
services. The marketing strategy and tactics include conducting market research to gather customer insight, and the implementation of our marketing campaigns, which may include online and print advertising, direct marketing, tradeshows and customer
events, public relations, online marketing and educational programs.

Our marketing programs primarily target institutional customers and, to
a lesser extent, individual traders. Our marketing programs for institutional customers aim to inform traders, portfolio managers, corporate treasurers and other market professionals about new products and services, and important uses of our
products, such as innovative hedging and risk management strategies. We also strive to educate these users about changes in product design, performance bond requirements and new clearing services. We participate in major domestic and international
trade shows and seminars regarding futures contracts and options on futures contracts, and over-the-counter clearing solutions and other derivatives products. In addition, we sponsor educational workshops and marketing events designed to educate
market users about our products. Through these relationships and programs, we attempt to understand the needs of our customer base and use information provided by them to drive our product development efforts.

Our advertising strategies seek to increase awareness and strengthen perceptions of CME Group among our institutional and retail customers, as well as
support an increase in our trading volume. In light of the recent financial crisis, we created an integrated and targeted marketing program to highlight the benefits of our central counterparty clearing model and our financial safeguards package.
The campaign included print advertising, online marketing and educational programs. Additionally, in November 2009, we hosted our second annual Global Financial Leadership Conference, where participants had an opportunity to interact with some of
the world’s leaders in business, finance and politics to discuss emerging geopolitical trends and debate critical economic issues. We were privileged to have Paul Volcker, chairman of the White House Economic Recovery Advisory Board and former
chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Fareed Zakaria, editor ofNewsweek International, columnist and CNN host, as our keynote speakers.

Our primary method of advertising has been through print media, utilizing trade magazines and newsletters as well as business publications such as theWall Street Journal, Financial TimesandBarron’s. However, we also
use online, television sponsorship and other direct advertisements to reach our target audiences.

Our targeted marketing program includes
corporate and product brochures designed to communicate the depth and breadth of our capabilities; our annual report to shareholders, designed to showcase how key customers globally use our products to mitigate risk, in addition to presenting an
overview of our financial results; andCME Group Magazine,a quarterly publication; designed to keep our customers up to date on developments that can enhance their successful participation in the derivatives industry. The magazine features
customer case histories, new product information, technology updates, trend stories and news briefs and is made available on our Web site.

Competition

The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and we expect competition to continue to intensify. We
encounter competition in all aspects of our business, including from entities having substantially greater capital and resources and offering a wider range of products and services and some operating under a different and possibly less stringent
regulatory regime. Prior to the passage of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 (CFMA), futures trading was required to take place on, or subject to the rules of, a federally designated contract market. The costs and difficulty of
obtaining contract market designation and corresponding regulatory requirements created significant barriers to entry for competing exchanges. The passage of the CFMA and other changing market dynamics have led to increasing competition from a
number of different domestic and






international sources of varied size, business objectives and resources. For example, the CFMA permits SEC-regulated and bank clearing organizations to clear a broad array of derivatives products
in addition to the products that clearing organizations have traditionally cleared. The CFMA also permits banks and broker-dealers, and some of their affiliates, to offer and sell foreign exchange futures to retail customers without being subject to
regulation under the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA). We now face competition from other futures, securities and securities option exchanges; over-the-counter markets; clearing organizations; consortia formed by our members and large market
participants; alternative trade execution facilities; technology firms, including market data distributors and electronic trading system developers; and others.

Competition in our Derivatives Business

We believe competition among exchanges in
the derivatives and securities business is based on a number of factors, including, among others:



•depth and liquidity of markets;



•transaction costs;



•breadth of product offerings and rate and quality of new product development;



•transparency, reliability and anonymity in transaction processing;



•connectivity;



•technological capability and innovation;



•efficient and secure settlement, clearing and support services; and



•reputation.

We believe
that we compete favorably with respect to these factors, and that our deep, liquid markets; diverse product offerings; rate and quality of new product development; and efficient, secure settlement, clearing and support services distinguish us from
our competitors. We believe that in order to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to expand globally; develop new and innovative products; enhance our technology infrastructure, including its reliability and functionality; and
maintain liquidity and low transaction costs.

Over the past few years there have been significant changes in the industry’s landscape as
a result of the wave of consolidation and increased competition. At the end of 2009, there were approximately 55 futures exchanges located in approximately 30 countries, including 7 exchanges in the United States. Additionally, there has been an
increase in activity among derivative dealers, banks and other entities to form competing exchanges. In 2007, a consortium of 12 financial institutions formed an exchange, Electronic Liquidity Exchange (ELX), which began trading in July 2009.
ELX’s initial product line included electronic trading in U.S. Treasury futures in the two-, five-, and ten-year notes and thirty-year bond contracts in competition with CBOT’s treasury complex. Recently, ELX requested that the CFTC compel
CBOT to accept certain non-competitive trades as a means to permit two customers, with equal and opposite positions at CBOT, to transfer those positions to ELX. We believe that such transactions would violate the CEA and are prohibited by CBOT
rules. At this time, the CFTC has not required us to take any action or modify our existing rules. We expect the CFTC to review the ELX request. We also face competition from IntercontinentalExchange’s (ICE) energy index, natural gas, credit
default swaps, equity index, foreign exchange and other products. New entrants into our industry may increase competitive pressure on us.

Because equity futures contracts are alternatives to underlying stocks and a variety of equity option and other contracts provide an alternative means of obtaining exposure to the equity markets, we also compete with NYSE Euronext and other
securities and options exchanges, dealer markets and alternative trading systems in this product line, as well as with ICE in connection with its futures and options on futures contracts based on the Russell indexes.






We face competition from the over-the-counter market with the trading of contracts similar to those traded
or cleared on our exchanges, such as swaps, forward contracts and other exchange “look-alike” contracts, in which parties directly negotiate the terms of their contracts.

We also face a threat of trading volume loss if a significant number of our traditional participants decide to trade futures or similar products among themselves without using any exchange or specific
trading system. The CFMA allows nearly all of our largest customers to transact futures or similar products directly with each other. While those transactions raise liquidity and credit concerns, they may be attractive based on execution costs,
flexibility of terms, negotiability of margin or collateral deposits, or other considerations. Additionally, changes under the CFMA permitting the establishment of stand-alone clearing facilities for futures and over-the-counter derivatives
transactions will facilitate the mitigation of credit-risk concentrations arising from such transactions.

Competition in our
Transaction Processing Business

In addition to the competition we face in our derivatives business, we face a number of competitors in
our transaction processing and other business services. In the past few years, there has been increased competition in the provision of clearing services. We compete with other derivatives exchanges that provide clearing services. ICE has its own
clearing operations which are comprised of five separate regulated clearing houses across the U.S., Europe and Canada. In March 2009, ICE Trust, which provides clearing services for the credit default swap market, acquired The Clearing Corporation.
Prior to its acquisition, The Clearing Corporation was one of the oldest independent clearing houses. Additionally, the Options Clearing Corporation provides clearing services for commodity futures, commodity options and security futures, including
products listed by ELX. In June 2009, NYSE Euronext and The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation announced the creation of a new clearing house for the clearing of fixed-income securities. We believe that other exchanges may also
undertake to provide clearing services.

We believe competition in the transaction processing and business services market is based on, among
other things, the cost of the services provided; quality and reliability of the services; timely delivery of the services; reputation; and value of linking with existing products, markets and distribution.

Competition in our Market Data Business

Technology companies, market data and information vendors and front-end software vendors also represent potential competitors because, as purveyors of market data, these firms typically have substantial distribution capabilities. As
technology firms, they also have access to trading engines that can be connected to their data and information networks. Additionally, technology and software firms that develop trading systems, hardware and networks that are otherwise outside of
the financial services industry may be attracted to enter our markets. This may lead to decreased demand for our market data.

Regulatory
Matters

Our operations as a futures exchange have historically been subject to extensive regulation by the CFTC. The CFTC is an
independent federal agency with exclusive jurisdiction over the futures market. The Commission consists of five Commissioners, appointed to staggered five-year terms by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate. The CFTC carries out
the regulation of the futures markets in accordance with the provisions of the CEA and the CFMA. The CFTC is subject to reauthorization every five years, which most recently occurred in 2008.

We are extensively regulated by the CFTC. In light of the widespread financial and economic difficulties, particularly acute in the latter half of 2008 and
early 2009, there have been many calls for a restructuring of the regulation of financial markets. As a result, various legislative proposals are currently circulating in Congress regarding regulatory reform in the futures and the over-the-counter
derivatives markets. These proposals are designed to



•reduce systematic risk by mandating central clearing and exchange trading of derivatives;






•increase transparency and price discovery; and



•prevent fraud and market manipulation.

We cannot predict what the final regulations will be or what impact they may have on our business. Among other things, the proposed legislation includes restrictions on speculative trading by means of
hard position limits and limitations on hedge exemptions as well as provisions permitting the CFTC to adopt a more rules-based approach rather than our current principles-based approach under the CFTC regulatory regime. The CFTC has also recently
issued proposed rules for comment which would establish federally-set position limits for certain energy commodities as well as limit hedge exemptions for specified participants. To the extent the regulatory environment is less beneficial for us or
our customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively affected.

Our offering to provide clearing services for credit default swaps is being made pursuant to a special exemption from the SEC which is in effect through
March 31, 2010. We expect to have the exemption extended in the future. However, there is no guarantee that the SEC will continue to grant us an exemption. Without this exemption,






CME and other market participants would have to comply with extensive registration and reporting requirements, which may discourage market participants from clearing their credit default swap
trades through us.

We have also “notice registered” with the SEC as a special purpose national securities exchange solely for the
purpose of trading security futures products. As a result, the SEC is authorized to review some of our rules relating to these security futures products. Our members trading those products are subject to registration requirements and duties and
obligations to customers under the securities laws that do not pertain to their other futures business.

Our Members

We
operate four separate self-regulatory exchanges: CME, CBOT, NYMEX and COMEX. Members are individual traders, as well as most of the world’s largest banks, hedge funds, brokerages and investment houses. Trading on our open outcry trading floors
is conducted exclusively by members in Chicago and New York City. Members can execute trades for their own accounts, for clearing firm accounts, for the accounts of other members or for the accounts of customers of clearing firms. Members who trade
for their own account, including those who lease trading rights, qualify for lower transaction fees in recognition of the market liquidity that their trading activity provides. These members also benefit from market information advantages that may
accrue from their proximity to activity on the trading floors. In 2009, our members were responsible for 75% of our total trading volume. As of December 31, 2009, there were approximately 140 clearing firms. Membership enables a customer to
trade specific products at reduced rates and lower fees, and to trade directly from the applicable trading floor or electronically through CME Globex. Memberships can be bought, sold and leased. Our shareholder relations and membership services
department maintains an auction market for trading rights at our exchanges. A customer can apply for and hold a membership at CME, CBOT, NYMEX or COMEX—depending on the products intended to be traded. Rights and privileges of membership are
exchange-specific.

Applicants for membership are required to be of good moral character, reputation and business integrity. They must also
have adequate financial resources and credit to assume the responsibilities and privileges of membership. All members must understand the rules and regulations of the applicable exchange and agree to abide by them. Additionally, they must comply
with the provisions of the CEA and the rules and regulations issued by the CFTC. A potential member must register with the National Futures Association (NFA) either as a floor trader or floor broker if they intend to access one of our trading
floors. If an individual uses the membership for the purpose of filling orders for other members or customers, they must apply to the NFA for a floor broker’s license. Our market regulation department is the investigative and enforcement arm of
our exchanges with regard to exchange rules. Members who are found to have violated a rule can be subject to sanctions such as fines, trading suspensions and/or expulsion from the particular exchange.






CME Memberships

There are four divisions of membership at CME: the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) division; the International Monetary Market (IMM) division; the Index and Option Market (IOM) division; and the Growth
and Emerging Markets (GEM) division. Each membership division has different trading rights.

Under the terms of CME Group’s certificate
of incorporation, members of the CME exchange, as Class B shareholders, have the ability to protect their rights to trade by means of special approval rights over changes to the operation of the markets and are entitled to elect six of the directors
on our board, which is currently comprised of a total of 32 individuals. In particular, the certificate of incorporation grants the holders of our Class B common stock the right to approve any changes to the trading floor rights, access rights and
privileges that a member has, the number of memberships in each membership class and the related number of authorized shares in each class of Class B common stock, and the eligibility requirements to exercise trading rights or privileges. Class B
shareholders must approve any changes to these special rights. We are also required to maintain open outcry trading so long as certain liquidity thresholds are met. Class B shares have the same equitable interest in our earnings and receive the same
dividend payments as our Class A shares.

CBOT Memberships

There are five series of Class B memberships in CBOT represented by memberships in our CBOT subsidiary: Series B-1 (Full) members, Series B-2 (Associate) members, Series B-3 (GIM) members, Series B-4
(IDEM) members and Series B-5 (COM) members.

Class B members of CBOT do not possess the right to receive any dividends or distributions,
including the proceeds from liquidation, from CBOT. Series B-1 and B-2 members have the right to vote on amendments to certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation of CBOT, including the number of authorized memberships; the relative
voting rights of the Series B-1 and B-2 members; the trading rights, voting rights and core rights of Class B members and certain other covenants; and the commitment to maintain open outcry markets for so long as they meet certain liquidity
thresholds.

Additionally, until our 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, we are required to have at least 10 CBOT directors (as defined in
our bylaws) on our board and we are required to provide them with five business days’ advance notice of any change to CBOT’s rules and regulations. If a majority of the CBOT directors determine in their sole discretion that the proposed
change will materially impair the business of CBOT or the business opportunities of the holders of the Class B memberships of CBOT, such change will be submitted to a committee of the board of directors of CBOT comprised of three CBOT directors and
two CME directors as defined in the bylaws.

NYMEX Memberships

NYMEX memberships are represented by Class A memberships in our NYMEX subsidiary. In connection with the NYMEX Holdings merger, we made certain commitments to the NYMEX Class A members to
maintain a trading floor in New York City until 2012 and thereafter so long as certain profitability and revenue thresholds are met, to limit our rights to relocate open outcry trading to Chicago for NYMEX products, in the event open outcry trading
facilities for such products are no longer available on the NYMEX floor, and to maintain fee differentials for NYMEX Class A members for so long as we maintain differentials for our CME and/or CBOT members. NYMEX Class A members do not
have the right to receive dividends or distributions from NYMEX.

COMEX Memberships

Memberships in COMEX are represented by COMEX division memberships in our COMEX subsidiary. There are also COMEX Option memberships. The COMEX
Transaction Agreement, executed in November 2006, provides COMEX Division members with certain trading right protections as well as a commitment to provide a trading






facility in New York City for so long as open outcry trading exists on the COMEX Division and for a five-year period following the expiration of the COMEX Transaction Agreement. COMEX Division
members maintain certain petition rights as it relates to proposed amendments to certain COMEX by-laws and rules. In 2009, a special meeting of COMEX members was held at which time certain bylaw changes were approved, including provisions which
would require us to maintain the trading floor until 2012 in exchange for amending the provisions to allow us to include the metals complex in our incentive programs and market maker programs and to allow us to provide certain fee waivers.

Subsidiaries

Substantially
all of our business operations are conducted through our exchange subsidiaries: CME, CBOT, NYMEX and COMEX. The following is a summary of the activities of our other operating subsidiaries. Based on materiality, GFX, CMA, Swapstream and our real
estate operations are not reportable segments and, as a result, we do not disclose segment information.

C-B-T Corporation.C-B-T Corporation manages both our owned real estate and the general services relating to this real estate such as cleaning, power and telephone services in Chicago.

CME Clearing Europe.CME Clearing Europe will be the owner of our UK clearing house which is currently awaiting approval by the Financial Services Authority (FSA).

Credit Market Analysis.In March 2008, we acquired CMA and its subsidiaries. CMA is a leading provider of credit derivatives market data
designed to enhance the performance of over-the-counter credit market professionals. CMA’s real-time pricing services (CMA QuoteVision) and data services (CMA DataVision) are used by investment professionals in leading investment banks, hedge
funds and asset managers worldwide. CMA entities accounted for less than 1% of our consolidated total revenues in 2009 and 2008.

GFX
Corporation.GFX Corporation (GFX) was established for the purpose of maintaining and creating liquidity in our electronically traded foreign exchange futures contracts. Experienced foreign exchange traders employed by GFX buy and sell our
foreign exchange contracts using our CME Globex system. They limit risk from these transactions through offsetting transactions using forward contracts and spot foreign exchange transactions with approved counterparties in the interbank market. On
occasion, GFX has also engaged in the trading of Eurodollars and equity index contracts. GFX accounted for less than 1% of our consolidated total revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007.

Swapstream.The Swapstream entities accounted for less than 1% of our consolidated total revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007. During 2009, we began the process of winding down our Swapstream
operations which we expect to be completed in 2010. Swapstream Operating Services Limited, an entity regulated by the Financial Services Authority, was renamed CME Marketing Europe Limited and will continue operations in connection with our global
marketing efforts.

Licensing Agreements

Standard & Poor’s

We have had a licensing arrangement with S&P
since 1980. In September 2005, all of our previous licensing agreements with S&P were consolidated into one agreement that terminates on December 31, 2017. Under the terms of the agreement, as amended, S&P granted us a license to use
certain S&P stock indexes and the related trade names, trademarks and service marks in connection with the creation, marketing, trading, clearing and promoting of futures contracts and/or options on futures contracts that are indexed to certain
S&P stock indexes. The license is exclusive through December 31, 2016 and non-exclusive from that date through December 31, 2017 with some exceptions. Our license for the S&P 500 Index remains exclusive through December 31,
2016 so






long as certain minimum average trading volume is met or other circumstances exist that relate to the reduction in trading volume. We may pay an additional fee to retain the exclusivity if the
minimum average trading volume is not met. For certain products based on S&P stock indexes that we list after the effective date of the amended and restated agreement, we will have an exclusive license for two or three years depending upon the
nature of the index, after which we will retain our exclusive rights so long as certain minimum average trading volumes are met. Under the agreement, we maintain our right of first refusal for new stock indexes developed by S&P during the term
of the agreement. In the event we fail to launch a product based on a new index within one year, subject to certain considerations for regulatory delays, S&P may elect to terminate the license for such new index or terminate the exclusivity of
the license. In exchange for the license, we pay S&P a per trade fee. If S&P discontinues compilation and publication of any license or index, we may license, on a non-exclusive and royalty-free basis, the information regarding the list of
companies, shares outstanding and divisors for that index or terminate the obligations regarding the index. The licenses become non-exclusive in the event we list certain competitive products.

NASDAQ

We have had a licensing
arrangement with NASDAQ OMX since 1996 to license the NASDAQ-100 Index and related trade names, trademarks and service marks. The license was extended and expanded in October 2003 to license us both the NASDAQ-100 Index and the NASDAQ Composite
Index and in April 2005 to add the NASDAQ Biotechnology Index for trading futures and options on futures contracts that are based on the indexes. In 2008, we agreed to extend the exclusive license agreement through 2019. With respect to the NASDAQ
Composite Index, NASDAQ OMX may terminate the exclusivity or the entire license on each anniversary of the agreement in October, if trading volume fails to meet certain performance criteria. During the applicable period of exclusivity, NASDAQ OMX
will not grant a license to use the indexes in connection with the trading, marketing and promotion of futures contracts and options on those futures contracts that are based on an index that is exclusive to us. We pay per trade fees to NASDAQ OMX
under the license. We have a right of first refusal for new indexes that are licensed for futures products where the index is substantially equivalent to an index licensed to us or is a subset of an index licensed to us.

Dow Jones License Agreement

British Bankers Association License and
Membership Agreement

We have a licensing and membership agreement with BBA Enterprises Limited and the British Bankers’
Association for the use of its London Interbank Offered Rate to settle several of our interest rate products, including our Eurodollar contract. Pursuant to the agreement, we will also serve as an exchange associate






member of the British Bankers’ Association during the term of the agreement. The license is non-transferable and non-exclusive. The initial term of the agreement is for ten years through
September 2019 with automatic renewal terms of five years unless terminated by either party in writing prior to the end of the applicable term. For the license we paid an upfront fee and will pay annual fees that may be increased by the BBA subject
to a cap.

Intellectual Property

We regard substantial elements of our brand name, marketing elements and logos, products, market data, software and technology as proprietary. We attempt to protect these elements by relying on trademark, service mark, copyright and trade
secret laws, restrictions on disclosure and other methods. For example, with respect to trademarks, we have registered marks in numerous countries all over the world. We have filed numerous patent applications in the United States and
internationally to protect our technology. In December 2006, the United States Patent and Trademark Office granted CME its first patent.

Our
rights to stock indexes for our futures products principally derive from license agreements that we have obtained from S&P, NASDAQ OMX and Dow Jones and others. For a more detailed discussion of these licenses, see the section of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K entitled “Item 1. Business—Licensing Agreements.” Various other CME Group products rely on license agreements from third parties. We cannot assure you that competitors will not attempt to enter these markets or
create similar products. Nor can we assure you that we will be able to renew or maintain those license agreements beyond their current terms.

We regularly review our intellectual property to identify property that should be protected, the extent of current protection for that property and the availability of additional protection. We believe our various trademarks and service
marks have been registered or applied for where needed. We also seek to protect our software and databases as trade secrets and under copyright law. We have copyright registrations for certain of our software, user manuals, and databases. Legal
developments allowing patent protection for methods of doing business hold the possibility of additional protection, which we continue to pursue.

Patents of third parties may have an important bearing on our ability to offer certain of our products and services. It is possible that, from time to time, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use
technology or other intellectual property that is material to our business.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 2,260 employees.

We consider relations with our employees to be good. We have never experienced a work stoppage. As of December 31, 2009, 14 of our employees were represented by one of the following unions:



•Chicago Regional Council of Carpenters; and



•International Union of Operating Engineers Local 399, AFL-CIO.

Our Executive Officers

The following are our executive officers, including a description
of their business experience over the last five years. Ages are as of February 1, 2010.

Terrence A. Duffy, 51

Mr. Duffy has served as our Executive Chairman since October 2006, as our Chairman from 2002 until 2006 and has been a member of our board of
directors since 1995. He also has served as President of TDA Trading, Inc. since 1981.






Craig S. Donohue, 48

Mr. Donohue has served as Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board of directors since January 2004. Mr. Donohue joined us in 1995 and since then has held various positions of increasing
responsibility within the organization including Managing Director and Chief Administrative Officer; Managing Director, Business Development and Corporate/Legal Affairs of CME; and Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Mr. Donohue also
serves as our representative on the board of directors of BM&FBOVESPA.

Kathleen M. Cronin, 46

Ms. Cronin has served as our Managing Director, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since August 2003. Previously she served as Corporate Secretary
and Acting General Counsel from November 2002 through August 2003. Prior to joining us, Ms. Cronin was a corporate attorney at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom from September 1989 through July 1995 and from April 1997 through
November 2002.

Bryan T. Durkin, 49

Mr. Durkin assumed the position of Managing Director, Products and Services in addition to his role as our Chief Operating Officer in February 2010. Mr. Durkin has served as our Managing Director and
Chief Operating Officer since July 2007. Mr. Durkin joined us in connection with the CBOT merger and he previously held a variety of leadership roles with CBOT from 1982 to 2007, most recently as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer.

Phupinder Gill, 49

Mr. Gill has served as President of CME Group since July 2007. Previously he served as President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2004. Mr. Gill joined us in 1988 and has held various positions of increasing
responsibility within the organization, including Managing Director and President of CME Clearing and GFX. Mr. Gill also serves as our representative on the board of Bursa Derivatives.

Julie Holzrichter, 41

Ms. Holzrichter has served as Managing Director, Global Operations since August 2007. Ms. Holzrichter rejoined us in July 2006 as our Managing Director, CME Globex Services and Technology Integration. Ms. Holzrichter
previously held positions of increasing responsibility in our organization from 1986 to 2003 in trading operations.

Kevin Kometer, 45

Mr. Kometer has served as Managing Director and Chief Information Officer since July 2008. He previously served as Managing
Director and Deputy Chief Information Officer from 2007 to July 2008. Since joining the company most recently in 1998, he has held senior leadership positions in the Technology Division, including Managing Director, Trading Execution Systems and
Director, Advanced Technology. Mr. Kometer was also with the company from 1994 to 1996.

James E. Parisi, 45

Mr. Parisi has served as our Chief Financial Officer and Managing Director, Finance and Corporate Development since February 2010. He has held the role
of Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer since 2004. Mr. Parisi joined us in 1988 and has held positions of increasing responsibility within the organization, including Managing Director & Treasurer and Director,
Planning & Finance.






Laurent Paulhac, 40

Mr. Paulhac has served as Managing Director, OTC Products and Services since September 2009. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Paulhac most recently served as Chief Executive Officer of
CMA, a leading provider of credit derivatives market data acquired by CME Group in 2008, from October 2005 to September 2009. Mr. Paulhac will continue to oversee the operations of CMA until we identify his successor for the organization.

James V. Pieper, 43

Mr. Pieper has served as our Managing Director and Chief Accounting Officer since February 2010. Previously, Mr. Pieper served as Director and Controller since 2006 and as Associate Director and Assistant Controller from 2004 to 2006.
Before joining CME Group in 2004, Mr. Pieper worked for Divine, Inc. as Director of Worldwide Accounting and for KPMG LLP as a Senior Manager.

Hilda Harris Piell, 42

Ms. Piell has served as Managing Director and Chief Human Resources Officer since August
2007. Previously she served as Managing Director and Senior Associate General Counsel, as Director and Associate General Counsel and as Associate Director and Assistant General Counsel since joining us in 2000.

John Pietrowicz,45

Mr. Pietrowicz has served as our Managing Director, Business Development and Corporate Finance since February 2010. Mr. Pietrowicz joined CME Group in 2003 and since then has held various positions of
increasing responsibility, including his most recent position of Managing Director and Deputy Chief Financial Officer from 2009 to 2010 and Managing Director, Corporate Finance and Treasury from 2006 to 2009.

Derek Sammann, 41

Mr. Sammann
has served as Managing Director, Foreign Exchange and Interest Rate Products since February 2010. He previously served as Managing Director, Financial Products and Services since October 2009 and Managing Director, Global Head of Foreign Exchange
Products since joining us in 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Sammann served as Managing Director, Global Head of FX Options and Structured Products at Calyon Corporate and Investment Bank in London from 2004 to 2006.

Kimberly S. Taylor, 48

Ms. Taylor has served as Managing Director and President of the Clearing House Division since January 2004 and as Managing Director, Risk Management in the Clearing House Division, from 1998 to 2003. Ms. Taylor has held a variety
of positions in the Clearing House, including Vice President and Senior Director. She joined us in 1989.

Kendal Vroman, 38

Mr. Vroman has served as our Managing Director, Commodity Products, OTC Services & Information Products since February 2010.
Mr. Vroman previously served as Managing Director and Chief Corporate Development Officer from March 2008 to February 2010. Mr. Vroman joined us in 2001 and, since then, held positions of increasing responsibility, including most recently
as Managing Director, Corporate Development and Managing Director, Information and Technology Services.

Scot E. Warren, 46

Mr. Warren has served as our Managing Director, Equity Index Products and Index Services since February 2010. Mr. Warren previously
served as our Managing Director, Equity Products since joining us in 2007. Prior to that Mr. Warren worked for Goldman Sachs as its President, Manager Trading and Business Analysis Team. Prior to Goldman Sachs, Mr. Warren managed equity and option
execution and clearing businesses for ABN Amro in Chicago and was a senior consultant for Arthur Andersen & Co. for financial services firms.






Available Information

Our Web site iswww.cmegroup.com. Information made available on our Web site does not constitute part of this document. We make available on our Web site our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC. Our corporate governance materials, including our
Corporate Governance Principles, Director Conflict of Interest Policy, Board of Directors Code of Ethics, Categorical Independence Standards, Employee Code of Conduct and the charters for all the standing committees of our board, may also be found
on our Web site. Copies of these materials are also available to shareholders free of charge upon written request to Shareholder Relations and Membership Services, Attention Ms. Beth Hausoul, CME Group Inc., 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago,
Illinois 60606.



