ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Building on the heritage of its futures exchanges (CME, CBOT, NYMEX and COMEX), CME Group serves the risk management and investment needs of customers around the globe.

CME was founded in 1898 as a not-for-profit corporation. In 2000, CME demutualized and became a shareholder-owned corporation. As a consequence, we adopted a for-profit approach to our business, including strategic initiatives aimed at optimizing trading volume, efficiency and liquidity. In 2002, Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc. (CME Holdings) completed its initial public offering of its Class A common stock, which is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “CME”.

Our futures and clearing business has historically been subject to the extensive regulation of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). As a result of our global operations, we are also subject to the rules and regulations of the local jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including the Financial Services Authority (FSA) based on our offering of various CME Group products and services to European customers and the operation of CME Clearing Europe, and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in connection with our offering of clearing services for security-based swaps.

Our principal executive offices are located at 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606, and our telephone number is 312-930-1000.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

The company reports the results of its operations as one reporting segment primarily comprised of the CME, CBOT, NYMEX and COMEX exchanges. The remaining operations do not meet the thresholds for reporting separate segment information.

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

We offer the widest range of global benchmark products across all major asset classes based on interest rates, equity indexes, foreign exchange, energy, agricultural commodities, metals, weather and real estate. Our products include both exchange traded and over-the-counter derivatives.  We bring buyers and sellers together through our CME Globex electronic trading platform across the globe and our open outcry trading facilities in Chicago and New York City and provide hosting, connectivity and customer support for electronic trading through our co-location services. We also provide clearing and settlement services for exchange-traded contracts, as well as for cleared over-the-counter derivatives transactions. Finally, we offer a wide range of market data services-including live quotes, delayed quotes, market reports and a comprehensive historical data service and have expanded into the index services business through CME Group Index Services.

Our Competitive Strengths

CME Group offers a number of key differentiating elements that set it apart from its competitors, including:

Highly Liquid Markets-Our listed futures markets provide an effective forum for our customers to manage their risk and meet their investment needs relating to our markets. We believe that our customers choose to trade on our centralized market due to its liquidity and price transparency. Market liquidity, or the ability of a market to absorb the execution of large purchases or sales quickly and efficiently whereby the market recovers quickly following the execution of large orders, is key to attracting customers and contributing to a market's success.











Most Diverse Product Line-Our products provide a means for hedging, speculation and asset allocation relating to the risks associated with, among other things, interest rate sensitive instruments, equity ownership, changes in the value of foreign currency, credit risk and changes in the prices of  agricultural, energy and metal commodities. The estimated percentage of clearing and transaction fees revenue contributed by each product line is as follows:Product Line201120102009Interest rate27%27%26%Equity212124Foreign exchange776Agricultural commodity131210Energy262729Metal665

The breadth and diversity of each of our product lines and the variety of their underlying contracts is beneficial to our overall performance when an individual product line or individual product is impacted by macroeconomic factors. For example, the impact to our interest rate product line due to the credit crisis and the Federal Reserve Bank's zero interest rate policy was partially offset by trading volume in our other product lines.  Additionally, our product lines contain various products designed to address differing risk management needs.  For example, our interest product suite includes both short-term and long-term products.

Our products are traded through the CME Globex electronic trading platform, our open outcry auction markets in Chicago and New York City and through privately negotiated transactions that we clear. The estimated percentage of clearing and transaction fees revenue contributed by each trading venue is as follows:

Trading Venue201120102009Electronic75%74%72%Open outcry91011Privately negotiated555CME ClearPort (OTC)111112

Our products generate valuable information regarding prices and trading activity. We distribute our market data over the CME market data platform directly to our electronic trading customers as part of their access to our markets and to quote vendors who consolidate our market data with that from other exchanges, other third-party data providers and news sources, and then resell their consolidated data. The estimated contributions of our market data and information services products, excluding our index market data offerings, based on percentage of total revenue over the last three years were10%in2011,11%in2010and13%in2009.

In 2010, we expanded our index market data offerings through our joint venture with Dow Jones, CME Group Index Services, which further diversified our revenue streams.  We derived3%of our revenues from the business acquired from Dow Jones in2011and2%in2010.

Safety and Soundness of our Markets-We understand the importance of ensuring that our customers are able to manage and contain their trading risks. As the markets and the economy have evolved, we have worked to adapt our clearing services to meet the needs of our customers.  We apply robust risk management standards and enforce and facilitate applicable CFTC customer protection standards for exchange-traded products and cleared over-the-counter derivatives. Clearing member firms are continually monitored and audited for their outstanding risk, capital adequacy and compliance with customer protection rules and regulations. We utilize a combination of risk management capabilities to assess clearing firm and their account exposure levels for all asset classes 24 hours a day throughout the trading week. Our U.S. clearing house is operated within our CME exchange and we also operate a UK clearing house in CME Clearing Europe.

Our integrated clearing function is designed to ensure the safety and soundness of our markets. Our clearing services are designed to protect the financial integrity of our markets by serving as the counterparty to every trade, becoming the buyer to each seller and the seller to each buyer, and limiting credit risk. The clearing house is responsible for settling trading accounts, clearing trades, collecting and maintaining performance bond funds, regulating delivery and reporting trading data. CME Clearing marks open positions to market at least twice a day, and requires payment from clearing firms whose positions have lost value and makes payments to clearing firms whose positions have gained value. For select cleared-only markets, positions are marked-to-market daily, with the capacity to mark-to-market more frequently as market conditions warrant. We also offer clearing services through CME ClearPort, a comprehensive set of flexible clearing services for the global over-the-counter market backed by CME Clearing.   See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” beginning on











page 53 and “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” beginning on page 15, for more information on our financial safeguards package and the associated credit risks related to our clearing services.

Superior Trading Technology and Distribution-We strive to provide the most flexible architecture in terms of bringing new technology, innovations and solutions to the market. Our CME Globex electronic trading platform is accessible on a global basis nearly 24 hours a day throughout the trading week. In 2011,84%of our trading volume was conducted electronically.

Our platform offers:

•certainty of execution;

•vast capabilities to facilitate complex and demanding trading;

•direct market access;

•fairness, price transparency and anonymity; and

•global distribution, including connection through high-speed international telecommunications hubs in key financial centers in Europe, Asia and Latin America.

In January 2012, we launched our service offerings for co-location at our data center facility, which houses our trading match engines for all products traded on the CME Globex platform. The service provides the lowest latency connection for our customers. The offering is made available to all customers on equal terms.

Our Strategic Initiatives

The following is a description of our strategic initiatives:

Leading Core Business Innovation-We are continuing to enhance our customer relations to allow us to further cross-sell our products, expand on the strength of our existing benchmark products and launch new products. In 2010 and 2011, new product launches included the Ultra-long Bond Treasury futures and options and Weekly Treasury options.

Globalizing our Company and our Business-Our goal is to continue to expand and diversify our customer base worldwide and offer customers around the world the most broadly diversified portfolio of benchmark products.  We believe that we have significant opportunity to expand the participation of our non-U.S. customer base in our markets.   We are focusing on core growth in global markets because we believe that Asia, Latin America, and other emerging markets will experience superior economic and financial markets growth over the next decade compared with the more mature North American and European markets.  In particular, we plan to expand our presence in major financial centers in Asia, grow our commodities business with non-U.S. customers and products and penetrate historically closed and semi-open markets such as China.  We now have an agreement with Mysteel, China's leading provider of ferrous price and indexing services, to develop risk management products for the ferrous metals industry based on Mysteel's market-leading price data services.

To further enhance our customers' trading opportunities, we have partnered with leading exchanges around the world to make their products available on or through our CME Globex platform and network. These arrangements allow our customers to access many of the world's most actively traded equity futures contracts-Brazilian iBovespa index futures, Korean Kospi 200 index futures, Indian Nifty 50 index futures, Japanese Nikkei 225 index futures and the Mexican IPC index. In 2011, we extended our partnership with BM&FBOVESPA with the launch of the derivatives segment of a new multi-asset class electronic trading platform deployed by BM&FBOVESPA.  Our strategic relationships with Bursa Malaysia Derivatives, Dubai Mercantile Exchange, Johannesburg Stock Exchange and Singapore Exchange allow us to accelerate our market penetration, expand our customer reach, and develop product sales channels with local brokers.  These relationships are also designed to allow the customers of our partner exchanges to access our products and markets.

In May 2011, we launched CME Clearing Europe and we have made steady progress building on our European presence to further extend the geographical reach of our clearing services.   We now clear more than 170 different energy, commodity, metal and freight contracts through CME Clearing Europe and we continue to expand the range of eligible products.  Next steps include the launch of additional metals contracts, the launch of interest rate swaps and cross-margining with our U.S. clearing house.

Leading our Industry in Customer Service, Education and Training, and Sales Support-To ensure that we are providing our customers with effective service, we restructured our global client development and sales organization to better target cross asset sales across client segments, drive international sales (specifically in Asia and Europe) and to generate new client participation across all regions.  We continue to build upon our global team in key locations outside the United States to better serve our customers on a global basis.  We now have key leaders in place in each business line, in our global sales function and in our Europe and Asia offices.   To assist our customers in achieving their trading and risk management goals, we also continue to enhance our educational resources on our products and services.











Extending our Capabilities and Business in the Over-the-Counter Markets

-Our goal is to provide a comprehensive multi-asset class clearing solution to the market for maximum operational ease and the capital efficiency that comes with connecting to a single clearing house. Our over-the-counter offerings provide the extensive counterparty risk reduction and transparency of our clearing services while preserving the prevailing execution processes, technology platforms and economic structures currently in use in the marketplace. We offer clearing services for cleared over-the-counter derivatives, including credit default swaps, interest rate swaps and for agricultural products and foreign exchange.  We have worked closely with buy side and sell side participants to build a multi-asset class, market leading OTC clearing solution.  In the fourth quarter of 2011, we successfully launched interest rate swaps in Eurodollars, British pounds and Canadian dollars, and we are targeting the launch of interest rate swaps in Australian dollars, Swiss francs and Japanese Yen in the first half of 2012.   In


, we cleared over-the-counter transactions with a notional value of over $206.4 billion and open interest as of

December 31, 2011

was $161.0 million. Our CME ClearPort platform offers an array of clearing services that depend on the nature of the product traded. It has the capacity to clear and report transactions in multiple asset classes. In 2011, we added more than


products to our CME ClearPort system.

Establishing Ourselves as the Leading Exchange Company Provider of Information Products and Index Services

-We offer a variety of market data services for the futures, equities and the over-the-counter markets. In 2010, we expanded our index services business through the formation of CME Group Index Services with Dow Jones. This venture allows us to bring the Dow Jones' brand and index creation and calculation capabilities to current and prospective clients and exchange partners; provides additional cross-listing opportunities and new global opportunities for index creation, calculation and licensing in cash, derivatives and over-the-counter markets globally; allows us to cross-sell and co-brand products; and expand market data dissemination services to our global network of clients and exchange partners.  In November 2011, we announced our agreement with McGraw-Hill to establish a new joint venture in which McGraw-Hill will contribute its S&P Indices business and we will contribute a portion of the CME Group Index Services business to create S&P/Dow Jones Indices, a global leader in index service.  The new venture, which remains subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions, will create a leading index provider well-positioned to serve global institutional and retail customers and will allow us to continue to be innovative with product development and co-branding across asset classes.  As part of the agreement, we will acquire a long term, ownership-linked, exclusive license to list futures and options on futures based on the Standard & Poor's (S&P) Indices.

MF Global Matter

In October 2011, the Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York, upon petition by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, placed the futures commission merchant/broker-dealer arm of MF Global, one of our largest clearing firms at the time, into Securities Investor Protection Act liquidation.  As of February 10, 2012, the trustee for the liquidation of MF Global was estimating the shortfall in customer segregated funds as of that date to be at least $900 million, and that there was an additional shortfall as of that date of at least $700 million in customer "secured" funds (funds related to trading on foreign exchanges).  Since the bankruptcy, with the trustee's permission, we transferred all of our open positions in MF Global customer accounts to other futures commission merchants, and facilitated the transfer to other futures commission merchants of cash representing roughly 72% of the segregated account balances of public customers.  We continue to take steps to work with the bankruptcy trustee to facilitate the release of additional available customer funds, including providing a financial guarantee of $550.0 million as described in more detail on page 83.

There are ongoing investigations by the Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), the CFTC, and the SEC into the events surrounding the MF Global bankruptcy, including efforts to locate the missing segregated customer property and determining which individuals and entities may have civil or criminal liability for the shortfall.  We were the designated self-regulatory organization for MF Global, meaning we were responsible for conducting periodic audits of the futures commission merchant pursuant to Joint Audit Committee standards.  We believe that we carried out our duties and responsibilities in accordance with these standards and procedures. We have been named in a number of lawsuits filed in connection with the MF Global matter.  See "Legal Matters" in Note 13. Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements, beginning on page 82 for more information on these proceedings.

As a result of the shortfall in customer segregated funds, the industry, its self-regulatory model and the segregation regime are under scrutiny.  Several Congressional hearings have been held to evaluate the situation and various policy suggestions have been made to ensure the protection of customer segregated funds. The adoption of such regulations will likely increase our costs of providing clearing services.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

We own the rights to a large number of trademarks, service marks, domain names and trade names in the United States, Europe and in other parts of the world. We have registered many of our most important trademarks in the United States and other countries. We hold the rights to a number of patents and have made a number of patent applications. Our patents cover match engine, trader user interface, trading floor support, market data, general technology and clearing house functionalities. We also own the copyright to a variety of materials. Those copyrights, some of which are registered, include printed and online











publications, web sites, advertisements, educational material, graphic presentations and other literature, both textual and electronic. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademarks, patents, copyrights, database rights, trade secrets, restrictions on disclosure and other methods.

We offer equity index futures and options on key benchmarks, including S&P, NASDAQ, Dow Jones and Nikkei indexes. We also have an agreement with the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) to allow us to list futures and options on futures for volatility indexes on a variety of asset classes. With the exception of Dow Jones, these products are listed by us subject to license agreements with the applicable owners of the indexes. We have exclusive arrangements with S&P and The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. (NASDAQ) and non-exclusive arrangements with the other third parties. Our rights to the Dow Jones indexes previously were evidenced by an exclusive agreement but are now part of our ownership of the joint venture. Our S&P license is exclusive through 2016 and non-exclusive from that date until 2017 with some exceptions provided certain trading volume is achieved.  As previously discussed, our proposed joint venture with McGraw-Hill will provide us with a long-term, ownership-linked exclusive license to the S&P Indices.  Our NASDAQ license is exclusive through 2019. Copies of our S&P and NASDAQ license arrangements have been filed as material contracts. We pay the applicable third party per trade fees based on trading volume under the terms of these licensing agreements.

We also have a licensing and membership agreement with BBA Enterprises Limited and the British Bankers' Association (collectively, BBA) for the use of its London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) to settle several of our interest rate products, including our Eurodollar contract.  For the license, we paid an upfront fee and pay an annual fee.  Numerous regulators including the SEC, CFTC and the FSA are investigating whether there were attempts to manipulate LIBOR rates.  LIBOR rates play a significant role in the financial system. To the extent the investigation finds that the LIBOR rate was distorted or manipulated, it could have a negative impact on our customers' confidence in settlement prices dependent on LIBOR, including our benchmark Eurodollar contract.

We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain the exclusivity of our licensing agreements with S&P and NASDAQ or be able to maintain our other existing licensing arrangements. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not succeed in creating stock index futures based on information similar to that which we have obtained by license, or that market participants will not increasingly use other instruments, including securities and options based on the S&P, NASDAQ or Dow Jones indexes, to manage or speculate on U.S. stock risks. Parties may also succeed in offering indexed products that are similar to our licensed products without being required to obtain a license, or in countries that are beyond our jurisdictional reach and/or our licensors. For example, we are a party to a pending legal matter seeking a declaratory judgment that the opposing party is required to obtain a valid license in order to list certain products based upon the Dow Jones and S&P indexes. While we have prevailed on a motion for summary judgment, the matter is currently pending appeal. A negative decision in the matter would have a negative impact on our ability to generate revenues from our index services business.

Seasonality

Generally, we have historically experienced relatively higher trading volume during the first and second quarters and sequentially lower trading volume in the third and fourth quarters. However, such seasonality may also be impacted by general market conditions, such as the 2008 economic crisis and the impact of the MF Global bankruptcy. During2011,25%of our consolidated revenues were recognized in the first quarter,26%in the second quarter,27%in the third quarter and22%in the fourth quarter.

Working Capital

We generally meet our funding requirements with internally generated funds supplemented from time to time with public debt and commercial paper offerings. For more information on our working capital needs, see “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition-Liquidity and Capital Resources,” beginning on page 33, which section is incorporated herein by reference.

Customer Base

Our customer base includes professional traders, financial institutions, institutional and individual investors, major corporations, manufacturers, producers and governments. Our customers can access our CME Globex trading platform across the globe. Customers may be members of one or more of our exchanges.   Rights to directly access our markets will depend upon the nature of the customer, such as whether the individual is a member of one of our exchanges or has executed an agreement with us for direct access.

Rights and privileges of membership are exchange specific. Trading on our open outcry trading floors is conducted exclusively by our members. Membership on one of our futures exchanges also enables a customer to trade specific products at reduced rates and lower fees. Under the terms of the organizational documents of our exchanges, our members have certain rights that relate primarily to trading right protections, certain trading fee protections and certain membership benefit protections. In2011,80%of our trading volume was conducted by our members.











We bill a substantial portion of our clearing and transaction fees to our clearing firms. The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represent charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers. One firm represented12%of our clearing and transaction fees revenue for2011.  In the event a clearing firm were to withdraw, we believe that the customer portion of the firm's trading activity would likely transfer to another clearing firm of the exchange.  In 2011, MF Global, one of our largest clearing firms, was placed into bankruptcy and we transferred all of their more than 30,000 customer accounts to other futures commission merchants.

Competition

The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and we expect competition to continue to intensify, especially in light of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act (Dodd-Frank) and other reforms of the financial services industry as discussed in the following section. For example, Dodd-Frank provides for central clearing of “clearable” over-the-counter swaps and requires that swaps that are cleared must be traded on exchanges or swap execution facilities, unless no exchange or swap execution facility makes the swap available for trading. While these new requirements create opportunities for us to expand our over-the-counter business, a number of market participants and other exchanges have developed, and likely will develop in the future, competing platforms and products.

We encounter competition in all aspects of our business, including from entities having substantially greater capital and resources and offering a wider range of products and services, and some operating under a different and possibly less stringent regulatory regime. We face competition from other futures, securities and securities option exchanges; over-the-counter markets; clearing organizations; consortia formed by our members and large market participants; alternative trade execution facilities; technology firms, including market data distributors and electronic trading system developers; and others.

Competition in our Derivatives Business

We believe competition in the derivatives and securities business is based on a number of factors, including, among others:

•depth and liquidity of markets;

•transaction costs;

•breadth of product offerings and rate and quality of new product development;

•ability to position and expand upon existing products to address changing market needs;

•transparency, reliability and anonymity in transaction processing;

•connectivity, accessibility and distribution;

•technological capability and innovation;

•efficient and secure settlement, clearing and support services;

•regulatory environment; and

•reputation.

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors.  Our deep, liquid markets; diverse product offerings; rate and quality of new product development; and efficient, secure settlement, clearing and support services distinguish us from our competitors. We believe that in order to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to expand globally; develop new and innovative products; enhance our technology infrastructure, including its reliability and functionality; maintain liquidity and low transaction costs and adopt such additional customer protections as the regulators and customers require as a result of the MF Global bankruptcy.

Our industry has continued to experience significant consolidation efforts.  Many of these recent efforts have failed due to lack of shareholder support or regulatory issues, including the NYSE Euronext/Deutsche Bourse proposed merger; the London Stock Exchange's bid for the TMX Group and the Singapore Stock Exchange's proposed acquisition of the Australian Stock Exchange.  At the end of 2011, there were approximately60futures exchanges located in approximately30countries.  We expect industry participants to continue to look for ways to grow their business despite the challenging regulatory environment and other exchanges may become the target of future consolidation efforts.

Among our key competitors in our exchange-traded business are New York Portfolio Clearing (NYPC) and the Electronic Liquidity Exchange (ELX) in our interest rate product line and IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. (ICE) in our agricultural commodities, currency, equity index and energy contracts.  In early 2012, NYSE Liffe U.S. announced it had secured an exclusive license to launch futures contracts based on the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation's proprietary general collateral finance repo index which will compete with our interest rate products.   Our over-the-counter business also competes with LCH.Clearnet for our interest rate swaps and ICE for our credit default swaps.  Newer entrants into our industry may further increase competitive pressure on us.











Because equity futures contracts are alternatives to underlying stocks and a variety of equity option and other contracts provide an alternative means of obtaining exposure to the equity markets, we also compete with NYSE Euronext and other securities and options exchanges, dealer markets and alternative trading systems, as well as with ICE in connection with its futures and options on futures contracts based on the Russell indexes.

We face competition from the over-the-counter market with the trading of contracts similar to those traded or cleared on our exchanges, such as swaps, forward contracts and other exchange “look-alike” contracts, in which parties directly negotiate the terms of their contracts, as well as from spot markets, ETFs and other substitutes for our products. Development of swap execution facilities and the mandated clearing requirement for certain products may create platforms that promote competitive substitutes for our privately negotiated and exchange-traded products.

Competition in our Transaction Processing Business

In addition to the competition we face in our derivatives business, we face a number of competitors in our transaction processing and other business services. In the past few years, there has been increased competition in the provision of clearing services and we expect competition to continue to increase in connection with the implementation of Dodd-Frank which requires the mandatory central clearing of standardized over-the-counter products.

ICE has its own clearing operations which are comprised of regulated clearing houses across the United States, Europe and Canada.  OCC issues and clears U.S.-listed options and futures on a number of underlying financial assets including common stocks, currencies and stock indexes, including clearing services for ELX.  In 2011, NYPC, a clearing house created by NYSE Euronext and The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation, began clearing interest rate products traded on NYSE Liffe U.S. and plans to expand to additional exchanges in the future.  We believe that other exchanges may also undertake to provide clearing services.

We believe competition in the transaction processing and business services market is based on, among other things, the fees charged for the services provided; quality and reliability of the services; timely delivery of the services; reputation; offering breadth; confidentiality of positions and information security protective measures; and the value of providing customers with capital efficiencies.

Competition in our Market Data Business

Technology companies, market data and information vendors and front-end software vendors also represent potential competitors because, as purveyors of market data or trading software systems, these firms typically have substantial distribution capabilities. As technology firms, they also have access to trading engines that can be connected to their data and information networks. Additionally, technology and software firms that develop trading systems, hardware and networks that are otherwise outside of the financial services industry may be attracted to enter our markets. This may lead to decreased demand for our market data.

Regulatory Matters

Our operation of futures exchanges is subject to extensive regulation by the CFTC under its principles-based approach which requires that our exchange subsidiaries satisfy the requirements of certain core principles relating to the operation and oversight of our markets and our clearing house. The CFTC carries out the regulation of the futures markets in accordance with the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act and the Commodity Futures Modernization Act. The CFTC is subject to reauthorization every five years, which most recently occurred in 2008.

In light of the widespread financial and economic difficulties, particularly acute in the latter half of 2008 and early 2009, there were calls for a restructuring of the regulation of financial markets.  Dodd-Frank, which was signed into law in 2010, is a comprehensive banking and financial services reform package that includes significant changes to the oversight of the derivatives markets, both over-the-counter and exchange-traded. Dodd-Frank reinforces the core tenets of our markets:

•price transparency;

•liquid markets to minimize transaction costs;

•market integrity;

•customer protection; and

•the safety and soundness of central counterparty clearing services.

Dodd-Frank also provides the Federal Reserve Board with authority over systematically important financial entities.  We have been notified that our U.S. clearing house may be regulated as a systematically important financial entity.  Since adoption, the CFTC, the SEC, the Department of Treasury and other regulators have engaged in extensive rulemaking to implement the legislation.  CME Group and others in the industry continue to actively participate in the rulemaking process with the goal that the final regulations serve the public interest, foster competition and innovation and do not place the U.S. financial services











sector at a competitive disadvantage in our evolving global financial markets.  During 2011, several regulations implementing Dodd-Frank were finalized, including rules relating to mandatory clearing and the operation of a clearing house, anti-manipulation, large trader reporting, position limits and the definition of agricultural commodity.  A significant portion of the Act, however, remains subject to further rulemaking and such final regulations could include provisions that could negatively impact our business.  Additionally, as a result of the MF Global bankruptcy and the shortfall in commodities customer segregated funds, the futures industry, its self-regulatory model and the segregation regime are under scrutiny by the CFTC and Congress.  Several Congressional hearings have been held to evaluate the situation and various policy suggestions have been made to ensure the protection of customer segregated funds.  We have and expect to continue to incur significant additional costs to make the necessary change to our business to comply with the provisions of Dodd-Frank and any new regulations stemming from the MF Global matter.

Our top areas of focus in the regulatory environment are:

•Changes to the core principles to designated contract markets, including any changes to Core Principle 9 -the board of trade shall provide a competitive, open, and efficient market and mechanism for executing transactions that protects the price discovery process of trading in the centralized market of the board of trade(Core Principle 9).Rules promulgated under this provision may require us to make modifications to the manner in which certain of our contracts trade and/or require that such products be de-listed as futures and re-listed as swaps after a specified compliance period.

•Changes to the self-regulatory model, which, if modified, could alter the manner in which we currently oversee our marketplace. We believe that we are best positioned to continue to conduct financial and market surveillance of our clearing firms.

•The implementation of the position limit rules which could have a significant impact on our commodities business relative to such markets abroad given that it does not appear that foreign jurisdictions will impose position limits rules as stringent as those adopted by the CFTC.

•The proposed rules of the Internal Revenue Service regarding the tax treatment of certain derivatives contracts which could result in a significant number of our contracts losing their 60/40 tax treatment.

As a global company with operations and locations around the world, we are also subject to the laws and regulations in the locations in which we do business.

The financial services industry outside of the United States is also undergoing similar significant reform, particularly in Europe. For example, in the United Kingdom the government has proposed to reorganize its regulatory framework which would include the dissolution of the FSA with oversight to be transitioned to the Bank of England, the Financial Conduct Authority, and the Prudential Regulation Authority depending upon the status of the regulated entity. As a result, in the United Kingdom our operations could be subject to multiple regulators. The European Union is also undergoing similar reform with multiple supervisory authorities, such as the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) established in 2011. In addition to the national regulators, ESMA is likely to have a supervisory and oversight role over European clearing houses, non-European clearing houses and non-European exchanges providing services in Europe. Multiple legislations such as the European Market Infrastructure Regulation, the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, the Capital Requirements Directive IV and the Market Abuse Directive have been proposed with provisions similar to those contained in Dodd-Frank.

To the extent the regulatory environment following these and other financial reform regulations is less beneficial for us or our customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively affected.

If we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, removal of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our designations as a contract market and derivatives clearing organization.

As a result of the 2010 “flash crash,” regulators have been focused on the role of high frequency traders and their impact on the markets.  Although not clearly defined, high frequency trading typically refers to professional traders acting in a proprietary capacity that engage in strategies that generate a large number of trades on a daily basis.  The CFTC has formed a subcommittee to define high frequency trading which will begin the process of assessing the impact of such trading on the marketplace and the development of any new regulations. We believe that such trading plays an important role in the marketplace by making it more efficient and competitive for all market participants and such firms contribute significantly to our liquidity. At this time, however, it is unclear whether these inquires will result in restrictions on the use of high frequency trading.

In the United States and Europe, there are several proposals to tax financial transactions or to assess user fees for market participants.  For example, in the United States, there is a discussion of assessing a user fee to fund the CFTC and in Europe, legislative bodies are considering a tax on all financial transactions.   In the past, efforts to implement a transaction tax or user











fee have not been successful.  The implementation of additional costs to use our markets may discourage institutions and individuals from using our products to manage their risks which could adversely impact our trading volumes, revenues and profits and may also adversely impact our ability to compete on an international level. A transaction tax or user fee in the U.S. may also cause market participants to transition and/or increase their derivatives trading in jurisdictions outside the U.S. which do not  necessarily impose a comparable cost at this time.

In addition, the U.S. Congress may propose to eliminate the favorable 60/40 tax treatment for futures. The current tax treatment for futures trading allows certain traders to pay a blend of taxes on their gains and losses from trading futures and options with 60% at capital gains rates and 40% at ordinary tax rates.  Any repeal of 60-40 tax treatment would impose a substantial increase in tax rates applicable to certain individuals who are most responsible for creating liquid and efficient markets.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2011, we had approximately2,740employees. We consider relations with our employees to be good. The following are our executive officers, including a description of their business experience over the last five years.

Executive Officers

Ages are as of February 1, 2012.

Terrence A. Duffy, 53

Mr. Duffy has served as our Executive Chairman since 2006, as our Chairman from 2002 until 2006 and has been a member of our board of directors since 1995. He also has served as President of TDA Trading, Inc. from 1981 to 2002 and has been a member of our CME exchange since 1981.

Craig S. Donohue, 50

Mr. Donohue has served as Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board of directors since 2004. Mr. Donohue joined us in 1989 and since then has held various positions of increasing responsibility within the organization including Managing Director and Chief Administrative Officer; Managing Director, Business Development and Corporate/Legal Affairs of CME; and Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Mr. Donohue also serves as our representative on the board of directors of BM&FBOVESPA.

Kathleen M. Cronin, 48

Ms. Cronin has served as our Managing Director, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since 2003. Previously she served as Corporate Secretary and Acting General Counsel from 2002 through 2003. Prior to joining us, Ms. Cronin was a corporate attorney at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom from 1989 through 1995 and from 1997 through 2002.

Bryan T. Durkin, 51

Mr. Durkin assumed the position of Managing Director, Products and Services in addition to his role as our Chief Operating Officer in 2010. Mr. Durkin has served as our Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer since 2007. Mr. Durkin joined us in connection with the CBOT merger and he previously held a variety of leadership roles with CBOT from 1982 to 2007, most recently as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.

Phupinder S. Gill, 51

Mr. Gill has served as our President since 2007. Previously he served as President and Chief Operating Officer since 2004. Mr. Gill joined us in 1988 and has held various positions of increasing responsibility within the organization, including Managing Director and President of CME Clearing and GFX Corporation. Mr. Gill also serves as our representative on the boards of Bursa Malaysia Derivatives and Bolsa Mexicana de Valores.

Julie Holzrichter, 43

Ms. Holzrichter has served as Managing Director, Global Operations since 2007. Ms. Holzrichter rejoined us in 2006 as our Managing Director, CME Globex Services and Technology Integration. Ms. Holzrichter previously held positions of increasing responsibility in our organization from 1986 to 2003 in trading operations.

Kevin Kometer, 47

Mr. Kometer has served as Managing Director and Chief Information Officer since 2008. He previously served as Managing Director and Deputy Chief Information Officer from 2007 to 2008. Since joining the company most recently in 1998, he has held senior leadership positions in the Technology Division, including Managing Director, Trading Execution Systems and Director, Advanced Technology. Mr. Kometer was also with the company from 1994 to 1996.















James E. Parisi, 47

Mr. Parisi has served as our Chief Financial Officer and Managing Director, Finance and Corporate Development since 2010. He has held the role of Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer since 2004. Mr. Parisi joined us in 1988 and has held positions of increasing responsibility within the organization, including Managing Director & Treasurer and Director, Planning & Finance.

Laurent Paulhac, 42

Mr. Paulhac has served as Managing Director, OTC Products and Services since 2009. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Paulhac most recently served as Chief Executive Officer of CMA from 2005 to 2009.   CMA was acquired by us in 2008.

James V. Pieper, 45

Mr. Pieper has served as our Managing Director and Chief Accounting Officer since 2010. Previously, Mr. Pieper served as Director and Controller since 2006 and as Associate Director and Assistant Controller from 2004 to 2006.

Hilda Harris Piell, 44

Ms. Piell has served as Managing Director and Chief Human Resources Officer since 2007. Previously she served as Managing Director and Senior Associate General Counsel, as Director and Associate General Counsel and as Associate Director and Assistant General Counsel since joining us in 2000.

John W. Pietrowicz, 47

Mr. Pietrowicz has served as our Managing Director, Business Development and Corporate Finance since 2010. Mr. Pietrowicz joined us in 2003 and since then has held various positions of increasing responsibility, including his most recent position of Managing Director and Deputy Chief Financial Officer from 2009 to 2010 and Managing Director, Corporate Finance and Treasury from 2006 to 2009.

Derek Sammann, 43

Mr. Sammann has served as Managing Director, Foreign Exchange and Interest Rate Products since 2010.  He previously served as Managing Director, Financial Products and Services since 2009 and Managing Director, Global Head of Foreign Exchange Products since joining us in 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Sammann served as Managing Director, Global Head of FX Options and Structured Products at Calyon Corporate and Investment Bank in London from 1997 to 2006.

Kimberly S. Taylor, 50

Ms. Taylor has served as President, CME Clearing since 2004 and as Managing Director, Risk Management in the Clearing House Division, from 1998 to 2003. Ms. Taylor has held a variety of positions in the Clearing House, including Vice President and Senior Director. She joined us in 1989.

Kendal Vroman, 40

Mr. Vroman has served as our Managing Director, Commodity Products, OTC Services & Information Products since 2010. Mr. Vroman previously served as Managing Director and Chief Corporate Development Officer from 2008 to 2010. Mr. Vroman joined us in 2001 and since then has held positions of increasing responsibility, including most recently as Managing Director, Corporate Development and Managing Director, Information and Technology Services.

Scot E. Warren, 48

Mr. Warren has served as our Managing Director, Equity Index Products and Index Services since 2010. Mr. Warren previously served as our Managing Director, Equity Products since joining us in 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Warren worked for Goldman Sachs as its Vice President, Manager Trading and Business Analysis Team. Prior to Goldman Sachs, Mr. Warren managed equity and option execution and clearing businesses for ABN Amro in Chicago and was a Senior Consultant for Arthur Andersen & Co. for financial services firms.











FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

Due to the nature of its business, CME Group has not historically tracked revenues based upon geographic location. We do, however, track trading volume generated outside of traditional U.S. trading hours and through our international telecommunication hubs. Our customers can directly access our exchanges throughout the world.

The following table shows the percentage of our total trading volume on our Globex electronic trading platform generated during non-U.S. hours and through our international hubs.201120102009Trading during non-U.S. hours13%13%9%Trading through telecommunication hubs7%8%7%



AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our Web site iswww.cmegroup.com. Information made available on our Web site does not constitute part of this document. We make available on our Web site our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC. Our corporate governance materials, including our Corporate Governance Principles, Director Conflict of Interest Policy, Board of Directors Code of Ethics, Categorical Independence Standards, Employee Code of Conduct and the charters for all the standing committees of our board, may also be found on our Web site. Copies of these materials are also available to shareholders free of charge upon written request to Shareholder Relations, Attention Ms. Beth Hausoul, CME Group Inc., 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606.





