ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF
BUSINESS

Building on the heritage of its futures exchanges (CME, CBOT, NYMEX and COMEX), CME Group serves the risk management and
investment needs of customers around the globe.

CME was founded in 1898 as a not-for-profit corporation. In 2000, CME demutualized and became
a shareholder-owned corporation. As a consequence, we adopted a for-profit approach to our business, including strategic initiatives aimed at optimizing trading volume, efficiency and liquidity. In 2002, Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc.
(CME Holdings) completed its initial public offering of its Class A common stock, which is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “CME”.

As the ultimate parent company of four futures exchanges and our clearing house, our business has
historically been subject to the extensive regulation of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). As a result of our global operations, we are also subject to the rules and regulations of the local jurisdictions in which we conduct business,
including the FSA based on our offering of various CME Group products and services to European customers and the operation of CME Clearing Europe, and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in connection with our offering of clearing services
for security-based swaps.

Our principal executive offices are located at 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606, and our telephone
number is 312-930-1000.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

The company reports the results of its operations as one reporting segment primarily comprised of CME, CBOT, NYMEX and COMEX exchanges. The remaining operations do not meet the thresholds for reporting
separate segment information.

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

CME Group offers the widest range of global benchmark products across all major asset classes based on interest rates, equity indexes, foreign exchange, energy, agricultural commodities, metals, weather
and real estate. CME Group brings buyers and sellers together through the CME Globex electronic trading platform across the globe and our open outcry trading facilities in Chicago and New York City. CME Group also operates CME Clearing,







one of the largest central counterparty clearing services in the world, which provides clearing and settlement services for exchange-traded contracts, as well as for cleared over-the-counter
derivatives transactions. CME Clearing applies robust risk management standards and applicable CFTC customer protection standards for exchange-traded products and cleared over-the-counter derivatives. Clearing member firms are continually monitored
and audited for their outstanding risk, capital adequacy and compliance with customer protection rules and regulations. CME Clearing utilizes a combination of risk management capabilities to assess clearing firm and account exposure levels for all
asset classes 24 hours a day throughout the trading week. Finally, we offer a wide range of market data services—including live quotes, delayed quotes, market reports and a comprehensive historical data service and have expanded into the index
services business through our new joint venture with Dow Jones.



Our Competitive Strengths

CME
Group offers a number of key differentiating elements that set it apart from its competitors, including:

Highly Liquid Markets—Our
listed markets provide an effective and transparent forum for our customers to manage their risk and meet their investment needs relating to our markets. We believe that our customers choose to trade on our centralized market due to its liquidity
and transparency. Market liquidity, or the ability of a market to absorb the execution of large purchases or sales quickly and efficiently, is key to attracting customers and contributing to a market’s success.

Most Diverse Product Line—Our products provide a means for hedging, speculation and asset allocation relating to the risks associated with,
among other things, interest rate sensitive instruments, equity ownership, changes in the value of foreign currency, credit risk and changes in the prices of commodities. The estimated percentage of clearing and transaction fees revenue contributed
by each product line is as follows:



Product Line201020092008Interest rate27%26%38%Equity212432Foreign exchange767Agricultural commodity121012Energy272910Metal651

The breadth and diversity of our
product line is beneficial to our overall performance when an individual product line is impacted by macroeconomic factors. For example, the impact to our interest rate product line due to the credit crisis and the Federal Reserve Bank’s zero
interest rate policy was partially offset by trading volume in our other product lines.

Our products are traded through the CME Globex
electronic trading platform, our open outcry auction markets in Chicago and New York City and through privately negotiated transactions that we clear. The estimated percentage of clearing and transaction fees revenue contributed by each trading
venue is as follows:



Trading Venue201020092008Electronic74%72%76%Open outcry101114Privately negotiated556CME ClearPort (OTC)11124

Our products generate valuable
information regarding trading activity. We distribute our market data over the CME market data platform directly to our electronic trading customers as part of their access to our markets and







to quote vendors who consolidate our market data with that from other exchanges, other third-party data providers and news sources, and then resell their consolidated data. The estimated
contributions of our market data and information services products based on percentage of total revenue over the last three years was 11% in 2010, 13% in 2009 and 11% in 2008.

We believe our new joint venture with Dow Jones, entered into in March 2010, will allow us to expand our index and market data offerings providing for further revenue diversification and will allow us to
reach new customers in both the institutional and retail market segments. In 2010, we derived 2% of our revenues from the business acquired from Dow Jones.

Safety and Soundness of our Markets—We understand the importance of ensuring that our customers are able to manage and contain their trading risks. As the markets and the economy have evolved,
we have worked to adapt our clearing services to meet the needs of our customers. We believe security can best be delivered to the marketplace through adherence to the following key principles:



•transparency;



•competition;



•separation of trading counterparties from clearing counterparties;



•market regulation to discourage and address improper behavior;



•daily mark-to-market to limit the accumulation of losses;



•comprehensive program of proactive risk management policies and practices;



•effective and robust customer protections in the case of a clearing member default; and



•central counterparty clearing that guarantees performance of exchange-traded and cleared over-the-counter derivatives.

We own and operate our own clearing house within our CME exchange. In addition, the FSA approved CME Clearing Europe as a Recognised Clearing House. We
expect CME Clearing Europe to launch in the first half of 2011.

Our integrated clearing function is designed to ensure the safety and
soundness of our markets. Our clearing services protect the financial integrity of our markets by serving as the counterparty to every trade, becoming the buyer to each seller and the seller to each buyer, and limiting credit risk. The clearing
house is responsible for settling trading accounts, clearing trades, collecting and maintaining performance bond funds, regulating delivery and reporting trading data. CME Clearing marks open positions to market at least twice a day, and requires
payment from clearing firms whose positions have lost value and makes payments to clearing firms whose positions have gained value. For select product offerings with newer markets, positions are marked-to-market daily, with the capacity to
mark-to-market more frequently as market conditions warrant. We also offer clearing services through CME ClearPort, a comprehensive set of flexible clearing services for the global over-the-counter market backed by CME Clearing. See “Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” beginning on page 62 and “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” beginning on page 18, for more information on our financial safeguards package and the associated credit risks related to
our clearing services.

Superior Trading Technology and Distribution—We strive to provide the most flexible
architecture in terms of bringing new technology, innovations and solutions to the market. Our CME Globex electronic trading platform is accessible nearly 24 hours a day throughout the trading week. In 2010, 83% of our trading volume was conducted
electronically.







Our platform offers:



•high speed execution;



•vast capabilities to facilitate complex and demanding trading;



•direct market access;



•fairness, transparency and anonymity; and



•global distribution, including connection through high-speed international telecommunications hubs in key financial centers in Europe, Asia and Latin
America.

In 2010, we also announced service offerings for co-location to be available at our new data center facility,
which houses our trading match engines for all products traded on the CME Globex platform. The service will launch in early 2012 and will provide the lowest latency connection for our customers. The offering is made available to all customers on
equal terms.

Our Strategic Initiatives

The following is a description of our strategic initiatives:

Leading Core Business
Innovation—We plan to continue to launch new products, expand on the strength of our existing benchmark products and enhance our customer relations to allow us to further cross-sell our products. For example, in 2010, we launched over 200
new products, which included the expansion of our existing product lines by among other things launching our Ultra-long Bond Treasury futures and options and our On-the-Run Treasury futures products. These products create an array of new trading
opportunities for our market participants as well as provide new tools for our customers who lack easy access to the U.S. Treasury securities and repo markets.

Globalizing our Company and our Business—Our goal is to expand and diversify our customer base worldwide and offer customers around the world the most broadly diversified portfolio of
benchmark products. We are focusing on core growth in global markets because we believe that Asia, Latin America, and other emerging markets will experience superior economic and financial markets growth over the next decade compared with the more
mature North American and European markets.

CME Clearing
Europe, based in London, is our first non-U.S. clearing house. In December 2010, CME Clearing Europe was approved as a Recognised Clearing House by the FSA and will offer multi-asset class over-the-counter clearing services and build on our European
presence to further extend the geographical reach of our clearing services. We expect the clearing house to launch in the first half of 2011.







Leading our Industry in Customer Service, Education and Training and Sales Support—To ensure
that we are providing our customers with effective service, we recently restructured our global client development and sales organization to better target cross asset sales across client segments, drive international sales (specifically in Asia and
Europe) and to generate new client participation across all regions. In 2010, we increased our headcount by approximately 4% to support key locations outside the United States to better serve our customers on a global basis, including adding
additional product heads who are based overseas. We have also enhanced our educational resources on our products and services to assist our customers in achieving their trading and risk management goals. For example, our efforts include hosting
agricultural product training courses focused in Latin America and the United States, hosting customer and university groups for simulated trading and floor tour events, developing a wide range of online tutorials, demos, strategy papers and hedging
guides and hosting trading competitions with participation from universities.

Extending our Capabilities and Business in the
Over-the-Counter Markets—Our goal is to provide a comprehensive multi-asset class clearing solution to the market for maximum operational ease and the capital efficiency that comes with connecting to a single clearing house. Our
over-the-counter offerings provide the extensive counterparty risk reduction and transparency of CME Clearing while preserving the prevailing execution processes, technology platforms and economic structures currently in use in the marketplace. We
offer clearing services for cleared over-the-counter derivatives, including credit default swaps and interest rate swaps. Our cleared interest rate swap offering provides our customers with the ability to negotiate, execute and submit trades through
multiple approved trade-capture platforms. CME ClearPort offers an array of clearing services that depend on the nature of the product traded. It has the capacity to clear and report transactions in multiple asset classes. In 2010, we added
approximately 185 products to our CME ClearPort system.

Establishing Ourselves as the Leading Exchange Company Provider of Information
Products and Index Services—We offer a variety of market data services for the futures, equities and the over-the-counter markets. In 2010, we expanded our index services business through the formation of CME Group Index Services with Dow
Jones. We expect that this venture will allow us to bring the Dow Jones’ brand and index creation and calculation capabilities to current and prospective banking clients and exchange partners; provide additional cross-listing opportunities and
new global opportunities for index creation, calculation and licensing in cash, derivatives and over-the-counter markets globally; allow us to cross-sell and co-brand products; and expand market data dissemination services to our global network of
clients and exchange partners.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

We own the rights to a large number of trademarks, service marks, domain names and trade names in the United States, Europe and in other parts of the world. We have registered many of our most important
trademarks in the United States and other countries. We hold the rights to a number of patents and have made a number of patent applications. Our patents cover match engine, trader user interface, trading floor support, market data, general
technology and clearing house functionalities. We also own the copyright to a variety of materials. Those copyrights, some of which are registered, include printed and online publications, web sites, advertisements, educational material, graphic
presentations and other literature, both textual and electronic. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademarks, patents, copyrights, database rights, trade secrets, restrictions on disclosure and other methods.

We offer equity index futures and options on key benchmarks, including S&P, NASDAQ, Dow Jones and Nikkei indexes. We also have an
agreement with the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) to allow us to list futures and options on futures for volatility indexes on a variety of asset classes. With the exception of Dow Jones, these products are listed by us subject to license
agreements with the applicable owners of the indexes. We have exclusive arrangements with Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. (NASDAQ) and non-exclusive arrangements with the other third parties. Our rights to
the Dow Jones indexes previously were evidenced by an exclusive agreement but are now part of our ownership of the joint venture. Our S&P license is exclusive through 2016 and non-exclusive from that date until 2017 with some exceptions provided
certain







trading volume is achieved. Our NASDAQ license is exclusive through 2019. Copies of our S&P and NASDAQ license arrangements have been filed as material contracts. We also have a licensing and
membership agreement with BBA Enterprises Limited and the British Bankers’ Association (collectively, BBA) for the use of its London Interbank Offered Rate to settle several of our interest rate products, including our Eurodollar contract. For
our licensing arrangements, other than with BBA, we pay the applicable third party per trade fees based on trading volume. For the BBA license, we paid an upfront fee and an annual fee.

We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain the exclusivity of our licensing agreements with S&P and NASDAQ or be able to maintain our other existing licensing arrangements. In addition, we
cannot assure you that others will not succeed in creating stock index futures based on information similar to that which we have obtained by license or that market participants will not increasingly use other instruments, including securities and
options based on the S&P, NASDAQ or Dow Jones indexes, to manage or speculate on U.S. stock risks. Parties may also succeed in offering indexed products that are similar to our licensed products without being required to obtain a license or in
countries that are beyond the jurisdictional reach of us and/or our licensors. For example, we are a party to a pending legal matter seeking a declaratory judgment that the opposing party is required to obtain a valid license in order to list
certain products based upon the Dow Jones and S&P indexes. While we have prevailed on a motion for summary judgment, the matter is currently pending appeal. A negative decision in the matter would have a negative impact on our ability to
generate revenues from our index services business.

Seasonality

Generally, we have historically experienced relatively higher trading volume during the first and second quarters and sequentially lower trading volume in the third and fourth quarters. However, such
seasonality may also be impacted by general market conditions, such as the 2008 economic crisis. During 2010, 23%, of our consolidated revenues were recognized in the first quarter, 27% in the second quarter, 25% in the third quarter and 25% in the
fourth quarter.

Working Capital

Until we began our commercial paper program in mid-2007, we historically met our funding requirements with internally generated funds. For more information on our working capital needs, see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition—Liquidity and Capital Resources,” beginning on page 57, which section is incorporated herein by reference.

Customer Base

Our customer base
includes professional traders, financial institutions, institutional and individual investors, major corporations, manufacturers, producers and governments. Our customers can access our CME Globex trading platform across the globe. Customers may be
members of one or more of our exchanges. Rights and privileges of membership are exchange specific. Trading on our open outcry trading floors is conducted exclusively by our members. Membership on one of our futures exchanges also enables a customer
to trade specific products at reduced rates and lower fees. Under the terms of the organizational documents of our exchanges, our members have certain rights that relate primarily to trading right protections, certain trading fee protections and
certain membership benefit protections. In 2010, 79% of our trading volume was conducted by our members.

We bill a substantial portion of our
clearing and transaction fees to our clearing firms. The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represent charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers. One firm represented 13% and one firm
represented 12% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue for 2010. Should a clearing firm withdraw, we believe that the customer portion of the firm’s trading activity would likely transfer to another clearing firm of the exchange.
Additionally, from time to time, certain customers may represent a significant portion of the open interest in our individual product lines or contracts.







Competition

The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and we expect competition to continue to intensify, especially in light of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act (Dodd-Frank) and other reforms of the
financial services industry as discussed in the following section. For example, Dodd-Frank provides for central clearing of “clearable” over-the-counter swaps and requires that swaps that are cleared must be traded on exchanges or swap
execution facilities, unless no exchange or swap execution facility makes the swap available for trading. While these new requirements create opportunities for us to expand our over-the-counter business, a number of market participants and other
exchanges have developed, and likely will develop in the future, competing platforms and products.

We encounter competition in all aspects of
our business, including from entities having substantially greater capital and resources and offering a wider range of products and services and some operating under a different and possibly less stringent regulatory regime. We face competition from
other futures, securities and securities option exchanges; over-the-counter markets; clearing organizations; consortia formed by our members and large market participants; alternative trade execution facilities; technology firms, including market
data distributors and electronic trading system developers; and others.

Competition in our Derivatives Business

We believe competition in the derivatives and securities business is based on a number of factors, including, among others:



•depth and liquidity of markets;



•transaction costs;



•breadth of product offerings and rate and quality of new product development;



•ability to position and expand upon existing products to address changing market needs;



•transparency, reliability and anonymity in transaction processing;



•connectivity and accessibility;



•technological capability and innovation;



•efficient and secure settlement, clearing and support services; and



•reputation.

We believe
that we compete favorably with respect to these factors, and that our deep, liquid markets; diverse product offerings; rate and quality of new product development; and efficient, secure settlement, clearing and support services distinguish us from
our competitors. We believe that in order to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to expand globally; develop new and innovative products; enhance our technology infrastructure, including its reliability and functionality; and
maintain liquidity and low transaction costs.

We are beginning to see a wave of consolidation and increased competition. For example, NYSE
Euronext and Deutsche Bourse announced in February 2011 that they had entered into a merger agreement. TMX Group and the London Stock Exchange also recently announced their agreement to merge. Previously in 2010, the Singapore Stock Exchange
announced its proposed acquisition of the Australian Stock Exchange. At the end of 2010, there were approximately 60 futures exchanges located in approximately 30 countries. Additionally, there has been an increase in activity among derivative
dealers, banks and other entities to form competing exchanges. For example, in 2007, a consortium of 12 financial institutions formed an exchange, Electronic Liquidity Exchange (ELX), which began trading in July 2009. ELX’s initial product line
included electronic trading in U.S. Treasury futures in the two-, five-, and ten-year notes and thirty-year bond contracts in competition with CBOT’s treasury complex and has been expanded to include Eurodollars. ELX has requested that the CFTC
compel







CBOT to accept certain non-competitive trades as a means to permit two customers, with equal and opposite positions at CBOT, to transfer those positions to ELX. In August 2010, the CFTC issued a
letter stating that it did not find that these transactions, referred to as “exchange for futures,” were wash trades and that such transactions were not prohibited by the CFTC’s core principles or applicable regulations. The CFTC also
indicated that it would separately review CBOT’s response under the core principle relating to anti-competitive behavior. At this time, however, the CFTC has not required us to take any action or modify our existing rules. We also face
competition from IntercontinentalExchange’s (ICE) energy index, natural gas, credit default swaps, equity index, foreign exchange and other products. Our metal product offerings also compete with NYSE Euronext. New entrants into our industry,
including New York Portfolio Clearing discussed below, may further increase competitive pressure on us.

Because equity futures contracts are
alternatives to underlying stocks and a variety of equity option and other contracts provide an alternative means of obtaining exposure to the equity markets, we also compete with NYSE Euronext and other securities and options exchanges, dealer
markets and alternative trading systems, as well as with ICE in connection with its futures and options on futures contracts based on the Russell indexes.

We face competition from the over-the-counter market with the trading of contracts similar to those traded or cleared on our exchanges, such as swaps, forward contracts and other exchange
“look-alike” contracts, in which parties directly negotiate the terms of their contracts, as well as from spot markets, ETFs and other substitutes for our products.

Competition in our Transaction Processing Business

In addition to the competition
we face in our derivatives business, we face a number of competitors in our transaction processing and other business services. In the past few years, there has been increased competition in the provision of clearing services and we expect
competition to continue to increase in connection with the implementation of Dodd-Frank which will require the mandatory central clearing of standardized over-the-counter products.

For example, ICE has its own clearing operations which are comprised of regulated clearing houses across the United States, Europe and Canada. In March 2009, ICE Trust, which provides clearing services
for the credit default swap market, acquired The Clearing Corporation. The Options Clearing Corporation provides clearing services for commodity futures, commodity options and security futures, including products listed by ELX. In 2009, NYSE
Euronext and The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation announced the creation of a new clearing house for the clearing of fixed-income securities—New York Portfolio Clearing. In February 2010, New York Portfolio Clearing was granted
status as a designated clearing organization from the CFTC. It is currently awaiting approval from the SEC. It plans to clear interest rate products traded on NYSE Liffe U.S., NYSE’s futures exchange, with the ability to expand to additional
exchanges in the future. We believe that other exchanges may also undertake to provide clearing services.

We believe competition in the
transaction processing and business services market is based on, among other things, the cost of the services provided; performance bond requirements; quality and reliability of the services; timely delivery of the services; reputation; offering
breadth; confidentiality of positions and information security protective measures; and the value of linking with existing products, markets and distribution.

Competition in our Market Data Business

Technology companies, market data and
information vendors and front-end software vendors also represent potential competitors because, as purveyors of market data or trading software systems, these firms typically have substantial distribution capabilities. As technology firms, they
also have access to trading engines that can be connected to their data and information networks. Additionally, technology and software firms that develop trading systems, hardware and networks that are otherwise outside of the financial services
industry may be attracted to enter our markets. This may lead to decreased demand for our market data.







Regulatory Matters

Our operation of futures exchanges is subject to extensive regulation by the CFTC under its principles-based approach which requires that our exchange subsidiaries satisfy the requirements of certain core
principles relating to the operation and oversight of our markets and our clearing house. The CFTC carries out the regulation of the futures markets in accordance with the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act and the Commodity Futures
Modernization Act. The CFTC is subject to reauthorization every five years, which most recently occurred in 2008.

In light of the widespread
financial and economic difficulties, particularly acute in the latter half of 2008 and early 2009, there were calls for a restructuring of the regulation of financial markets. In July 2010, Dodd-Frank was signed into law. This new legislation is a
comprehensive banking and financial services reform package that includes significant changes to the oversight of the derivatives markets, both over-the-counter and exchange traded. Dodd-Frank reinforces the core tenants of our markets:



•price transparency;



•liquid markets to minimize transaction costs;



•market integrity;



•customer protection; and



•the safety and soundness of central counterparty clearing services.

While we believe that the new regulations provide opportunities for our business which we intend to explore, Dodd-Frank is subject to extensive rulemaking by the CFTC, the SEC, the Department of Treasury
and other regulators. CME Group and others in the industry are actively participating in the rule-making process with the goal that the new regulations serve the public interest, foster competition and innovation and do not place the U.S. financial
services sector at a competitive disadvantage in our evolving financial markets. However, in light of the uncertainty of the final implementation of Dodd-Frank, there is a risk that the final regulations could include provisions that could
negatively impact our business.

Among the key provisions in Dodd-Frank relating to our business which are being finalized in the rule-making
process are:



•mandatory central clearing of certain classes of over-the-counter products;



•rules relating to the ownership, governance and required financial resources of clearing houses and the governance of designated contract markets,
including setting minimum financial resources for clearing houses and requiring the board of directors to meet a minimum threshold of the number of “public directors” which requirement as currently drafted would extend to CME Group’s
board of directors as well as to its exchange subsidiaries;



•the creation of a new category of trading platforms called swap execution facilities;



•real time reporting for both cleared and bilateral swaps;



•comprehensive oversight of swap dealers and major swap participants, including capital and performance bond requirements, business conduct standards
and recordkeeping and reporting requirements;



•limitations on swap dealing and proprietary trading for banking organizations;



•changes to the CFTC core principle 9—the board of trade shall provide a competitive, open, and efficient market and mechanism for executing
transactions that protects the price discovery process of trading in the centralized market of the board of trade—which may require us to make modifications to the manner in which certain of our contracts trade and/or require that such
products be de-listed as futures and re-listed as swaps;







•the expansion of CFTC jurisdiction to over-the-counter derivatives;



•increased jurisdiction granted to the CFTC that could result in more prescriptive regulation of both our futures and over-the-counter business;



•the establishment of hard position limits for physically delivered contracts; and



•the prohibition of compelling a derivatives clearing organization to accept the counterparty credit risk of another clearing organization.

The financial services industry outside the United States is also undergoing similar significant reform particularly in
Europe. For example, in the United Kingdom the government has proposed to reorganize its regulatory framework which would include the dissolution of the FSA with oversight to be transitioned to the Bank of England, the Consumer Protection and
Markets Authority, and the Prudential Markets Authority depending upon the status of the regulated entity. As a result, in the United Kingdom our operations could be subject to multiple regulators. The European Union is also undergoing similar
reform with multiple supervisory authorities, such as the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), being established as of January 2011. In addition to the national regulators, ESMA is likely to have a supervisory and oversight role over
European clearing houses, non-European clearing houses and non-European exchanges providing services in Europe. Multiple legislations such as the European Market Infrastructure Regulation, the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and the
Market Abuse Directive have been proposed with provisions similar to those contained in Dodd Frank.

To the extent the regulatory environment
following the implementation of Dodd-Frank and other financial reform regulations is less beneficial for us or our customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively affected.

As a global company with operations and locations around the world, we are also subject to the laws and regulations in the locations in which we do
business.

If we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders,
suspension of our business, removal of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our designations as a contract market and derivatives clearing organization.

Additionally, on May 6, 2010, the prices of many U.S.-based equity products experienced an extraordinarily rapid decline and recovery—referred to as the “flash crash.” Stemming from
this event, there has been an inquiry into the impact of high frequency traders on May 6thas well as their future role in the markets. Although not clearly defined, high frequency trading typically refers to professional traders acting in a proprietary capacity that engage in strategies that
generate a large number of trades on a daily basis. We believe that such trading plays an important role in the marketplace by making it more efficient and competitive for all market participants and such firms contribute significantly to our
liquidity. At this time, however, it is unclear whether these inquires will result in restrictions on the use of high frequency trading.

From time to time, including in the currently proposed Presidential budget, a proposal to impose a transaction tax or user fee on futures trading
has been put forth and discussed as a means to fund the CFTC. In the current environment, the transaction tax has been discussed as a means to fund the increased budget the CFTC has requested from Congress in order to implement Dodd Frank. In the
past, efforts to implement a transaction tax or user fee have not been successful. Although not specified, if enacted, we believe such a tax or user fee likely would apply to transactions done on regulated futures exchanges and swap execution
facilities and increase the costs of doing business on such platforms. This may discourage institutions and individuals from using futures and/or swap contracts to manage their risks which could adversely impact our trading volumes, revenues and
profits and may also adversely impact our ability to compete on an international level. A transaction tax or user fee in the U.S. may also cause market participants to increase their derivatives trading in jurisdictions outside the U.S. which do not
impose a comparable cost.







The current tax treatment for futures trading allows traders to pay a blend of taxes on their gains and
losses from trading futures and options with 60% at capital gains rates and 40% at ordinary tax rates. The current 2010 fiscal year Presidential budget proposes the elimination of such tax treatment which would require that such gains or losses be
treated as ordinary in character. Any repeal of the 60-40 tax treatment would impose a substantial increase in tax rates applicable to the individuals who contribute to creating liquid and efficient markets.

Employees

As of December 31, 2010,
we had approximately 2,570 employees. We consider relations with our employees to be good. The following are our executive officers, including a description of their business experience over the last five years. Ages are as of February 1, 2011.

Terrence A. Duffy, 52

Mr. Duffy has served as our Executive Chairman since 2006, as our Chairman from 2002 until 2006 and has been a member of our board of directors since
1995. He also has served as President of TDA Trading, Inc. since 1981.

Craig S. Donohue, 49

Mr. Donohue has served as Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board of directors since 2004. Mr. Donohue joined us in 1989 and since
then has held various positions of increasing responsibility within the organization including Managing Director and Chief Administrative Officer; Managing Director, Business Development and Corporate/Legal Affairs of CME; and Senior Vice President
and General Counsel. Mr. Donohue also serves as our representative on the board of directors of BM&FBOVESPA.

Kathleen M.
Cronin, 47

Ms. Cronin has served as our Managing Director, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since August 2003. Previously
she served as Corporate Secretary and Acting General Counsel from 2002 through 2003. Prior to joining us, Ms. Cronin was a corporate attorney at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom from 1989 through 1995 and from 1997 through 2002.

Bryan T. Durkin, 50

Mr. Durkin assumed the position of Managing Director, Products and Services in addition to his role as our Chief Operating Officer in February 2010.
Mr. Durkin has served as our Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer since 2007. Mr. Durkin joined us in connection with the CBOT merger and he previously held a variety of leadership roles with CBOT from 1982 to 2007, most recently
as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.

Phupinder S. Gill, 50

Mr. Gill has served as President of CME Group since 2007. Previously he served as President and Chief Operating Officer since 2004. Mr. Gill
joined us in 1988 and has held various positions of increasing responsibility within the organization, including Managing Director and President of CME Clearing and GFX. Mr. Gill also serves as our representative on the boards of Bursa Malaysia
Derivatives and Bolsa Mexicana de Valores.

Julie Holzrichter, 42

Ms. Holzrichter has served as Managing Director, Global Operations since 2007. Ms. Holzrichter rejoined us in 2006 as our Managing Director, CME Globex Services and Technology Integration.
Ms. Holzrichter previously held positions of increasing responsibility in our organization from 1986 to 2003 in trading operations.







Kevin Kometer, 46

Mr. Kometer has served as Managing Director and Chief Information Officer since 2008. He previously served as Managing Director and Deputy Chief Information Officer from 2007 to 2008. Since joining
the company most recently in 1998, he has held senior leadership positions in the Technology Division, including Managing Director, Trading Execution Systems and Director, Advanced Technology. Mr. Kometer was also with the company from 1994 to
1996.

James E. Parisi, 46

Mr. Parisi has served as our Chief Financial Officer and Managing Director, Finance and Corporate Development since February 2010. He has held the role of Managing Director and Chief Financial
Officer since 2004. Mr. Parisi joined us in 1988 and has held positions of increasing responsibility within the organization, including Managing Director & Treasurer and Director, Planning & Finance.

Laurent Paulhac, 41

Mr. Paulhac has served as Managing Director, OTC Products and Services since 2009. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Paulhac most recently
served as Chief Executive Officer of CMA, a provider of credit derivatives market data acquired by CME Group in 2008, from 2005 to 2009.

James V. Pieper, 44

Mr. Pieper has served as our Managing Director and Chief Accounting Officer since February 2010. Previously, Mr. Pieper served as Director and
Controller since 2006 and as Associate Director and Assistant Controller from 2004 to 2006. Before joining CME Group in 2004, Mr. Pieper worked for Divine, Inc. as Director of Worldwide Accounting and for KPMG LLP as a Senior Manager.

Hilda Harris Piell, 43

Ms. Piell has served as Managing Director and Chief Human Resources Officer since 2007. Previously she served as Managing Director and Senior
Associate General Counsel, as Director and Associate General Counsel and as Associate Director and Assistant General Counsel since joining us in 2000.

John W. Pietrowicz, 46

Mr. Pietrowicz has served as our Managing Director,
Business Development and Corporate Finance since February 2010. Mr. Pietrowicz joined CME Group in 2003 and since then has held various positions of increasing responsibility, including his most recent position of Managing Director and Deputy
Chief Financial Officer from 2009 to 2010 and Managing Director, Corporate Finance and Treasury from 2006 to 2009.

Derek Sammann, 42

Mr. Sammann has served as Managing Director, Foreign Exchange and Interest Rate Products since February 2010. He previously
served as Managing Director, Financial Products and Services since 2009 and Managing Director, Global Head of Foreign Exchange Products since joining us in 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Sammann served as Managing Director, Global Head of FX
Options and Structured Products at Calyon Corporate and Investment Bank in London from 2004 to 2006.

Kimberly S. Taylor, 49

Ms. Taylor has served as President, CME Clearing since 2004 and as Managing Director, Risk Management in the Clearing House
Division, from 1998 to 2003. Ms. Taylor has held a variety of positions in the Clearing House, including Vice President and Senior Director. She joined us in 1989.







Kendal Vroman, 39

Mr. Vroman has served as our Managing Director, Commodity Products, OTC Services & Information Products since February 2010. Mr. Vroman previously served as Managing Director and Chief
Corporate Development Officer from 2008 to 2010. Mr. Vroman joined us in 2001 and since then has held positions of increasing responsibility, including most recently as Managing Director, Corporate Development and Managing Director, Information
and Technology Services.

Scot E. Warren, 47

Mr. Warren has served as our Managing Director, Equity Index Products and Index Services since February 2010. Mr. Warren previously served as our Managing Director, Equity Products since joining
us in 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Warren worked for Goldman Sachs as its President, Manager Trading and Business Analysis Team. Prior to Goldman Sachs, Mr. Warren managed equity and option execution and clearing businesses for ABN Amro in
Chicago and was a Senior Consultant for Arthur Andersen & Co. for financial services firms.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT
GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

Due to the nature of its business, CME Group does not track revenues based upon geographic location. We do, however,
track trading volume generated outside of traditional U.S. trading hours and through our international telecommunication hubs. Our customers can directly access our exchanges throughout the world.

The following table shows the percentage of our total trading volume on our Globex electronic trading platform generated during non-U.S. hours and
through our international hubs.



201020092008Trading during non-U.S. hours13%9%11%Trading through telecommunication hubs878

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our Web site iswww.cmegroup.com. Information made available on our Web site does not constitute part of this document. We make
available on our Web site our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the
SEC. Our corporate governance materials, including our Corporate Governance Principles, Director Conflict of Interest Policy, Board of Directors Code of Ethics, Categorical Independence Standards, Employee Code of Conduct and the charters for all
the standing committees of our board, may also be found on our Web site. Copies of these materials are also available to shareholders free of charge upon written request to Shareholder Relations and Member Services, Attention Ms. Beth Hausoul,
CME Group Inc., 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606.







