ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

CME Group serves the risk management and investment needs of customers around the globe.

Our business has historically been subject to the extensive regulation of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).  As a result of our global operations, we are also subject to the rules and regulations of the local jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  Additionally, our U.S. clearing house has been designated as systemically important, which carries with it enhanced regulatory oversight of certain of our risk-management standards, clearing and settlement activities, including additional oversight by the Federal Reserve.

Our principal executive offices are located at 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606, and our telephone number is 312-930-1000.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

The company reports the results of its operations as one reporting segment primarily comprised of the CME, CBOT, NYMEX and COMEX exchanges.  The remaining operations do not meet the thresholds for reporting separate segment information. Financial information about our reporting segment is hereby incorporated by reference to "Item 6. Selected Financial Data" on page 27 and "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" on page 50.

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

CME Group is where the world comes to manage risk.  Through its exchanges, CME Group offers the widest range of global benchmark products across all major asset classes, including futures and options based on interest rates, equity indexes, foreign exchange, energy, agricultural products and metals.  CME Group provides electronic trading globally on its CME Globex platform.  The company also offers clearing and settlement services across asset classes for exchange-traded and over-the-counter derivatives through its clearing house, CME Clearing.  CME Group's products and services are designed to provide businesses around the world with the means to effectively manage risk. We also provide hosting, connectivity and customer support for electronic trading through our co-location services.  Our CME Direct platform offers side-by-side trading of exchange-listed and privately negotiated markets.  We provide clearing and settlement services for exchange-traded contracts, as well as for cleared swaps, and provide regulatory reporting solutions for market participants through our global repository services in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada and Australia.  Finally, we offer a wide range of market data services — including live quotes, delayed quotes, market reports and a comprehensive historical data service.

Our Competitive Strengths

We provide innovative ways to manage risk and offer a number of key differentiating elements that set us apart from others in our industry, including:

Highly Liquid Markets—Our listed futures and options markets provide an effective forum for our customers to manage their risk and meet their investment needs relating to our markets.  We believe our customers choose to trade on our centralized market due to its liquidity and price transparency.  Market liquidity — or the ability of a market to absorb the execution of large purchases or sales quickly and efficiently, whereby the market recovers quickly following the execution of large orders — is key to attracting customers and contributing to a market's success.









Most Diverse Product Line—Our products provide a means for hedging, speculation and asset allocation relating to the risks associated with, among other things, interest rate sensitive instruments, equity ownership, changes in the value of foreign currency and changes in the prices of agricultural, energy and metal commodities.  The estimated percentage of clearing and transaction fees revenue contributed by each product line is as follows:Product Line201720162015Interest rate33%32%31%Equity161819Foreign exchange667Agricultural commodity141515Energy242323Metal765

We believe the breadth and diversity of our product lines and the variety of their underlying contracts are beneficial to our overall performance.  Our asset classes contain products designed to address differing risk management needs, and customers are able to achieve operational and capital efficiencies by accessing our diverse products through our platforms and our clearing house.

In 2017, we reached record average daily volume of 16.3 million contracts, up 4% from 2016, despite a lower volatility environment.  Year-end open interest was up 5% from the end of 2016, and we reached an all-time high record open interest during the year of 129.1 million contracts on June 14, 2017.

Our products are traded primarily through CME Globex and other electronic trading platforms, by open outcry auction market in Chicago, and through privately negotiated transactions that we clear.  The estimated percentage of clearing and transaction fees revenue contributed by each trading venue is as follows:

Trading Venue201720162015Electronic83%82%81%Open outcry(1)556Privately negotiated(2)121313

(1) In July 2015, we closed most of the futures pits in Chicago and New York. On December 31, 2016, we closed the remaining open outcry pits in New York.  Most open outcry options markets remain open in Chicago.

(2) Privately negotiated average daily volume includes both traditional block trades, off-exchange trades, which were historically categorized as CME ClearPort (now executed as futures block trades), and Exchange for Related Positions (EFRP).

In addition, our cleared-only CME interest rate swap and CME credit default swap contracts contributed approximately 2% of total revenue in each of the last three years.  In September 2017, we announced we will exit the credit default swap business by mid-2018.

Our products generate valuable information regarding prices and trading activity. Customers pay a subscription fee for real-time market data and have the choice of receiving their market data either directly from us or through a variety of third party quote vendors and data providers. We also offer customers detailed historical market data for use in their development and analysis of various trading strategies. The estimated contributions of our market data and information services products, excluding our index market data offerings, based on percentage of total revenue, were11%in both2017and2016and12%in2015.

Safety and Soundness of our Markets—We understand the importance of ensuring our customers are able to manage and contain their trading risks.  As the markets and the economy have evolved, we have worked to adapt our clearing services to meet the needs of our customers.  We apply robust risk management standards and enforce and facilitate applicable regulatory customer protection standards for exchange-traded products and cleared swaps.  Clearing firms are continually monitored and examined to assess their outstanding risk, capital adequacy and compliance with customer protection rules and regulations.  We utilize a combination of risk management capabilities to assess our clearing firms and their account exposure levels for all asset classes 24 hours a day throughout the trading week.  Our clearing house, CME Clearing, is a division of CME. In April 2017, we announced the wind down of our European clearing house, which was completed in late 2017.

Our integrated clearing function is designed to ensure the safety and soundness of our markets by serving as the counterparty to every trade, becoming the buyer to each seller and the seller to each buyer, and limiting counterparty credit risk.  The clearing house is responsible for settling trading accounts, clearing trades, collecting and maintaining performance bond funds, regulating delivery and reporting trading data.  CME Clearing marks open positions to market at least twice a day, and requires









payment from clearing firms whose positions have lost value and makes payments to clearing firms whose positions have gained value.  For select cleared-only markets, positions are marked-to-market daily, with the capacity to mark-to-market more frequently as market conditions warrant.  The CME ClearPort front-end system provides access to our flexible clearing services for block transactions and swaps.  See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," beginning on page 46 and "Item 1A. Risk Factors," beginning on page 14, for more information on our financial safeguards package and the associated credit risks related to our clearing services.

Superior Trading Technology and Distribution—We strive to provide the most flexible and scalable platforms to support the operational and capacity needs of the business along with the delivery of innovative technology solutions to the marketplace.  Our CME Globex electronic platform is the trading engine for our central limit order book markets, and is available on a global basis nearly 24 hours a day throughout the trading week. The CME Globex platform is accessible through a wide variety of vendor-provided and custom-built trading systems that benefit from our open application programming interface approach.  For privately negotiated markets, we offer brokers and customers the CME Direct platform for arranging, executing, recording and risk-managing trades.  CME Direct includes CME One for mobile access, CME Messenger for instant-message capabilities and CME Straight-Through Processing. CME Straight-Through Processing enables direct connectivity for trade information directly with customer order management and risk management systems and is designed to reduce errors and improve efficiency.  In 2017, 89% of our contract volume was conducted electronically.

Together, our platforms offer:

•certainty of execution;

•vast capabilities to facilitate complex and demanding trading;

•direct market access;

•fairness, price transparency and anonymity;

•convenience and efficiency; and

•global distribution, including connectivity through high-speed international telecommunications hubs in key financial centers or order routing to our global partner exchanges.

We also offer co-location services at a data center facility, which houses our trading match engines for all products traded on the CME Globex electronic trading platform. The service provides low latency connection for our customers. The offering is made available to all customers on equal terms.

Our Strategic Initiatives

The following is a description of our strategic initiatives:

Leading Core Business Innovation and Expanded Product Offerings—We continue to focus on cross-selling our products, expanding the strength of our existing benchmark products, launching new products and services and deepening open interest in our core futures and options on futures offerings. During this decade, our key product launches have included the Ultra U.S.  Treasury Bond futures and options and most recently the Ultra 10 Year Treasury futures, numerous Eurodollar mid-curve options, end-of-month equity options, weekly options for various financial and commodity products, short-dated options across asset classes, new base metal products, expanded crude oil grades, S&P Dividend futures, E-mini Russell 1000 and 2000 futures, CME Bloomberg Spot Dollar Spot Index futures and a cash-settled bitcoin futures contract. In June 2017, we announced our intention to launch products on the new secured overnight financing rate. During 2017, we experienced multiple volume records across our core product portfolio, including interest rates, energy, agricultural commodities and metals. We also had record volume in overall options, with electronic options representing 62% of total options volume in 2017. We continued to deepen liquidity and add diverse participation as evidenced by the growth in large open interest holders with records achieved across several product lines in 2017.

Globalizing our Company and our Business—We continue to expand and diversify our customer base worldwide and offer customers around the world the most broadly diversified portfolio of benchmark products. We have expanded our international product suite with the launch of a number of regionally specific products, including European wheat and aluminum futures, Mexican peso futures and Brazilian real futures, which help us appeal to risk management needs unique to a particular geography. We believe we have significant opportunity to expand the participation of our non-U.S. customer base in our markets. We are focused on core growth in global markets because we believe that Australia, Asia, Latin America, and other emerging markets will experience significant growth and development of their financial markets.  In addition, we continue to expand our presence in major global financial centers, grow our business outside the United States and penetrate emerging markets, such as China, South Korea, Brazil and Mexico. In 2017, approximately 26% of our electronic volume was transactions customers reported to us as from outside the United States and 50% of our market data revenue was derived from









outside the United States. We also achieved 34% growth in liquidity during European trading hours and 18% growth during Asian trading hours.

In order to accelerate our long-term integration in the global economy, CME Group has built out its international infrastructure and strategic relationships.  In recent years, we have expanded our ability to support physical delivery of locally relevant products in both Europe and Asia.

Expanding our Customer Base and Enhancing Customer Participation in our Markets—We continue to grow our business by targeting cross-asset sales across client segments, driving international sales and generating new client participation across all regions.  We have a long history of providing customer value and responsiveness and believe our products and services make us well positioned to help our customers adapt and comply with new regulations, while enabling them to efficiently manage their risks.  We have a broad distribution network comprised of a combination of internal and external channels and front-end capabilities.  With changing regulatory capital requirements for many of our customers and the need for greater efficiencies, we have added tools to enable customers to build and manage trading and clearing positions in our markets in an efficient manner.

Our customer-centric approach to sales and distribution has continued to deepen our liquidity and added diverse customer participation as evidenced by reaching record large open interest holders across several product lines during 2017.

With the ongoing implementation of regulatory reform in the United States and in Europe, we expect capital efficiencies and centralized clearing to continue to be important for our global client base.

We remain focused on expanding our sales and marketing capabilities and tools to broaden customer participation and to simplify and enrich the customer experience resulting in increased trading and a reduction in their regulatory burdens. Over the past decade, we have also expanded our education, sales, and customer support efforts, opening offices in Hong Kong, Seoul, Beijing, Bangalore and Sydney.

Extending our Risk Management and Post-Trade Offerings and Solutions—We provide a comprehensive multi-asset class clearing solution to the market for maximum operational ease and the capital efficiency that comes with connecting to our clearing house.  Our clearing services offer the ability to optimize collateral and capital efficiencies across portfolios within the clearing house while meeting the heightened regulatory requirements on derivatives. We also offer clearing services for interest rate, foreign exchange and commodity swaps. In 2017, we launched clearing services for OTC FX options. We also added OTC interest rate clearing services for the Korean Won and Indian Rupee denominated contracts.

CME Group continues to introduce tools and services to assist customers with portfolio margining. As of December 31, 2017, 42 unique marketplace participants utilized CME Group’s portfolio margining services.  In the past few years, we have introduced compression via coupon blending as well as CME CORE, an interactive margin calculator that enables clients to optimize their capital by providing insights on margin requirements prior to trading.  We also introduced multilateral compression for our cleared swap customers through a partnership with TriOptima, a NEX Group business, and we have added trade reporting services in the United States, Europe, Canada and Australia.

Establishing Ourselves as the Leading Exchange Provider of Information Products and Index Services and Enhancing our Intellectual Property Portfolio—We offer a variety of market data services for the futures, equities and the cleared swaps markets.  Our market data platform includes historical, real-time and derived data offerings. Our joint venture with S&P Global, Inc. combines the world class capabilities of S&P Indices and Dow Jones Indices.  As part of the joint venture, we acquired a long-term, ownership-linked, exclusive license to list futures and options on futures based on the S&P 500 Index and certain other S&P indices. In 2015, CME obtained exclusive licensing rights to list contracts on FTSE Russell indexes beginning in mid-2017.  In July 2017, CME launched both futures and options based on the Russell 2000 Index. In 2017, we also secured the rights to the TOPIX futures contract and renewed our existing licensing agreement with Platts. We also continue to expand our existing intellectual property portfolio for our technology, products and services offerings.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

We own the rights to a large number of trademarks, service marks, domain names and trade names in the United States, Europe and other parts of the world.  We have registered many of our most important trademarks in the United States and other countries.  We hold the rights to a number of patents and have made a number of patent applications.  Our patents cover match engine, trader user interface, trading floor support, market data, general technology and clearing house functionalities.  We also own the copyright to a variety of materials.  Those copyrights, some of which are registered, include printed and on-line publications, websites, advertisements, educational material, graphic presentations and other literature, both textual and electronic.  We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademarks, patents, copyrights, database rights, trade secrets, restrictions on disclosure and other methods.

We offer equity index futures and options on key benchmarks, including S&P, NASDAQ, Dow Jones and the FTSE Russell indexes. These products are listed by us subject to license agreements with the applicable owners of the indexes, some of which









We also have a long-term, non-exclusive licensing arrangement with ICE Benchmark Administration for the use of LIBOR to settle several of our interest rate products, including our Eurodollar contract.

We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain the exclusivity of our licensing agreements with S&P, Dow Jones, NASDAQ and FTSE Russell or be able to maintain our other existing licensing arrangements beyond the term of the current agreements.  In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not succeed in creating stock index futures based on information similar to that which we have obtained by license, or that market participants will not increasingly use other instruments, including securities and options based on the S&P, Dow Jones, NASDAQ or Russell indexes, to manage or speculate on U.S. stock risks.  Parties also may succeed in offering indexed products that are similar to our licensed products without being required to obtain a license, or in countries that are beyond our jurisdictional reach and/or our licensors.

Working Capital

We generally meet our funding requirements with internally generated funds supplemented from time to time with public debt and commercial paper offerings.  For more information on our working capital needs, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources," beginning on page 42, which section is incorporated herein by reference.

Customer Base

Our customer base includes professional traders, financial institutions, institutional and individual investors, major corporations, manufacturers, producers, governments and central banks.  Our customers can connect to our electronic trading platforms from access points across the globe.  Customers may be members of one or more of our CME, CBOT, NYMEX or COMEX exchanges.  Rights to directly access our markets will depend upon the nature of the customer, such as whether the individual is a member of one of our exchanges or has executed an agreement with us for direct access.

U.S. trading rights and privileges are exchange-specific.  Open outcry trading is conducted exclusively by our members.  Membership on one of our futures exchanges also enables a customer to trade specific products at reduced rates and lower fees.  Under the terms of the organizational documents of our exchanges, our members have certain rights that relate primarily to trading right protections, certain trading fee protections and certain membership benefit protections.  In2017,83%of our contract volume was conducted by our members.

The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represents charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers.  One firm represented13%and another firm represented12%of our clearing and transaction fees revenue for2017.  In the event a clearing firm were to withdraw, our experience indicates that the customer portion of the firm's trading activity would likely transfer to another clearing firm of the exchange.

Competition

The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and we expect competition to continue to intensify and become more global, especially in light of changes in the financial services industry driven by regulatory reforms such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR),  Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (MiFID II), Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV), Market Abuse Regulation, Benchmarks Regulation, Basel III, and various other laws and regulations.











Please also refer to the discussion below and in the “Risk Factors” section beginning on page 14 for a description of competitive risks and uncertainties.

Competition in our Derivatives Business

We believe competition in the derivatives and securities business is based on a number of factors, including, among others:

•brand and reputation;

•efficient and secure settlement, clearing and support services;

•depth and liquidity of markets;

•diversity of product offerings and rate and quality of new product development and innovative services;

•ability to position and expand upon existing products to address changing market needs;

•efficient and seamless customer experience;

•transparency, reliability, anonymity and security in transaction processing;

•regulatory environment;

•connectivity, accessibility and distribution;

•technological capability and innovation; and

•overall transaction costs.

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors.  Our deep, liquid markets; diverse product offerings; rate and quality of new product development; and efficient, secure settlement, clearing and support services, distinguish us from others in the industry.  We believe that in order to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to expand globally; develop new and innovative products; enhance our technology infrastructure, including its reliability and functionality; maintain liquidity and low transaction costs, and implement customer protections designed to ensure the integrity of our market and the confidence of our customers.

We compete in a large financial services trading, clearing and settlement marketplace globally.  Our competitors include, among other entities, exchanges such as Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. (ICE), the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited, and Deutsche Börse AG.  Competition in our industry continues to be dynamic and recent developments and alliances may result in a growing number of well-capitalized trading service providers that compete with all or a portion of our business.

Competition in our Transaction Processing Business

In addition, we face a number of competitors in our transaction processing and other business services.  In the past few years, there has been increased competition in the provision of clearing services and we expect competition to continue to increase in connection with compliance with Dodd-Frank, Basel III, MiFID II and other various laws and regulations.

Our competitors in the clearing services space include, among others, companies such as ICE, LCH.Clearnet Ltd., the Options Clearing Corporation, Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation and Deutsche Börse AG.  In light of the implementation of regulatory requirements and other reforms of the financial services industry, we believe that other exchanges and infrastructure providers also may undertake to provide clearing and other related post-trade services.

We believe competition in transaction processing and business services is based on, among other things, the value of providing customers with capital and margin efficiencies; quality and reliability of the services; creditworthiness of the clearing house; timely delivery of the services; reputation; diversity of the service offerings; confidentiality of positions and information security protective measures, and the fees charged for the services provided.

Competition in our Market Data Business

Technology companies, market data and information vendors and front-end software vendors also represent actual and potential competitors because they have their own substantial market data distribution capabilities that could serve as alternative means for receiving open market data feeds instead of connecting directly to our exchange.  Distributors and consumers of our market data may also use our market data as an input into a product that competes against one of our traded or cleared products. Although we may receive license fees for such products, such fees may not offset the impact of any loss in revenue from our comparable product.















Regulatory Matters

We are primarily subject to the jurisdiction of the regulatory agencies in the United States, the United Kingdom and the European Union.  We also are subject to varying levels of regulation by foreign jurisdictions that permit our exchanges and other businesses to offer our products and services to their citizens.

Please also refer to the discussion below and in the “Risk Factors” section beginning on page 14 for a description of regulatory and legislative risks and uncertainties.

Regulation in the United States

Our operation of U.S. futures exchanges and our clearing house is subject to extensive regulation by the CFTC that requires our regulated subsidiaries to satisfy the requirements of certain core principles relating to the operation and oversight of our markets and our clearing house.  The CFTC carries out the regulation of the futures and swaps markets and clearing houses in accordance with the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act as amended by, among others, the Commodity Futures Modernization Act and Dodd-Frank.  The CFTC is subject to reauthorization every five years.  Following the enactment of Dodd-Frank, the CFTC has moved from a principles-based to a more prescriptive regulatory approach over most aspects of our trading and clearing operations.

Regulations implementing Dodd-Frank include rules relating to the implementation of mandatory clearing of certain over-the-counter derivatives, swap reporting, operation of a clearing house, anti-manipulation, large trader reporting, product definitions, the definition of an agricultural commodity and certain provisions of the rules applicable to designated contract markets, swap execution facilities and swap data repositories.  We continue to believe these regulations provide opportunities for our business, which we continue to explore.

Our clearing house has been designated as a systemically important financial market utility and a systemically important derivatives clearing organization.  These designations carry with them additional regulatory oversight of certain of our risk-management standards, clearing and settlement activities by the Federal Reserve Bank and the CFTC.

Our U.S. swap data repository service and swap execution facility are also subject to the requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations of the CFTC.

In February 2017, President Trump signed an executive order calling for the current U.S. presidential administration to review U.S. financial laws and regulations to determine their consistency with a set of core principles identified in the order.  Some areas identified as subject to potential change, amendment or repeal include the Dodd-Frank Act and the authorities of the Federal Reserve and the Financial Stability Oversight Council. We cannot predict, which, if any, of these or other actions will be taken or, if taken, their effect on our business.



U.S. income tax reform efforts could have a material impact on our business. On December 22, 2017, the 2017 Tax Act, was signed into law. The 2017 Tax Act enacts broad changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax code, including reducing the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, amongst many other complex provisions. The ultimate impact of such tax reforms may differ from our current estimates due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by us as well as the issuance of any further regulations or guidance that may alter the operation of the U.S. federal income tax code. Various uncertainties also exist in terms of how U.S. states and any foreign countries within which we operate will react to these U.S. federal income tax reforms, which could have additional impacts on our business.

Regulation in the United Kingdom and the European Union

In the United Kingdom, parts of our operations are subject to the oversight of ESMA and the FCA.  Our clearing house is subject to certain conditions and reporting obligations as a result of its recognition by ESMA. Multiple directives and regulations, such as MiFID II and the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (MiFIR), the CRD IV, and the Market Abuse Regulation, have been implemented either in full or on a phased basis with provisions similar to those contained in Dodd-Frank. Further regulation, such as EMIR and the Benchmarks Regulation, or changes to such legislation, may impact our business and operations.

In June 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which U.K. voters voted in favor of withdrawal from the European Union (Brexit).  The ultimate impact of Brexit on the relevant law and scope of regulation applicable to our U.K. operations, including the recognition of our clearing house, is unclear and is contingent upon the terms of withdrawal and the ongoing relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union.















Key Areas of Focus

We actively monitor and participate in the domestic and international rulemaking processes for our industry, including providing government testimony, commenting on proposed rulemakings and educating our regulators on potential impacts to the marketplace.

Our key areas of focus in the regulatory environment are:

•The adoption and implementation of position limit rules, which could have a significant impact on our commodities business if comparable trading venues in foreign jurisdictions are not subject to equivalent limitations.

•Rules respecting capital charges under Basel III with respect to clearing members of central counterparties.  There is a risk that these new standards may impose overly burdensome capital requirements on our clearing members and customers. Additional risks could arise through inconsistent adoption of the Basel III capital charges globally, potentially leading to disparate impacts on our customers.

•The potential impact of the E.U. equivalence and recognition regime on non-European Union clearing houses and exchanges with customers based in Europe, which could require us to allocate increased amounts of contributed capital to the default waterfall and make changes to our governance structure.  A failure of our clearing house to retain its recognition may result in our clearing members and certain customers in Europe being subject to higher capital costs thus creating a disincentive to use our markets.

•The potential for further regulation stemming from industry performance disruptions and residual concerns around electronic trading activity and, in particular, "high frequency trading."

•The potential elimination of the 60/40 tax treatment of certain of our futures and options contracts, which would impose a significant increase in tax rates applicable to certain market participants and could result in a decrease in their trading activity.

•The implementation of a transaction tax or user fee in the United States or European Union, which could discourage institutions and individuals from using our markets or products or encourage them to trade in another less costly jurisdiction.  From time to time, the proposed Presidential budget has, including the currently proposed budget, included a proposal to impose a user fee to fund the CFTC.

•Regulations implementing the core principles for designated contract markets, including any changes to the rules implementing the competitive execution requirements of Core Principle 9.Rules promulgated under this provision may require us to make modifications to the manner in which certain of our contracts trade and/or require that such products be de-listed as futures and re-listed as swaps after a specified compliance period.

•The implementation of legislation in the European Union impacting how benchmark index prices are formed, including new requirements for price submitters, price aggregators and markets that list contracts that reference index prices.

•Concerns that legislators will prohibit or restrict exclusive licenses for benchmark indexes, which might impact the profitability of several of our most popular contracts.

•The implementation of rules resulting in negative treatment of the liquidity profile of U.S. Treasury securities, including as qualifying liquidity resources, or any potential limitation on the use of U.S. Treasury securities as collateral could result in increased costs to us and our clearing firms.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2017, we had approximately2,830employees. We consider relations with our employees to be good.

Executive Officers

The following are CME Group's executive officers.  Ages are as of February 10, 2018.

Terrence A. Duffy, 59.Mr. Duffy has served as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since November 2016.    Mr. Duffy previously served as our Executive Chairman and President since 2012 and as Executive Chairman from 2006.  Mr. Duffy has been a member of our board of directors since 1995.  He also served as President of TDA Trading, Inc. from 1981 to 2002 and has been a member of our CME exchange since 1981.

Kathleen M. Cronin, 54.Ms. Cronin has served as our Senior Managing Director, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since 2003. Prior to joining us, Ms. Cronin was a corporate attorney at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP from 1989 through 1995 and from 1997 through 2002. Ms. Cronin also serves as a director of Kemper Corporation.









Sunil Cutinho,46.Mr.Cutinho has served as President of CME Clearing since September 2014. He joined CME Group in 2002 and since then has held various positions of increasing responsibility within the organization and, most recently served as Managing Director, Deputy Head of CME Clearing from April 2014 through September 2014.

Bryan T. Durkin, 57.Mr. Durkin has served as President since November 2016.  Mr. Durkin previously served as Senior Managing Director, Chief Commercial Officer since 2014 and as our Chief Operating Officer since 2007, and also held the title of Managing Director, Products and Services from 2010 to July 2012.  Mr. Durkin joined us in connection with the CBOT merger and he previously held a variety of leadership roles with CBOT from 1982 to 2007, most recently as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.

Julie Holzrichter, 49.Ms. Holzrichter has served as our Senior Managing Director, Chief Operating Officer since September 2014.  She previously served as our Senior Managing Director, Global Operations from 2007.  Ms. Holzrichter rejoined us in 2006 as our Managing Director, CME Globex Services and Technology Integration.  Ms. Holzrichter previously held positions of increasing responsibility in our organization from 1986 to 2003 in trading operations.

Kevin Kometer, 53.Mr. Kometer has served as Senior Managing Director and Chief Information Officer since 2008.  He previously served as Managing Director and Deputy Chief Information Officer from 2007 to 2008.  Since joining the company most recently in 1998, he has held senior leadership positions in the Technology Division, including Managing Director, Trading Execution Systems and Director, Advanced Technology.  Mr. Kometer was also with the company from 1994 to 1996.

Hilda Harris Piell, 50.Ms. Piell has served as Senior Managing Director and Chief Human Resources Officer since 2007.  Previously she served as Managing Director and Senior Associate General Counsel, as Director and Associate General Counsel and as Associate Director and Assistant General Counsel since joining us in 2000.

John W. Pietrowicz, 53.Mr. Pietrowicz has served as our Chief Financial Officer since December 2014.   Previously, Mr. Pietrowicz served as our Senior Managing Director, Business Development and Corporate Finance since 2010. Mr. Pietrowicz joined us in 2003 and since then has held various positions of increasing responsibility, including Managing Director and Deputy Chief Financial Officer from 2009 to 2010 and Managing Director, Corporate Finance and Treasury from 2006 to 2009. Mr. Pietrowicz also serves as a director of S&P/Dow Jones Indices LLC.

Derek Sammann, 49.Mr. Sammann has served as our Senior Managing Director, Commodities and Options Products since September 2014.  He previously served as our Senior Managing Director, Financial Products and Services since 2009 and Global Head of Foreign Exchange Products since joining us in 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Sammann served as Managing Director, Global Head of FX Options and Structured Products at Calyon Corporate and Investment Bank in London from 1997 to 2006.

Jack Tobin, 54.Mr. Tobin has served as our Chief Accounting Officer since February 2015.  Mr. Tobin most recently served as our Managing Director, Corporate Finance since 2007. Prior to our merger with CBOT Holdings, Mr. Tobin served as the Director, Corporate Finance for CBOT Holdings, Inc. and CBOT from 2002 to 2007. Prior to joining CBOT, Mr. Tobin served as a principal consultant with PricewaterhouseCoopers from 1997 to 2002. Mr. Tobin is a registered certified public accountant.

Sean Tully, 54.Mr. Tully has served as Senior Managing Director, Financial and OTC Products of CME Group since September 2014.  He previously served as Senior Managing Director, Interest Rates and OTC Products since February 2014. Previously, he served as Managing Director, Interest Rate and OTC Products since October 2013 and as our Managing Director, Interest Products since joining us in 2011.  Before joining the company, Mr. Tully most recently served as Managing Director, Global Head of Fixed Income Trading at WestLB in London.

Julie Winkler, 43.Ms. Winkler has served as our Senior Managing Director, Chief Commercial Officer since December 2016. She previously served as Senior Managing Director, Research and Product Development and Index Services of CME Group since 2014 and as Managing Director, Research and Product Development since 2007.  Prior to our merger with CBOT Holdings, Ms. Winkler held positions of increasing responsibility for CBOT Holdings since 1996.  Ms. Winkler also serves as a director of S&P/Dow Jones Indices LLC.



FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

We track trading volume based on the country of origin of the transaction as disclosed to us by the customer.  During 2017, we estimate that approximately 26% of our electronic trading volume was reported to us as originating from outside the United States. This was an increase from 2016 and 2015, when we estimated approximately 24% of our electronic trading volume was reported to us as originating from outside the United States.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our website iswww.cmegroup.com. Information made available on our website does not constitute part of this document. We make available on our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to









the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  Our corporate governance materials, including our Corporate Governance Principles, Director Conflict of Interest Policy, Board of Directors Code of Ethics, Categorical Independence Standards, Employee Code of Conduct and the charters for all the standing committees of our board, also may be found on our website.  Copies of these materials also are available to shareholders free of charge upon written request to Shareholder Relations, Attention Ms. Beth Hausoul, CME Group Inc., 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606.



