ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Building on the heritage of its futures exchanges (CME, CBOT, NYMEX, COMEX and KCBT), CME Group serves the risk management and investment needs of customers around the globe.

Our futures and clearing business has historically been subject to the extensive regulation of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). As a result of our global operations, we are also subject to the rules and regulations of the local jurisdictions in which we conduct business.  This includes the FSA, based on our offering of various CME Group products and services to European customers and the operation of CME Clearing Europe, and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), in connection with our offering of clearing services for security-based swaps.  In July 2012, the Financial Stability Oversight Council designated our U.S. clearing house as a systemically important financial market utility which carries with it additional regulatory oversight of certain of our risk-management standards, clearing, and settlement activities.

Our principal executive offices are located at 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606, and our telephone number is 312-930-1000.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

The company reports the results of its operations as one reporting segment primarily comprised of the CME, CBOT, NYMEX, COMEX and KCBT exchanges. The remaining operations do not meet the thresholds for reporting separate segment information.

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

We offer the widest range of global benchmark products across all major asset classes based on interest rates, equity indexes, foreign exchange, energy, agricultural commodities, metals, weather and real estate. Our products include both exchange-traded and over-the-counter derivatives.  We bring buyers and sellers together through our CME Globex electronic trading platform across the globe and our open outcry trading facilities in Chicago, New York City and Kansas City, and provide hosting, connectivity and customer support for electronic trading through our co-location services. Our CME Direct technology offers side-by-side trading of exchange-listed and over-the-counter markets. We also provide clearing and settlement services for exchange-traded contracts, as well as for cleared over-the-counter derivatives transactions. Finally, we offer a wide range of market data services — including live quotes, delayed quotes, market reports and a comprehensive historical data service — and have expanded into the index services business.











Our Competitive Strengths

CME Group offers a number of key differentiating elements that set it apart from its competitors, including:

Highly Liquid Markets—Our listed futures markets provide an effective forum for our customers to manage their risk and meet their investment needs relating to our markets. We believe that our customers choose to trade on our centralized market due to its liquidity and price transparency. Market liquidity — or the ability of a market to absorb the execution of large purchases or sales quickly and efficiently, whereby the market recovers quickly following the execution of large orders — is key to attracting customers and contributing to a market's success.

Most Diverse Product Line—Our products provide a means for hedging, speculation and asset allocation relating to the risks associated with, among other things, interest rate sensitive instruments, equity ownership, changes in the value of foreign currency, credit risk and changes in the prices of agricultural, energy and metal commodities. The estimated percentage of clearing and transaction fees revenue contributed by each product line is as follows:Product Line201220112010Interest rate25%27%27%Equity192121Foreign exchange777Agricultural commodity161312Energy272627Metal666

We believe that the breadth and diversity of our product lines and the variety of their underlying contracts is beneficial to our overall performance when an individual product line or individual product is impacted by macroeconomic factors. Additionally, our asset classes contain various products designed to address differing risk management needs.

Our products are traded through the CME Globex electronic trading platform, our open outcry auction markets in Chicago, New York City and Kansas City, and through privately negotiated transactions that we clear. The estimated percentage of clearing and transaction fees revenue contributed by each trading venue is as follows:

Trading Venue201220112010Electronic76%75%74%Open outcry7910Privately negotiated655CME ClearPort (OTC)111111

Our products generate valuable information regarding prices and trading activity. We distribute our market data over the CME market data platform directly to our electronic trading customers as part of their access to our markets, as well as to quote vendors who consolidate our market data with that from other exchanges, other third-party data providers and news sources, and then resell their consolidated data. The estimated contributions of our market data and information services products, excluding our index market data offerings, based on percentage of total revenue over the last three years, were12%in2012,10%in2011and11%in2010.

In 2010, we expanded our market data offerings through our joint venture with Dow Jones — CME Group Index Services — which further diversified our revenue streams.  In June 2012, we established our new joint venture with McGraw-Hill and contributed a portion of our CME Group Index Services business to create S&P/DJI.  We derived2%of our revenues from our index services business in2012,3%in2011and 2% in 2010.

Safety and Soundness of our Markets—We understand the importance of ensuring that our customers are able to manage and contain their trading risks. As the markets and the economy have evolved, we have worked to adapt our clearing services to meet the needs of our customers.  We apply robust risk management standards and enforce and facilitate applicable CFTC customer protection standards for exchange-traded products and cleared over-the-counter derivatives. Clearing member firms are continually monitored and examined to assess their outstanding risk, capital adequacy and compliance with customer protection rules and regulations. We utilize a combination of risk management capabilities to assess our clearing firms and their account exposure levels for all asset classes 24 hours a day throughout the trading week. Our U.S. clearing house is operated within our CME exchange.  We also operate a UK clearing house — CME Clearing Europe. In connection with our acquisition of KCBT, we acquired its clearing house.  We expect to complete the integration of the KCBT clearing house with our U.S. clearing house in April 2013.











Our integrated clearing function is designed to ensure the safety and soundness of our markets. Our clearing services are designed to protect the financial integrity of our markets by serving as the counterparty to every trade, becoming the buyer to each seller and the seller to each buyer, and limiting credit risk. The clearing house is responsible for settling trading accounts, clearing trades, collecting and maintaining performance bond funds, regulating delivery and reporting trading data. CME Clearing marks open positions to market at least twice a day, and requires payment from clearing firms whose positions have lost value and makes payments to clearing firms whose positions have gained value. For select cleared-only markets, positions are marked-to-market daily, with the capacity to mark-to-market more frequently as market conditions warrant. We also offer clearing services through CME ClearPort, a comprehensive set of flexible clearing services for the global over-the-counter market backed by CME Clearing.   See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” beginning on page 53 and “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” beginning on page 17, for more information on our financial safeguards package and the associated credit risks related to our clearing services.

Superior Trading Technology and Distribution—We strive to provide the most flexible architecture in terms of bringing new technology, innovations and solutions to the market. Our CME Globex electronic trading platform is accessible on a global basis nearly 24 hours a day throughout the trading week. In 2012, we launched the next generation of CME Globex reducing order entry and market data latency variability along with increasing capacity and cost efficiency.

Our platform offers:

•certainty of execution;

•vast capabilities to facilitate complex and demanding trading;

•direct market access;

•fairness, price transparency and anonymity; and

•global distribution, including connection through high-speed international telecommunications hubs in key financial centers in Europe, Asia and Latin America, and hosting or global order routing to our global partner exchanges.

In January 2012, we launched our service offerings for co-location at our data center facility, which houses our trading match engines for all products traded on the CME Globex platform. The service provides the lowest latency connection for our customers. The offering is made available to all customers on equal terms.  We derived2%of our revenues from our co-location business in 2012. We also enhanced our trading technology with the launch of CME Direct, which offers on-line trading of both exchange-traded and over-the-counter markets.  In 2012,84%of our contract volume was conducted electronically.

Our Strategic Initiatives

The following is a description of our strategic initiatives:

Leading Core Business Innovation—We continue to enhance our customer relations to allow us to further cross-sell our products, expand on the strength of our existing benchmark products and launch new products. Over the last three years, our key new product launches included the Ultra-long Bond Treasury futures and options, Weekly Treasury options and a deliverable interest rate swap futures product.  During the year, we also completed the acquisition of the KCBT, providing customers with greater capital efficiencies, new trading opportunities and additional products to manage their global wheat price risk.  We also acquired the Green Exchange, LLC and integrated its products into our energy product suite which adds to our energy complex and expands our reach into the environmental market.

Globalizing our Company and our Business—Our goal is to continue to expand and diversify our customer base worldwide and offer customers around the world the most broadly diversified portfolio of benchmark products.  We expanded our product suite with the launch of a number of regionally specific products, including Black Sea Wheat, deliverable renminbi futures and Chinese Steel Rebar swap futures, which help us appeal to risk management needs unique to a particular geography.  We continue to believe that we have significant opportunity to expand the participation of our non-U.S. customer base in our markets.   We are focusing on core growth in global markets because we believe that Asia, Latin America, and other emerging markets will experience superior economic and financial markets growth over the next decade compared with the more mature North American and European markets.  In particular, we plan to expand our presence in major financial centers in Asia, grow our commodities business with non-U.S. customers and products and penetrate emerging markets, such as China and India.

To further enhance our customers' trading opportunities, we have partnered with leading exchanges around the world to make their products available on or through our CME Globex platform and network. These arrangements allow our customers to access many of the world's most actively traded equity futures contracts — Brazilian IBovespa index futures, Korean Kospi 200 index futures, Indian Nifty 50 index futures, Japanese Nikkei 225 index futures and the Mexican IPC index.  These strategic relationships allow us to accelerate our market penetration, expand our customer reach, lower barriers of access to global benchmarks and develop product sales channels with local brokers.  These relationships are also designed to allow the











customers of our partner exchanges to access our products and markets. During 2012, we strengthened our international partnerships, including implementing our cross-listing and cross-licensing arrangement with BM&FBOVESPA S.A. (BM&FBOVESPA), and increasing our investment in the Dubai Mercantile Exchange to help build the new benchmark for crude oil East of Suez.

In May 2011, we launched CME Clearing Europe and we have made steady progress building on our European presence to further extend the geographical reach of our clearing services.  We offer clearing services on over-the-counter commodity derivative products, including energy, agriculture, freight and precious metals, through CME Clearing Europe, and we continue to expand the range of eligible products.  Next steps include the clearing of interest rate swaps.

In September 2012, we applied to the FSA for approval to create a London-based exchange that will initially offer trading of foreign exchange futures products and ultimately expand into other products.  We believe establishing an exchange in the United Kingdom will leverage the central counterparty model of CME Clearing Europe and will allow us to more closely align with our regional customers in both listed and over-the-counter markets, and will provide additional opportunities to our expanding non-U.S. customer base.

Expanding our Existing Customer Base and Enhancing our Product and Services Offerings to Meet their Risk Management Needs—We plan to grow our business by targeting cross asset sales across client segments, driving international sales (specifically in Asia and Europe) and generating new client participation across all regions.  We have a long history of providing customer choice and flexibility and believe that our products and services make us well positioned to help our customers adapt and comply with the new regulations, while enabling them to manage their risks in as efficient a manner as possible. With the continued implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act  (Dodd-Frank) and Basel III Interim Capital Framework (Basel III), we expect global banks to look for capital efficiencies and move to centralized clearing on a futures exchange.  We continue to focus on new customer onboarding for swaps clearing services, expanding our over-the-counter product offerings and working with the buy- and sell-sides to meet their needs for real-time clearing, risk management and data reporting.

Extending our Capabilities and Business in the Over-the-Counter Markets

—

Our goal is to provide a comprehensive multi-asset class clearing solution to the market for maximum operational ease and the capital efficiency that comes with connecting to a single clearing house. Our over-the-counter offerings provide participants the extensive counterparty credit risk reduction and transparency of our clearing services while preserving the prevailing execution processes, technology platforms and economic structures currently in use in the marketplace.    We have built a multi-asset class over-the-counter clearing solution.   We offer clearing services for cleared over-the-counter derivatives in interest rate swaps, credit default swaps, foreign exchange and commodities.  In 2012, we strengthened the capabilities of our over-the-counter product offering with the launch of portfolio margining of interest rate swaps and futures positions for all market participants.  We continue to collaborate with buy- and sell-side customers to provide the innovative products and services they need to manage their risk effectively in a continuously evolving marketplace.  In


, we cleared over-the-counter transactions with a notional value of over $1.1 trillion, and open interest as of

December 31, 2012

was $691.8 billion. Our CME ClearPort platform offers an array of clearing services that depend on the nature of the product traded and has the capacity to clear and report transactions in multiple asset classes.

Establishing Ourselves as the Leading Exchange Company Provider of Information Products and Index Services and Enhancing our Intellectual Property Portfolio—We offer a variety of market data services for the futures, equities and the over-the-counter markets.  In June 2012, we established a new joint venture in which McGraw-Hill contributed its S&P Indices business and we contributed a portion of our CME Group Index Services business to create S&P/DJI, a global leader in index services.  This new venture creates a leading index provider well-positioned to serve global institutional and retail customers and will allow us to continue to be innovative with product development and co-branding across asset classes.  As part of the agreement, we acquired a long-term, ownership-linked, exclusive license to list futures and options on futures based on the S&P Indices.  Our CME Group Index Services business was originally formed in 2010 as part of a joint venture with Dow Jones & Company.  We also plan to expand our existing intellectual property portfolio for our technology and product and services offerings.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

We own the rights to a large number of trademarks, service marks, domain names and trade names in the United States, Europe and in other parts of the world. We have registered many of our most important trademarks in the United States and other countries. We hold the rights to a number of patents and have made a number of patent applications. Our patents cover match engine, trader user interface, trading floor support, market data, general technology and clearing house functionalities. We also own the copyright to a variety of materials. Those copyrights, some of which are registered, include printed and on-line publications, web sites, advertisements, educational material, graphic presentations and other literature, both textual and electronic. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademarks, patents, copyrights, database rights, trade secrets, restrictions on disclosure and other methods.











Following the well-publicized issues relating to the credibility of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), numerous investigations were undertaken by regulators and an official study of the benchmark was commissioned to evaluate potential reforms.  We currently have a licensing and membership agreement with BBA Enterprises Limited and the British Bankers' Association (collectively, BBA) for the use of LIBOR to settle several of our interest rate products, including our Eurodollar contract.  For the license, we paid an upfront fee and pay an annual fee.  Based on the ongoing review of LIBOR, we expect LIBOR to be reformed rather than replaced and to continue as a regulated benchmark.  Depending upon the outcome of the reform efforts, we may need to enter into a new license agreement with BBA or the organization appointed to administer the benchmark.

We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain the exclusivity of our licensing agreements with S&P, Dow Jones and NASDAQ or be able to maintain our other existing licensing arrangements. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not succeed in creating stock index futures based on information similar to that which we have obtained by license, or that market participants will not increasingly use other instruments, including securities and options based on the S&P, Dow Jones or NASDAQ indexes, to manage or speculate on U.S. stock risks. Parties may also succeed in offering indexed products that are similar to our licensed products without being required to obtain a license, or in countries that are beyond our jurisdictional reach and/or our licensors.











Seasonality

Generally, we have historically experienced relatively higher contract volume during the first and second quarters and sequentially lower contract volume in the third and fourth quarters. However, such seasonality may also be impacted by general market conditions or other events. During2012,27%of our consolidated revenues were recognized in the first quarter,27%in the second quarter,23%in the third quarter and23%in the fourth quarter.

Working Capital

We generally meet our funding requirements with internally generated funds supplemented from time to time with public debt and commercial paper offerings. For more information on our working capital needs, see “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition-Liquidity and Capital Resources,” beginning on page 50, which section is incorporated herein by reference.

Customer Base

Our customer base includes professional traders, financial institutions, institutional and individual investors, major corporations, manufacturers, producers and governments. Our customers can access our CME Globex trading platform across the globe. Customers may be members of one or more of our CME, CBOT, NYMEX or COMEX exchanges or a permit holder at KCBT.   Rights to directly access our markets will depend upon the nature of the customer, such as whether the individual is a member or permit holder of one of our exchanges or has executed an agreement with us for direct access.

Trading rights and privileges are exchange specific. Trading on our open outcry trading floors is conducted exclusively by our members and permit holders. Membership on one of our futures exchanges or ownership of a KCBT permit also enables a customer to trade specific products at reduced rates and lower fees. Under the terms of the organizational documents of our exchanges, our members/permit holders have certain rights that relate primarily to trading right protections, certain trading fee protections and certain membership/permit holder benefit protections. In2012,79%of our contract volume was conducted by our members and permit holders.

The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represent charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers. Two firms each represented12%of our clearing and transaction fees revenue for2012.  In the event a clearing firm were to withdraw, we believe that the customer portion of the firm's trading activity would likely transfer to another clearing firm of the exchange.  In 2011, one of our largest clearing firms was placed into bankruptcy and we transferred all of their more than 30,000 customer accounts to other futures commission merchants.

Competition

The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and we expect competition to continue to intensify, especially in light of the implementation of Dodd-Frank and other reforms of the financial services industry. For example, Dodd-Frank gives the CFTC authority to require certain swaps to be cleared by central clearing houses and to require certain of those swaps mandated for clearing to be traded on exchanges or swap execution facilities, unless no exchange or swap execution facility makes the swap available for trading. While these new requirements create opportunities for us to expand our over-the-counter business, a number of market participants and other exchanges and less regulated trading platforms have developed, and likely will develop in the future, competing platforms and products.

We encounter competition in all aspects of our business, including from entities having substantially greater capital and resources, offering a wide range of products and services and some operating under a different and possibly less stringent regulatory regime. We face competition from other futures, securities and securities option exchanges; over-the-counter markets; clearing organizations; consortia formed by our members and large market participants; swap execution facilities; alternative trade execution facilities; technology firms, including market data distributors and electronic trading system developers; and others.

Competition in our Derivatives Business

We believe competition in the derivatives and securities business is based on a number of factors, including, among others:

•depth and liquidity of markets;

•transaction costs;

•breadth of product offerings and rate and quality of new product development;

•ability to position and expand upon existing products to address changing market needs;

•transparency, reliability and anonymity in transaction processing;

•connectivity, accessibility and distribution;











•technological capability and innovation;

•efficient and secure settlement, clearing and support services;

•regulatory environment; and

•reputation.

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors.  Our deep, liquid markets; diverse product offerings; rate and quality of new product development; and efficient, secure settlement, clearing and support services, distinguish us from our competitors. We believe that in order to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to expand globally; develop new and innovative products; enhance our technology infrastructure, including its reliability and functionality; maintain liquidity and low transaction costs, and adopt additional customer protections designed to ensure the integrity of our market and the confidence of our customers.

Our principal competitors include other exchanges such as NYSE Euronext (NYSE), IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. (ICE), the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEX) and Eurex Group.  In addition, recent industry developments and alliances, such as the Electronic Liquidity Exchange (ELX), have resulted in a growing number of well-capitalized trading service providers that compete with all or a portion of our business.  We expect industry participants to continue to look for ways to grow their business despite the challenging regulatory environment.  For example, in December 2012, NYSE and ICE entered into a merger agreement pursuant to which ICE would acquire NYSE. HKEX completed its acquisition of the London Metal Exchange in 2012.

We face competition from the over-the-counter market with the trading of contracts similar to those traded or cleared on our exchanges, such as swaps, forward contracts and other exchange “look-alike” contracts, in which parties directly negotiate the terms of their contracts, as well as from spot markets, exchange-traded funds, contracts for difference and other substitutes for our products. Development of swap execution facilities and the mandated clearing requirement for certain products may create platforms that promote competitive substitutes for our privately negotiated and exchange-traded products.  We primarily face competition from the LCH.Clearnet Group in interest rate swaps and ICE in credit default swaps.

Competition in our Transaction Processing Business

In addition to the competition we face in our derivatives business, we face a number of competitors in our transaction processing and other business services. In the past few years, there has been increased competition in the provision of clearing services and we expect competition to continue to increase in connection with the implementation of Dodd-Frank, which requires the mandatory central clearing of standardized over-the-counter products.

ICE has its own clearing operations which are comprised of regulated clearing houses across the United States, Europe and Canada.  The Options Clearing Corporation clears U.S.-listed options and clears futures on a number of underlying financial assets including common stocks, currencies and stock indexes.  New York Portfolio Clearing, a clearing house created by NYSE and The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC), clears interest rate futures contracts and cross-margins eligible positions against U.S. Treasury and agency securities and repurchase agreements cleared by DTCC's subsidiary, Fixed Income Clearing Corporation.  We believe that other exchanges may also undertake to provide clearing services, especially in light of Dodd-Frank's clearing mandate.

We believe competition in the transaction processing and business services market is based on, among other things, the fees charged for the services provided; quality and reliability of the services; creditworthiness of the clearing house; timely delivery of the services; reputation; offering breadth; confidentiality of positions and information security protective measures; and the value of providing customers with capital efficiencies.

Competition in our Market Data Business

Technology companies, market data and information vendors and front-end software vendors also represent potential competitors because, as purveyors of market data or trading software systems, these firms typically have substantial distribution capabilities. As technology firms, they also have access to trading engines that can be connected to their data and information networks. Additionally, technology and software firms that develop trading systems, hardware and networks that are otherwise outside of the financial services industry may be attracted to enter our markets. This may lead to decreased demand for our market data.











Regulatory Matters

Our operation of futures exchanges is subject to extensive regulation by the CFTC under a principles-based approach which requires that our exchange subsidiaries satisfy the requirements of certain core principles relating to the operation and oversight of our markets and our clearing house, but also, as a result of recent regulations, under a highly prescriptive regulatory regime. The CFTC carries out the regulation of the futures markets in accordance with the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act as amended by, among others, the Commodity Futures Modernization Act and Dodd-Frank. The CFTC is subject to reauthorization every five years and is scheduled for reconsideration in 2013.

In light of widespread financial and economic difficulties in the U.S. and abroad, particularly acute in the latter half of 2008 and early 2009, there were calls for a restructuring of the regulation of financial markets.  Dodd-Frank, which was signed into law in 2010, is a comprehensive banking and financial services reform package that includes significant changes to the oversight of the derivatives markets, both over-the-counter and exchange-traded. Dodd-Frank reinforces the core tenets of our markets:

•price transparency,

•liquid markets to minimize transaction cost,

•market integrity,

•customer protection, and

•the safety and soundness of central counterparty clearing services.

Our key areas of focus in the regulatory environment are:

•Changes to the core principles for designated contract markets, including any changes to the rules implementing the competitive execution requirements of Core Principle 9.Rules promulgated under this provision may require us to make modifications to the manner in which certain of our contracts trade and/or require that such products be de-listed as futures and re-listed as swaps after a specified compliance period.

•Changes to the self-regulatory model, which, if modified, could alter the manner in which we currently oversee our marketplace. We believe that we are best positioned to continue to conduct financial and market surveillance of our clearing firms.

•The implementation of the position limit rules, which could have a significant impact on our commodities business relative to such markets abroad given that it does not appear that foreign jurisdictions will impose position limits rules as stringent as those adopted by the CFTC.  Although the CFTC adopted new position limits, they were subsequently vacated by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia and remanded back to the CFTC.

•Concerns regarding the "one size fits all" rules for capital charges implementing Basel III, as well as whether we will be deemed a "qualified" central counterparty, and the risk that these new standards may impose overly burdensome capital requirements on our clearing members and customers, which may eliminate the incentives to trade liquid exchange-traded derivatives instead of other derivatives products with higher risk profiles.

•The potential elimination of the 60/40 tax treatment of certain of our derivatives contracts, which would impose a significant increase in tax rates applicable to our market participants, and could result in a decrease in their trading activity.

•The implementation of mechanisms to further protect customer funds at the futures commission merchant level, and to restore confidence in the derivatives markets.











Pursuant to Dodd-Frank, in July 2012, the Financial Stability Oversight Council designated CME, due its operation of our U.S. clearing house, as a systemically important financial market utility which carries with it additional regulatory oversight of certain of our risk-management standards, clearing and settlement activities.

In 2012, we began operating a registered swap data repository service that is subject to the oversight of the CFTC and we must comply with certain core principles under the Commodity Exchange Act.

As a global company with operations and locations around the world, we are also subject to the laws and regulations in the locations in which we do business.

Compliance with these new regulations may require us and our customers to dedicate significant financial and operational resources which could result in some participants leaving our markets or decreasing their trading activity which would negatively affect our profitability. To the extent the regulatory environment following the implementation of Dodd-Frank and other financial reform regulations is less beneficial for us or our customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively affected.

If we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, removal of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our designations as a contract market and derivatives clearing organization.

There continues to be significant focus among the CFTC, SEC and foreign regulators relating to perceived risks, level playing field considerations and potential market abuses associated with algorithmic trading and high frequency trading following recent highly publicized technical problems, including the 2010 “flash crash” and the significant losses incurred by Knight Capital.  Although not clearly defined, high frequency trading typically refers to professional traders, acting in a proprietary capacity, that engage in strategies that generate a large number of trades on a daily basis.  The CFTC has formed a subcommittee to define high frequency trading within the context of automated trading systems, determine the appropriateness











of creating multiple categories for high frequency traders, conduct an analysis of the oversight, surveillance and economic aspects, and identify potential market disruptions that could be provoked by such traders and possible mitigations. We believe, and there is considerable supporting evidence, that high frequency traders play an important role in the marketplace by increasing liquidity, narrowing spreads and enhancing the efficiency of markets.  At this time, however, it is unclear whether these inquires will result in restrictions on the use of high frequency trading.

In the United States and Europe, there are several proposals to tax financial transactions or to assess user fees for market participants.  For example, in the United States, there is discussion of assessing a user fee to fund the CFTC, and in Europe, legislative bodies are considering a tax on all financial transactions.   In the past, efforts to implement a transaction tax or user fee have not been successful.  The implementation of additional costs to use our markets may discourage institutions and individuals from using our products to manage their risks, which could adversely impact our contract volumes, revenues and profits, and may also adversely impact our ability to compete on an international level. A transaction tax or user fee in the U.S. may also cause market participants to transition to, and/or increase their derivatives trading in, jurisdictions outside the U.S. which do not  necessarily impose a comparable cost at this time.

In addition, the U.S. Congress may propose to eliminate the favorable 60/40 tax treatment for futures. The current tax treatment for futures trading allows certain traders to pay a blend of taxes on their gains and losses from trading futures and options, with 60% at capital gains rates and 40% at ordinary tax rates.  Any repeal of 60/40 tax treatment would impose a substantial increase in tax rates applicable to our market participants who are most responsible for creating liquid and efficient markets.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2012, we had approximately2,600employees. We consider relations with our employees to be good.

Executive Officers

The following are our executive officers, including a description of their business experience over the last five years.  Ages are as of February 1, 2013.   Effective as of April 2012, the titles for CME Group's Management Team were changed from Managing Director to Senior Managing Director.  As the change was not a substantive change in the individual's role at the Company, we have continued to reflect the original date that the individuals assumed their current roles.

Terrence A. Duffy, 54

Mr. Duffy has served as our Executive Chairman and President since May 2012.  Mr. Duffy previously served as our Executive Chairman from 2006 and has been a member of our board of directors since 1995. He also served as President of TDA Trading, Inc. from 1981 to 2002 and has been a member of our CME exchange since 1981.

Phupinder S. Gill, 52

Mr. Gill has served as our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board of directors since May 2012.  Previously, he served as our President from 2007 to May 2012.  Mr. Gill joined us in 1988 and since then has held various positions of increasing responsibility within the organization, including President and Chief Operating Officer, and Managing Director and President of CME Clearing and GFX Corporation.  Mr. Gill also serves as our representative on the board of Bursa Malaysia Derivatives Berhad.

Kathleen M. Cronin, 49

Ms. Cronin has served as our Senior Managing Director, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since 2003. Previously she served as Corporate Secretary and Acting General Counsel from 2002 through 2003. Prior to joining us, Ms. Cronin was a corporate attorney at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom from 1989 through 1995 and from 1997 through 2002.

Bryan T. Durkin, 52

Mr. Durkin has served as our Chief Operating Officer since 2007.  He also held the title of Managing Director, Products and Services from 2010 to July 2012.  Mr. Durkin joined us in connection with the CBOT merger and he previously held a variety of leadership roles with CBOT from 1982 to 2007, most recently as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.

Julie Holzrichter, 44

Ms. Holzrichter has served as Senior Managing Director, Global Operations since 2007. Ms. Holzrichter rejoined us in 2006 as our Managing Director, CME Globex Services and Technology Integration. Ms. Holzrichter previously held positions of increasing responsibility in our organization from 1986 to 2003 in trading operations.











Kevin Kometer, 48

Mr. Kometer has served as Senior Managing Director and Chief Information Officer since 2008. He previously served as Managing Director and Deputy Chief Information Officer from 2007 to 2008. Since joining the company most recently in 1998, he has held senior leadership positions in the Technology Division, including Managing Director, Trading Execution Systems and Director, Advanced Technology. Mr. Kometer was also with the company from 1994 to 1996.

James E. Parisi, 48

Mr. Parisi has served as our Chief Financial Officer since 2004. Mr. Parisi joined us in 1988 and has held positions of increasing responsibility within the organization, including Managing Director & Treasurer and Director, Planning & Finance.

Laurent Paulhac, 43

Mr. Paulhac has served as Senior Managing Director, Financial and OTC Products & Services since 2012 and as Managing Director, OTC Products and Services from 2009 to 2012. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Paulhac most recently served as Chief Executive Officer of Credit Market Analysis from 2005 to 2009.

Hilda Harris Piell, 45

Ms. Piell has served as Senior Managing Director and Chief Human Resources Officer since 2007. Previously she served as Managing Director and Senior Associate General Counsel, as Director and Associate General Counsel and as Associate Director and Assistant General Counsel since joining us in 2000.

James V. Pieper, 46

Mr. Pieper has served as our Managing Director and Chief Accounting Officer since 2010. Previously, Mr. Pieper served as Director and Controller since 2006 and as Associate Director and Assistant Controller from 2004 to 2006.

John W. Pietrowicz, 48

Mr. Pietrowicz has served as our Senior Managing Director, Business Development and Corporate Finance since 2010. Mr. Pietrowicz joined us in 2003 and since then has held various positions of increasing responsibility, including his most recent position of Managing Director and Deputy Chief Financial Officer from 2009 to 2010 and Managing Director, Corporate Finance and Treasury from 2006 to 2009.

Linda Rich, 49

Ms. Rich has served as our Senior Managing Director, Government Relations and Legislative Affairs since April 2012. Prior to assuming her current role, Ms. Rich served as Managing Director, Government Relations and Legislative Affairs since joining us in 2010. Before joining the company, Ms. Rich served as Senior Vice President, Government Relations for NYSE Euronext. Her background also includes serving as senior counsel to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Financial Services and as counsel to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Commerce.

Derek Sammann, 44

Mr. Sammann has served as our Senior Managing Director, Financial Products and Services since 2009.  He previously served as our Global Head of Foreign Exchange Products since joining us in 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Sammann served as Managing Director, Global Head of FX Options and Structured Products at Calyon Corporate and Investment Bank in London from 1997 to 2006.

Kimberly S. Taylor, 51

Ms. Taylor has served as our President, CME Clearing since 2004 and as Managing Director, Risk Management in the Clearing House Division from 1998 to 2003. Ms. Taylor has held a variety of positions in the Clearing House, including Vice President and Senior Director. She joined us in 1989.

Kendal Vroman, 41

Mr. Vroman has served as our Senior Managing Director, Commodity and Information Products & Services since 2010. Mr. Vroman previously served as Managing Director and Chief Corporate Development Officer from 2008 to 2010. Mr. Vroman joined us in 2001 and since then has held positions of increasing responsibility, including most recently as Managing Director, Corporate Development and Managing Director, Information and Technology Services.











Scot E. Warren, 49

Mr. Warren has served as our Senior Managing Director, Equity Index Products and Index Services since 2010. Mr. Warren previously served as our Managing Director, Equity Products since joining us in 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Warren worked for Goldman Sachs as its Vice President, Manager Trading and Business Analysis Team. Prior to Goldman Sachs, Mr. Warren managed equity and option execution and clearing businesses for ABN Amro in Chicago and was a Senior Consultant for Arthur Andersen & Co. for financial services firms.

Robert Zagotta, 48



Mr. Zagotta has served as Senior Managing Director, Products and Services of CME Group since July 2012. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Zagotta most recently served as Executive Vice President, Business Strategy and Execution for Project Leadership Associates (PLA) from 2007 to July 2012, where he worked with CME Group on a number of strategic consulting assignments. Before joining PLA, Mr. Zagotta was a Partner and Co-Founder of Fourth Floor Consulting, which was acquired by PLA, and a Senior Manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers.



FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

CME Group has not historically tracked revenues based upon geographic location. Beginning in September 2011, we began tracking trading volume based on the country of origin of the transaction as disclosed to us by the customer.  Prior to September 2011, we tracked trading volume based on the time of the execution of the trade and whether it occurred during traditional U.S. trading hours or through our international telecommunication hubs.

In 2012, we estimate that approximately 21% of our electronic trading volume originated from outside of the United States.  The following table shows the percentage of our total contract volume on our Globex electronic trading platform generated during non-U.S. hours and through our international hubs for the last three years.201220112010Trading during non-U.S. hours17%16%15%Trading through telecommunication hubs15%8%9%



AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our Web site iswww.cmegroup.com. Information made available on our Web site does not constitute part of this document. We make available on our Web site our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC. Our corporate governance materials, including our Corporate Governance Principles, Director Conflict of Interest Policy, Board of Directors Code of Ethics, Categorical Independence Standards, Employee Code of Conduct and the charters for all the standing committees of our board, may also be found on our Web site. Copies of these materials are also available to shareholders free of charge upon written request to Shareholder Relations, Attention Ms. Beth Hausoul, CME Group Inc., 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606.















