ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

CME Group, through its futures exchanges and clearing houses, serves the risk management and investment needs of customers around the globe.

Our business has historically been subject to the extensive regulation of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).  As a result of our global operations, we are also subject to the rules and regulations of the local jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including the Bank of England, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA).  CME is subject to the oversight of the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with our offering of clearing services for security-based swaps.  Additionally, our U.S. clearing house has been designated as a systemically important financial market utility, which carries with it additional regulatory oversight of certain of our risk-management standards, clearing, and settlement activities by the Federal Reserve Bank.

Our principal executive offices are located at 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606, and our telephone number is 312-930-1000.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

The company reports the results of its operations as one reporting segment primarily comprised of the CME, CBOT, NYMEX, COMEX and KCBT exchanges.  Effective as of December 16, 2013, the transfer of operations of KCBT to CBOT was completed.  The remaining operations do not meet the thresholds for reporting separate segment information. Financial information about our reporting segment is hereby incorporated by reference to "Item 6. Selected Financial Data" on page 29 and "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" on page 54.

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

We offer the widest range of global benchmark products across all major asset classes, based on interest rates, equity indexes, foreign exchange, energy, agricultural commodities, metals, weather and real estate.  Our products include both exchange-traded and over-the-counter derivatives.  We bring buyers and sellers together through our CME Globex electronic trading platform across the globe and our open outcry trading facilities in Chicago and New York City, and provide hosting, connectivity and customer support for electronic trading through our co-location services.  Our CME Direct technology offers side-by-side trading of exchange-listed and over-the-counter markets.  We also provide clearing and settlement services for exchange-traded contracts, as well as for cleared over-the-counter derivatives transactions, and provide regulatory reporting solutions for market participants through our global repository services in the United States and the United Kingdom.  Finally, we offer a wide range of market data services — including live quotes, delayed quotes, market reports and a comprehensive historical data service — and continue to expand into the index services business.

Our Competitive Strengths

We provide innovative ways to manage risk and offer a number of key differentiating elements that set us apart from our competitors, including:











Highly Liquid Markets—Our listed futures markets provide an effective forum for our customers to manage their risk and meet their investment needs relating to our markets.  We believe that our customers choose to trade on our centralized market due to its liquidity and price transparency.  Market liquidity — or the ability of a market to absorb the execution of large purchases or sales quickly and efficiently, whereby the market recovers quickly following the execution of large orders — is key to attracting customers and contributing to a market's success.

Most Diverse Product Line—Our products provide a means for hedging, speculation and asset allocation relating to the risks associated with, among other things, interest rate sensitive instruments, equity ownership, changes in the value of foreign currency, credit risk and changes in the prices of agricultural, energy and metal commodities.  The estimated percentage of clearing and transaction fees revenue contributed by each product line is as follows:Product Line201320122011Interest rate29%25%27%Equity191921Foreign exchange877Agricultural commodity141613Energy232726Metal766

We believe that the breadth and diversity of our product lines and the variety of their underlying contracts is beneficial to our overall performance when an individual product line or individual product is impacted by macroeconomic factors.  Additionally, our asset classes contain various products designed to address differing risk management needs, and customers are able to achieve operational and capital efficiencies by accessing our diverse products through our platforms and our clearing houses.

Our products are traded through the CME Globex electronic trading platform, our open outcry auction markets in Chicago and New York City, and through privately negotiated transactions that we clear.  The estimated percentage of clearing and transaction fees revenue contributed by each trading venue is as follows:

Trading Venue201320122011Electronic79%76%75%Open outcry679Privately negotiated(1)151716

(1) Privately negotiated venue average daily volume includes both traditional block trades as well as what was historically categorized as CME ClearPort.

Our products generate valuable information regarding prices and trading activity.  We distribute our market data over the CME market data platform directly to our electronic trading customers as part of their access to our markets, as well as to quote vendors who consolidate our market data with data from other exchanges, other third-party data providers and news sources, and then resell their consolidated data.  The estimated contributions of our market data and information services products, excluding our index market data offerings, based on percentage of total revenue over the last three years, were11%in2013,12%in2012and10%in2011.

Safety and Soundness of our Markets—We understand the importance of ensuring that our customers are able to manage and contain their trading risks.  As the markets and the economy have evolved, we have worked to adapt our clearing services to meet the needs of our customers.  We apply robust risk management standards and enforce and facilitate applicable regulatory customer protection standards for exchange-traded products and cleared over-the-counter derivatives.  Clearing member firms are continually monitored and examined to assess their outstanding risk, capital adequacy and compliance with customer protection rules and regulations.  We utilize a combination of risk management capabilities to assess our clearing firms and their account exposure levels for all asset classes 24 hours a day throughout the trading week.  Our U.S. clearing house is operated within our CME exchange.  We also operate a U.K. clearing house — CME Clearing Europe.  In connection with our acquisition of KCBT, we acquired its clearing house, which was integrated in April 2013 with our U.S. clearing operations.

Our integrated clearing function is designed to ensure the safety and soundness of our markets by serving as the counterparty to every trade, becoming the buyer to each seller and the seller to each buyer, and limiting credit risk.  The clearing house is responsible for settling trading accounts, clearing trades, collecting and maintaining performance bond funds, regulating delivery and reporting trading data.  CME Clearing marks open positions to market at least twice a day, and requires payment from clearing firms whose positions have lost value and makes payments to clearing firms whose positions have gained value.  For select cleared-only markets, positions are marked-to-market daily, with the capacity to mark-to-market more frequently as











market conditions warrant.  The CME ClearPort front-end system provides access to our flexible clearing services for the global over-the-counter market.  See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” beginning on page 50 and “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” beginning on page 14, for more information on our financial safeguards package and the associated credit risks related to our clearing services.

Superior Trading Technology and Distribution—We strive to provide the most flexible architecture in terms of bringing new technology, innovations and solutions to the market.  Our CME Globex electronic trading platform is accessible on a global basis nearly 24 hours a day throughout the trading week. In 2013,86%of our contract volume was conducted electronically.

Our platform offers:

•certainty of execution;

•vast capabilities to facilitate complex and demanding trading;

•direct market access;

•fairness, price transparency and anonymity; and

•global distribution, including connection through high-speed international telecommunications hubs in key financial centers in Europe, Asia and Latin America, and hosting or global order routing to our global partner exchanges.

We also offer CME Direct, which is a highly-configurable trading front end that offers access to on-line trading of both exchange-traded and over-the-counter markets.

In 2012, we launched our service offerings for co-location at our data center facility, which houses our trading match engines for all products traded on the CME Globex electronic trading platform.  The service provides the lowest latency connection for our customers.  The offering is made available to all customers on equal terms.  We derived2%of our revenues from our co-location business in 2013 and 2012.

Our Strategic Initiatives

The following is a description of our strategic initiatives:

Leading Core Business Innovation—We continue to enhance our customer relations to allow us to further cross-sell our products, expand on the strength of our existing benchmark products, launch new products and deepen open interest in our core futures offerings.  Over the last five years, our key product launches included Ultra-long Bond Treasury futures and options, Weekly Treasury options, numerous Eurodollar mid-curve options, weekly and short-dated agricultural options, end of month equity options and a deliverable interest rate swap futures product.  During the year, we also experienced multiple volume records across our core product portfolio.  We plan to continue to invest in expanded sales and marketing capabilities and tools to broaden customer participation and to simplify the customer experience in order to increase their use of our offerings and reduce their regulatory burdens.

Globalizing our Company and our Business—We continue to expand and diversify our customer base worldwide and offer customers around the world the most broadly diversified portfolio of benchmark products.  We have expanded our product suite with the launch of a number of regionally specific products, including deliverable Chinese Renminbi futures and Chinese Steel Rebar swap futures, which help us appeal to risk management needs unique to a particular geography.  We continue to believe that we have significant opportunity to expand the participation of our non-U.S. customer base in our markets.  We are focusing on core growth in global markets because we believe that Asia, Latin America, and other emerging markets will experience superior economic and financial markets growth over the next decade compared with the more mature North American and European markets.  In addition, we plan to expand our presence in major financial centers, such as in Europe and Asia, grow our commodities business outside the U.S. and penetrate emerging markets, such as China, India, Brazil and Mexico.

To further enhance our customers' trading opportunities, we have partnered with leading exchanges around the world to make their products available on or through our CME Globex electronic trading platform.  These strategic relationships allow us to accelerate our market penetration, expand our customer reach, lower barriers of access to global benchmarks and develop product sales channels with local brokers.  These relationships are also designed to allow the customers of our partner exchanges to access our products and markets.

Through CME Clearing Europe, our U.K. clearing house, we have built on our European presence and further extended the geographical reach of our clearing services.  CME Clearing Europe offers clearing services for over-the-counter derivative products, including interest rates, energy, agriculture, freight and precious metals.

In 2012, we applied for regulatory approval to create CME Europe Limited, a London-based, FCA-supervised derivatives exchange.  Pending approval, product offerings will range across multiple asset classes beginning with foreign exchange.  We believe CME Europe will leverage the central counterparty model of CME Clearing Europe and allow us to more closely align











with our regional customers in both listed and over-the-counter markets, and will provide additional opportunities to our expanding non-U.S. customer base.

Expanding our Existing Customer Base and Enhancing our Product and Services Offerings to Meet its Risk Management Needs—We plan to grow our business by targeting cross asset sales across client segments, driving international sales and generating new client participation across all regions.  We have a long history of customer value and responsiveness and believe our products and services make us well positioned to help our customers adapt and comply with new regulations, while enabling them to efficiently manage their risks.  With the ongoing implementation of regulatory reform, we expect capital efficiencies and smooth transitions to centralized clearing to continue to be important for our global client base.

Extending our Capabilities and Business in the Over-the-Counter Markets—We provide a comprehensive multi-asset class clearing solution to the market for maximum operational ease and the capital efficiency that comes with connecting to our clearing houses.  Our over-the-counter offerings provide participants the extensive counterparty credit risk reduction and transparency of our clearing services while preserving the prevailing execution processes, technology platforms and business structures currently in use in the marketplace.  We offer clearing services for cleared over-the-counter derivatives in interest rate swaps, credit default swaps, foreign exchange and commodities. We continue to focus on new customer onboarding for swaps clearing services, expanding our over-the-counter product offerings and working with the buy- and sell-sides to meet their needs for real-time clearing, risk management and data reporting as the marketplace moves from a compliance phase to an optimization phase.  In 2013, the three phases of the clearing mandate of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) were implemented in the United States.  During the year, we cleared over-the-counter transactions with a notional value of more than $15.3 trillion, and open interest as ofDecember 31, 2013, was $9.1 trillion.  Our CME ClearPort platform offers access to an array of clearing services with the capacity to clear and report transactions in multiple asset classes.

Establishing Ourselves as the Leading Exchange Company Provider of Information Products and Index Services and Enhancing our Intellectual Property Portfolio—We offer a variety of market data services for the futures, equities and the over-the-counter markets.  Our joint venture with McGraw-Hill combines the world class capabilities of S&P Indices and Dow Jones Indices, and well positions us to serve global institutional and retail customers and allows us to continue to be innovative with product development and co-branding across asset classes.  As part of the joint venture, we acquired a long-term, ownership-linked, exclusive license to list futures and options on futures based on the S&P 500 Index and certain other S&P indexes.  We also continue to expand our existing intellectual property portfolio for our technology, products and services offerings.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

We own the rights to a large number of trademarks, service marks, domain names and trade names in the United States, Europe and other parts of the world.  We have registered many of our most important trademarks in the United States and other countries.  We hold the rights to a number of patents and have made a number of patent applications.  Our patents cover match engine, trader user interface, trading floor support, market data, general technology and clearing house functionalities.  We also own the copyright to a variety of materials.  Those copyrights, some of which are registered, include printed and on-line publications, websites, advertisements, educational material, graphic presentations and other literature, both textual and electronic.  We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademarks, patents, copyrights, database rights, trade secrets, restrictions on disclosure and other methods.











As a result of the well-publicized issues relating to the credibility of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), the U.K. Treasury awarded NYSE Euronext (now IntercontinentalExchange Group, Inc. following its merger) administration rights over the LIBOR contract.  The transfer of the administration from the British Bankers' Association (BBA) was completed in early 2014.  Our pre-existing license and membership agreement with the BBA organization for the use of LIBOR to settle several of our interest rate products, including our Eurodollar contract, remains in effect following the transition.

We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain the exclusivity of our licensing agreements with S&P, Dow Jones and NASDAQ or be able to maintain our other existing licensing arrangements beyond the term of the current agreements.  In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not succeed in creating stock index futures based on information similar to that which we have obtained by license, or that market participants will not increasingly use other instruments, including securities and options based on the S&P, Dow Jones or NASDAQ indexes, to manage or speculate on U.S. stock risks.  Parties also may succeed in offering indexed products that are similar to our licensed products without being required to obtain a license, or in countries that are beyond our jurisdictional reach and/or our licensors.

Seasonality

Generally, we have historically experienced relatively higher contract volume during the first and second quarters and sequentially lower contract volume in the third and fourth quarters.  However, such seasonality also may be impacted by general market conditions or other events.  During2013,25%of our consolidated revenues were recognized in the first quarter,28%in the second quarter,24%in the third quarter and23%in the fourth quarter.

Working Capital

We generally meet our funding requirements with internally generated funds supplemented from time to time with public debt and commercial paper offerings.  For more information on our working capital needs, see “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition-Liquidity and Capital Resources,” beginning on page 31, which section is incorporated herein by reference.

Customer Base

Our customer base includes professional traders, financial institutions, institutional and individual investors, major corporations, manufacturers, producers, governments and central banks.  Our customers can connect to our CME Globex electronic trading platform from access points across the globe.  Customers may be members of one or more of our CME, CBOT, NYMEX or COMEX exchanges.  Rights to directly access our markets will depend upon the nature of the customer, such as whether the individual is a member of one of our exchanges or has executed an agreement with us for direct access.

Trading rights and privileges are exchange-specific.  Trading on our open outcry trading floors is conducted exclusively by our members.  Membership on one of our futures exchanges also enables a customer to trade specific products at reduced rates and lower fees.  Under the terms of the organizational documents of our exchanges, our members have certain rights that relate primarily to trading right protections, certain trading fee protections and certain membership benefit protections.  In2013,80%of our contract volume was conducted by our members and KCBT permit holders.  In connection with the transfer of KCBT's operations to CBOT in 2013, the rights of permit holders were extinguished.

The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represents charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers.  One firm represented11%and one firm represented10%of our clearing and transaction fees revenue for2013.  In the event a clearing firm were to withdraw, our experience indicates that the customer portion of the firm's trading activity would likely transfer to another clearing firm of the exchange.

Competition

The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and we expect competition to continue to intensify, especially in light of changes in the financial services industry driven primarily by Dodd-Frank.



Please also refer to the discussion below and in the “Risk Factors” section beginning on page 14 for a description of competitive risks and uncertainties.

Competition in our Derivatives Business

We believe competition in the derivatives and securities business is based on a number of factors, including, among others:

•reputation;

•efficient and secure settlement, clearing and support services;

•depth and liquidity of markets;

•breadth of product offerings and rate and quality of new product development;











•ability to position and expand upon existing products to address changing market needs;

•transparency, reliability and anonymity in transaction processing;

•regulatory environment;

•connectivity, accessibility and distribution;

•technological capability and innovation; and

•transaction costs.

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors.  Our deep, liquid markets; diverse product offerings; rate and quality of new product development; and efficient, secure settlement, clearing and support services, distinguish us from our competitors.  We believe that in order to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to expand globally; develop new and innovative products; enhance our technology infrastructure, including its reliability and functionality; maintain liquidity and low transaction costs, and implement customer protections designed to ensure the integrity of our market and the confidence of our customers.

Our competitors include, among other entities, exchanges such as IntercontinentalExchange Group, Inc. (ICE Group); the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited; and Deutsche Börse AG.  In addition, competition in our industry is dynamic and recent developments and alliances may result in a growing number of well-capitalized trading service providers that compete with all or a portion of our business.

We also face competition from the over-the-counter marketplace, spot markets, securities exchanges and other venues offering "look-alike" or close substitutes for our listed contracts.

In addition, the development of swap execution facilities and the mandated trading and/or clearing requirement for certain products may lead to the creation of platforms that promote competitive substitutes for our privately negotiated and exchange-traded products.

Competition in our Transaction Processing Business

In addition, we face a number of competitors in our transaction processing and other business services.  In the past few years, there has been increased competition in the provision of clearing services and we expect competition to continue to increase in connection with the continued implementation of and compliance with Dodd-Frank.

Our competitors in the clearing services space include, among others, companies such as ICE Group, LCH.SwapClear and Deutsche Börse AG.  In light of Dodd-Frank's clearing mandate and other reforms of the financial services industry, we believe that other exchanges and infrastructure providers also may undertake to provide clearing services.

We believe competition in the transaction processing and business services market is based on, among other things, the fees charged for the services provided; quality and reliability of the services; creditworthiness of the clearing house; timely delivery of the services; reputation; offering breadth; confidentiality of positions and information security protective measures; and the value of providing customers with capital efficiencies.

Competition in our Market Data Business

Technology companies, market data and information vendors and front-end software vendors also represent actual and potential competitors because they have their own substantial market data distribution capabilities which could serve as alternative means for receiving open market data feeds instead of connecting directly to our exchange.  Distributors and consumers of our market data may also use our market data as an input into a product that competes against one of our traded or cleared products.   Although we may receive license fees for such products, such fees may not exceed the impact of any loss in trading volume of our comparable product.

Regulatory Matters

We are primarily subject to the jurisdiction of the regulatory agencies in the United States and the United Kingdom.  We also are subject to varying levels of regulation by foreign jurisdictions that permit our exchanges and other businesses to offer our products and services to their citizens.

Please also refer to the discussion below and in the “Risk Factors” section beginning on page 14 for a description of regulatory and legislative risks and uncertainties.

Regulation in the United States

Our operation of futures exchanges and our U.S. clearing house is subject to extensive regulation by the CFTC which requires that our exchange subsidiaries satisfy the requirements of certain core principles relating to the operation and oversight of our markets and our clearing house.  The CFTC carries out the regulation of the futures markets in accordance with the provisions











of the Commodity Exchange Act as amended by, among others, the Commodity Futures Modernization Act and Dodd-Frank.  The CFTC is subject to reauthorization every five years, which is currently in process.  Following the enactment of Dodd-Frank, the CFTC has moved from a principles-based to a more prescriptive regulatory approach over most aspects of our trading and clearing operations.

During 2013, the CFTC, the SEC, the Department of Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve and other regulators continued to engage in extensive rulemaking to implement Dodd-Frank.  Over the past three years, a number of regulations implementing Dodd-Frank were finalized, including rules relating to the implementation of mandatory clearing of certain over-the-counter derivatives, swap reporting, operation of a clearing house, anti-manipulation, large trader reporting, product definitions, the definition of an agricultural commodity and certain provisions of the rules applicable to designated contract markets, swap execution facilities and swap data repositories.  We continue to believe the new regulations provide opportunities for our business which we continue to explore.  However, portions of Dodd-Frank remain subject to further rulemaking, and such final regulations could include provisions that negatively impact our business.

Our U.S. clearing house has been designated as a systemically important financial market utility and a systemically important derivatives clearing organization.  These designations carry with them additional regulatory oversight of certain of our risk-management standards, clearing and settlement activities by the Federal Reserve Bank and the CFTC.

Our U.S. swap data repository service and swap execution facility are also subject to the requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations of the CFTC.

Regulation in the United Kingdom and the European Union

In the United Kingdom, the government approved a re-organization of its regulatory framework under which the Financial Services Authority was dissolved and its oversight responsibilities were transitioned in 2013 primarily to the Bank of England and the FCA.  As a result, in the United Kingdom our operations are subject to multiple regulators: the Bank of England; the FCA and ESMA.  CME Clearing (our U.S. clearing house) will be subject to certain conditions and reporting obligations as a result of its recognition by ESMA.  The European Union also is undergoing similar change, establishing multiple supervisory authorities for financial services, including ESMA.  Multiple directives and regulations such as the amendments to Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II) and changes to the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (MiFIR); the Capital Requirements Regulations IV and the Market Abuse Directive, have been proposed with provisions similar to those contained in Dodd-Frank.

Key Areas of Focus

We actively monitor and participate in the domestic and international rulemaking processes for our industry, including providing government testimony, commenting on proposed rulemakings and educating our regulators on potential impacts to the marketplace.

Our key areas of focus in the regulatory environment are:

•Regulations implementing the core principles for designated contract markets, including any changes to the rules implementing the competitive execution requirements of Core Principle 9.Rules promulgated under this provision may require us to make modifications to the manner in which certain of our contracts trade and/or require that such products be de-listed as futures and re-listed as swaps after a specified compliance period.

•The adoption and implementation of position limit rules, which could have a significant impact on our commodities business if comparable trading venues in foreign jurisdictions are not subject to equivalent limitations.  In November 2013, the CFTC re-proposed its position limits rule for comment replacing the rule that had been vacated by the U.S. District Court.

•Rules respecting capital charges under Basel III with respect to clearing members of central counterparties.  There is a risk that these new standards may impose overly burdensome capital requirements on our clearing members and customers.

•The criteria necessary to be deemed a qualifying central counterparty (QCCP).  A failure to be deemed a QCCP by banking regulators in the U.S., E.U. or otherwise may result in our clearing members and customers being subject to more stringent capital requirements thus creating a disincentive to use our markets.

•The potential impact of MiFID II and MiFIR on non-E.U. clearing houses with customers based in Europe.

•The potential elimination of the 60/40 tax treatment of certain of our derivatives contracts, which would impose a significant increase in tax rates applicable to certain market participants, and could result in a decrease in their trading activity.











•The implementation of a transaction tax or user fee in the U.S. or E.U. which could discourage institutions and individuals from using our markets or products or encourage them to trade in another less costly jurisdiction.

•The implementation of measures to further protect customer funds at the futures commission merchant level, and to restore confidence in the derivatives markets.

•The potential for further regulation stemming from industry performance disruptions and residual concerns around electronic trading activity and, in particular, "high frequency trading."

•The implementation of legislation in the E.U. impacting how benchmark index prices are formed, including new requirements for price submitters, price aggregators and markets that list contracts that reference index prices.

•Concerns that legislators will prohibit or restrict exclusive licenses for benchmark indexes, which might impact the profitability of several of our most popular contracts.

•The implementation of rules regarding enhanced liquidity management standards for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and any potential limitation on the use of U.S. Treasury securities as collateral.  Significant limitations on the use of U.S. Treasury securities as collateral could result in increased costs to us and our clearing firms.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately2,730employees. We consider relations with our employees to be good.

Senior Leadership Team and Executive Officers

Set forth below is the company's Senior Leadership Team, including those individuals designated executive officers of the company, as of the date of this filing.

Terrence A. Duffy, 55.Mr. Duffy has served as our Executive Chairman and President since May 2012.  Mr. Duffy previously served as our Executive Chairman from 2006 and has been a member of our board of directors since 1995.  He also served as President of TDA Trading, Inc. from 1981 to 2002 and has been a member of our CME exchange since 1981.  Mr. Duffy has been designated as an executive officer.

Phupinder S. Gill, 53.Mr. Gill has served as our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board of directors since May 2012.  Previously, he served as our President from 2007 to May 2012.  Mr. Gill joined us in 1988 and since then has held various positions of increasing responsibility within the organization, including President and Chief Operating Officer, and Managing Director and President of CME Clearing and GFX Corporation.  Mr. Gill has been designated as an executive officer.

Kathleen M. Cronin, 50.Ms. Cronin has served as our Senior Managing Director, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since 2003.  Previously she served as Corporate Secretary and Acting General Counsel from 2002 through 2003. Prior to joining us, Ms. Cronin was a corporate attorney at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom from 1989 through 1995 and from 1997 through 2002.  Ms. Cronin has been designated as an executive officer.

Bryan T. Durkin, 53.Mr. Durkin has served as our Chief Operating Officer since 2007.  He also held the title of Managing Director, Products and Services from 2010 to July 2012.  Mr. Durkin joined us in connection with the CBOT merger and he previously held a variety of leadership roles with CBOT from 1982 to 2007, most recently as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Durkin also serves as our representative on the board of Bursa Malaysia Derivatives Berhad.  Mr. Durkin has been designated as an executive officer.

Ali Hackett, 57.Ms. Hackett has served as Senior Managing Director, Client Development and Sales since February 2014.  Previously she served as Managing Director, Client Development and Sales since joining the company in 2010.  Prior to joining CME Group, Ms. Hackett spent a nearly 20-year career at Citigroup, where she most recently served as Managing Director, Co-Head of Global Prime Finance.

Julie Holzrichter, 45.Ms. Holzrichter has served as Senior Managing Director, Global Operations since 2007.  Ms. Holzrichter rejoined us in 2006 as our Managing Director, CME Globex Services and Technology Integration.  Ms. Holzrichter previously held positions of increasing responsibility in our organization from 1986 to 2003 in trading operations.  Ms. Holzrichter has been designated as an executive officer.

William Knottenbelt, 53.Mr. Knottenbelt has served as Senior Managing Director, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) of CME Group since February 2014.  Previously, Mr. Knottenbelt served as Managing Director, EMEA since joining the company in 2011. Prior to joining CME Group, Mr. Knottenbelt most recently served as Global Head of Futures for the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) where he built out the global reach and product offering of RBS futures.











Kevin Kometer, 49.Mr. Kometer has served as Senior Managing Director and Chief Information Officer since 2008.  He previously served as Managing Director and Deputy Chief Information Officer from 2007 to 2008.  Since joining the company most recently in 1998, he has held senior leadership positions in the Technology Division, including Managing Director, Trading Execution Systems and Director, Advanced Technology.  Mr. Kometer was also with the company from 1994 to 1996.  Mr. Kometer has been designated as an executive officer.

Julien Le Noble, 41.Mr. Le Noble has served as Senior Managing Director, Asia Pacific of CME Group since February 2014.  Previously, Mr. Le Noble served as Managing Director, Asia Pacific since joining the company in 2011. Before joining CME Group, Mr. Le Noble served as CEO and Representative Director, Japan and Head of Equities, Asia Pacific for Newedge, where he led the firm's Japanese business development and sales efforts for its Tokyo-based subsidiary.

James E. Parisi, 49.Mr. Parisi has served as our Chief Financial Officer since 2004. Mr. Parisi joined us in 1988 and has held positions of increasing responsibility within the organization, including Managing Director & Treasurer and Director, Planning & Finance.  Mr. Parisi has been designated as an executive officer.

Hilda Harris Piell, 47.Ms. Piell has served as Senior Managing Director and Chief Human Resources Officer since 2007.  Previously she served as Managing Director and Senior Associate General Counsel, as Director and Associate General Counsel and as Associate Director and Assistant General Counsel since joining us in 2000. Ms. Piell has been designated as an executive officer.

James V. Pieper, 47.Mr. Pieper has served as our Managing Director and Chief Accounting Officer since 2010.  Previously, Mr. Pieper served as Director and Controller since 2006 and as Associate Director and Assistant Controller from 2004 to 2006. Mr. Pieper has been designated as an executive officer.

John W. Pietrowicz, 49.Mr. Pietrowicz has served as our Senior Managing Director, Business Development and Corporate Finance since 2010. Mr. Pietrowicz joined us in 2003 and since then has held various positions of increasing responsibility, including his most recent position of Managing Director and Deputy Chief Financial Officer from 2009 to 2010 and Managing Director, Corporate Finance and Treasury from 2006 to 2009.

Linda Rich, 50.Ms. Rich has served as our Senior Managing Director, Government Relations and Legislative Affairs since April 2012. Prior to assuming her current role, Ms. Rich served as Managing Director, Government Relations and Legislative Affairs since joining us in 2010. Before joining the company, Ms. Rich served as Senior Vice President, Government Relations for NYSE Euronext. Her background also includes serving as senior counsel to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Financial Services and as counsel to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Commerce.

Derek Sammann, 45.Mr. Sammann has served as our Senior Managing Director, Financial Products and Services since 2009.  He previously served as our Global Head of Foreign Exchange Products since joining us in 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Sammann served as Managing Director, Global Head of FX Options and Structured Products at Calyon Corporate and Investment Bank in London from 1997 to 2006.

Kimberly S. Taylor, 52.Ms. Taylor has served as our President, CME Clearing since 2004 and as Managing Director, Risk Management in the Clearing House Division from 1998 to 2003.  Ms. Taylor has held a variety of positions in the clearing house, including Vice President and Senior Director. She joined us in 1989.  Ms. Taylor has been designated as an executive officer.

Sean Tully, 50.Mr. Tully has served as Senior Managing Director, Interest Rates and OTC Products of CME Group since February 2014. Previously, he served as Managing Director, Interest Rate and OTC Products since October 2013 and as our Managing Director, Interest Products since joining us in 2011.  Before joining the company, Mr. Tully most recently served as Managing Director, Global Head of Fixed Income Trading at WestLB in London.

Kendal Vroman, 42.Mr. Vroman has served as our Senior Managing Director, Commodity Products & Services and OTC Solutions since October 2013.  Previously he served as our Senior Managing Director, Commodity and Information Products & Services since 2010 and as Managing Director and Chief Corporate Development Officer from 2008 to 2010. Mr. Vroman joined us in 2001 and since then has held positions of increasing responsibility, including most recently as Managing Director, Corporate Development and Managing Director, Information and Technology Services.

Scot E. Warren, 50.Mr. Warren has served as our Senior Managing Director, Equity Index Products and Index Services since 2010. Mr. Warren previously served as our Managing Director, Equity Products since joining us in 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Warren worked for Goldman Sachs as its Vice President, Manager Trading and Business Analysis Team. Prior to Goldman Sachs, Mr. Warren managed equity and option execution and clearing businesses for ABN Amro in Chicago and was a Senior Consultant for Arthur Andersen & Co. for financial services firms.

Julie Winkler, 39.Ms. Winkler has served as Senior Managing Director, Research and Product Development of CME Group since February 2014.  Previously, she served as Managing Director, Research and Product Development since 2007.











Robert Zagotta, 49.Mr. Zagotta has served as Senior Managing Director, Products and Services of CME Group since July 2012. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Zagotta most recently served as Executive Vice President, Business Strategy and Execution for Project Leadership Associates (PLA) from 2007 to July 2012, where he worked with CME Group on a number of strategic consulting assignments. Before joining PLA, Mr. Zagotta was CEO and Co-Founder of Fourth Floor Consulting, which was acquired by PLA, and a Senior Manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Mr. Zagotta has been designated as an executive officer.



FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

CME Group has not historically tracked revenues based upon geographic location. Beginning in September 2011, we began tracking trading volume based on the country of origin of the transaction as disclosed to us by the customer.  Prior to September 2011, we tracked trading volume based on the time of the execution of the trade and whether it occurred during traditional U.S. trading hours or through our international telecommunication hubs.

In 2013 and 2012, we estimate that approximately 22% and 21% of our electronic trading volume originated from outside of the United States.  The following table shows the percentage of our total contract volume on our Globex electronic trading platform generated during non-U.S. hours and through our international hubs for the last three years.201320122011Trading during non-U.S. hours18%17%16%Trading through telecommunication hubs15%15%8%

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our website iswww.cmegroup.com. Information made available on our website does not constitute part of this document. We make available on our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC.  Our corporate governance materials, including our Corporate Governance Principles, Director Conflict of Interest Policy, Board of Directors Code of Ethics, Categorical Independence Standards, Employee Code of Conduct and the charters for all the standing committees of our board, also may be found on our website.  Copies of these materials also are available to shareholders free of charge upon written request to Shareholder Relations, Attention Ms. Beth Hausoul, CME Group Inc., 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606.



