
10-K405
ANNUAL REPORT





                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
 X           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
- ---           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999
                          -----------------

                                     OR

             TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
- ---           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from                 to
                               ---------------    ---------------

Commission file number 1-10899
                       -------

                            Kimco Realty Corporation
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Maryland                                      13-2744380
- ----------------------------        --------------------------------------------
  (State of incorporation)             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

3333 New Hyde Park Road, New Hyde Park, NY               11042-0020
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                  Zip Code

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (516) 869-9000
                                                   -----------------------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


                                                Name of each exchange on
        Title of each class                         which registered
        -------------------                         ----------------

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share.           New York Stock Exchange
- ---------------------------------------          ------------------------

Depositary Shares, each representing one-
- -----------------------------------------
tenth of a share of 7-3/4% Class A
- ----------------------------------
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
- --------------------------------------
par value $1.00 per share.                        New York Stock Exchange
- --------------------------                       ------------------------

Depositary Shares, each representing one-
- -----------------------------------------
tenth of a share of 8-1/2% Class B
- ----------------------------------
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
- --------------------------------------
par value $1.00 per share.                        New York Stock Exchange
- --------------------------                       ------------------------

Depositary Shares, each representing one-
- -----------------------------------------
tenth of a share of 8-3/8% Class C
- ----------------------------------
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
- --------------------------------------
par value $1.00 per share.                        New York Stock Exchange
- --------------------------                       ------------------------

Depositary Shares, each representing one-
- -----------------------------------------
tenth of a share of 7-1/2% Class D
- ----------------------------------
Cumulative Convertible Preferred
- --------------------------------
Stock, par value $1.00 per share.                 New York Stock Exchange
- ---------------------------------                ------------------------


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                (Title of class)

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (i) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (ii) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X  No
                                             ---   ---

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  X
                             ---

         The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of
the registrant was approximately $1.8 billion based upon the closing price on
the New York Stock Exchange for such stock on March 1, 2000.

                   (APPLICABLE ONLY TO CORPORATE REGISTRANTS)

         Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

                     60,795,593 shares as of March 1, 2000.


                                  Page 1 of 79


                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


Part III incorporates certain information by reference to the Registrant's
definitive proxy statement to be filed with respect to the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders expected to be held on May 18, 2000.

Index to Exhibits begins on page 34.



                                
                                                                       Form
                                                                       10-K
                                                                      Report
Item No.                                                               Page
- --------                                                              ------
                                     PART I

 1.      Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4

 2.      Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13

 3.      Legal Proceedings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14

 4.      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  . . . .   14

         Executive Officers of the Registrant . . . . . . . . . . . .   24

                                     PART II

 5.      Market for the Registrant's Common Equity
           and Related Shareholder Matters  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25

 6.      Selected Financial Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26

 7.      Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
           Condition and Results of Operations  . . . . . . . . . . .   28

7A.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. .  31

 8.      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  . . . . . . . .   31

 9.      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
           Accounting and Financial Disclosure  . . . . . . . . . . .   31

                                    PART III

10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant . . . . .   32

11.      Executive Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32

12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
           Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32

13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions . . . . . . .   32

                                     PART IV

14.      Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on
           Form 8-K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33





                                     PART I
                                     ------

                           FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
                           --------------------------


This annual report on Form 10-K, together with other statements and information
publicly disseminated by Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company"or "Kimco")
contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company intends such forward-looking
statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking
statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and
include this statement for purposes of complying with these safe harbor
provisions. Forward-looking statements, which are based on certain assumptions
and describe our future plans, strategies and expectations, are generally
identifiable by use of the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "anticipate,"
"estimate," "project" or similar expressions. You should not rely on
forward-looking statements since they involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond the Company's
control and which could materially affect actual results, performances or
achievements. Factors which may cause actual results to differ materially from
current expectations include, but are not limited to,(i) general economic and
local real estate conditions, (ii) financing risks, such as the inability to
obtain equity or debt financing on favorable terms, (iii) changes in
governmental laws and regulations, (iv) the level and volatility of interest
rates (v) the availability of suitable acquisition opportunities and (vi)
increases in operating costs. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the
Company's expectations will be realized.

Item 1.  Business
- -----------------

General   Kimco Realty Corporation is one of the nation's largest owners and
operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. As of March 1, 2000,
the Company's portfolio was comprised of 473 property interests including 405
neighborhood and community shopping center properties, two regional malls, 55
retail store leases, five parcels of undeveloped land, one distribution center
and five projects under development comprising a total of approximately 62.0
million square feet of leasable space located in 41 states. The Company's
portfolio includes 29 shopping center properties comprising 5.4 million square
feet (the "KIR Portfolio") relating to the Kimco Income REIT ("KIR"), a joint
venture arrangement with institutional investors established for the purpose of
investing in high quality retail properties financed primarily with individual
non-recourse mortgage debt (See Recent Developments - Investment in Kimco Income
REIT ("KIR")). The Company believes its portfolio of neighborhood and community
shopping center properties is the largest (measured by gross leasable area,
"GLA") currently held by any publicly-traded real estate investment trust
("REIT"). The Company is a self-administered REIT and manages its properties
through present management, which has owned and operated neighborhood and
community shopping centers for more than 30 years. The Company has not engaged,
nor does it expect to retain, any REIT advisors in connection with the operation
of its properties.

The Company's executive offices are located at 3333 New Hyde Park Road, New Hyde
Park, New York 11042-0020 and its telephone number is (516)869-9000. Unless the
context indicates otherwise, the term the "Company" as used herein is intended
to include subsidiaries of the Company.

History   The Company began operations through its predecessor, The Kimco
Corporation, which was organized in 1966 upon the contribution of several
shopping center properties owned by its principal stockholders. In 1973, these
principals formed the Company as a Delaware corporation, and in 1985, the
operations of The Kimco Corporation were merged into the Company. The Company
completed its initial public stock offering (the "IPO") in November 1991, and
reorganized as a Maryland corporation during 1994.

The Company's growth through its first fifteen years resulted primarily from the
ground-up development and construction of its shopping centers. By 1981, the
Company had assembled a portfolio of 77 properties that provided an established
source of income and positioned the Company for an expansion of its asset base.
At that time, the Company revised its growth strategy to focus on the
acquisition of existing shopping centers and creating value through the
redevelopment and re-tenanting of those properties. As a result of this
strategy, substantially all of the shopping centers added to the Company's
portfolio from 1981 through 1998 have been through the acquisition of existing
shopping centers.




During 1998, the Company, through a merger transaction, completed the
acquisition of The Price REIT, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "Price
REIT")(See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
this annual report on Form 10-K). Prior to the merger, Price REIT was a
self-administered and self-managed equity REIT that was focused on the
acquisition, development, management and redevelopment of large retail community
shopping center properties concentrated in the western part of the United
States. In connection with the Merger, the Company acquired interests in 43
properties, located in 17 states, consisting of 39 retail community centers, one
stand-alone retail warehouse, one project under development and two undeveloped
land parcels, containing approximately 8.0 million square feet of GLA. The
overall occupancy rate of the retail community centers was approximately 98%.
With the completion of the Price REIT merger, the Company expanded its presence
in certain western states including California, Arizona and Washington. In
addition, Price REIT had strong ground-up development capabilities. These
development capabilities, coupled with the Company's own construction management
expertise, provides the Company, on a selective basis, the ability to pursue
ground-up development opportunities.

During 1998 and 1999, the Company has capitalized on its enhanced ground-up
development capabilities and has commenced ground-up development projects
located in Bridgewater, NJ, Houston, TX, Cedar Hill, TX, San Antonio, TX,
Chandler, AZ, Miamisburg, OH and Dover, DE. During 1999, the Company completed
the Bridgewater, NJ development.

During 1998, the Company formed KIR, an entity in which the Company held a
99.99% limited partnership interest. KIR was established for the purpose of
investing in high quality properties financed primarily with individual
non-recourse mortgages. The Company believes that these properties are
appropriate for financing with greater leverage than the Company traditionally
uses. At the time of formation, the Company contributed 19 properties to KIR,
each encumbered by an individual non-recourse mortgage. During 1999, KIR sold a
significant interest in the partnership to institutional investors. As a result,
the Company holds, as of December 31, 1999, a 43.3% non-controlling limited
partnership interest in KIR and accounts for its investment in KIR under the
equity method of accounting (See Recent Developments - Investment in Kimco
Income REIT ("KIR") and Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this annual report on form 10-K).

Investment and Operating Strategy   The Company's investment objective has been
to increase cash flow, current income and, consequently, the value of its
existing portfolio of properties, and to seek continued growth through (i) the
strategic re-tenanting, renovation and expansion of its existing centers, (ii)
the selective acquisition of established income-producing real estate properties
and properties requiring significant re-tenanting and redevelopment, primarily
in neighborhood and community shopping centers and (iii)the selective
acquisition of land parcels for the ground-up development of neighborhood and
community shopping centers in geographic regions in which the Company presently
operates. The Company will consider investments in other real estate sectors and
in geographic markets where it does not presently operate should suitable
opportunities arise.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping center properties are designed
to attract local area customers and typically are anchored by a discount
department store, a supermarket or drugstore tenant offering day-to-day
necessities rather than high-priced luxury items. The Company may either
purchase or lease income-producing properties in the future, and may also
participate with other entities in property ownership through partnerships,
joint ventures or similar types of co-ownership. Equity investments may be
subject to existing mortgage financing and other indebtedness or such financing
or indebtedness may be incurred in connection with acquiring such investments.
Any such financing or indebtedness will have priority over the Company's equity
interest in such property. The Company may make loans to joint ventures in which
it may or may not participate in the future.

While the Company has historically held its properties for long-term investment,
and accordingly has placed strong emphasis on its ongoing program of regular
maintenance, periodic renovation and capital improvement, it is possible that
properties in the portfolio may be sold, in whole or in part, as circumstances
warrant, subject to REIT qualification rules.

The Company emphasizes equity real estate investments, but may, at its
discretion, invest in mortgages, other real estate interests and other
investments. The mortgages in which the Company may invest may be either first
mortgages, junior mortgages or other mortgage-related securities.





The Company may legally invest in the securities of other issuers, for the
purpose, among others, of exercising control over such entities, subject to the
gross income and asset tests necessary for REIT qualification. The Company may,
on a selective basis, acquire all or substantially all securities or assets of
other REITs or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with
the Company's investment policies. In any event, the Company does not intend
that its investments in securities will require it to register as an "investment
company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through
diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties and a
large tenant base. At December 31, 1999, the Company's single largest
neighborhood and community shopping center, excluding the KIR Portfolio,
accounted for only 1.4% of the Company's annualized base rental revenues and
only 1.0% of the Company's total shopping center GLA. At December 31, 1999, the
Company's five largest tenants, excluding the KIR Portfolio, include Kmart
Corporation, Kohl's, Ames, The Home Depot and TJX Companies, which represent
approximately 13.8%, 2.8%, 2.5%, 2.4% and 1.8%, respectively, of the Company's
annualized base rental revenues.

The Company intends to maintain a conservative debt capitalization with a ratio
of debt to total market capitalization of approximately 50% or less. As of
December 31, 1999, the Company had a debt to total market capitalization ratio
of approximately 34%.

The Company has authority to offer shares of capital stock or other senior
securities in exchange for property and to repurchase or otherwise reacquire its
common stock or any other securities and may engage in such activities in the
future. At all times, the Company intends to make investments in such a manner
as to be consistent with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended (the "Code"), to qualify as a REIT unless, because of circumstances
or changes in the Code (or in Treasury Regulations), the Board of Directors
determines that it is no longer in the best interests of the Company to qualify
as a REIT.

The Company's policies with respect to the aforementioned activities may be
reviewed and modified from time to time by the Company's Board of Directors
without the vote of the Company's stockholders.

Competition    As one of the original participants in the growth of the shopping
center industry and one of the nation's largest owners and operators of
neighborhood and community shopping centers, the Company has established close
relationships with a large number of major national and regional retailers and
maintains a broad network of industry contacts. Management is associated with
and/or actively participates in many shopping center and REIT industry
organizations. Notwithstanding these relationships, there are numerous
commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other
investors that compete with the Company in seeking properties for acquisition
and tenants who will lease space in these properties.

Capital Resources    Since the completion of the Company's IPO in 1991, the
Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source
of capital. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its
public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over $2.0 billion for
the purposes of repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and
community shopping centers and for expanding and improving properties in the
portfolio.

During August 1998, the Company established a $215 million, unsecured revolving
credit facility, which is scheduled to expire in August 2001. This credit
facility, which replaced both the Company's $100 million unsecured revolving
credit facility and $150 million interim credit facility, has made available
funds to both finance the purchase of properties and meet any short-term working
capital requirements. As of December 31, 1999 there were no borrowings
outstanding under the Company's unsecured revolving credit facility.

During November 1999, the Company established a $52 million unsecured term loan
facility, which is scheduled to expire in November 2000. This credit facility
was established to finance the purchase of properties and for general corporate
purposes.

The Company has also implemented a $200 million medium-term notes program (the
"MTN program") pursuant to which it may from time to time offer for sale its
senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes, including (i) funding
specific liquidity requirements in its business, including property
acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs, and (ii) managing the
Company's debt maturities. (See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)





In addition to the public debt and equity markets as capital sources, the
Company may, from time to time, obtain mortgage financing on selected
properties. As of December 31, 1999, the Company had over 350 unencumbered
property interests in its portfolio.

During August 1998, the Company filed a shelf registration on Form S-3 for up to
$750 million of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common
stock and common stock warrants. As of March 1, 2000, the Company had
approximately $393.2 million available for issuance under this shelf
registration statement.

It is management's intention that the Company continually have access to the
capital resources necessary to expand and develop its business. Accordingly, the
Company may seek to obtain funds through additional equity offerings, unsecured
debt financings and/or mortgage financings in a manner consistent with its
intention to operate with a conservative debt capitalization policy.

The Company anticipates that cash flows from operations will continue to provide
adequate capital to fund its operating and administrative expenses, regular debt
service obligations and the payment of dividends in accordance with REIT
requirements in both the short-term and long-term. In addition, the Company
anticipates that cash on hand, availability under its revolving credit facility,
issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity
alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Cash
flow from operations increased to $237.2 million for the year ended December 31,
1999, as compared to $158.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1998.

Inflation and Other Business Issues    Many of the Company's leases contain
provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions
include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of additional rent
calculated as a percentage of tenants' gross sales above predetermined
thresholds ("Percentage Rents"), which generally increase as prices rise, and/or
escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of
the leases. Such escalation clauses include increases in the consumer price
index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the Company's leases
are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to
increase rents upon renewal to market rates. Most of the Company's leases
require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses, including
common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing
the Company's exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting
from inflation. The Company periodically evaluates its exposure to short-term
interest rates and will, from time to time, enter into interest rate protection
agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate, the effect of changes in
interest rates on its floating-rate debt.

As an owner of real estate, the Company is subject to risks arising in
connection with the underlying real estate, including, among other factors,
defaults or nonrenewal of tenant leases, the financial condition and stability
of tenants, retailing trends, environmental matters and changes in real estate
and zoning laws. The success of the Company also depends upon trends in the
economy, including, but not limited to, interest rates, the availability of
capital, either in the form of debt or equity, on satisfactory terms, income tax
laws, governmental regulations and legislation and population trends.

Operating Practices    Nearly all operating functions, including leasing, legal,
construction, data processing, maintenance, finance and accounting, are
administered by the Company from its executive offices in New Hyde Park, New
York. The Company believes it is critical to have a management presence in its
principal areas of operation; accordingly, the Company also maintains regional
offices in Margate, Orlando and Tampa, Florida; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania;
Dallas, Texas; Dayton and Cleveland, Ohio; Lisle and Chicago, Illinois;
Charlotte, North Carolina; Phoenix and Tucson, Arizona and Los Angeles,
California. A total of 222 persons are employed at the Company's executive and
regional offices.

The Company's regional offices are generally staffed by a manager and the
support personnel necessary to both function as local representatives for
leasing and promotional purposes and to complement the corporate office efforts
to ensure that property inspection and maintenance objectives are achieved. The
regional offices are important in reducing the time necessary to respond to the
needs of the Company's tenants. Leasing and maintenance personnel from the
corporate office also conduct regular inspections of each shopping center.

The Company also employs a total of 59 persons at several of its larger
properties in order to more effectively administer its maintenance and security
responsibilities.

Management Information Systems    Virtually all operating activities are
supported by a sophisticated computer software system designed to provide
management with operating data necessary to make informed business decisions on
a timely basis. These proprietary




systems are continually expanded and enhanced by the Company and reflect a
commitment to quality management and tenant relations. The Company has
integrated an advanced mid-range computer with personal computer technology,
creating a management information system that facilitates the development of
property cash flow budgets, forecasts and related management information.

Qualification as a REIT    The Company has elected, commencing with its taxable
year which began January 1, 1992, to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856
through 860 of the Code. If, as the Company believes, it is organized and
operates in such a manner so as to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT under
the Code, the Company generally will not be subject to Federal income tax,
provided that distributions to its stockholders equal at least the amount of its
REIT taxable income as defined under the Code.

Recent Developments

Investment in Kimco Income REIT ("KIR") -

During 1998, the Company formed KIR, an entity in which the Company held a
99.99% limited partnership interest. KIR was established for the purpose of
investing in real estate that it believes would be more appropriately financed
through greater leverage than the Company traditionally uses. These properties
include, but are not limited to, fully developed properties with strong, stable
cash flows from credit-worthy retailers with long-term leases that have limited
near-term potential for growth through redevelopment or re-tenanting. The
Company initially identified and contributed 19 property interests to KIR which
met this criteria. Each of these properties was encumbered by an individual
non-recourse mortgage. On April 28, 1999, the Company entered into an agreement
whereby an institutional investor purchased a significant interest in KIR. Under
the terms of the agreement, the agreed equity value for the 19 shopping centers
previously contributed by the Company to KIR was approximately $107 million and
the Company agreed to contribute an additional $10 million for a total
investment of approximately $117 million. The institutional investor has
subscribed for up to $117 million of equity in KIR, of which approximately $107
million has been contributed as of December 31, 1999. During August 1999, KIR
admitted three additional limited partners. Each new partner entered into a
subscription agreement whereby they subscribed for an aggregate $35 million of
equity in KIR. At December 31, 1999 approximately $32 million of such
subscriptions had been contributed. As of December 31, 1999, KIR has
subscription agreements totaling approximately $269 million, of which
approximately $246 million has been contributed. As a result of these
transactions, the Company holds a 43.3% non-controlling limited partnership
interest in KIR and accounts for its investment in KIR under the equity method
of accounting.

During the period April 28, 1999 to December 31, 1999, KIR purchased ten
shopping center properties, in separate transactions, aggregating 2.2 million
square feet of GLA for approximately $218.3 million including the assumption of
approximately $36.1 million of mortgage debt. Four of these properties were
purchased from the Company for an aggregate purchase price of $70.1 million. As
of December 31, 1999, the KIR Portfolio is comprised of 29 shopping center
properties totaling 5.4 million square feet of GLA.

During May 1999, KIR obtained individual non-recourse, non-cross collateralized
ten-year fixed-rate first mortgages aggregating $52.6 million on four of its
properties. These mortgages bear interest at rates ranging from 7.57% to 7.72%
per annum. The net proceeds were used to finance the acquisition of various
shopping center properties.

Shopping Center Acquisitions -

During the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company and its affiliates acquired
interests in 35 shopping center properties located in 14 states (two of which
were subsequently sold to KIR in April 1999), comprising approximately 4.1
million square feet of GLA for an aggregate purchase price of approximately
$248.5 million, including the assumption of approximately $55.7 million of
mortgage debt encumbering the properties as follows:

In January 1999, the Company acquired Riverwalk Plaza located in South
Charleston, WV for a purchase price of approximately $13.5 million, including
the assumption of approximately $8.5 million of mortgage debt encumbering the
property. This shopping center is anchored by Kroger and TJ Maxx and contains
approximately 138,000 square feet of GLA.

Also in January 1999, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, Palm Plaza
and Magnolia Square shopping centers located in Temecula and San Ramon, CA,
respectively, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $45.1 million.
Palm Plaza, consisting of approximately 340,000 square feet of GLA is anchored
by K-Mart and Food 4 Less. Magnolia Square, anchored by Super Crown Books, has
approximately 42,000 square feet of GLA. These two properties were subsequently
sold to KIR in April 1999.





In February 1999, the Company acquired two properties, in separate transactions,
for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $20.4 million. Located in
Downers Grove, IL, Downers Park Plaza is comprised of approximately 137,000
square feet of GLA and is anchored by Dominick's Market and Coomers Crafts.
Sharpstown Court, anchored by Office Depot contains approximately 84,000 square
feet of GLA, and is located in Houston, TX.

In March 1999 the Company acquired Southdale Shopping Center located in Des
Moines, IA for a purchase price of approximately $8.6 million including the
assumption of approximately $5.7 million in mortgage debt encumbering the
property. Southdale is anchored by Best Buy and Office Max and contains
approximately 143,000 square feet of GLA.

In April 1999, the Company, through its Kimco Select Investments affiliate,
acquired a Duane Reade shopping center located in Massapequa, NY containing
approximately 22,000 square feet of GLA for a purchase price of approximately
$3.6 million (See Recent Developments - Kimco Select Investments).

In May 1999, the Company acquired Acadiana Square for a purchase price of
approximately $7.8 million. This shopping center, located in Lafayette, LA, is
anchored by Linens n' Things and Petsmart and contains approximately 71,000
square feet of GLA.

On July 1, 1999, the Company exercised its option to acquire 13 shopping center
properties comprising 1.6 million square feet of GLA from KC Holdings, Inc. ("KC
Holdings"), an entity formed in connection with the Company's initial public
stock offering in November 1991. The properties were acquired for an aggregate
option price of approximately $39.8 million, paid $15.7 million in shares of the
Company's common stock (401,646 common shares issued at $39.00 per share) and
$24.1 million through the assumption of mortgage debt encumbering the
properties. Such mortgage debt was repaid during September 1999. The members of
the Company's Board of Directors who are not also shareholders of KC Holdings,
unanimously approved the Company's purchase of these 13 shopping center
properties (See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this annual report on Form 10-K).

During September 1999, Landmark Station, a shopping center anchored by Waccamaw
was purchased for approximately $6.0 million. This property is located in
Greensboro, SC and contains approximately 101,000 square feet of GLA.

In October 1999, the Company acquired a shopping center located in Houma, LA for
a purchase price of approximately $9.9 million. This shopping center has
approximately 99,000 square feet of GLA and is anchored by Old Navy and Office
Max.

In November 1999, the Company acquired The Center located in Stockton, CA for a
purchase price of approximately $16.9 million including the assumption of
approximately $8.4 million of mortgage debt encumbering the property. This
shopping center is anchored by Homebase and Office Club and contains
approximately 146,000 square feet of GLA. Also during November 1999, the Company
purchased Highland Ridge Plaza, a shopping center anchored by Biggs Foods for a
purchase price of approximately $7.7 million. This center is located in
Cincinnati, OH and contains approximately 169,000 square feet of GLA.

In November 1999, the Company acquired, in a series of transactions, nine
property interests, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $57.1
million in connection with the Hechinger Stores bankruptcy process. The
properties are located in four states, containing an aggregate 0.8 million
square feet of GLA.

During December 1999, Regency Plaza, a shopping center located in Jacksonville,
FL was acquired for a purchase price of approximately $12.1 million including
the assumption of $9.0 million of mortgage debt encumbering the property. This
property contains approximately 204,000 square feet of GLA and is anchored by
Burlington Coat Factory, TJ Maxx and Office Max.

The Company, as a regular part of its business operations, will continue to
actively seek properties for acquisition, which have below market-rate leases or
other cash flow growth potential.

Property Developments and Redevelopments -

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to
maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. During 1999,
the Company substantially completed the redevelopment and re-tenanting of
various shopping center properties. The Company expended approximately $24
million in connection with these major redevelopments and re-tenanting projects
during 1999. The Company is currently involved in redeveloping several other
shopping centers. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these
and other redevelopment projects will be approximately $30 million during 2000.





During the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company acquired one land parcel
and, through separate partnership investments, interests in two additional land
parcels for the ground-up development of shopping centers for an aggregate
purchase price of approximately $17.3 million.

During 1999, the Company was in progress on ground-up development projects
located in Bridgewater, NJ, Houston, TX, Cedar Hill, TX, San Antonio, TX,
Chandler, AZ, Miamisburg, OH and Dover, DE. These projects had substantial
pre-leasing prior to the commencement of construction. During 1999, the Company
expended approximately $80 million in connection with the purchase of land and
construction costs related to these projects. During 1999, the Company completed
the development of Bridgewater, NJ. The Company anticipates its capital
commitment toward these and other development projects will be approximately
$100 million during 2000.

Each development and redevelopment project represents an opportunity for the
Company to capitalize on its leasing, site planning, design and construction
expertise. These projects, which are currently proceeding on schedule and in
line with the Company's budgeted costs, are expected to contribute to growth in
the Company's funds from operations in the future.

Property Dispositions -

During the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company disposed of six shopping
center properties and a land parcel. Cash proceeds from four of these
dispositions aggregated approximately $6.1, million which approximated their
aggregate net book value.

During July 1999, the Company disposed of a shopping center property in New Port
Richey, FL. Cash proceeds from the disposition totaling $.5 million, together
with an additional $5.5 million cash investment, were used to acquire an
exchange shopping center property located in Greensboro, NC during September
1999. The sale of this property resulted in a gain of approximately $.3 million.

During October 1999, the Company, in separate transactions, disposed of a
shopping center property and a land parcel for an aggregate sale price of
approximately $4.5 million, which resulted in a gain of approximately $1.3
million.

Kimco Select Investments -

Kimco Select Investments, a New York general partnership ("Kimco Select"), was
formed in 1997 to provide the Company, through its 90% ownership interest, the
opportunity to make investments outside of its core neighborhood and community
shopping center business. Kimco Select is managed by David M. Samber, formerly
President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, who owns the remaining 10%
ownership interest in Kimco Select.

Although potential investments may be largely retail-focused, Kimco Select may
invest in other asset categories. Kimco Select will focus on investments where
the intrinsic value in the underlying assets may provide potentially superior
returns relative to the inherent risk. These investments may be in the form of
direct ownership of real estate, mortgage loans, public and private debt and
equity securities that Kimco Select believes are undervalued, unoccupied
properties, properties leased to troubled or bankrupt tenants and other assets.

During 1999, Kimco Select (i) invested $17.3 million in a joint venture which
acquired a participation interest in a first and second mortgage collateralized
by 24 properties owned by a national retailer who has filed for bankruptcy
protection, (ii) acquired fee title to a property in Massapequa, NY anchored by
Duane Reade for a purchase price of approximately $3.6 million, (iii) acquired
two first mortgage participation interests collateralized by various convenience
stores for $6.7 million, (iv) invested $.7 million in a joint venture which owns
an office building and (v) invested $5.7 million in a joint venture which
acquired a parcel of land for the development of a shopping center in Henderson,
NV.

Kimco Select also has investments in (i) certain public bonds, (ii) joint
venture interests in two entities which own three office buildings in Miami, FL,
(iii) three retail properties in the Chicago, IL market and (iv) three
properties which are anchored by ambulatory care facilities with complementary
retail space. The aggregate net investment related to these various investments
is approximately $30 million.




Other Transactions -

During December 1998, the Company acquired a first mortgage interest on a
shopping center in Manhasset, NY for approximately $21 million. During April
1999, the Company acquired fee title to this property.

During October 1999, the Company invested approximately $4.9 million in a
partnership which is developing an office and retail center in Dover, DE. The
Company has a 50% interest in this partnership.

In October and December 1999, the Company acquired certain asset designation
rights from the bankrupt estate of Hechinger Stores, Inc. These rights, which
enabled the Company to direct the ultimate disposition of the fee or leasehold
positions held by the bankrupt estate, were utilized to facilitate the
acquisition of those positions by various national retailers. The Company was
awarded designation rights to 63 former Hechinger and Builders Square locations,
of which 57 have been designated to various retailers to date.

Financings -

Unsecured Debt. During February 1999, the Company issued $130 million of 6-7/8%
fixed-rate Senior Notes due 2009 (the "Notes"). Interest on the Notes is payable
semi-annually in arrears. The Notes were sold at 99.85% of par value. Net
proceeds from the issuance totaling approximately $128.9 million, after related
transaction costs of approximately $.9 million, were used, in part, to repay
$100 million floating-rate senior notes that matured during February 1999 and
for general corporate purposes.

During October and December 1999, the Company issued an aggregate $100 million
of fixed-rate unsecured medium-term notes (the "October and December MTNs")
under its MTN program. The October and December MTNs mature in October 2004 and
December 2007, respectively, and bear interest at 7.62% and 7.90% per annum,
respectively. The proceeds were used to finance the acquisition of various
shopping center properties and for general corporate purposes.

During November 1999, the Company entered into an unsecured term loan for an
aggregate $52 million. The term loan bears interest at Libor plus .70% per annum
and matures in November 2000. The proceeds were used to finance the acquisition
of various shopping center properties and for general corporate purposes.

Mortgage Debt. During 1999, the Company obtained non-recourse, non-cross
collateralized fixed rate first mortgage financing aggregating approximately
$28.7 million on five of its properties. The mortgages bear interest at rates
ranging from 7.00% to 8.25% per annum.

Credit Facility. On August 21, 1998, the Company established a $215 million
unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with a group of
banks. The Credit Facility is scheduled to expire in August 2001. Under the
terms of the Credit Facility, funds may be borrowed for general corporate
purposes, including (i) funding property acquisitions and (ii) development and
redevelopment costs. Interest on borrowings under the Credit Facility accrues at
a spread (currently .50%) to LIBOR, which fluctuates in accordance with changes
in the Company's senior debt ratings. This Credit Facility replaced the
Company's (i) $100 million unsecured revolving credit facility and (ii) $150
million interim credit facility.

Equity. During 1999, the Company issued 401,646 shares of common stock at $39.00
per share in connection with its exercise of its option to acquire 13 shopping
center properties from KC Holdings (See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).

During December 1999, the Company purchased and retired 160,000 shares of its
common stock at a price of $31.75 per share, totaling approximately $5.1
million. The Company does not have a share repurchase program but acquired the
shares when it received an unsolicited offer to buy them from an institutional
investor.

KC Holdings, Inc.

To facilitate the Company's November 1991 IPO, 46 shopping center properties and
certain other assets, together with indebtedness related thereto, were
transferred to subsidiaries of KC Holdings. The Company, although having no
ownership interest in KC Holdings or its subsidiary companies, was granted
ten-year, fixed-price acquisition options which expire in November 2001 to
reacquire the real estate assets owned by KC Holdings' subsidiaries, subject to
any liabilities outstanding with respect to such assets at the time of an option
exercise. As of December 31, 1999, KC Holdings' subsidiaries had conveyed 27




shopping center properties back to the Company and had disposed of ten
additional centers in transactions with third parties. The members of the
Company's Board of Directors who are not also shareholders of KC Holdings
unanimously approved the purchase of each of the 27 shopping centers that have
been reacquired by the Company from KC Holdings. (See Notes 11 and 15 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on
Form 10-K.) The Company manages five of KC Holdings' remaining nine shopping
center properties pursuant to a management agreement. KC Holdings' other four
shopping center properties are managed by unaffiliated joint venture partners.

At December 31, 1999, the Company holds 10-year acquisition options which expire
in November 2001 to reacquire interests in the remaining nine shopping center
properties owned by KC Holdings' subsidiaries. The option exercise prices are
fixed and payable in shares of the Company's common stock or, in the event
payment in the form of common stock could jeopardize the Company's status as a
REIT, an equivalent value in cash. If the Company exercises its options to
acquire all the remaining shopping center properties, the maximum aggregate
amount payable to KC Holdings would be approximately $5.3 million, or
approximately 157,000 shares of the Company's common stock (assuming shares
valued at the closing price on the NYSE of $33.875 per share as of December 31,
1999). The Company would acquire the properties subject to any existing mortgage
indebtedness and other liabilities on the properties. The acquisition options
enable the Company to obtain any appreciation in the value of these properties
over the option exercise prices, while eliminating the Company's interim
exposure to leverage and operating risks.

The option exercise prices for the shopping center properties are generally
equal to 10% of KC Holdings' share of the mortgage debt which was outstanding on
the properties at the date of the IPO. If, however, the market value of the
Company's common stock at the time an option is exercised is less than $13.33
per share (the IPO price), then the option exercise price will decline
proportionately (subject to maximum reduction of 50%).

The nine shopping center properties subject to the acquisition options are held
in seven subsidiaries of KC Holdings. Four of the properties, which are owned in
two separate joint ventures and managed by unaffiliated joint venture partners,
are held by two subsidiaries, and the remaining five shopping center properties
are each held by separate subsidiaries. The Company may exercise its acquisition
options separately with respect to each subsidiary.

The acquisition options may be exercised by either (i) a majority of the
Company's directors who are not also stockholders of KC Holdings, provided that
the pro forma annualized net cash flows of the properties to be acquired exceed
the dividend yield on the shares issued to exercise each option, or (ii) a
majority of the Company's stockholders who are not also stockholders of KC
Holdings.

KC Holdings' subsidiaries may sell any of the properties subject to the
acquisition options to any third party unaffiliated with KC Holdings or its
stockholders, provided that KC Holdings provides the Company with a 30-day right
of first refusal notice with regard to such sale. KC Holdings may cause such a
selling subsidiary to distribute any sale proceeds to KC Holdings or its
stockholders, provided that the option exercise price with respect to such
subsidiary is reduced by the amount that is distributed, and further provided
that no amount may be distributed so as to cause the option exercise price for
any subsidiary to be reduced to less than $1.

Each of KC Holdings' subsidiaries may pay dividends to KC Holdings to the extent
of net operating cash flow. In addition, any KC Holdings subsidiary may make
distributions to KC Holdings in excess of net operating cash flow, provided that
the option exercise price with respect to such subsidiary is reduced by the
amount of such distribution, and further provided that no amount may be
distributed so as to cause the option exercise price for any subsidiary to be
reduced to less than $1. KC Holdings may increase the indebtedness in its
subsidiaries for the purpose of improving, maintaining, refinancing or operating
the related shopping center properties. Such indebtedness may include borrowings
from the stockholders of KC Holdings.

In the event of a complete casualty or a condemnation of a property held by any
of KC Holdings' subsidiaries, the acquisition option will terminate with respect
to such property and the option shall continue to be effective with respect to
any other properties held by such subsidiary.

Each of KC Holdings' subsidiaries has agreed with the Company that it will
engage in no activities other than in connection with the ownership, maintenance
and improvement of the properties that it owns and only to the extent that the
Company could engage in such activities without receiving or earning
non-qualifying income (in excess of certain limits) under the REIT provisions of
the Code or without otherwise impairing the Company's status as a REIT. In
addition, KC Holdings has covenanted not to engage in any other real




estate activity. The Company has agreed not to make loans to KC Holdings or its
subsidiaries.

Exchange Listings

The Company's common stock, Class A Depositary Shares, Class B Depositary
Shares, Class C Depositary Shares and Class D Depositary Shares are traded on
the NYSE under the trading symbols "KIM", "KIMprA", "KIMprB", "KIMprC" and
"KIMprD", respectively.

Item 2.  Properties

Real Estate Portfolio    As of January 1, 2000 the Company's real estate
portfolio was comprised of approximately 62.0 million square feet of GLA in 404
neighborhood and community shopping center properties, two regional malls, 58
retail store leases, five parcels of undeveloped land, one distribution center
and five projects under development, located in 41 states. The Company's
portfolio includes 29 shopping center properties comprising approximately 5.4
million square feet of GLA relating to the KIR Portfolio. Neighborhood and
community shopping centers comprise the primary focus of the Company's current
portfolio, representing approximately 98% of the Company's total shopping center
GLA. As of January 1, 2000, approximately 92.1% of the Company's neighborhood
and community shopping center space (excluding the KIR Portfolio) was leased,
and the average annualized base rent per leased square foot of the neighborhood
and community shopping center portfolio (excluding the KIR Portfolio) was $7.87.
As of January 1, 2000, the KIR Portfolio was 98% leased with an average
annualized base rent per leased square foot of $10.48.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping center properties, generally
owned and operated through subsidiaries or joint ventures, had an average size
of approximately 138,000 square feet as of January 1, 2000. The Company retains
its shopping centers for long-term investment and consequently pursues a program
of regular physical maintenance together with major renovations and refurbishing
to preserve and increase the value of its properties. These projects usually
include renovating existing facades, installing uniform signage, resurfacing
parking lots and enhancing parking lot lighting. During 1999, the Company
capitalized approximately $6.3 million in connection with these property
improvements.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping centers (including the KIR
Portfolio) are usually "anchored" by a national or regional discount department
store, supermarket or drugstore. As one of the original participants in the
growth of the shopping center industry and one of the nation's largest owners
and operators of shopping centers, the Company has established close
relationships with a large number of major national and regional retailers.
National and regional companies that are tenants in the Company's shopping
center properties include Kmart Corporation, Kohl's, Ames, The Home Depot,
WalMart, TJX Companies, Toys/Kids R' Us, Shopko, A & P and Costco.

A substantial portion of the Company's income consists of rent received under
long-term leases. Most of the leases provide for the payment of fixed base
rentals monthly in advance and for the payment by tenants of an allocable share
of the real estate taxes, insurance, utilities and common area maintenance
expenses incurred in operating the shopping centers. Although a majority of the
leases require the Company to make roof and structural repairs as needed, a
number of tenant leases place that responsibility on the tenant, and the
Company's standard small store lease provides for roof repairs to be reimbursed
by the tenant as part of common area maintenance. The Company's management
places a strong emphasis on sound construction and safety at its properties.

Approximately 1,800 of the Company's 4,538 leases also contain provisions
requiring the payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants'
gross sales above predetermined thresholds. Percentage Rents accounted for
approximately 2% of the Company's revenues from rental property for the year
ended December 31, 1999.

Minimum base rental revenues and operating expense reimbursements accounted for
approximately 98% of the Company's total revenues from rental property for the
year ended December 31, 1999. The Company's management believes that the average
base rent per square foot for many of the Company's existing leases is generally
lower than the prevailing market-rate base rents in the geographic regions where
the Company operates, reflecting the potential for future growth.





The Company has been able to capitalize on the below market-rate leases in its
existing shopping center portfolio to obtain increases in rental revenues
through the renewal of leases or strategic re-tenanting of space. For the period
January 1, 1999 to December 31, 1999 excluding the effects of (i) the transfer
of 21 properties to the KIR Portfolio at $10.25 per leased square foot in April
1999 and (ii) 1999 acquisitions at $7.46 per leased square foot, the Company
increased the average base rent per leased square foot on its portfolio of
neighborhood and community shopping centers (excluding the KIR Portfolio) from
$7.81 to $7.90, an increase of $.09 per square foot, which was attributed to
general leasing activity within the existing portfolio. The effect of 1999
acquisitions decreased the overal rent per leased square foot by $.03, thus
bringing the average rent per leased square foot to $7.87 as of December 31,
1999. The average annual base rent per leased square foot for new leases
(excluding the KIR Portfolio) executed in 1999 was $8.42.

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through geographic
and tenant diversity. No single neighborhood and community shopping center
(excluding the KIR Portfolio) accounted for more than 1.0% of the Company's
total shopping center GLA or more than 1.4% of total annualized base rental
revenues as of December 31, 1999. The Company's five largest tenants (excluding
the KIR Portfolio) include Kmart Corporation, Kohl's, Ames, The Home Depot and
TJX Companies, which represent approximately 13.8%, 2.8%, 2.5%, 2.4% and 1.8%,
respectively, of the annualized base rental revenues at December 31, 1999. The
Company maintains an active leasing and capital improvement program that,
combined with the high quality of the locations, has made, in management's
opinion, the Company's properties attractive to tenants.

The Company's management believes its experience in the real estate industry and
its relationships with numerous national and regional tenants gives it an
advantage in an industry where ownership is fragmented among a large number of
property owners.

Retail Store Leases    In addition to neighborhood and community shopping
centers, as of January 1, 2000, the Company's had interests in retail store
leases totaling approximately 5.2 million square feet of anchor stores in 58
neighborhood and community shopping centers located in 24 states. As of January
1, 2000, approximately 94.0% of the space in these anchor stores had been sublet
to retailers that lease the stores under net lease agreements providing for
average annualized base rental payments to us of $4.15 per square foot. Our
average annualized base rental payments under our retail store leases to the
land owners of such subleased stores is approximately $2.77 per square foot. The
average remaining primary term of our retail store leases (and, similarly, the
remaining primary terms of our sublease agreements with the tenants currently
leasing such space) is approximately 4 years, excluding options to renew the
leases for terms which generally range from 5 to 25 years.

Ground-Leased Properties    The Company has 55 shopping center properties that
are subject to long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased
the underlying land to the Company (or an affiliated joint venture) to construct
and/or operate a shopping center. The Company or the joint venture pays rent for
the use of the land and generally is responsible for all costs and expenses
associated with the building and improvements. At the end of these long-term
leases, unless extended, the land together with all improvements revert to the
land owner.

Undeveloped Land    The Company owns certain unimproved land tracts that it
intends to develop as new shopping centers (See Recent Developments - Property
Developments and Redevelopments) and owns parcels of land adjacent to certain of
its existing shopping centers that are held for possible expansion. At times,
should circumstances warrant, the Company may develop or dispose of these
parcels.

The table on pages 15 to 23 sets forth more specific information with respect to
each of the Company's shopping center properties.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

The Company is not presently involved in any litigation nor to its knowledge is
any litigation threatened against the Company or its subsidiaries that, in
management's opinion, would result in any material adverse effect on the
Company's ownership, management or operation of its properties, or which is not
covered by the Company's liability insurance.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.



PROPERTY CHART






PROPERTY CHART







PROPERTY CHART






PROPERTY CHART






PROPERTY CHART






PROPERTY CHART







PROPERTY CHART






PROPERTY CHART






PROPERTY CHART



(1)      PERCENT LEASED INFORMATION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1999 OR DATE OF
         ACQUISITION IF ACQUIRED SUBSEQUENT TO DECEMBER 31, 1999.

(2)      THE TERM "JOINT VENTURE" INDICATES THAT THE COMPANY OWNS THE PROPERTY
         IN CONJUNCTION WITH ONE OR MORE JOINT VENTURE PARTNERS. THE DATE
         INDICATED IS THE EXPIRATION DATE OF ANY GROUND LEASE AFTER GIVING
         AFFECT TO ALL RENEWAL PERIODS.

(3)      DENOTES REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT.

(4)      DENOTES GROUND-UP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT.

(5)      DENOTES UNDEVELOPED LAND.

(6)      SOLD OR TERMINATED SUBSEQUENT TO DECEMBER 31, 1999.

(7)      THE COMPANY HOLDS INTEREST IN VARIOUS RETAIL STORE LEASES RELATED TO
         THE ANCHOR STORE PREMISES IN NEIGHBORHOOD AND COMMUNITY SHOPPING
         CENTERS.

(8)      DENOTES A KIMCO INCOME REIT ("KIR") PROPERTY.



                      Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth information with respect to the nine executive
officers of the Company as of March 1, 2000.

   Name                   Age         Position                          Since
   ----                   ---         --------                          -----

Milton Cooper             71          Chairman of the Board of          1991
                                      Directors and Chief
                                      Executive Officer

Michael J. Flynn          64          Vice Chairman of the              1996
                                      Board of Directors and
                                      President and Chief               1997
                                      Operating Officer

Joseph K. Kornwasser      52          Director and                      1998
                                      Senior Executive
                                      Vice President

Glenn G. Cohen            36          Treasurer                         1997

Joseph V. Denis           48          Vice President -                  1993
                                      Construction

Jerald Friedman           55          Executive Vice President          1998

Bruce M. Kauderer         53          Vice President - Legal            1995
                                      General Counsel and               1997
                                      Secretary

Michael V. Pappagallo     41          Vice President -                  1997
                                      Chief Financial Officer

Alex Weiss                42          Vice President -                  1988
                                      Management Information
                                      Systems

Michael J. Flynn has been President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2,
1997, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 2, 1996 and a
Director of the Company since December 1, 1991. Mr. Flynn was Chairman of the
Board and President of Slattery Associates, Inc. for more than five years prior
to joining the Company.

Joseph K. Kornwasser has been a Director and Senior Executive Vice President of
the Company since June 1998. Mr. Kornwasser was President, Chief Executive
Officer and a director of The Price REIT, Inc. from August 1993 to June 1998.
From 1984 until 1994, Mr. Kornwasser was Managing General Partner of Kornwasser
and Friedman Shopping Center Properties, a commercial real estate development
company.

Glenn G. Cohen has been Treasurer of the Company since June 1997. Mr. Cohen
served as Director of Accounting and Taxation of the Company from June 1995 to
June 1997. Prior to joining the Company in June 1995, Mr. Cohen served as Chief
Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer for U.S. Balloon Manufacturing
Co., Inc. from August 1993 to June 1995.

Jerald Friedman has been Executive Vice President of the Company since June
1998. Mr. Friedman was Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer of The Price REIT, Inc. from January 1, 1997 to June 1998. From 1994
through 1996, Mr. Friedman was the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of K & F
Development Company, an affiliate of The Price REIT, Inc. From 1984 until 1994,
Mr. Friedman was a General Partner of Kornwasser and Friedman Shopping Center
Properties, a commercial real estate development company.

Bruce M. Kauderer has been a Vice President of the Company since June 1995 and
since December 15, 1997, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company. Mr.
Kauderer was a founder of and partner with Kauderer & Pack P.C. from 1992 to
June 1995 and a Partner with Fink Weinberger, P.C. for more than five years
prior to 1992.

Michael V. Pappagallo has been a Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the Company since May 27, 1997. Mr. Pappagallo was Chief Financial Officer of GE
Capital's Commercial Real Estate Financial and Services business from September
1994 to May 1997 and held various other positions within GE Capital for more
than five years prior to joining the Company.




The executive officers of the Company serve in their respective capacities for
approximate one-year terms and are subject to re-election by the Board of
Directors, generally at the time of the Annual Meeting of the Board of Directors
following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder
         Matters

Market Information  The following table sets forth the common stock offerings
completed by the Company during the three year period ended December 31, 1999.
The Company's common stock was sold for cash at the following offering prices
per share.


     Offering Date                              Offering Price(s)
     -------------                              -----------------

   September 1997                               $35.50
   April 1998 (4 Offerings)                     $36.0625, $36.025, $36.25
                                                and $36.625, respectively
   May 1998                                     $38.4375
   July 1998 (3 Offerings)                      $38.2575, $38.56 and
                                                $39.4375, respectively
   September 1998                               $38.75
   November 1998 (4 Offerings)                  $39.00, $39.00, $39.6875
                                                and $39.6875, respectively
   December 1998 (3 Offerings)                  $38.25 for each offering

The table below sets forth, for the quarterly periods indicated, the high and
low sales prices per share reported on the NYSE Composite Tape for the Company's
common stock. The Company's common stock is traded under the trading symbol
"KIM".

                                    Stock Price
               Period              High      Low
               ------              ----      ---

        1998:
        First Quarter             $35.94     $33.44
        Second Quarter            $41.00     $34.88
        Third Quarter             $41.63     $34.75
        Fourth Quarter            $40.25     $33.75

        1999:
        First Quarter             $39.81     $36.44
        Second Quarter            $40.63     $35.56
        Third Quarter             $39.00     $34.31
        Fourth Quarter            $35.31     $30.88

Holders  The approximate number of holders of record of the Company's common
stock, par value $.01 per share, was 1,541 as of March 1, 2000.

Dividends Since the IPO, the Company has paid regular quarterly dividends to its
stockholders.

Quarterly dividends at the rate of $.48 per share were declared and paid on
December 1, 1997 and January 15, 1998 and March 16, 1998 and April 15, 1998,
respectively. On May 21, 1998 and June 22, 1998 the Company declared a dividend
of $.42 per share and $.06 per share, respectively. These dividends were paid on
July 2, 1998 and July 15, 1998, respectively. The dividends for this quarter
were paid in two installments in order to provide Kimco shareholders the full
$.48 per share dividend as well as provide the Price REIT shareholders a
pro-rated dividend for the period following the effective date of the Merger.
The Company declared and paid a dividend of $.48 per share on September 15, 1998
and October 15, 1998, respectively. In addition, the Company declared and paid a
special $.05 per share dividend on October 29, 1998 and December 1, 1998,
respectively. Also on October 29, 1998, the Company declared its dividend
payable during the first quarter of 1999 at the increased rate of $.57 per share
payable January 15, 1999 to shareholders of record January 4, 1999. On March 15,
1999 and April 15, 1999 and June 15, 1999 and July 15, 1999 and September 15,
1999 and October 15, 1999, the Company declared and paid quarterly dividends at
an increased rate of $.60 per share. On December 7, 1999, the Company declared
its dividend payable during the first quarter of 2000 at the increased rate of
$.66 per share payable on January 18, 2000 to shareholders of record January 3,
2000. This $.66 per share dividend, if annualized, would equal $2.64 per share
or an annual yield of approximately 7.8% based on the closing price of $34.00 of
the Company's common stock on the NYSE as of March 1, 2000.




The Company has determined that 100% of the dividends paid during 1999 and 1998
totaling $2.37 and $1.97 per share, respectively, represented ordinary dividend
income to its stockholders.

While the Company intends to continue paying regular quarterly dividends, future
dividend declarations will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and
will depend on the actual cash flow of the Company, its financial condition,
capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT
provisions of the Code and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems
relevant. The actual cash flow available to pay dividends will be affected by a
number of factors, including the revenues received from rental properties, the
operating expenses of the Company, the interest expense on its borrowings, the
ability of lessees to meet their obligations to the Company and any
unanticipated capital expenditures.

In addition to its common stock offerings, the Company has capitalized the
growth in its business through the issuance of unsecured fixed and floating-rate
medium-term notes, underwritten bonds, mortgage debt, convertible preferred
stock and perpetual preferred stock. Borrowings under the Company's revolving
credit facility have also been an interim source of funds to both finance the
purchase of properties and meet any short-term working capital requirements. The
various instruments governing the Company's issuance of its unsecured public
debt, bank debt, mortgage debt and preferred stock impose certain restrictions
on the Company with regard to dividends, voting, liquidation and other
preferential rights available to the holders of such instruments. See
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and Notes 8 and 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this annual report on Form 10-K.

The Company does not believe that the preferential rights available to the
holders of its Class A, Class B, Class C and Class D Preferred Stock, the
financial covenants contained in its public bond Indenture, as amended, or its
revolving credit agreement or term loan agreement will have any adverse impact
on the Company's ability to pay dividends in the normal course to its common
stockholders or to distribute amounts necessary to maintain its qualification as
a REIT.

The Company maintains a dividend reinvestment program pursuant to which common
and preferred stockholders may elect to automatically reinvest their dividends
to purchase shares of the Company's common stock. The Company may, from time to
time, either (i) repurchase shares of its common stock in the open market, or
(ii) issue new shares of its common stock, for the purpose of fulfilling its
obligations under this dividend reinvestment program.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The following table sets forth selected, historical consolidated financial data
for the Company and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements of the Company and Notes thereto and Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
included in this annual report on Form 10-K.

The Company believes that the book value of its real estate assets, which
reflects the historical costs of such real estate assets less accumulated
depreciation, is not indicative of the current market value of its properties.
Historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating
performance.







(1)  Does not include revenues from rental property relating to unconsolidated
     joint ventures or revenues relating to the investment in retail stores
     leases.

(2)  Most industry analysts and equity REITs, including the Company, generally
     consider funds from operations ("FFO") to be an appropriate supplemental
     measure of the performance of an equity REIT. In March 1995, the National
     Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") modified the
     definition of FFO, among other things, to eliminate adding back
     amortization of deferred financing costs and depreciation of non-real
     estate items to net income when computing FFO. The Company adopted this new
     method as of January 1, 1996. FFO is defined as net income applicable to
     common shares before depreciation and amortization, extraordinary items,
     gains or losses on sales of real estate, plus FFO of unconsolidated joint
     ventures determined on a consistent basis. FFO does not represent cash
     generated from operating activities in accordance with generally accepted
     accounting principles and therefore should not be considered an alternative
     for net income as a measure of results of operations, or for cash flows
     from operations calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting
     principles as a measure of liquidity. In addition, the comparability of the
     Company's FFO with the FFO reported by other REITs may be affected by the
     differences that exist regarding certain accounting policies relating to
     expenditures for repairs and other recurring items.

(3)  Includes $1.6 million or $0.03 per share in 1999, $0.9 million or $0.02 per
     share in 1998, $0.2 million or $0.01 per share in 1997 and $0.8 million or
     $0.02 per share in 1996 relating to non-recurring gains from the
     disposition of shopping center properties in each year.




Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
         and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this annual report on Form
10-K. Historical results and percentage relationships set forth in the
Consolidated Statements of Income contained in the Consolidated Financial
Statements, including trends which might appear, should not be taken as
indicative of future operations.

Results of Operations

        Comparison 1999 to 1998

Revenues from rental property increased $95.1 million or 28.1% to $433.9 million
for the year ended December 31, 1999, as compared with $338.8 million for the
year ended December 31, 1998. This net increase resulted primarily from the
combined effect of (i) the acquisition of 35 shopping center properties during
1999 , two of which were subsequently sold to KIR, providing revenues of $13.5
million for the year ended December 31, 1999, (ii) the full year impact related
to the 62 shopping center properties and three retail properties acquired in
1998 providing incremental revenues of $37.4 million, (iii) the acquisition of
The Price REIT, Inc. as of June 19, 1998 (the "Price REIT Acquisition")
providing incremental revenues of $35.6 million and (iv) new leasing, property
redevelopments and re-tenanting within the portfolio at improved rental rates
providing incremental revenues of $11 million. These increases were reduced as a
result of the deconsolidation of 21 shopping center properties as of April 28,
1999 in connection with the sale of a controlling interest in KIR.

Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased
$55.4 million or 26.7% to $262.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999,
as compared with $207.5 million for the year ended December 31, 1998. The rental
property expense components of real estate taxes, operating and maintenance, and
depreciation and amortization increased by $10.2 million, $8.8 million and $16.1
million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 1999 as compared to the
year ended December 31, 1998. These rental property expense increases are
primarily due to property acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 1999,
and the incremental costs associated with the Price REIT Acquisition and the
property acquisitions throughout 1998. These increases were reduced as a result
of the deconsolidation of 21 shopping center properties as of April 28, 1999 in
connection with the sale of a controlling interest in KIR. Interest expense
increased $18.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1999, reflecting higher
average outstanding borrowings as compared to the preceding year resulting from
(i) the issuance of additional unsecured debt during 1999 and 1998 and the
assumption of $250 million in connection with the Price REIT Acquisition, (ii)
the assumption of mortgage debt during 1999 and 1998 in connection with certain
property acquisitions and (iii) mortgage financing obtained on certain
properties in 1999 and 1998, offset by the deconsolidation of $252.4 million of
mortgage debt on 19 properties as of April 28, 1999 in connection with the sale
of a controlling interest in KIR.

The Company has interests in various retail store leases relating to the anchor
stores premises in neighborhood and community shopping centers. These premises
have been substantially sublet to retailers which lease the stores pursuant to
net lease agreements. Income from the investment in retail store leases during
the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 was $4.1 million and $3.7 million,
respectively.

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $5.2 million for the
year ended December 31, 1999, as compared to the preceding calendar year. The
increase is due primarily to an increase in senior management and staff levels
and other personnel costs in connection with the growth of the Company and the
Price REIT Acquisition.

During 1998, the Company formed KIR, a limited partnership established to invest
in high quality retail properties financed primarily through the use of
individual non-recourse mortgages. At the time of formation, the Company
contributed 19 property interests to KIR. On April 28, 1999, KIR sold a
significant interest in the partnership to an institutional investor. As a
result, the Company holds a non-controlling limited partnership interest in KIR
and accounts for its investment in KIR under the equity method of accounting.
The Company's equity in income of KIR for the period April 28, 1999 to December
31, 1999 was approximately $6.0 million.

During 1999, the Company disposed of six shopping center properties and a land
parcel. Cash proceeds from four of these dispositions aggregated approximately
$6.1 million, which approximated their aggregate net book value. During July
1999, the Company disposed of an additional shopping center property in New Port
Richey, FL. Cash proceeds from the disposition totaling $.5 million, together
with an additional $5.5 million cash




investment, were used to acquire an exchange shopping center property located in
Greensboro, NC during September 1999. The sale of this property resulted in a
gain of approximately $.3 million.

During October 1999, the Company, in separate transactions, disposed of a
shopping center and a land parcel for an aggregate sale price of approximately
$4.5 million, which resulted in a gain of approximately $1.3 million.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 1999 was $176.8 million as compared
to $122.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1998, representing an increase
of $54.5 million. After adjusting for the gains on sales of shopping center
properties in each year and the extraordinary charge in 1998, net income for
1999 increased $49.0 million, or $.43 per basic share compared to 1998. This
improved performance is primarily attributable to the Company's strong
acquisition program, internal growth from development and redevelopment projects
and increased leasing activity which strengthened operating profitability.

        Comparison 1998 to 1997

Revenues from rental property increased approximately $139.9 million, or 70.3%
to $338.8 million for the year ended December 31, 1998, as compared with $198.9
million for the year ended December 31, 1997. This increase resulted primarily
from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of 62 shopping center properties
and 3 retail properties during 1998 providing revenues from rental property of
$35.5 million,(ii) the full year impact related to the 63 property interests
acquired in 1997 providing incremental revenues of $42.1 million, (iii) the
Price REIT Acquisition providing revenues of $52.9 million and (iv) new leasing,
re-tenanting and completion of certain property redevelopments within the
portfolio providing improved rental rates.

Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased
approximately $92.3 million, or 80.1%, to $207.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 1998, as compared with $115.2 million for the preceding calendar
year. The rental property expense components of rent, real estate taxes and
depreciation and amortization increased $7.7 million, $19.1 million and $21.3
million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 1998 as compared to the
preceding year. These rental property expense increases are primarily due to the
62 shopping center properties and 3 retail properties acquired during 1998, the
Price REIT Acquisition and the incremental costs related to the 63 property
interests acquired during 1997. Interest expense increased approximately $33.2
million between the respective periods reflecting higher average outstanding
borrowings during calendar year 1998 resulting from (i) the issuance of an
aggregate $290 million unsecured medium-term notes during 1998, (ii) the
assumption of approximately $49.2 million of mortgage debt in connection with
the acquisition of certain property interests during 1998, as compared to the
preceding year, (iii) the aggregate of $281.3 million of mortgage financing
obtained in 1998 in connection with 22 property interests and (iv) the
assumption of approximately $250 million of unsecured debt and $60 million of
mortgage debt in connection with the Price REIT Acquisition. These increased
borrowings were offset, in part, by the July 1998 repayment of $50 million
medium-term notes which matured and the repayment of approximately $79.2 million
of mortgage debt during 1998.

The Company has interests in various retail store leases relating to the anchor
store premises in neighborhood and community shopping centers. These premises
have been substantially sublet to retailers which lease the stores pursuant to
net lease agreements. Income from the investment in retail store leases during
the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997 was $3.7 million and $3.6 million,
respectively.

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $6.9 million to
$18.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1998, as compared to $11.7 million
for the preceding calendar year. The increase during 1998 is due primarily to an
increase in senior management and staff levels and other personnel costs in
connection with the growth of the Company, including approximately $3.0 million
attributable to the Price REIT Acquisition.

During 1998, the Company disposed of a property in Pinellas Park, FL. Cash
proceeds from the disposition totaling $2.3 million, together with an additional
$7.1 million cash investment, were used to acquire an exchange shopping center
property located in Cranston, RI.

Additionally, during December 1998, the Company disposed of a vacant
distribution center and adjacent facility located in O'Fallon, Missouri, which
were acquired as part of the Venture transactions, for $10 million, which amount
approximated their net book value.

During 1998, the Company prepaid certain mortgage loans resulting in
extraordinary charges of approximately $4.9 million, or on a per-basic share and
diluted share basis, $.10 and $.09, respectively, representing the premiums paid
and other costs written-off in connection with the early satisfaction of these
mortgage loans.




Net income for the year ended December 31, 1998 of approximately $122.3 million
represented a substantial improvement of approximately $36.5 million, as
compared with net income of approximately $85.8 million for the preceding
calendar year. After adjusting for the gains on sales of shopping center
properties during both periods and the extraordinary charge during 1998, net
income for 1998 increased by $40.7 million, or $.24 per basic share, compared to
1997. This substantially improved performance was primarily attributable to the
Company's strong property acquisition program, the Price REIT Acquisition and
internal growth from redevelopments, re-tenanting of the Venture portfolio and
increased leasing activity which strengthened operating profitability.

Liquidity and Capital Resources Since the completion of the Company's IPO in
1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its
principal source of capital. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional
offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over
$2.0 billion for the purposes of repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in
neighborhood and community shopping centers and for expanding and improving
properties in the portfolio.

During August 1998, the Company established a $215 million, unsecured revolving
credit facility, which is scheduled to expire in August 2001. This Credit
Facility, which replaced both the Company's $100 million unsecured revolving
credit facility and $150 million interim credit facility, has made available
funds to both finance the purchase of properties and meet any short-term working
capital requirements. As of December 31, 1999 there were no amounts outstanding
under the Credit Facility.

During November 1999, the Company established a $52 million unsecured term loan
facility, which is scheduled to expire in November 2000. This credit facility
was established to finance the purchase of properties and for general corporate
purposes.

The Company has also implemented a $200 million MTN program pursuant to which it
may from time to time offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general
corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its
business, including property acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs
and (ii) managing the Company's debt maturities(See Note 8 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

In addition to the public equity and debt markets as capital sources, the
Company may, from time to time, obtain mortgage financing on selected
properties. As of December 31, 1999, the Company had over 350 unencumbered
property interests in its portfolio.

During 1998, the Company filed a shelf registration on Form S-3 for up to $750
million of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock and
common stock warrants. As of March 1, 2000, the Company had approximately $393.2
million available for issuance under this shelf registration statement.

In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for Federal
income tax purposes, the Company expects to continue paying regular dividends to
its stockholders. These dividends will be paid from operating cash flows which
are expected to increase due to property acquisitions and growth in rental
revenues in the existing portfolio and from other sources. Since cash used to
pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital investment, the Company
generally intends to maintain a conservative dividend payout ratio, reserving
such amounts as it considers necessary for the expansion and renovation of
shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction, the acquisition of interests
in new properties as suitable opportunities arise, and such other factors as the
Board of Directors considers appropriate.

Cash dividends paid increased to $169.7 million in 1999, compared to $113.9
million in 1998 and $82.6 million in 1997. The Company's dividend payout ratio,
based on funds from operations on a per-basic common share basis, for 1999, 1998
and 1997 was approximately 64.8%, 64.2% and 65.4%, respectively.

Although the Company receives substantially all of its rental payments on a
monthly basis, it generally intends to continue paying dividends quarterly.
Amounts accumulated in advance of each quarterly distribution will be invested
by the Company in short-term money market or other suitable instruments.

The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward ground-up development and
redevelopment projects during 2000 will be approximately $130 million. It is
management's intention that the Company continually have access to the capital
resources necessary to expand and develop its business. Accordingly, the Company
may seek to obtain funds through additional equity offerings, unsecured debt
financings and/or mortgage financings




in a manner consistent with its intention to operate with a conservative debt
capitalization policy.

The Company anticipates that cash flows from operations will continue to provide
adequate capital to fund its operating and administrative expenses, regular debt
service obligations and all dividend payments in accordance with REIT
requirements in both the short-term and long-term. In addition, the Company
anticipates that cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit facility,
issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity
alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Cash
flows from operations as reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
increased to $237.2 million for 1999 from $158.7 million for 1998 and $125.1
million for 1997.

Effects of Inflation

Many of the Company's leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse
impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses enabling the Company to
receive payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants' gross
sales above pre-determined thresholds, which generally increase as prices rise,
and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the
terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses often include increases based upon
changes in the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition,
many of the Company's leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits
the Company to seek to increase rents to market rates upon renewal. Most of the
Company's leases require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating
expenses, including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and
insurance, thereby reducing the Company's exposure to increases in costs and
operating expenses resulting from inflation. The Company periodically evaluates
its exposure to short-term interest rates and will, from time to time, enter
into interest rate protection agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate,
the effect of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate loans.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities ("FASB No. 133"). FASB No. 133 is effective for all fiscal quarters
of all fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999. In June 1999, the FASB
delayed the implementation date of FASB No. 133 by one year (January 1, 2001 for
the Company). FASB No. 133 requires that all derivative instruments be recorded
on the balance sheet at their fair value. Changes in the fair value of
derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive
income, depending on whether a derivative is designated as part of a hedge
transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction. Management of the
Company anticipates that, due to its limited use of derivative instruments, the
adoption of FASB No. 133 will not have a significant effect on the Company's
consolidated results of operations or its financial position.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

As of December 31, 1999, the Company had approximately $230.9 million of
floating-rate debt outstanding. The interest rate risk on $212.0 million of such
debt has been mitigated through the use of interest rate swap agreements (the
"Swaps") with major financial institutions. The Company is exposed to credit
risk in the event of non-performance by the counter-parties to the Swaps. The
Company believes it mitigates its credit risk by entering into these Swaps with
major financial institutions.

The Company believes the interest rate risk represented by the remaining $18.9
million of floating-rate debt is not material in relation to the total debt
outstanding of the Company or its market capitalization.

The Company has not, and does not plan to, enter into any derivative financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes. As of December 31, 1999, the
Company had no other material exposure to market risk.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The response to this Item 8 is included as a separate section of this annual
report on Form 10-K.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure


None.




                                    PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held
on May 18, 2000.

Information with respect to the Executive Officers of the Registrant follows
Part I, Item 4 of this annual report on Form 10-K.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held
on May 18, 2000.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held
on May 18, 2000.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held
on May 18, 2000.




                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K
          -----------------------------------------------------------------




No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company for the quarter ended December
31, 1999.




                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                                -----------------






INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)





INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)



- ---------------------------------------
   *   Filed herewith.




                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                 KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION
                                                       (Registrant)


                                                 By:  /s/ Milton Cooper
                                                    ----------------------
                                                       Milton Cooper
                                                    Chief Executive Officer

   Dated:  March 28, 2000


   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
   report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
   Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

   Signature                            Title                        Date



/s/  Martin S. Kimmel              Chairman (Emeritus) of        March 28, 2000
- ---------------------------        the Board of Directors
     Martin S. Kimmel


/s/  Milton Cooper                 Chairman of the Board         March 28, 2000
- ---------------------------        of Directors and Chief
     Milton Cooper                 Executive Officer

/s/  Michael J. Flynn              Vice Chairman of the          March 28, 2000
- ---------------------------        Board of Directors,
     Michael J. Flynn              President and
                                   Chief Operating Officer

/s/  Joseph K. Kornwasser          Director and Senior           March 28, 2000
- ----------------------------       Executive Vice President
     Joseph K. Kornwasser

/s/  Richard G. Dooley             Director                      March 28, 2000
- ---------------------------
     Richard G. Dooley


/s/  Joe Grills                    Director                      March 28, 2000
- ---------------------------
     Joe Grills


/s/  Frank Lourenso                Director                      March 28, 2000
- ---------------------------
     Frank Lourenso


/s/  Michael V. Pappagallo         Chief Financial Officer       March 28, 2000
- ---------------------------
     Michael V. Pappagallo


/s/  Glenn G. Cohen                Treasurer                     March 28, 2000
- ---------------------------
     Glenn G. Cohen


/s/  Ruth Mitteldorf               Director of Accounting        March 28, 2000
- ---------------------------        and Taxation
     Ruth Mitteldorf




                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                         ITEM 8, ITEM 14 (a) (1) and (2)

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                       AND

                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                                     -------






                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
  Kimco Realty Corporation:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying
index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Kimco
Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. In addition, in our opinion, the
financial statement schedules listed in the accompanying index present fairly,
in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial
statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the
Company's management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States, which require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.


                                              /S/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP



New York, New York
February 28, 2000





                 KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                  (In thousands, except share information)








                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                  (in thousands, except per share information)






                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

              For the Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

                  (in thousands, except per share information)






                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)







                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


1.       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies:

         Business

         Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company" or "Kimco"), its subsidiaries,
             affiliates and related real estate joint ventures are engaged
             principally in the operation of neighborhood and community shopping
             centers which are anchored generally by discount department stores,
             supermarkets or drugstores. Additionally, the Company provides
             management services for shopping centers owned by affiliated
             entities and various real estate joint ventures.

         The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through
             diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its
             properties, avoiding dependence on any single property, and a large
             tenant base. At December 31, 1999, the Company's single largest
             neighborhood and community shopping center accounted for only 1.4%
             of the Company's annualized base rental revenues and only 1.0% of
             the Company's total shopping center gross leasable area ("GLA"). At
             December 31, 1999, the Company's five largest tenants include Kmart
             Corporation, Kohl's, Ames, The Home Depot and TJX Companies, which
             represented approximately 13.8%, 2.8%, 2.5%, 2.4% and 1.8%,
             respectively, of the Company's annualized base rental revenues.

         The above statistics do not include the KIR Portfolio, as defined in
             Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

         Principles of Consolidation and Estimates

         The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts
             of the Company, its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned,
             and all partnerships in which the Company has a controlling
             interest. All significant intercompany balances and transactions
             have been eliminated in consolidation.

         Generally accepted accounting principles require the Company's
             management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
             reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
             contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of
             revenues and expenses during a reporting period. Actual results may
             differ from such estimates. The most significant assumptions and
             estimates relate to depreciable lives, valuation of real estate and
             the recoverability of trade accounts receivable.

         Real Estate

         Realestate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation
             and amortization. If there is an event or a change in circumstances
             that indicates that the basis of a property may not be recoverable,
             then management will assess any impairment in value by making a
             comparison of (i) the current and projected operating cash flows
             (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the property over
             its remaining useful life and (ii) the net carrying amount of the
             property. If the current and projected operating cash flows
             (undiscounted and without interest charges) are less than the
             carrying value of its property, the carrying value would be written
             down to an amount to reflect the fair value of the property.

         Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method
             over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows:




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


            Buildings                                       15 to 39 years
            Fixtures and leasehold improvements       Terms of leases or useful
                                                     lives, whichever is shorter

         Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as
             incurred. Significant renovations are capitalized.

        Investments in Real Estate Joint Ventures

         Investments in real estate joint ventures are accounted for on the
             equity method.

         Deferred Leasing and Financing Costs

         Costs incurred in obtaining tenant leases and long-term financing,
             included in deferred charges and prepaid expenses in the
             accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, are amortized over the
             terms of the related leases or debt agreements, as applicable.

         Revenue Recognition

         Minimum revenues from rental property are recognized on a straight-line
             basis over the terms of the related leases.

         Income Taxes

         The Company and its subsidiaries file a consolidated Federal income tax
             return. The Company has made an election to qualify, and believes
             it is operating so as to qualify, as a Real Estate Investment Trust
             (a "REIT") for Federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, the
             Company generally will not be subject to Federal income tax,
             provided that distributions to its stockholders equal at least the
             amount of its REIT taxable income as defined under the Code.

         Per Share Data

         In  1997 the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Financial
             Accounting Standards No. 128 - "Earnings Per Share". Statement 128
             replaced the presentation of primary and fully diluted earnings per
             share ("EPS") pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
             15 with the presentation of basic and diluted EPS. Basic EPS
             excludes dilution and is computed by dividing net income available
             to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common
             shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the
             potential dilution that could occur if securities or other
             contracts to issue common shares were exercised or converted into
             common shares and then shared in the earnings of the Company.

         The following table sets forth the reconciliation between basic and
             diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for each
             period:






                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


         The effect of the conversion of the Class D Preferred Stock (as defined
             in Note 3) would have an anti-dilutive effect upon the calculation
             of net income per common share. Accordingly, the impact of such
             conversion has not been included in the determination of diluted
             net income per common share.

         New Accounting Pronouncements

         In 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
             Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative
             Instruments and Hedging Activities ("FASB No. 133"). FASB No. 133
             is effective for all fiscal quarters of all fiscal years beginning
             after June 15, 1999. In June 1999, the FASB delayed the
             implementation date of FASB No. 133 by one year (January 1, 2001
             for the Company). FASB No. 133 requires that all derivative
             instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value.
             Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period
             in current earnings or other comprehensive income, depending on
             whether a derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction
             and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction. Management of the
             Company anticipates that, due to its limited use of derivative
             instruments, the adoption of FASB No. 133 will not have a
             significant effect on the Company's consolidated results of
             operations or its financial position.

2.  Property Acquisitions:

         Shopping Centers-

         During the years 1999, 1998 and 1997 certain subsidiaries and
             affiliates of the Company acquired real estate interests, in
             separate transactions, in various shopping center properties at
             aggregate costs of approximately $249 million, $303 million and
             $146 million, respectively.

         Venture Stores, Inc. Properties Transactions-

         During January 1996, certain subsidiaries of the Company entered into
             two sale-leaseback transactions with Venture Stores, Inc.
             ("Venture") pursuant to which it acquired fee title to 16 retail
             properties for an aggregate purchase price of $40 million.

         In August 1997, certain subsidiaries of the Company acquired certain
             real estate assets from Venture consisting of interests in 49 fee
             and leasehold properties totaling approximately 5.9 million square
             feet of leasable area located in seven states. The aggregate price
             was approximately $130 million, consisting of $70.5 million in cash
             and the assumption of approximately $59.5 million of existing
             mortgage debt on certain of these properties. Simultaneously with
             this transaction, the Company entered into a long-term unitary net
             lease with Venture covering all premises occupied by Venture on
             these properties.

         In January 1998, Venture filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the
             United States Bankruptcy Code. On April 27, 1998, Venture announced
             it would discontinue its retail operations and that it had reached
             an agreement to sell its leasehold position at 89 locations to the
             Company, including 56 properties pursuant to two unitary leases
             already in place with the Company, 30 properties pursuant to a
             master lease with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
             ("Metropolitan Life") and three properties leased by Venture from
             others. The purchase price for the leasehold positions was




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


             $95.0 million, less certain closing adjustments, but is subject to
             upward adjustment based on the Company's success in re-tenanting
             the properties over a two-year period. On July 17, 1998, the
             Company purchased the leasehold positions with an initial cash
             payment to Venture of approximately $53.3 million. During April and
             December 1999, the Company paid Venture an additional $21.0 million
             and $5.8 million, respectively.

         Additionally, on July 1, 1998, the Company reached an agreement with
             Metropolitan Life to purchase the 30 fee and leasehold positions
             which were leased by Metropolitan Life to Venture, for an aggregate
             purchase price of $167.5 million.

         During August 1998, the Company acquired from Venture five additional
             leasehold positions, including two leases already in place with the
             Company, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.2
             million.

         During 1999, the Company substantially completed its re-tenanting
             effort with regard to the former Venture locations.

         Retail Property Acquisitions-

         During January 1998, the Company, through a partnership interest,
             acquired fee interest in three properties from a retailer in the
             Chicago, IL market comprising approximately 516,000 square feet of
             GLA for a aggregate purchase price of approximately $23.7 million.
             These properties include approximately 70,000 square feet of
             showroom space and adjoining warehouses of approximately 100,000
             square feet at each location. Simultaneous with this transaction,
             the Company leased, to a national furniture retailer, the showroom
             portion of each property under individual long-term leases. The
             Company is currently planning the redevelopment of the warehouse
             portion of each property.

         Other Acquisitions-

         During December 1998, the Company acquired a first mortgage on a
             shopping center in Manhasset, New York for approximately $21
             million. During April 1999, the Company acquired fee title to this
             property.

         These property acquisitions have been funded principally through the
             application of proceeds from the Company's public unsecured debt
             and equity offerings and proceeds from mortgage financings. (see
             Notes 8, 9 and 13).

3.  Price REIT Merger:

         On January 13, 1998, the Company, REIT Sub, Inc., a Maryland
             corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("Merger
             Sub") and The Price REIT, Inc., a Maryland corporation, ("Price
             REIT"), signed a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger dated
             January 13, 1998, as amended March 5, 1998 and May 14, 1998, (the
             "Merger Agreement"). On June 19, 1998, upon approval by the
             shareholders of the Company and the shareholders of Price REIT,
             Price REIT was merged into Merger Sub, whereupon the separate
             existence of Price REIT ceased (the "Merger"). For financial
             reporting purposes, the Merger was accounted for using the purchase
             method of accounting.

         Prior to the Merger, Price REIT was a self-administered and
             self-managed equity REIT that was focused on the acquisition,
             development, management and redevelopment of large community
             shopping center properties concentrated in the western part of
             the United States . In connection with the Merger, the Company
             acquired interests in 43 properties,




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


             consisting of 39 retail community centers, one stand-alone retail
             warehouse, one project under development and two undeveloped land
             parcels, located in 17 states containing approximately 8.0 million
             square feet of GLA. The overall occupancy rate of the retail
             community centers was 98%.

         In connection with the Merger, holders of Price REIT common stock
             received one share of Kimco common stock and 0.36 shares of Kimco
             Class D Depositary Shares (the "Class D Depositary Shares"), each
             Class D Depositary Share representing a one-tenth fractional
             interest in a new issue of Kimco 7.5% Cumulative Convertible
             Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Class D Preferred
             Stock"), for each share of Price REIT common stock. On June 19,
             1998, the Company issued 11,921,992 shares of its common stock and
             429,159 shares of Class D Preferred Stock (represented by 4,291,590
             Class D Depositary Shares) in connection with the Merger.
             Additionally, in connection with the Merger, the Company issued
             65,000 shares of a new issue of Kimco Class E Floating Rate
             Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share ((the "Class
             E Preferred Stock"), represented by 650,000 Class E Depositary
             Shares, (the "Class E Depositary Shares")), each Class E Depositary
             Share representing a one-tenth fractional interest in the Class E
             Preferred Stock. The Class E Preferred Stock was redeemable at the
             option of the Company for 150 days after its issuance at a price
             equal to the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share plus
             accrued and unpaid dividends. The Company exercised its option in
             November 1998 to redeem all of the Class E Preferred Stock for
             $65.065 million representing the liquidation preference of $65
             million and approximately $65,000 of accrued dividends (see Note
             13).

         The total Merger consideration was approximately $960 million,
             including the assumption of approximately $310 million of debt.
             Management has allocated the purchase price based on the fair value
             of assets and liabilities assumed.

4.       Investment and Advances in Kimco Income REIT ("KIR"):

         During 1998, the Company formed KIR, an entity in which the Company
             held a 99.99% limited partnership interest. KIR was established for
             the purpose of investing in real estate that it believes would be
             more appropriately financed through greater leverage than the
             Company traditionally uses. These properties include, but are not
             limited to, fully developed properties with strong, stable cash
             flows from credit-worthy retailers with long-term leases that have
             limited near-term potential for growth through redevelopment or
             re-tenanting. The Company initially identified and contributed 19
             property interests to KIR which met this criteria. Each of these
             properties was encumbered by an individual non-recourse mortgage.
             On April 28, 1999, the Company entered into an agreement whereby an
             institutional investor purchased a significant interest in KIR.
             Under the terms of the agreement, the agreed equity value for the
             19 shopping centers previously contributed by the Company to KIR
             was approximately $107 million and the Company agreed to contribute
             an additional $10 million for a total investment of approximately
             $117 million. The institutional investor has subscribed for up to
             $117 million of equity in KIR, of which approximately $107 million
             has been contributed as of December 31, 1999. During August 1999,
             KIR admitted three additional limited partners. Each new partner
             entered into a subscription agreement whereby they subscribed for
             an aggregate $35 million of equity in KIR. At December 31, 1999
             approximately $32 million of such subscriptions had been
             contributed. As of December 31, 1999, KIR has subscription
             agreements totaling




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


             approximately $269 million, of which approximately $246 million has
             been contributed. As a result of these transactions, the Company
             holds a 43.3% non-controlling limited partnership interest in KIR
             and accounts for its investment in KIR under the equity method of
             accounting. The Company's equity in income from KIR for the period
             April 28, 1999 to December 31, 1999 was approximately $6.0 million.

         In addition, KIR entered into a master management agreement with the
             Company, whereby the Company will perform services for fee relating
             to the management, operation, supervision and maintenance of the
             joint venture properties. For the period from April 28, 1999 to
             December 31, 1999, the Company earned management fees, leasing
             commissions and was reimbursed for administrative services of
             approximately $.9 million, $.1 million and $.5 million,
             respectively.

      During the period April 28, 1999 to December 31, 1999, KIR purchased ten
             shopping center properties, in separate transactions, aggregating
             2.2 million square feet of GLA for approximately $218.3 million
             including the assumption of approximately $36.1 million of mortgage
             debt. Four of these properties were purchased from the Company for
             an aggregate purchase price of $70.1 million. As of December 31,
             1999, the KIR portfolio included 29 shopping center properties
             comprising 5.4 million square feet of GLA (the "KIR Portfolio").

         During May 1999, KIR obtained individual non-recourse, non-cross
             collateralized ten-year fixed-rate first mortgages aggregating
             $52.6 million on four of its properties. These mortgages bear
             interest at rates ranging from 7.57% to 7.72% per annum. The net
             proceeds were used to finance the acquisition of various shopping
             center properties.

         Summarized financial information for the recurring operations of KIR is
as follows (in millions):

                                                            December 31, 1999
                                                        ------------------------

           Assets:
           Real estate, net                                      $569.4
           Other assets                                            32.3
                                                                  -----

                                                                 $601.7
                                                                 ======

           Liabilities and Partners' Capital:
           Mortgages payable                                     $338.9
           Other liabilities                                        7.9
           Minority interest                                         .3
           Partners' capital                                      254.6
                                                                 ------

                                                                 $601.7
                                                                 ======




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


                                                     For period April 28 1999 to
                                                           December 31, 1999
                                                           -----------------

           Revenues from rental property                         $39.9
                                                                 -----

           Operating expenses                                     (8.7)
           Mortgage interest                                     (14.5)
           Depreciation and amortization                          (6.6)
           Other, net                                               .6
                                                                 -----
                                                                 (29.2)
                                                                 -----

                Net income                                       $10.7
                                                                 =====

5.       Investments and Advances in Other Real Estate Joint Ventures:

         The Company and its subsidiaries have investments in and advances to
             various other real estate joint ventures. These joint ventures are
             engaged primarily in the operation of shopping centers which are
             either owned or held under long-term operating leases.

         During 1999, the Company invested approximately $4.9 million in a
             partnership which is developing an office and retail center in
             Dover, DE and separately, through a partnership investment, the
             Company invested approximately $5.7 million in a joint venture
             which acquired a parcel of land in Henderson, NV. for the
             development of a retail shopping center. The Company has a 50%
             interest in each of these partnerships.

         During 1998, in connection with the Merger, the Company acquired two
             additional joint venture interests. The Company also invested
             approximately $19.0 million in a partnership which has acquired and
             leased-back 11 automotive dealerships and invested approximately
             $3.6 million in a partnership which acquired a shopping center for
             approximately $34 million, including mortgage debt of approximately
             $27 million. The Company has a 50% interest in each of these
             partnerships.

         Summarized financial information for the recurring operations of these
             real estate joint ventures is as follows (in millions):






                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                                 -----------------------

                                             1999         1998        1997
                                             ----         ----        ----

           Revenues from rental property     $45.7        $26.8       $14.8
                                             -----        -----       -----

           Operating expenses                (15.9)        (9.7)       (3.6)
           Mortgage interest                 (10.8)        (6.2)       (3.1)
           Depreciation and amortization      (5.0)        (2.9)       (2.2)
           Other, net                           .3           .1        (1.8)
                                             ------       ------      ------
                                             (31.4)       (18.7)      (10.7)
                                             ------       ------      ------

                Net income                   $14.3          $8.1       $4.1
                                             ======       ======      ======

         Other liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets
             include accounts with certain real estate joint ventures totaling
             approximately $5.4 million and $5.0 million at December 31, 1999
             and 1998, respectively. The Company and its subsidiaries have
             varying equity interests in these real estate joint ventures which
             may differ from their proportionate share of net income or loss
             recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting
             principles.

6.    Investment in Retail Store Leases:

         The Company has interests in various retail store leases relating to
             the anchor store premises in neighborhood and community shopping
             centers. These premises have been substantially sublet to retailers
             which lease the stores pursuant to net lease agreements. Income
             from the investment in these retail store leases during the years
             ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 was approximately $4.1 million and
             $3.7 million, respectively. These amounts represent sublease
             revenues during the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 of
             approximately $20.3 million and $20.2 million, respectively, less
             related expenses of $14.7 million and $14.9 million, respectively,
             and an amount, which in management's estimate, reasonably provides
             for the recovery of the investment over a period representing the
             expected remaining term of the retail store leases. The Company's
             future minimum revenues under the terms of all noncancellable
             tenant subleases and future minimum obligations through the
             remaining terms of its retail store leases, assuming no new or
             renegotiated leases are executed for such premises, for future
             years are as follows (in millions): 2000, $18.0 and $12.6; 2001,
             $16.8 and $11.2; 2002, $14.0 and $8.7; 2003, $10.4 and $5.9 ; 2004,
             $6.9 and $3.4, thereafter, $13.7 and $2.0, respectively.

7.       Cash and Cash Equivalents:

         Cash and cash equivalents (demand deposits in banks, commercial paper
             and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three
             months or less) includes tenants' security deposits, escrowed funds
             and other restricted deposits approximating $.1 million at December
             31, 1999 and 1998.

         Cash and cash equivalent balances may, at a limited number of banks and
             financial institutions, exceed insurable amounts. The Company
             believes it mitigates its risks by investing in or through major
             financial institutions. Recoverability of investments is dependent
             upon the performance of the issuers.




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


8.       Notes Payable:

         During February 1999, the Company issued $130 million of 6-7/8%
             fixed-rate Senior Notes due 2009. Interest on the notes is payable
             semi-annually in arrears. The notes were sold at 99.85% of par
             value. Net proceeds from the issuance totaling approximately $128.9
             million, after related transaction costs of approximately $.9
             million, were used, in part, to repay $100 million floating-rate
             senior notes that matured during February 1999 and for general
             corporate purposes.

         During November 1999, the Company entered into an unsecured term loan
             for an aggregate of $52.0 million. The term loan bears interest at
             Libor plus .70% per annum and matures in November 2000. The
             proceeds were used to finance the acquisition of various shopping
             center properties and for general corporate purposes.

         The Company has a $200 million unsecured medium-term notes ("MTN")
             program pursuant to which it may, from time to time, offer for sale
             its senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes,
             including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its
             business, including property acquisitions, development and
             redevelopment costs, and (ii) managing the Company's debt
             maturities.

         During October and December 1999, the Company issued an aggregate $100
             million of fixed-rate unsecured medium-term notes (the "October and
             December MTNs") under its MTN program. The October and December
             MTNs mature in October 2004 and December 2007, respectively, and
             bear interest at 7.62% and 7.90% per annum, respectively. Interest
             on these notes is payable semi-annually in arrears.

         During June and July 1998, the Company issued an aggregate $130 million
             of fixed-rate unsecured medium-term notes under its MTN program
             (the "June and July MTNS"). The June and July MTNs mature in June
             2005 and July 2006, respectively, and bear interest at 6.73% and
             6.93% per annum, respectively. Interest on these notes is payable
             semi-annually in arrears.

         As of December 31, 1999, a total principal amount of $390.25 million,
             in fixed-rate senior unsecured MTNs had been issued under the MTN
             program primarily for the acquisition of neighborhood and community
             shopping centers and the expansion and improvement of properties in
             the Company's portfolio. These fixed-rate notes had maturities
             ranging from five to twelve years at the time of issuance and bear
             interest at rates ranging from 6.70% to 7.91%. Interest on these
             fixed-rate senior unsecured notes is payable semi-annually in
             arrears.

         During August 1998, the Company issued $60 million of floating-rate
             MTNs which mature in August 2000 and bear interest at LIBOR plus
             .15% per annum. The interest rate resets quarterly and is payable
             quarterly in arrears. Concurrent with the issuance of these MTN's,
             the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement for the
             term of these MTNs, which effectively fixed the interest rate at
             5.91% per annum. The proceeds from this MTN issuance were used to
             prepay certain mortgage loans with a principal amount of
             approximately $57 million bearing interest at 10.54% per annum plus
             prepayment premiums of approximately $4.9 million (See Note 10).

         Also during August 1998, the Company issued $100 million of remarketed
             reset notes under its MTN program. The remarketed reset notes
             mature in August 2008 and bore interest initially at a floating
             rate of LIBOR plus .30% per




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


             annum. After an initial period of one year, the interest rate
             spread applicable to each subsequent period is determined pursuant
             to a remarketing agreement between the Company and a financial
             institution. The interest rate resets quarterly and is payable
             quarterly in arrears. During August 1999, the Company remarketed
             the notes for a one-year period at Libor plus .65% per annum. The
             proceeds from the MTN issuance were used, in part, to repay $50
             million MTNs that matured in July 1998 and for general corporate
             purposes.

         In connection with the Price REIT Merger, the Company assumed $205
             million of fixed-rate unsecured senior notes consisting of: (i) $50
             million which mature in June 2004 and bear interest at 7.125%, (ii)
             $55 million which mature November 2006 and bear interest at 7.5%
             and (iii) $100 million which mature November 2000 and bear interest
             at 7.25% (collectively, "the Price REIT Notes"). Interest is
             payable on the Price REIT Notes semi-annually in arrears.

         As of December 31, 1999, the Company had $100 million in 6.5%
             fixed-rate unsecured Senior Notes due 2003. Interest on these
             senior unsecured notes is paid semi-annually in arrears.

         The scheduled maturities of all unsecured senior notes payable as of
             December 31, 1999, are approximately as follows (in millions):
             2000, $212.0; 2003, $100.0; 2004, $100.0 and thereafter, $625.25.

         In accordance with the terms of the Indenture, as amended, pursuant to
             which the Company's senior, unsecured notes have been issued, the
             Company is (a) subject to maintaining certain maximum leverage
             ratios on both unsecured senior corporate and secured debt, minimum
             debt service coverage ratios and minimum equity levels, and (b)
             restricted from paying dividends in amounts that exceed by more
             than $26 million the funds from operations, as defined, generated
             through the end of the calendar quarter most recently completed
             prior to the declaration of such dividend; however, this dividend
             limitation does not apply to any distributions necessary to
             maintain the Company's qualification as a REIT providing the
             Company is in compliance with its total leverage limitations.

         The Company maintains a $215 million, unsecured revolving credit
             agreement with a group of banks. Borrowings under this facility are
             available for general corporate purposes, including the funding of
             property acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs.
             Interest on borrowings accrues at a spread (currently .50%) to
             LIBOR or money-market rates, as applicable, which fluctuates in
             accordance with changes in the Company's senior debt ratings. A fee
             approximating .20% per annum is payable on that portion of the
             facility which remains unused. Pursuant to the terms of the
             agreement, the Company, among other things, is (a) subject to
             maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios on both unsecured
             senior corporate and secured debt, a minimum debt service coverage
             ratio and minimum unencumbered asset and equity levels, and (b)
             restricted from paying dividends in amounts that exceed 90% of
             funds from operations, as defined, plus 10% of the Company's
             stockholders' equity determined in accordance with generally
             accepted accounting principles. There were no borrowings
             outstanding under this facility at December 31, 1999. This
             revolving credit facility is scheduled to expire in August 2001.

9.       Mortgages Payable:

         During 1999, the Company obtained non-recourse, non-cross
             collateralized fixed-rate first mortgage financing aggregating
             approximately $28.7 million on five of its properties. The
             mortgages bear interest at rates ranging from 7.00% to 8.25% per
             annum and mature at various dates through 2009.




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


         During 1998, the Company obtained mortgage financing aggregating
             approximately $272.3 million on 20 of its properties. These
             mortgages are non-recourse, non-cross collateralized, ten-year
             fixed-rate first mortgages, bearing interest at a weighted average
             rate of 6.585% per annum over the term of the loans. The proceeds
             from the mortgages were used primarily for the acquisition of
             neighborhood and community shopping centers. During April 1999,
             mortgages encumbering 19 of these properties totaling approximately
             $252.4 million were deconsolidated in connection with the sale of a
             controlling interest in KIR (See Note 4).

         Also during 1998, the Company, through an affiliated entity, obtained
             mortgage financing of approximately $9.0 million on two other
             properties. These ten-year fixed-rate mortgages, which are
             cross-collateralized, bear interest at 7.0% per annum for the term
             of the loans.

         Mortgages payable, collateralized by certain shopping center properties
             and related tenants' leases, are generally due in monthly
             installments of principal and/or interest which mature at various
             dates through 2023. Interest rates range from approximately 6.57%
             to 10.5% (weighted average interest rate of 8.09% as of December
             31, 1999). The scheduled maturities of all mortgages payable as of
             December 31, 1999, are approximately as follows (in millions):2000,
             $16.5; 2001, $4.7; 2002, $7.8; 2003, $6.3; 2004, $9.1 and
             thereafter, $167.9.

         Three of the Company's properties are encumbered by approximately $12.6
             million in floating-rate, tax-exempt mortgage bond financing. The
             rates on the bonds are reset annually, at which time bondholders
             have the right to require the Company to repurchase the bonds. The
             Company has engaged a remarketing agent for the purpose of offering
             for resale those bonds that are tendered to the Company. All bonds
             tendered for redemption in the past have been remarketed and the
             Company has arrangements, including letters of credit, with banks
             to both collateralize the principal amount and accrued interest on
             such bonds and to fund any repurchase obligations.

10.      Extraordinary Items:

         During 1998, the Company prepaid certain mortgage loans resulting in
             extraordinary charges of approximately $4.9 million, or, on a
             per-basic share and diluted share basis, $.10 and $.09,
             respectively, representing the premiums paid and other costs
             written-off in connection with the early satisfaction of these
             mortgage loans.

11.      KC Holdings, Inc.:

         To facilitate the Company's November 1991 initial public stock
             offering (the "IPO"), 46 shopping center properties and certain
             other assets, together with indebtedness related thereto, were
             transferred to subsidiaries of KC Holdings, Inc. ("KC Holdings"), a
             newly-formed corporation that is owned by the stockholders of the
             Company prior to the IPO. The Company was granted ten-year,
             fixed-price acquisition options to reacquire the real estate assets
             owned by KC Holdings' subsidiaries, subject to any liabilities
             outstanding with respect to such assets at the time of an option
             exercise. As of December 31, 1999, KC Holdings' subsidiaries had
             conveyed 27 shopping centers back to the Company and had disposed
             of ten additional centers in transactions with third parties. The
             members of the Company's Board of Directors who are not also
             shareholders of KC Holdings unanimously approved the purchase of
             each of the 27 shopping centers that have been reacquired by the
             Company from KC Holdings. The Company manages five of KC Holdings
             nine remaining shopping center properties pursuant to a management
             agreement.




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


         Selected financial information for the property interests owned by KC
             Holdings' subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and, for the year
             ended December 31, 1999, is as follows: Real estate, net of
             accumulated depreciation and amortization, $19.4 million; Notes and
             mortgages payable, $33.1 million; Revenues from rental property,
             $8.4 million; Loss from rental operations, $.6 million, after
             depreciation and amortization deductions of $1.5 million; Income
             adjustment for real estate joint ventures, net, $.7 million.

12.      Fair Value Disclosure of Financial Instruments:

         All financial instruments of the Company are reflected in the
             accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets at amounts which, in
             management's estimation based upon an interpretation of available
             market information and valuation methodologies (including
             discounted cash flow analyses with regard to fixed rate debt)
             considered appropriate, reasonably approximate their fair values.
             Such fair value estimates are not necessarily indicative of the
             amounts that would be realized upon disposition of the Company's
             financial instruments.

13.      Preferred and Common Stock Transactions:

         During 1999, the Company issued 401,646 shares of common stock at
             $39.00 per share in connection with its exercise of its option to
             acquire 13 shopping center properties from KC Holdings (See Note
             15).

         During December 1999, the Company purchased and retired 160,000 shares
             of its common stock at a price of $31.75 per share, totaling
             approximately $5.1 million. The Company does not have a share
             repurchase program but acquired the shares when it received an
             unsolicited offer to buy them from an institutional investor.

         During April and May 1998, the Company completed the sale of an
             aggregate 3,039,507 shares of common stock in five separate
             transactions consisting of (i) a primary public stock offering of
             460,000 shares of common stock priced at $36.0625 per share, and
             (ii) four direct placements of 415,945 shares, 546,075 shares,
             837,000 shares and 780,487 shares of common stock priced at
             $36.0625, $36.625, $36.25 and $38.4375 per share, respectively. The
             shares of common stock sold in the direct placements were deposited
             in separate unit investment trusts. The net proceeds from these
             offerings totaled approximately $106.0 million, after related
             transaction costs of approximately $5.9 million.

         During July 1998, the Company completed the sale of an aggregate
             1,315,498 shares of common stock in three separate transactions
             consisting of (i) a primary public stock offering of 510,000 shares
             of common stock priced at $39.4375 per share and (ii) two direct
             placements of 375,000 and 430,498 shares of common stock priced at
             $38.2575 and $38.56 per share, respectively. The net proceeds from
             these offerings totaled approximately $49.9 million, after related
             transaction costs of approximately $1.2 million.

         During September 1998, the Company completed the sale of an aggregate
             750,000 shares of common stock priced at $38.75 per share in a
             primary public stock offering. In addition, during October 1998,
             the Company sold an additional 112,500 shares of common stock
             pursuant to an election by the underwriter to exercise, in full,
             their over-allotment option. The net proceeds from these sales of
             common stock totaled approximately $31.6 million, after related
             transaction costs of approximately $1.8 million.




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


         During November 1998, the Company completed the sale of an aggregate
             1,395,000 shares of common stock in four separate transactions
             consisting of primary public stock offerings of 650,000 shares,
             170,000 shares, 475,000 shares and 100,000 shares of common stock
             priced at $39.6875, $39.6875, $39.00 and $39.00 per share,
             respectively. The net proceeds from these sales of common stock
             totaled approximately $52.4 million after related transaction costs
             of approximately $2.5 million.

         During December 1998, the Company completed the sale of an aggregate
             1,005,800 shares of common stock in three direct placements. The
             transactions were each priced at $38.25 per share and provided net
             proceeds to the Company of approximately $38.4 million, after
             related transaction costs of approximately $.1 million.

         The net proceeds from these common stock offerings have been used for
             general corporate purposes, including the acquisition of
             neighborhood and community shopping centers, the expansion and
             improvement of certain properties in the Company's portfolio, and
             the redemption of the Class E Preferred Stock issued in connection
             with the Merger.

         During June 1998, in connection with the Merger, the Company issued
              4,291,590 Class D Depositary Shares (each such depositary share
              representing a one-tenth fractional interest in the Class D
              Preferred Stock) and 650,000 Class E Depositary Shares (each
              depositary share representing a one-tenth fractional interest in
              the Class E Preferred Stock). During November 1998, the Company
              exercised its option to redeem all of the Class E Preferred Stock
              (represented by the Class E Depositary Shares). (See Note 3.)

         Dividends on the Class D Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
             at the rate per depositary share equal to the greater of (i) 7.5%
             per annum based upon a $25 per share initial value or $1.875 per
             share or (ii) the cash dividend on the shares of the Company's
             common stock into which a Class D Depositary Share is convertible
             plus $0.0275 per quarter. The Class D Depositary Shares are
             convertible into the Company's common stock at a conversion price
             of $40.25 per share of common stock at any time by the holder and
             may be redeemed by the Company at the conversion price in shares of
             the Company's common stock at any time after June 19, 2001 if, for
             any 20 trading days within any period of 30 consecutive trading
             days, including the last day of such period, the average closing
             price per share of the Company's common stock exceeds 120% of the
             conversion price or $48.30 per share, subject to certain
             adjustments.

         The dividend rate on the Class E Preferred Stock (represented by the
             Class E Depositary Shares) was equal to LIBOR plus 2% per annum,
             adjusted quarterly, and had an initial dividend rate of 7.68% per
             annum.

         The Class D Preferred Stock (represented by the Class D Depositary
             Shares outstanding) ranks pari passu with the Company's 7-3/4%
             Class A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, 8-1/2% Class B
             Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock and the 8-3/8% Class C
             Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock as to voting rights, priority
             for receiving dividends and liquidation preferences as set forth
             below.

         At December 31, 1999, the Company has outstanding 3,000,000 Depositary
             Shares (the "Class A Depositary Shares"), each such Class A
             Depositary Share representing a one-tenth fractional interest of a
             share of the Company's 7-3/4% Class A Cumulative Redeemable
             Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share(the "Class A Preferred
             Stock"), 2,000,000 Depositary Shares (the "Class B Depositary
             Shares"), each such Class B Depositary Share representing a
             one-tenth fractional interest of a share of the




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


             Company's 8-1/2% Class B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par
             value $1.00 per share (the "Class B Preferred Stock"), 4,000,000
             Depositary Shares ("the Class C Depositary Shares"), each such
             Class C Depositary Share representing a one-tenth fractional
             interest of a share of the Company's 8-3/8% Class C Cumulative
             Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Class C
             Preferred Stock").

         Dividends on the Class A Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
             quarterly in arrears at the rate of 7-3/4% per annum based on the
             $25 per share initial offering price, or $1.9375 per depositary
             share. The Class A Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or in
             part, for cash on or after September 23, 1998 at the option of the
             Company, at a redemption price of $25 per depositary share, plus
             any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The Class A Depositary
             Shares are not convertible or exchangeable for any other property
             or securities of the Company. The Class A Preferred Stock
             (represented by the Class A Depositary Shares outstanding) ranks
             pari passu with the Company's Class B Preferred Stock, Class C
             Preferred Stock and Class D Preferred Stock as to voting rights,
             priority for receiving dividends and liquidation preferences as set
             forth below.

         Dividends on the Class B Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
             quarterly in arrears at the rate of 8-1/2% per annum based on the
             $25 per share initial offering price, or $2.125 per depositary
             share. The Class B Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or in
             part, for cash on or after July 15, 2000 at the option of the
             Company at a redemption price of $25 per depositary share, plus any
             accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The redemption price of the
             Class B Preferred Stock may be paid solely from the sale proceeds
             of other capital stock of the Company, which may include other
             classes or series of preferred stock. The Class B Depositary Shares
             are not convertible or exchangeable for any other property or
             securities of the Company. The Class B Preferred Stock (represented
             by the Class B Depositary Shares outstanding) ranks pari passu with
             the Company's Class A Preferred Stock, Class C Preferred Stock and
             Class D Preferred Stock as to voting rights, priority for receiving
             dividends and liquidation preferences as set forth below.

         Dividends on the Class C Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
             quarterly in arrears at the rate of 8-3/8% per annum based on the
             $25 per share initial offering price, or $2.0938 per depositary
             share. The Class C Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or in
             part, for cash on or after April 15, 2001 at the option of the
             Company at a redemption price of $25 per depositary share, plus any
             accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The redemption price of the
             Class C Preferred Stock may be paid solely from the sale proceeds
             of other capital stock of the Company, which may include other
             classes or series of preferred stock. The Class C Depositary Shares
             are not convertible or exchangeable for any other property or
             securities of the Company. The Class C Preferred Stock (represented
             by the Class C Depositary Shares outstanding) ranks pari passu with
             the Company's Class A Preferred Stock, Class B Preferred Stock and
             Class D Preferred Stock as to voting rights, priority for receiving
             dividends and liquidation preferences as set forth below.

         Voting Rights - As to any matter on which the Class A Preferred Stock,
             Class B Preferred Stock, Class C Preferred Stock and Class D
             Preferred Stock (collectively, the "Preferred Stock") may vote,
             including any action by written consent, each share of Preferred
             Stock shall be entitled to 10 votes, each of which 10 votes may be
             directed separately by the holder thereof. With respect to each
             share of Preferred Stock, the holder thereof may designate up to 10
             proxies, with each such proxy having the right to vote a whole
             number of votes (totaling 10 votes per share of Preferred Stock).
             As a result, each Class A, each Class B, each Class C and each
             Class D Depositary Share is entitled to one vote.




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


         Liquidation Rights - In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
             winding up of the affairs of the Company, the Preferred Stock
             holders are entitled to be paid, out of the assets of the Company
             legally available for distribution to its stockholders, a
             liquidation preference of $250.00 per share ($25 per Class A, Class
             B, Class C and Class D Depositary Share, respectively), plus an
             amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends to the date of
             payment, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of
             the Company's common stock or any other capital stock that ranks
             junior to the Preferred Stock as to liquidation rights.

14.      Dispositions of Real Estate:

         During the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company disposed of six
             shopping center properties and a land parcel. Cash proceeds from
             four of these dispositions aggregated approximately $6.1, million
             which approximated their aggregate net book value.

         During July 1999, the Company disposed of a shopping center property in
             New Port Richey, FL. Cash proceeds from the disposition totaling
             $.5 million, together with an additional $5.5 million cash
             investment, were used to acquire an exchange shopping center
             property located in Greensboro, NC during September 1999. The sale
             of this property resulted in a gain of approximately $.3 million.

         During October 1999, the Company, in separate transactions, disposed of
             a shopping center property and a land parcel for an aggregate sale
             price of approximately $4.5 million, which resulted in a gain of
             approximately $1.3 million.

         During January 1998, the Company disposed of a property in Pinellas
             Park, FL. Proceeds from the disposition totaling approximately $2.3
             million, together with an additional $7.1 million cash investment,
             were used to acquire an exchange shopping center property located
             in Cranston, RI.

         During December 1998, the Company disposed of a vacant distribution
             center and adjacent facility located in O'Fallon, MO, which were
             acquired as part of the Venture transactions, for $10 million,
             which amount approximated their net book value.

15.      Transactions with Related Parties:

         The Company provides management services for shopping centers owned
             principally by affiliated entities and various real estate joint
             ventures in which certain stockholders of the Company have economic
             interests. Such services are performed pursuant to management
             agreements which provide for fees based upon a percentage of gross
             revenues from the properties and other direct costs incurred in
             connection with management of the centers. The Consolidated
             Statements of Income include management fee income from KC Holdings
             of approximately $.4 million, $.6 million and $.6 million for the
             years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

         During July 1999, the Company exercised its option and acquired 13
             shopping center properties from KC Holdings. The properties were
             acquired for an aggregate option price of approximately $39.8
             million, paid $15.7 million in shares of the Company's common stock
             (valued at $39.00 per share at July 1, 1999) and $24.1 million
             through the assumption of mortgage debt encumbering the properties.




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


         Reference is made to Notes 4, 5 and 11 for additional information
             regarding transactions with related parties.

16.      Commitments and Contingencies:

         The Company and its subsidiaries are engaged in the operation of
             shopping centers which are either owned or held under long-term
             leases which expire at various dates through 2087. The Company and
             its subsidiaries, in turn, lease premises in these centers to
             tenants pursuant to lease agreements which provide for terms
             ranging generally from 5 to 25 years and for annual minimum rentals
             plus incremental rents based on operating expense levels and
             tenants' sales volumes. Annual minimum rentals plus incremental
             rents based on operating expense levels comprised approximately 98%
             of total revenues from rental property for each of the three years
             ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

         The future minimum revenues from rental property under the terms of all
             noncancellable tenant leases, assuming no new or renegotiated
             leases are executed for such premises, for future years are
             approximately as follows (in millions): 2000, $345.5; 2001, $331.8;
             2002, $307.7; 2003, $280.3; 2004, $252.3 and thereafter, $2,154.0.

         Minimum rental payments under the terms of all noncancellable operating
             leases pertaining to its shopping center portfolio for future years
             are approximately as follows (in millions): 2000, $13.9; 2001,
             $13.0; 2002, $12.3; 2003, $11.2; 2004, $10.8 and thereafter,
             $164.5.

17.      Incentive Plans:

         The Company maintains a stock option plan (the "Plan") pursuant to
             which a maximum 6,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock may
             be issued for qualified and non-qualified options. Options granted
             under the Plan generally vest ratably over a three-year term,
             expire ten years from the date of grant and are exercisable at the
             market price on the date of grant, unless otherwise determined by
             the Board in its sole discretion. In addition, the Plan provides
             for the granting of certain options to each of the Company's
             non-employee directors (the "Independent Directors") and permits
             such Independent Directors to elect to receive deferred stock
             awards in lieu of directors' fees.

         Information with respect to stock options under the Plan for the years
             ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 is as follows:

                                                                Weighted Average
                                                                 Exercise Price
                                                      Shares        Per Share
                                                      ------        ---------

         Options outstanding, December 31, 1996      1,604,146        $23.01
              Exercised                               (179,750)       $20.94
              Granted                                  470,700        $31.72
                                                       -------
         Options outstanding, December 31, 1997      1,895,096        $25.37
              Exercised                               (150,766)       $20.99
              Granted                                1,023,500        $37.32
                                                     ---------
         Options outstanding, December 31, 1998      2,767,830        $30.03
              Exercised                               (320,781)       $27.54
              Granted                                  799,050        $32.33
                                                       -------
         Options outstanding, December 31, 1999      3,246,099        $30.84
                                                     =========




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


              Options exercisable -
                    December 31, 1997               1,126,093           $22.39
                                                    =========           ======
                    December 31, 1998               1,326,224           $24.13
                                                    =========           ======
                    December 31, 1999               1,605,886           $27.24
                                                    =========           ======


         The exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 1999
             range from $13.33 to $39.94 per share. The weighted average
             remaining contractual life for options outstanding as of December
             31, 1999 was approximately 7.7 years. Options to purchase
             1,507,120, 2,306,170 and 329,673 shares of the Company's common
             stock were available for issuance under the Plan at December 31,
             1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

         The Company has elected to adopt the disclosure-only provisions of
             Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 "Accounting for
             Stock-Based Compensation". Accordingly, no compensation cost has
             been recognized with regard to options granted under the Plan in
             the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. If stock-based
             compensation costs had been recognized based on the estimated fair
             values at the dates of grant for options awarded during 1999, 1998
             and 1997 net income and net income per common share for these
             calendar years would have been reduced by approximately $1.7
             million or $.03 per basic share, $1.4 million, or $.03 per basic
             share and $.7 million, or $.02 per basic share, respectively.

         These pro forma adjustments to net income and net income per basic
             common share assume fair values of each option grant estimated
             using the Black-Scholes option pricing formula. The more
             significant assumptions underlying the determination of such fair
             values for options granted during 1999, 1998 and 1997 include: (i)
             weighted average risk-free interest rates of 6.30%, 5.07% and
             6.18%, respectively; (ii) weighted average expected option lives of
             5.4 years, 5.6 years and 8.2 years, respectively; (iii) an expected
             volatility of 15.91%, 15.76% and 15.65%, respectively, and (iv) an
             expected dividend yield of 7.30%, 6.40% and 6.44%, respectively.
             The per share weighted average fair value at the dates of grant for
             options awarded during 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $2.53, $2.86 and
             $3.02, respectively.

         The Company maintains a 401(k) retirement plan covering substantially
             all officers and employees which permits participants to defer up
             to a maximum 10% of their eligible compensation. This deferred
             compensation, together with Company matching contributions which
             generally equal employee deferrals up to a maximum of 5%, is fully
             vested and funded as of December 31, 1999. Company contributions to
             the plan totaled less than $0.5 million for each of the years ended
             December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


18.      Supplemental Financial Information:

         The following represents the results of operations, expressed in
             thousands except per share amounts, for each quarter during years
             1999 and 1998.



         Interest paid during years 1999, 1998 and 1997 approximated $80.0
             million, $60.7 million and $29.9 million, respectively.

         Accounts and notes receivable in the accompanying Consolidated Balance
             Sheets are net of estimated unrecoverable amounts of approximately
             $3.8 million and $3.2 million, respectively, at December 31, 1999
             and 1998.

19.      Pro Forma Financial Information (Unaudited):

         As  discussed in Notes 2 and 14, the Company and certain of its
             subsidiaries acquired and disposed of interests in shopping center
             properties during 1999. The pro forma financial information set
             forth below is based upon the Company's historical Consolidated
             Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 1999 and
             1998, adjusted to give effect to these transactions as of January
             1, 1998.

         The pro forma financial information is presented for informational
             purposes only and may not be indicative of what actual results of
             operations would have been had the transactions occurred on January
             1, 1998, nor does it purport to represent the results of operations
             for future periods. (Amounts presented in millions, except per
             share figures.)




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


          Years ended December 31,                          1999          1998
                                                            ----          ----

          Revenues from rental property                    $451.3        $372.1
          Income before extraordinary items                $178.8        $136.1
          Net income                                       $178.8        $131.2

          Per common share:
              Income before extraordinary items:

                   Basic                                     $2.51         $2.21
                   Diluted                                   $2.49         $2.18
              Net income:
                   Basic                                     $2.51         $2.11
                   Diluted                                   $2.49         $2.09




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                For Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997








                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDARIES
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999

























Depreciation and amortization of the Company's investment in buildings and
improvements reflected in the statements of income is calculated over the
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

     Buildings.............15 to 39 years
     Improvements..........Terms of leases or useful lives, whichever is shorter

The aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes was approximately $2,850
million at December 31, 1999.

The changes in total real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997 are as follows:











                   Kimco Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries
         Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and
                           Preferred Stock Dividends
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1999


Income before extraordinary items                           $176,777,537

Add:
  Interest on indebtedness                                    81,667,211
  Amortization of debt related expenses                        2,512,274
  Portion of rents representative of the
    interest factor                                            6,360,643
                                                            ------------
                                                             267,317,665


Adjustment for equity share in partnerships                   (9,021,568)
                                                            ------------

  Income before extraordinary items, as adjusted            $258,296,097
                                                            ============

Combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends-
  Interest on indebtedness                                    86,073,607
  Preferred stock dividends                                   26,478,323
  Amortization of debt related expenses                        2,351,649
  Portion of rents representative of the interest factor       6,360,643
                                                            ------------

    Combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends    $121,264,222
                                                            ============

Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and
  Preferred Stock Dividends                                          2.1
                                                            ============





                   Kimco Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries
         Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and
                           Preferred Stock Dividends
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1999


Funds from Operations, Available to Common Stockholders     $221,402,575

Add:

  Interest on indebtedness                                    81,667,211
  Preferred stock dividends                                   26,478,323
  Portion of rents representative of the
    interest factor                                            6,360,643
                                                            -------------
                                                             335,908,752

Adjustment for equity share in partnerships                  (14,260,933)
                                                            -------------
    Funds from operations, as adjusted                      $321,647,819
                                                            =============

Combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends-
  Interest on indebtedness                                  $ 86,073,607
  Preferred stock dividends                                   26,478,323
  Portion of rents representative of the interest factor       6,360,643
                                                            ------------
    Combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends    $118,912,573
                                                            =============
Ratio of Funds from Operations to Combined Fixed Charges
  and Preferred Stock Dividends                                      2.7
                                                            =============








44 PLAZA, INC.
AUK REALTY CORPORATION
BRENDA PROPERTIES
CARROLWOOD COMMONS OUTPARCEL CORP.
EAST END OPERATING CORP.
FOX HILL II, INC.
FOX HILL POUGHKEEPSIE, INC.
GC ACQUISITION CORP.
HARVEST OF NASHVILLE, INC.
HARVEST PROPERTIES, INC.
KCH ACQUISITION, INC.
KCHGC, INC.
KIMSQUARE CHIPPEWA 460, INC.
KIMSQUARE GLEN BURNIE 474, INC.
KIMSQUARE HOMEWOOD 461, INC.
KIMCOAST OF WARREN, INC.
KIMCADE, INC.
KIMCAL CORPORATION
KIMCO 118 O/P, INC.
KIMCO 120 O/P, INC.
KIMCO 413B, INC.
KIMCO 420, INC.
KIMCO 632, INC.
KIMCO ACADIANA 670, INC.
KIMCO ALTAMONTE SPRINGS 636, INC.
KIMCO ANAHEIM, INC.
KIMCO AUGUSTA 635, INC.
KIMCO AUSTIN 589, INC.
KIMCO AUTOVENTURE, INC.
KIMCO BATON ROUGE 666, INC.
KIMCO BLACKWOOD 644, INC.
KIMCO BT CORP. KIMCO BUCKS 651, INC.
KIMCO BRADENTON 698, INC.
KIMCO BUCKS 651, INC.
KIMCO BUSTLETON 612, INC.
KIMCO CARY 696, INC.
KIMCO CASA PALOMA 592, INC.
KIMCO CAMBRIDGE 242, INC.
KIMCO CANTON 182, INC.
KIMCO CARROLLWOOD 664, INC.
KIMCO CEDAR HILL CROSSING 712, INC.
KIMCO CENTEREACH 605, INC.
KIMCO CHARLESTON 631, INC.
KIMCO CHARLOTTE 192, INC.
KIMCO CINNAMINSON 645, INC.
KIMCO CLAWSON 143, INC.
KIMCO COLUMBUS, INC.
KIMCO CONCOURSE, INC.
KIMCO CORAL SPRINGS 623, INC.
KIMCO COTTMAN 294, INC.
KIMCO CRANSTON 691, INC.




KIMCO CROSS CREEK 607, INC.
KIMCO DECATUR 797, INC.
KIMCO DENVER 680, INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF MCINTOSH SARASOTA
KIMCO DEV. OF MENTOR, INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF MUSKEGON, INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF NEW KENSINGTON, INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF SEMINOLE SANFORD, INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF TROY, INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF TYVOLA, INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF WATERLOO AKRON, INC.
KIMCO DOVER 501, INC.
KIMCO DOWNERS PARK 764, INC.
KIMCO DURHAM 639, INC.
KIMCO EAGLEDALE, INC.
KIMCO EAST BANK 689, INC.
KIMCO ELEVEN MTG. CORP.
KIMCO ENFIELD 611, INC.
KIMCO ENGELWOOD 683, INC.
KIMCO FARMINGTON 146, INC.
KIMCO FT. PIERCE 147, INC.
KIMCO FLORENCE 646, INC.
KIMCO FORUM 717, INC.
KIMCO GALLERY 660, INC.
KIMCO GARLAND 642, INC.
KIMCO GATES 149, INC.
KIMCO GENEVA 822, INC.
KIMCO GREAT BARRINGTON 609, INC.
KIMCO GREEN ORCHARD 606, INC.
KIMCO GREENRIDGE 674, INC.
KIMCO GREENVILLE 676, INC.
KIMCO HAYDEN PLAZA 604, INC.
KIMCO HAZELWOOD, INC.
KIMCO HOUMA 274, LLC
KIMCO JOPLIN 707, INC.
KIMCO JUAN TABO PLAZA 591, INC.
KIMCO KENT 637, INC.
KIMCO KISSIMMEE 613, INC.
KIMCO KML, INC.
KIMCO LAFAYETTE 671, INC.
KIMCO LAFAYETTE MARKET PLACE 697, INC.
KIMCO LAKEWOOD 684, INC.
KIMCO LANDMARK STATION 275, INC.
KIMCO LARGO 136, INC.
KIMCO LARGO 139, INC.
KIMCO LAUREL, INC.
KIMCO LAUREL 173, INC.
KIMCO LEWISVILLE 568, INC.
KIMCO LEXINGTON 140, INC.
KIMCO LIVONIA, INC.
KIMCO LUBBOCK 678, INC.
KIMCO MANASSAS 672, INC.




KIMCO MELBOURNE 616, INC.
KIMCO MANAGEMENT OF NEW JERSEY
KIMCO MANAGEMENT OF MARYLAND, INC.
KIMCO MAPLEWOOD 673, INC.
KIMCO MESA 679, INC.
KIMCO MIAMISBURG 714, INC.
KIMCO MORRISVILLE 648, INC.
KIMCO MOUNTAINSIDE PHOENIX 647, INC.
KIMCO MT. DORA 677, INC.
KIMCO NORTH BRUNSWICK 617, INC.
KIMCO NORTH RIVERS 692, INC.
KIMCO NORTHWEST SQUARE 597, INC.
KIMCO OCALA 665, INC.
KIMCO OPPORTUNITY, INC.
KIMCO ORLANDO 638, INC.
KIMCO PALMER PARK 654, INC.
KIMCO PEPPERTREE 604, INC.
KIMCO PEPPERTREE, INC.
KIMCO PHILMED, INC.
KIMCO PLANO 768, INC.
KIMCO PORT WASHINGTON 675, INC.
KIMCO PROPERTIES, INC.
KIMCO PROPS. NASHVILLE, INC.
KIMCO PURCHASING AGENCY CORPORATION
KIMCO QUINCEY PLACE 685, INC.
KIMCO RALEIGH 177, INC.
KIMCO RALPH'S CORNER 659, INC.
KIMCO REGENCY PLAZA 207, INC.
KIMCO RICHMOND 800, INC.
KIMCO RIDGEWOOD 615, INC.
KIMCO RIVERGATE 588, INC.
KIMCO RIVERWALK 595, INC.
KIMCO ROCKINGHAM 620, INC.
KIMCO SACRAMENTO 788, INC.
KIMCO SAND LAKE 618, INC.
KIMCO SANTEE 705, INC.
KIMCO SARASOTA 378, INC.
KIMCO SAVANNAH 185, INC.
KIMCO SELECT TREXLER 663, INC.
KIMCO SHARONVILLE 276, INC.
KIMCO SHARPSTOWN 719, INC.
KIMCO SOUTH MIAMI 634, INC.
KIMCO SOUTH PARKER 682, INC.
KIMCO SOUTHDALE 757, INC.
KIMCO SOUTHINGTON 610, INC.
KIMCO SPRING CREEK 686, INC.
KIMCO ST. CHARLES, INC.
KIMCO STOCKTON 324, INC.
KIMCO TALLAHASSEE 715, INC.
KIMCO TITLE CORPORATION
KIMCO TOWSON 621, INC.




KIMCO TROLLEY STATION 594, INC.
KIMCO WARRINGTON 652, INC.
KIMCO WATERBURY 608, INC.
KIMCO WEST MELBOURNE 668, INC.
KIMCO WEST PALM BEACH 633, INC.
KIMCO WESTERVILLE 178, INC.
KIMCO WESTMONT 614, INC.
KIMCO WHITE LAKE 667, INC.
KIMCO WM148, INC.
KIMCO WOODFOREST 655, INC.
KIMCO YONKERS 801, INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF WOOSTER, INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF 31 SOUTH, INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF AIKEN, INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF GASTONIA, INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF GIANTS, INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF GREENWOOD OP. INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF HAMPTON BAYS, INC.
KIMCO DEV. OF KETTERING, INC.
KIMCO OF CHERRY HILL, INC.
KIMCO OF GEORGIA, INC.
KIMCO OF HERMITAGE, INC.
KIMCO OF HICKORY HOLLOW, INC.
KIMCO OF HUNTINGTON, INC.
KIMCO OF ILLINOIS, INC.
KIMCO OF LAKEWORTH, INC.
KIMCO OF MILLERODE, INC.
KIMCO OF NANUET, INC.
KIMCO OF NEW ENGLAND, INC.
KIMCO OF NEW YORK, INC.
KIMCO OF NORTH CAROLINA, INC.
KIMCO OF NORTH MIAMI, INC.
KIMCO OF OAKVIEW, INC.
KIMCO OF OHIO, INC.
KIMCO OF PENNSYLVANIA, INC.
KIMCO OF RACINE, INC.
KIMCO OF SPRINGBORO PIKE, INC.
KIMCO OF SPRINGFIELD, INC.
KIMCO OF SPRINGFIELD 625, INC.
KIMCO OF STUART 619, INC.
KIMCO OF SYOSSET, INC.
KIMCO OF TAMPA, INC.
KIMCO OF TENNESEE, INC.
KIMCO OF UTAH, INC.
KRC ACQUISITION CORP.
KRC ALTON 802, INC.
KRC AMARILLO 879, INC.
KRC ARLINGTON 866, INC.
KRC ARLINGTON HEIGHTS 896, INC.
KRC AURORA 890, INC.
KRC BELLEVILLE 808, INC.




KRC BRIDGEVIEW 894, INC.
KRC BRIDGETON 875, INC.
KRC CARBONDALE 848, INC.
KRC CHAMPAIGN 870, INC.
KRC CHRISTY 804, INC.
KRC CRESTHILL 868, INC.
KRC CRYSTAL CITY 850, INC.
KRC CRYSTAL LAKE 891, INC.
KRC CORPUS CHRISTI 878, INC.
KRC CREVE COEUR 830, INC.
KRC CRESTWOOD 887, INC.
KRC DUBUQUE 847, INC.
KRC ELGIN 860, INC.
KRC FAIRVIEW HEIGHTS 881, INC.
KRC FOREST PARK 862, INC.
KRC INDEPENDENCE 806, INC.
KRC IRVING 867, INC.
KRC JOPLIN 889, INC.
KRC KIRKWOOD 803, INC.
KRC LEMAY 834, INC.
KRC MACARTHUR BLVD. 799, INC.
KRC MERRILLVILLE 849, INC.
KRC MIDWEST CITY 857, INC.
KRC MISHAWAKA 895, INC.
KRC MUNDELIEN 874, INC.
KRC NILES 865, INC.
KRC NORTH KOSTNER 853, INC.
KRC NORTH ROCKWELL 882, INC.
KRC NORRIDGE 845, INC.
KRC O'FALLON DC 861, INC.
KRC ORLAND PARK 809, INC.
KRC OVERLAND PARK 805, INC.
KRC PADUCAH 795, INC.
KRC PETERSON AVE 893, INC.
KRC PULASKI 841, INC.
KRC ROCKFORD 796, INC.
KRC ST. CHARLES 798, INC.
KRC ST. JOSEPH 880, INC.
KRC STATE AVENUE 807, INC.
KRC SCHAUMBERG 855, INC.
KRC SHAWNEE 884, INC.
KRC SOUTHBEND 883, INC.
KRC SOUTH SHIELDS 871, INC.
KRC SPRINGFIELD 869, INC.
KRC STREAMWOOD 897, INC.
KRC TULSA 859, INC.
KRC WAKEGAN 886, INC.
KRCV CORP.
KSI CONVENIENCE, LLC
KSI MORTGAGE INVESTMENT, LLC




KIMSWORTH INC.
KIMSWORTH OF ALABAMA, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF ARIZONA, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF ARKANSAS, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF COLORADO, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF FLORIDA, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF GEORGIA, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF ILLINOIS, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF INDIANA, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF IOWA, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF KANSAS, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF LOUISIANA, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF MARYLAND, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF MICHIGAN, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF MINNESOTA, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF MISSISSIPPI, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF MISSOURI, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF MONTANA, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF NEBRASKA, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF NEW JERSEY, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF NEW MEXICO, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF OHIO, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF PENNSYLVANIA, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF SOUTH CAROLINA, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF TEXAS, INC.
KIMSWORTH OF VIRGINIA, INC.
KIMVEN CORPORATION
KIMZADD, INC.
KIMZAY BENTON HARBOR, INC.
KIMZAY BLOOMINGTON, INC.
KIMZAY CORPORATION
KIMZAY GEORGIA, INC.
KIMZAY GREENWOOD, INC.
KIMZAY MISSOURI, INC.
KIMZAY OF CHARLOTTE, INC.
KIMZAY OF FLORIDA, INC.
KIMZAY OF ILLINOIS, INC.
KIMZAY WINSTON-SALEM, INC.
KIMZFERN, INC.
KIMZGATE, INC.
KIMZLAR, INC.
KIMZWOOD, INC.
KIR AMARILLO 879, INC.
KIR ARBORETUM CROSSING 564, INC.
KIR BELLINGHAM 542, INC.
KIR CITYPLACE MARKET 565, INC.
KIR COPIAGUE 545, INC.
KIR EAST WICHITA 814, INC.
KIR FAIRFAX 547, INC.
KIR GLENDALE 549, INC.
KIR GARLAND 566, INC.




KIR GREENSBORO 550, INC.
KIR JOPLIN 889, INC.
KIR MANCHESTER 872, INC.
KIR MINNETONKA 552, INC.
KIR OAK PARK COMMONS 596, INC.
KIR OXNARD 556, INC.
KIR RICHARDSON 572, INC.
KIR SMOKETOWN STATION 562, INC.
KIR WEST WICHITA 815, INC.
KIR WESTGATE MARKET 561, INC.
MANHASSET VENTURE, LLC
MANMORT, INC.
MANETTO HILLS ASSOCIATES, INC.
MASSAPEQUA KSI VENTURE, LLC
MC KIM CORP.
MC MORT CORP.
MILMAR REALTY CORPORATION
NORBER CORP.
PASSIVE INVESTORS, INC.
PERMELYNN CORPORATION
PERMELYNN OF BRIDGEHAMPTON, INC.
PERMELYNN OF GEORGIA, INC.
PERMELYNN OF WESTCHESTER, INC.
REDEL CONSTRUCTION CORP.
RICH HILL, INC.
SANNDREL INC.
SANNDREL OF HARRISBURG, INC.
SANNDREL OF PENNSYLVANIA, INC.
SANNDREL OF VIRGINIA, INC.
ST. ANDREWS SHOPPING CENTER CORP. OF CHARLESTON
THE PRICE REIT, INC.
THE KIMCO CORPORATION
WOODSO CORP.






