10-K


b412114_10k.htm

FORM 10-K

Prepared and filed by St Ives Burrups

Click Here to Contents

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.  20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL    REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended December  31, 2005

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO    SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from  ____________ to ____________

Commission file  number  1-10899

Kimco    Realty Corporation

(Exact    name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Indicate by  check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in  Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes

No

Indicate by  check mark whether the Registrant (i) has filed all reports required to be  filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the  preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was  required to file such reports), and (ii) has been subject to such filing  requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes

No

Indicate by  check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of  Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best  of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements  incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to  this Form 10-K.

Indicate by  check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in rule  12b-2 of the Act.) Yes

No

Indicate by  check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12-b-2  of the Exchange Act).  Yes

No

The aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was  approximately $6.9 billion based upon the closing price on the New York Stock  Exchange for such stock on January 31, 2006.

(APPLICABLE ONLY TO  CORPORATE REGISTRANTS)

Indicate  the number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant’s classes of common  stock, as of the latest practicable date.

228,216,802 shares as of  January 31, 2006.

Page 1 of 232

Click Here to Contents

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY  REFERENCE

Part III incorporates certain information by reference to the  Registrant’s definitive proxy statement to be filed with respect to the Annual  Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held on May 18, 2006.

Index to Exhibits begins on page 57.


Click Here to Cover



Back to Contents

PART I

FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS

This annual report on Form 10-K, together with other statements and  information publicly disseminated by Kimco Realty Corporation (the “Company” or  “Kimco”) contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of  Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   The Company intends such forward-looking statements to be covered by the  safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private  Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes this statement for  purposes of complying with these safe harbor provisions.  Forward-looking statements, which are based  on certain assumptions and describe the Company’s future plans, strategies and  expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words “believe,”  “expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “estimate,”
“project” or similar expressions.  You should not rely on forward-looking  statements since they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other  factors which are, in some cases, beyond the Company’s control and which could  materially affect actual results, performances or achievements.  Factors which may cause actual results to  differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to,  (i) general economic and local real estate conditions, (ii) the inability of  major tenants to continue paying their rent obligations due to bankruptcy,  insolvency or general downturn in their business, (iii) financing risks, such  as the inability to obtain equity or debt financing on favorable terms, (iv)  changes in governmental laws and regulations, (v) the level and volatility of  interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, (vi) the availability of  suitable acquisition opportunities and (vii) increases in operating costs.  Accordingly, there is
no assurance that the  Company’s expectations will be realized.

SHARE SPLIT

As of August 23, 2005, the Company effected a two-for-one split (the “Stock Split”) of the Company’s common  stock in the form of a stock dividend paid to stockholders of record on August  8, 2005.  All common share and per  common share data included in this annual report on Form 10-K and the  accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto have been  adjusted to reflect this Stock Split.

Item 1.     Business

General

Kimco Realty  Corporation, a Maryland corporation, is one of the nation’s largest owners and  operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers.  The Company is a self-administered real  estate investment trust (“REIT”) and manages its properties through present  management, which has owned and operated neighborhood and community shopping  centers for over 45 years.  The Company  has not engaged, nor does it expect to retain, any REIT advisors in connection  with the operation of its properties.   As of February 6, 2006, the Company had interests in 1,046 properties,  totaling approximately 135.5 million square feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”) located in 44 states, Canada and Mexico.  In addition, the Company manages 11  properties totaling 1.7 million square feet of GLA on behalf of third party  owners.  The Company’s ownership  interests in real estate consist of its
consolidated portfolio and in  portfolios where the Company owns an economic interest, such as: Kimco Income  REIT (“KIR”), the RioCan Venture (“RioCan Venture”), Kimco Retail Opportunity  Portfolio (“KROP”) and other properties or portfolios where the Company also  retains management (See Recent Developments – Operating Real Estate Joint  Venture Investments and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial  Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).  The Company believes its portfolio of  neighborhood and community shopping center properties is the largest (measured  by GLA) currently held by any publicly-traded REIT.

The Company’s executive offices are located at 3333 New Hyde Park Road,  New Hyde Park, New York 11042-0020 and its telephone number is (516)  869-9000.  Unless the context indicates  otherwise, the term the “Company” as used herein is intended to include  subsidiaries of the Company.

The Company’s web site is located at

http://www.Kimcorealty.com

.  On the Company’s web site you can obtain,  free of charge, a copy of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on  Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or  furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934, as  amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material  electronically with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission  (the “SEC”).


Back to Contents

History

The Company began  operations through its predecessor, The Kimco Corporation, which was organized  in 1966 upon the contribution of several shopping center properties owned by  its principal stockholders.  In 1973,  these principals formed the Company as a Delaware corporation, and in 1985, the  operations of The Kimco Corporation were merged into the Company.  The Company completed its initial public  stock offering (the “IPO”) in November 1991, and commencing with its taxable  year which began January 1, 1992, elected to qualify as a REIT in accordance  with Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended  (the “Code”).  In 1994, the Company  reorganized as a Maryland corporation.

The Company’s growth through its first 15 years resulted primarily from  the ground-up development and construction of its shopping centers.  By 1981, the Company had assembled a  portfolio of 77 properties that provided an established source of income and  positioned the Company for an expansion of its asset base.  At that time, the Company revised its growth  strategy to focus on the acquisition of existing shopping centers and creating  value through the redevelopment and re-tenanting of those properties.  As a result of this strategy, substantially  all of the operating shopping centers added to the Company’s portfolio since  1981 have been through the acquisition of existing shopping centers.

During 1998, the Company, through a merger transaction, completed the  acquisition of The Price REIT, Inc., a Maryland corporation, (the “Price REIT”).  Prior to the merger, Price REIT was a  self-administered and self-managed equity REIT that was primarily focused on  the acquisition, development, management and redevelopment of large retail  community shopping center properties concentrated in the western part of the  United States.  In connection with the  merger, the Company acquired interests in 43 properties, located in 17  states.  With the completion of the  Price REIT merger, the Company expanded its presence in certain western states  including California, Arizona and Washington.   In addition, Price REIT had strong ground-up development  capabilities.  These development  capabilities, coupled with the Company’s own construction management expertise,  provide the Company, on a selective basis, the ability to
pursue ground-up  development opportunities.

Also during 1998, the Company formed KIR, an entity in which the  Company held a 99.99% limited partnership interest.  KIR was established for the purpose of investing in high-quality  properties financed primarily with individual non-recourse mortgages.  The Company believed that these properties  were appropriate for financing with greater leverage than the Company  traditionally used.  At the time of  formation, the Company contributed 19 properties to KIR, each encumbered by an  individual non-recourse mortgage.   During 1999, KIR sold a significant interest in the partnership to  institutional investors.  As of December  31, 2005, the Company holds a 43.3% non-controlling limited partnership  interest in KIR and accounts for its investment in KIR under the equity method  of accounting.  (See Recent Developments  – Operating Real Estate Joint Venture Investments and Note 7 of the Notes to  Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

The Company has expanded its management
    business through the establishment of other various institutional joint venture
    programs in which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging from
    generally 5% to 30%.  The Company earns management fees,  acquisition
    fees, disposition fees and promoted interests based on value creation. (See
    Recent
    Developments – Operating
    Real Estate Joint Venture Investments and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

In connection with the Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999 (the “RMA”)  which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company is now permitted to  participate in activities which it was precluded from previously in order to  maintain its qualification as a REIT, so long as these activities are conducted  in entities which elect to be treated as taxable subsidiaries under the Code,  subject to certain limitations.  As  such, the Company, through its taxable REIT subsidiaries, is engaged in various  retail real estate related opportunities, including (i) merchant building  through its wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiary, Kimco Developers, Inc.  (“KDI”), which is primarily engaged in the ground-up development of  neighborhood and community shopping centers and subsequent sale thereof upon  completion (see Recent Developments – Ground-Up Developments), (ii) retail real  estate advisory and disposition services, which primarily focus on
leasing and  disposition strategies for real estate property interests of both healthy and  distressed retailers and (iii) acting as an agent or principal in connection  with tax deferred exchange transactions.   The Company will consider other investments through taxable REIT  subsidiaries should suitable opportunities arise.

The Company has continued its geographic expansion with investments in  Canada and Mexico. During October 2001, the Company formed the RioCan Venture  with RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust (“RioCan”, Canada’s largest publicly  traded REIT measured by GLA) in


Back to Contents

which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, to acquire retail  properties and development projects in Canada.   The Company accounts for this investment under the equity method of  accounting.  The Company has expanded  its presence in Canada with the establishment of other joint venture  arrangements.  During 2002, the Company,  along with various strategic co-investment partners, began acquiring operating  and development properties located in Mexico (see Recent Developments – Operating  Real Estate Joint Venture Investments and Notes 3 and 7 of the Notes to  Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).

In addition, the Company continues to capitalize on its established  expertise in retail real estate by establishing other ventures in which the  Company owns a smaller equity interest and provides management, leasing and  operational support for those properties.   The Company also provides preferred equity capital for real estate  entrepreneurs and provides real estate capital and advisory services to both  healthy and distressed retailers.  The  Company also makes selective investments in secondary market opportunities  where a security or other investment is, in management’s judgment, priced below  the value of the underlying real estate.

Investment and Operating Strategy

The  Company’s investment objective has been to increase cash flow, current income  and, consequently, the value of its existing portfolio of properties, and to  seek continued growth through (i) the strategic re-tenanting, renovation and  expansion of its existing centers and (ii) the selective acquisition of  established income-producing real estate properties and properties requiring  significant re-tenanting and redevelopment, primarily in neighborhood and  community shopping centers in geographic regions in which the Company presently  operates.  The Company will consider  investments in other real estate sectors and in geographic markets where it  does not presently operate should suitable opportunities arise.

The Company’s neighborhood and community shopping center properties are  designed to attract local area customers and typically are anchored by a  discount department store, a supermarket or a drugstore tenant offering  day-to-day necessities rather than high-priced luxury items.  The Company may either purchase or lease  income-producing properties in the future, and may also participate with other  entities in property ownership through partnerships, joint ventures or similar  types of co-ownership.  Equity  investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and/or other  indebtedness.  Financing or other  indebtedness may be incurred simultaneously or subsequently in connection with  such investments.  Any such financing or  indebtedness will have priority over the Company’s equity interest in such  property. The Company may make loans to joint ventures in which it may or may  not participate.

In addition to property or equity ownership, the Company provides  property management services for fees relating to the management, leasing,  operation, supervision and maintenance of real estate properties.

While the Company has historically held its properties for long-term  investment, and accordingly has placed strong emphasis on its ongoing program of  regular maintenance, periodic renovation and capital improvement, it is  possible that properties in the portfolio may be sold, in whole or in part, as  circumstances warrant, subject to REIT qualification rules.

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through  diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties and a  large tenant base.  At December 31,  2005, the Company’s single largest neighborhood and community shopping center  accounted for only 1.2% of the Company’s annualized base rental revenues and  only 0.8% of the Company’s total shopping center GLA.  At December 31, 2005, the Company’s five largest tenants were The  Home Depot, TJX Companies, Sears Holdings, Kohl’s, and Royal Ahold, which  represent approximately 3.6%, 3.2%, 2.7%, 2.5% and 2.0%, respectively, of the  Company’s annualized base rental revenues, including the proportionate share of  base rental revenues from properties in which the Company has less than a 100%  economic interest.

In connection with the RMA, which became effective January 1, 2001, the  Company has expanded its investment and operating strategy to include new real  estate related opportunities which the Company was precluded from previously in  order to maintain its qualification as a REIT.   As such, the Company, has established a merchant building business  through its KDI subsidiary.  KDI makes  selective acquisitions of land parcels for the ground-up development of  neighborhood and community shopping centers and subsequent sale thereof upon  completion.  Additionally, the Company  has developed a business which specializes in providing capital, real estate  advisory services and disposition services of real estate controlled by both  healthy and distressed and/or bankrupt retailers.  These services may include assistance with inventory and fixture  liquidation in connection with going-out-of-business sales.  The Company may participate with
other  entities in providing


Back to Contents

these advisory services through partnerships, joint ventures or other  co-ownership arrangements. The Company, as a regular part of its investment  strategy, will continue to actively seek investments for its taxable REIT  subsidiaries.

The Company emphasizes equity real estate investments including  preferred equity investments, but may, at its discretion, invest in mortgages,  other real estate interests and other investments. The mortgages in which the  Company may invest may be either first mortgages, junior mortgages or other  mortgage-related securities.  The  Company provides mortgage financing to retailers with significant real estate  assets, in the form of lease- hold interests or fee-owned properties, where the  Company believes the underlying value of the real estate collateral is in  excess of its loan balance.  In  addition, the Company will acquire debt instruments at a discount in the  secondary market where the Company believes the real estate value of the  enterprise is substantially greater than the current value.

The Company may legally invest in the securities of other issuers, for  the purpose, among others, of exercising control over such entities, subject to  the gross income and asset tests necessary for REIT qualification.  The Company may, on a selective basis,  acquire all or substantially all securities or assets of other REITs or similar  entities where such investments would be consistent with the Company’s  investment policies.  In any event, the  Company does not intend that its investments in securities will require it to  register as an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940.

The Company has authority to offer shares of capital stock or other  senior securities in exchange for property and to repurchase or otherwise  reacquire its common stock or any other securities and may engage in such  activities in the future.  At all times,  the Company intends to make investments in such a manner as to be consistent  with the requirements of the Code to qualify as a REIT unless, because of  circumstances or changes in the Code (or in Treasury Regulations), the Board of  Directors determines that it is no longer in the best interests of the Company  to qualify as a REIT.

The Company’s policies with respect to the aforementioned activities  may be reviewed and modified from time to time by the Company’s Board of  Directors without the vote of the Company’s stockholders.

Capital Strategy and Resources

The  Company intends to operate with and maintain a conservative capital structure  with a level of debt to total market capitalization of approximately 50% or  less.  As of December 31, 2005, the  Company’s level of debt to total market capitalization was 26%.  In addition, the Company intends to maintain  strong debt service coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios as part of its  commitment to maintaining its investment-grade debt ratings.  It is management’s intention that the  Company continually have access to the capital resources necessary to expand  and develop its business.  Accordingly,  the Company may, from time to time, seek to obtain funds through additional  equity offerings, unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage/construction loan  financings and other capital alternatives in a manner consistent with its  intention to operate with a conservative debt structure.

Since the completion of the Company’s IPO in 1991, the Company has  utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source of capital  for its expansion needs.  Since the IPO,  the Company has completed additional offerings of its public unsecured debt and  equity, raising in the aggregate over $4.2 billion for the purposes of, among  other things, repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and  community shopping centers, funding ground-up development projects, expanding  and improving properties in the portfolio and other investments.

During July 2005, the Company established a new $850.0 million  unsecured credit facility, (the “Credit Facility”) which is scheduled to expire  in July 2008. This Credit Facility replaces the Company’s $500.0 million  unsecured credit facility, which was scheduled to expire in June 2006. Under  the Credit Facility, funds may be borrowed for general corporate purposes,  including the funding of (i) property acquisitions, (ii) development and  redevelopment costs and (iii) any short-term working capital requirements.  Interest on borrowings under the Credit  Facility accrue at a spread (currently 0.45%) to LIBOR and fluctuates in  accordance with changes in the Company’s senior debt ratings.  As part of this Credit Facility, the Company  has a competitive bid option whereby the Company may auction up to $425.0  million of its requested borrowings to the bank group.  This competitive bid option provides the  Company the
opportunity to obtain pricing below the currently stated spread to  LIBOR of 0.45%.  A facility fee of  0.125% per annum is payable quarterly in arrears. In addition, the Company has  a $200.0 million sub-limit which provides it the opportunity to borrow in  alternative currencies such as Pounds Sterling, Japanese Yen or Euros.  Pursuant to the terms of the Credit  Facility, the Company, among other things, is (i) subject to maintaining  certain maximum leverage ratios on both


Back to Contents

unsecured senior corporate debt and minimum unencumbered asset and  equity levels, and (ii) restricted from paying dividends in amounts that exceed  95% of funds from operations, as defined.   As of December 31, 2005, there was $200.0 million outstanding under this  credit facility.

During September 2004, the Company entered into a three-year Canadian  denominated (“CAD”) $150.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility with a  group of banks.  This facility bears  interest at the CDOR Rate, as defined, plus 0.50% and was scheduled to expire  in September 2007.  During March 2005,  this facility was increased to CAD $250.0 million and the scheduled maturity  date was extended to March 2008.  During  January 2006, the facility was further amended to reduce the borrowing spread  to 0.45% and to modify the covenant package to conform to the Company’s $850.0  million U.S. Credit Facility.  Proceeds  from this facility will be used for general corporate purposes including the  funding of Canadian denominated investments.   As of December 31, 2005, there was CAD $110.0 million (approximately USD  $94.7 million) outstanding under this facility.

During May 2005, the Company entered into a three-year Mexican Peso  denominated (“MXP”) 500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility.  This facility bears interest at the TIIE  Rate, as defined, plus 1.00% and is scheduled to expire in May 2008.  Proceeds from this facility will be used to  fund peso denominated investments.  As  of December 31, 2005, there was MXP 500.0 million (approximately USD $46.5  million) outstanding under this facility.

The Company also has a medium-term notes (“MTN”) program pursuant to  which it may, from time to time, offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for  any general corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity  requirements in its business, including property acquisitions, development and  redevelopment costs, and (ii) managing the Company’s debt maturities.  As of December 31, 2005, the Company had  $250.0 million available for issuance under the MTN program.  (See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

In addition to the public debt and equity markets as capital sources,  the Company may, from time-to-time, obtain mortgage financing on selected  properties and construction loans to partially fund the capital needs of  KDI.  As of December 31, 2005, the  Company’s consolidated property portfolio had over 380 unencumbered property  interests representing over 87% of the Company’s net operating income.

During July 2005, the Company filed a shelf registration on Form S-3  for up to $1.0 billion of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares,  common stock and common stock warrants.   As of December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately $750.0 million  available for issuance under this shelf registration statement.

The Company anticipates that cash flows from operating activities will  continue to provide adequate capital to fund its operating and administrative  expenses, regular debt service obligations and the payment of dividends in  accordance with REIT requirements in both the short term and long term.  In addition, the Company anticipates that  cash on hand, free cash flow generated by the operating business, availability  under its revolving credit facilities, issuance of equity and public debt, as  well as other debt and equity alternatives, will provide the necessary capital  required by the Company.  Cash flow from  operating activities (see Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows) was $410.8  million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $365.2 million for  the year ended December 31, 2004.

Competition

As one of the  original participants in the growth of the shopping center industry and one of  the nation’s largest owners and operators of neighborhood and community  shopping centers, the Company has established close relationships with a large  number of major national and regional retailers and maintains a broad network  of industry contacts.  Management is  associated with and/or actively participates in many shopping center and REIT  industry organizations.  Notwithstanding  these relationships, there are numerous regional and local commercial  developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors  who compete with the Company for the acquisition of properties and other  investment opportunities and in seeking tenants who will lease space in the  Company’s properties.

Inflation and Other Business Issues

Many  of the Company’s leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse  impact of inflation.  Such provisions  include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of additional rent  calculated as a percentage of tenants’ gross sales above predetermined  thresholds (“Percentage Rents”), which generally increase as prices rise, and/or  escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of  the leases.  Such escalation clauses  include increases in the consumer price index or similar inflation indices.  In addition, many of the Company’s leases  are


Back to Contents

for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to  increase rents upon renewal to market rates.   Most of the Company’s leases require tenants to reimburse the Company  for their allocable share of operating expenses, including common area  maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing the  Company’s exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from  inflation.  The Company periodically  evaluates its exposure to short-term interest rates and fluctuations in foreign  currency exchange rates and will, from time-to-time, enter into interest rate  protection agreements and foreign currency hedge agreements which mitigate, but  do not eliminate, the effect of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate  debt and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

Operating Practices

Nearly  all operating functions, including leasing, legal, construction, data  processing, maintenance, finance and accounting are administered by the Company  from its executive offices in New Hyde Park, New York and supported by the  Company’s regional offices.  The Company  believes it is critical to have a management presence in its principal areas of  operation and accordingly, the Company maintains regional offices in various  cities throughout the United States.  A  total of 488 persons are employed at the Company’s executive and regional  offices.

The Company’s regional offices are generally staffed by a manager and  the support personnel necessary to both function as local representatives for  leasing and promotional purposes and to complement the corporate office’s  administrative and accounting efforts and to ensure that property inspection  and maintenance objectives are achieved.   The regional offices are important in reducing the time necessary to  respond to the needs of the Company’s tenants.   Leasing and maintenance personnel from the corporate office also conduct  regular inspections of each shopping center.

The Company also employs a total of 15 persons at several of its larger  properties in order to more effectively administer its maintenance and security  responsibilities.

Qualification as a REIT

The  Company has elected, commencing with its taxable year which began January 1,  1992, to qualify as a REIT under the Code.   If, as the Company believes, it is organized and operates in such a  manner so as to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT under the Code, the  Company generally will not be subject to federal income tax, provided that  distributions to its stockholders equal at least the amount of its REIT taxable  income as defined under the Code.

In connection with the RMA, which became effective January 1, 2001, the  Company is now permitted to participate in activities which the Company was  precluded from previously in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, so  long as these activities are conducted in entities which elect to be treated as  taxable subsidiaries under the Code, subject to certain limitations.  The primary activities conducted by the  Company in its taxable REIT subsidiaries during 2005 included, but were not  limited to, (i) the ground-up development of shopping center properties and  subsequent sale thereof upon completion (see Recent Developments – Ground-Up  Developments), (ii) real estate advisory and disposition services, and (iii)  acting as an agent or principal in connection with tax deferred exchange  transactions.  As such, the Company was  subject to federal and state income taxes on the income from these activities.

Risk Factors

Set forth  below are the material risks associated with the purchase and ownership of the  Company’s equity and debt securities.   As an owner of real estate, the Company is subject to certain business  risks arising in connection with the underlying real estate, including, among  other factors, including the following:

i) Loss of the Company’s tax status as a real estate investment trust  would have significant adverse consequences to the Company and the value of its  securities.

The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax  purposes under the Code commencing with our taxable year beginning  January 1, 1992. The Company currently intend to operate so as to qualify  as a REIT and believe that the Company’s current organization and method of  operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Code to  enable us to qualify as a REIT.

Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical  and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative  interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances  not entirely within the Company’s control may affect the Company’s ability to  qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of  the Company’s gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources,  and the Company must satisfy a number of requirements regarding the composition  of the Company’s assets. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders  aggregating annually at least 90% of the Company’s net taxable income,  excluding capital gains. In addition, new legislation, regulations,  administrative


Back to Contents

interpretations or court decisions
    could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as
    a REIT, the federal income tax consequences of such qualification or the
    desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Although
    the Company believes that it is organized and has operated in such a manner,
    the Company can give no assurance that it has qualified or will continue
    to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes.

If the Company loses its REIT status, it will face serious tax  consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payment  of principal and interest on the debt securities the Company issues and to pay  dividends to Company stockholders. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT:

In addition, if the Company fails to qualify as a REIT, it would not be  required to make distributions to stockholders.

As a result of all these factors, the Company’s failure to qualify as a  REIT also could impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital,  and would adversely affect the value of the Company’s securities.

ii) Adverse market conditions and competition may impede the Company’s  ability to generate sufficient income to pay expenses and maintain properties.

The economic performance and value of the Company’s properties are  subject to all of the risks associated with owning and operating real estate  including:

iii) Downturns in the retailing industry likely will have a direct  impact on the Company’s performance.

The Company’s properties consist primarily of community and  neighborhood shopping centers and other retail properties. The Company’s  performance therefore is linked to economic conditions in the market for retail  space generally. The market for retail space has been or could be adversely  affected by weakness in the national, regional and local economies, the adverse  financial condition of some large retailing companies, the ongoing  consolidation in the retail sector, the excess amount of retail space in a  number of markets, and increasing consumer purchases through catalogues and the  internet. To the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to  impact market rents for retail space.


Back to Contents

iv) Failure by any anchor tenant with
    leases in multiple locations to make rental payments to the Compnay, because
    of a deterioration of its financial condition or otherwise, could impact
    the
    Company’s
    performance.

The Company’s performance depends on its ability to collect rent from  tenants. At any time, the Company’s tenants may experience a downturn in their  business that may significantly weaken their financial condition. As a result,  the Company’s tenants may delay a number of lease commencements, decline to  extend or renew leases upon expiration, fail to make rental payments when due,  close stores or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the  termination of the tenant’s leases and the loss of rental income attributable  to the terminated leases. In addition, lease terminations by an anchor tenant  or a failure by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could result in lease  terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping  centers under the terms of some leases. In that event, the Company may be  unable to re-lease the vacated space at attractive rents or at all. The  occurrence of any of the
situations described above, particularly if it  involves a substantial tenant with leases in multiple locations, could impact  the Company’s performance.

v) The Company may be unable to collect balances due from any tenants  in bankruptcy.

The Company cannot give assurance that any tenant that files for  bankruptcy protection will continue to pay rent. A bankruptcy filing by or  relating to one of the Company’s tenants or a lease guarantor would bar all  efforts by the Company to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from the tenant or the  lease guarantor, or their property, unless the Company receives an order  permitting it to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant or lease guarantor  bankruptcy could delay the Company’s efforts to collect past due balances under  the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If  a lease is assumed by the tenant in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due  under the lease must be paid to the Company in full. However, if a lease is  rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, the Company would have only a general  unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim the Company holds may be paid  only to the extent that funds are
available and only in the same percentage as  is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims, and there are restrictions  under bankruptcy laws which limit the amount of the claim the Company can make  if a lease is rejected. As a result, it is likely that the Company will recover  substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims it holds.

vi) Real estate property investments are illiquid, and therefore the  Company may not be able to dispose of properties when appropriate or on  favorable terms.

Real estate property investments generally cannot be disposed of  quickly. In addition, the federal tax code imposes restrictions on a REIT’s  ability to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real  estate companies. Therefore, the Company may not be able to vary its portfolio  in response to economic or other conditions promptly or on favorable terms.

vii) The Company does not have exclusive control over its joint venture  investments, so the Company is unable to ensure that its objectives will be  pursued.

The Company has invested in some cases
    as a co-venturer or partner in properties, instead of owning directly. These
    investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned ownership structure.
    In these investments, the Company does not have exclusive control over the
    development, financing, leasing, management and other aspects of these investments.
    As a result, the co-venturer or partner might have interests or goals that
    are inconsistent with the Company’s interests or goals, take action
    contrary to the Company’s  interests or otherwise impede the Company’s
    objectives. The co-venturer or partner also might become insolvent or bankrupt.

viii) The Company’s financial covenants may restrict its operating and  acquisition activities.

The Company’s revolving credit facilities and the indenture under which  the Company’s senior unsecured debt is issued contain certain financial and  operating covenants, including, among other things, certain coverage ratios, as  well as limitations on the Company’s ability to incur secured and unsecured  debt, make dividend payments, sell all or substantially all of the Company’s  assets and engage in mergers and consolidations and certain acquisitions. These  covenants may restrict the Company’s ability to pursue certain business  initiatives or certain acquisition transactions. In addition, failure to meet  any of the financial covenants could cause an event of default under and/or  accelerate some or all of the Company’s indebtedness, which would have a  material adverse effect on the Company.


Back to Contents

ix) The Company may be subject to environmental regulations.

Under various federal, state, and local laws, ordinances and  regulations, the Company may be considered an owner or operator of real  property and may be responsible for paying for the disposal or treatment of  hazardous or toxic substances released on or in the Company’s
    property, as well as certain other potential costs which could relate to
    hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries
    to persons and property). This liability may be imposed whether or not the
    Company knew about, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or
toxic substances.

x) The Company’s ability to lease or develop properties is subject to  competitive pressures

.

The Company faces competition in the acquisition, development,  operation and sale of real property from individuals and businesses who own  real estate, fiduciary accounts and plans and other entities engaged in real  estate investment. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources  than we do. This results in competition for the acquisition of properties, for  tenants who lease or consider leasing space in the Company’s existing and  subsequently acquired properties and for other real estate investment  opportunities.

xi) Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market  price of the Company’s publicly traded securities.

As with other publicly traded securities,
    the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities depends
    on various market conditions, which may change from time-to-time. Among
    the market conditions that may affect the market price of the Company’s
    publicly traded securities are the following:

Recent Developments

Operating Properties -

Acquisitions

-

During January 2005, the Company acquired a shopping center property  located in Clearwater, FL, comprising approximately 0.2 million square feet of  gross leasable area (“GLA”), for a purchase price of approximately $17.7  million.

During March 2005, the Company acquired the remaining 40% interest in a  shopping center property located in Temple, TX, in which the Company had  previously owned a 60% interest, for a purchase price of approximately $0.9  million. During June 2005, the Company transferred this property to a newly  formed joint venture in which the Company now has a 20% non-controlling interest.

Additionally, during March 2005, the Company acquired two operating  properties, located in New York, NY, through newly formed joint ventures in  which the Company holds 95% economic interests, for an aggregate purchase price  of approximately $11.6 million.   Simultaneous with the closing, each property was encumbered with an  individual non-recourse floating-rate mortgage aggregating approximately $9.1  million.  These loans mature in April  2007 and bear interest at LIBOR plus 2% and LIBOR plus 2.25% (6.39% and 6.64%,  respectively, at December 31, 2005).   Based upon the provisions of FIN 46(R), the Company has determined


Back to Contents

that these entities are variable interest entities (“VIE”). The Company has further determined that the Company  is the primary beneficiary of these VIEs and has therefore consolidated these  entities for financial reporting purposes.   The Company’s maximum exposure to loss associated with these entities is  primarily limited to the Company’s aggregate capital investment, which was  approximately $3.4 million at December 31, 2005.

During April 2005, the Company acquired an operating property located  in Poway, CA, comprising approximately 0.1 million square feet of GLA, for a  purchase price of approximately $19.5 million.

During June 2005, the Company acquired a portfolio of 45 operating  properties, comprising approximately 0.3 million square feet of GLA, located in  Virginia and Maryland, for a purchase price of approximately $85.3 million.  During August 2005, the Company obtained  approximately $65.0 million of crossed-collateralized non-recourse mortgage  debt encumbering all 45 operating properties.   This mortgage debt matures in September 2015 and bears interest at a  fixed-rate of 4.94% per annum.  During  September 2005, the entire portfolio of 45 properties and the associated debt  was transferred to a newly formed unconsolidated joint venture in which the  Company has a 15% non-controlling interest.

During 2005, the Company acquired ten self-storage facilities through  an existing joint venture in which the Company held an approximate 93.5%  economic interest, for a purchase price of approximately $39.9 million  including the assumption of approximately $7.5 million of non-recourse  fixed-rate mortgage debt encumbering three of the properties.  Upon completing these acquisitions, the  venture owned 17 self-storage facilities located in various states.  The Company had cross-collateralized 14 of  these properties with approximately $44.0 million of non-recourse floating-rate  mortgage debt which was scheduled to mature in November 2007 and had an  interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.75%. Based upon the provisions of FIN 46(R), the  Company had determined that this entity was a VIE.  The Company had further determined that the Company was the  primary beneficiary of this VIE and had therefore consolidated this entity for  financial reporting
purposes.  During  November and December 2005, this entity disposed of, in separate transactions,  four self-storage properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately  $18.6 million which resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $5.8  million.  Proceeds from these sales were  used to pay down approximately $9.8 million of mortgage debt and provide  distributions to the partners.  As a  result of these transactions the Company’s economic interest significantly  decreased and the entity became subject to the reconsideration provisions of  FIN 46(R).  Based upon this  reconsideration event and the provision of FIN 46(R), the Company has  determined that this entity is no longer a VIE and has therefore deconsolidated  this entity and will now account for this investment under the equity method of  accounting.  As of December 31, 2005,  this entity owned 13 self-storage properties.   Three of the properties are encumbered by approximately $7.4 million of
fixed-rate individual non-recourse mortgage debt which bears interest at 5.5%  per annum and is scheduled to mature in June 2013.  The remaining ten properties are cross-collateralized with  approximately $33.3 million of variable-rate debt which bears interest at LIBOR  plus 2.75% (7.09% at December 31, 2005) and is scheduled to mature in November  2007.  The Company’s maximum exposure to  loss associated with this entity is primarily limited to the Company’s carrying  value of this investment, which was approximately $14.2 million at December 31,  2005.

During October 2005, the Company acquired a portfolio of three  operating properties located in southern California, comprising approximately  0.4 million aggregate square feet of GLA, for an aggregate purchase price of  approximately $104.5 million including the assumption of approximately $54.6  million of non-recourse mortgage debt.

During December 2005, the Company acquired, in separate transactions,  two operating properties, located in New York, NY, for an aggregate purchase  price of approximately $7.2 million.   The purchase of one of the properties was partially funded by a new $3.1  million non-recourse mortgage, which bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.87%  per annum and matures in December 2015.

During December 2005, the Company acquired a portfolio of eight  net-leased operating properties, comprising approximately 0.1 million square  feet of GLA, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $17.1  million.  Seven of these properties are  located in the New York Metropolitan area, and one is located in Philadelphia,  PA.

During December 2005, the Company acquired from KROP the remaining 80%  interest in an operating property comprising approximately 0.1 million square  feet of GLA located in Columbia, MD, for a purchase price of approximately  $23.6 million.

Additionally, during December 2005, the Company acquired, in separate  transactions, four operating properties, located in Plano, TX, New London, NH,  Staten Island, NY, and Santa Rosa,


Back to Contents

CA, comprising of approximately 0.3 million aggregate square feet of  GLA, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $46.9 million.

FNC Realty Corporation -

From 2000 through 2002 the Company acquired approximately $28.9 million  face amount of Frank’s Nursery and Crafts, Inc. (“Frank’s”), 10.25% bonds for  an aggregate purchase price of approximately $11.3 million. During February  2001, Frank’s filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the United States  Bankruptcy Code. During May 2002, Frank’s plan of reorganization was confirmed  by the Bankruptcy court and Frank’s emerged from bankruptcy. Pursuant to  Frank’s reorganization plan, the Company received approximately 4.3 million  shares of Frank’s common stock valued at $2.34 per share in settlement of its  Frank’s bond investment. As a result of this conversion, the Company held an  approximate 27% interest in Frank’s and began accounting for its investment on the  equity method. In addition, the Company began providing loans to Frank’s under  a revolving credit facility, which was collateralized by
certain real estate  interests of Frank’s. As an inducement to make these loans, Frank’s issued the  Company approximately 4.4 million warrants with an exercise price of $1.15 per  share.

During September 2004, Frank’s again filed for protection under Chapter  11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. The Company committed to provide  Frank’s, in addition to its revolving credit facility, with $27.0 million of  debtor-in-possession financing for a term of one year at an interest rate of  Prime plus 1.00%. From the petition date until July 26, 2005, Frank’s operated  its business as a debtor-in-possession and during this period had completely  liquidated its inventory and ceased operating as a retailer.

Frank’s plan of reorganization included a Company-sponsored  re-capitalization plan in which the Company, along with several other  significant shareholders, agreed to re-capitalize Frank’s with approximately  $104.0 million in cash in exchange for debt and equity securities and convert  Frank’s from a publicly held retail company to a privately held real estate  company.

On July 27, 2005, Frank’s emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy pursuant  to a bankruptcy court approved plan of reorganization as FNC Realty Corporation  (“FNC”). Pursuant to the reorganization plan, shareholders of Frank’s were  offered cash of $0.75 per share or the right to exchange Frank’s common stock  for FNC common stock on a 1:1 basis. FNC’s capitalization included the issuance  of approximately $27.0 million of common stock and $77.0 million of fixed-rate  7% convertible senior notes. The notes mature in July 2008 and may be converted  at anytime by the holder for common shares of FNC at $0.75 per share. Proceeds  from the issuance of common stock and convertible senior notes were used to  repay all claims pursuant to the plan of reorganization, including amounts owed  to the Company under its revolving credit facility and debtor-in-possession  financing agreement.

Pursuant to the plan of reorganization, the Company received common  shares of FNC representing an approximate 27% ownership interest in exchange  for its interests in Frank’s.  In  addition, the Company acquired an additional 24.5% interest in the common  shares of FNC for cash of approximately $17 million, thereby increasing the  Company’s ownership interest to approximately 51%. This acquisition of  additional shares includes the exercise of warrants previously issued by  Frank’s to the Company. The Company also acquired approximately $42 million of  fixed-rate 7% convertible senior notes issued by FNC.  As a result of the increase in ownership interest from 27% to  51%, the Company became the controlling shareholder and therefore, commenced  consolidation of FNC effective July 27, 2005.

As of July 27, 2005, FNC held interests in 55 properties with  approximately $16.1 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 16 of the  properties. These loans bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 4.00% - 7.75%  and maturity dates ranging from June 2012 through June 2022.  During December 2005, FNC prepaid, without  penalty, an aggregate $4.8 million of mortgage debt encumbering five of its  properties.  As of December 31, 2005, FNC  had approximately $11.4 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 11  properties.  These remaining loans bear  interest at fixed rates ranging from 4.00% to 7.75% and maturity dates ranging  from June 2012 through June 2022.

The Company’s investment strategy with respect to FNC includes  re-tenanting, re-developing and disposition of the properties. From July 27,  2005, through December 31, 2005, FNC disposed of nine properties, in separate  transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $9.4 million.

Dispositions

-

During 2005, the Company (i) disposed of, in separate transactions, 20  operating


Back to Contents

properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $93.3 million,  (ii) transferred three operating properties to KROP for an aggregate price of  approximately $49.0 million, (iii) transferred 52 operating properties to  various joint ventures in which the Company manages and has non-controlling  interests ranging from 15% to 50% for an aggregate price of approximately  $183.1 million.  For the year ended  December 31, 2005, these transactions resulted in gains of approximately $31.9  million and a loss on sale/transfer from four of the properties for  approximately $5.2 million.

During June 2005, the Company disposed of a vacant land parcel located  in New Ridge, MD, for approximately $5.6 million, resulting in a $4.6 million  gain on sale.  This gain is included in  Other income, net on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.

Redevelopments  -

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its  properties to maintain or enhance its competitive position in the  marketplace.  During 2005, the Company  substantially completed the redevelopment and re-tenanting of various operating  properties.  The Company expended  approximately $55.5 million in connection with these major redevelopments and  re-tenanting projects during 2005. The Company is currently involved in  redeveloping several other shopping centers in the existing portfolio.  The Company anticipates its capital  commitment toward these and other redevelopment projects will be approximately  $90.0 million to $110.0 million during 2006.

Ground-Up Development -

The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consists  of (i) merchant building through the Company’s wholly-owned taxable REIT  subsidiary, KDI, which develops neighborhood and community shopping centers and  the subsequent sale thereof upon completion, (ii) ground-up development projects  which will be held as long-term investments by the Company and (iii) various  ground-up development projects located in Mexico and Canada for long-term  investment (see Recent Developments – International Real Estate Investments and  Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this  annual report on Form 10-K).  The  ground-up development projects generally have substantial pre-leasing prior to  the commencement of construction. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had in  progress a total of 38 ground-up development projects including 26 merchant  building projects, five domestic ground-up development projects, six
ground-up  development projects located throughout Mexico and one ground-up development  project located in Canada.  These projects  are currently proceeding on schedule and substantially in line with the  Company’s budgeted costs of approximately $1.3 billion.

As of December 31, 2005, KDI had in progress 26 ground-up development  projects located in nine states.  In  addition, KDI manages the construction of four domestic projects for the  Company, which will be held as long-term investments.  During 2005, KDI expended approximately $449.1 million in  connection with the purchase of land and construction costs related to these  projects and those sold during 2005.   These projects are currently proceeding on schedule and substantially in  line with the Company’s budgeted costs.   The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these development  projects will be approximately $200.0 million to $250.0 million during  2006.  The proceeds from the sale of  completed ground-up development projects during 2006, proceeds from  construction loans and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of  credit are expected to be sufficient to fund these anticipated capital
requirements.

Acquisitions  -

During 2005, KDI acquired various land parcels, in separate  transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $185.7  million.  The estimated project costs  for these newly acquired parcels are approximately $609.6 million with  completion dates ranging from March 2006 to June 2009.


Back to Contents

During 2005, the Company obtained a term loan and individual  construction loans on two ground-up development projects and paid off  construction loans on five ground-up development projects.  At December 31, 2005, total loan commitments  on the remaining 15 construction loans aggregated approximately $343.5 million  of which approximately $228.5 million has been funded.  These loans have maturities ranging from 4  months to 31 months and bear interest at rates ranging from 6.04% to 6.64% at  December 31, 2005.

Dispositions

-

During 2005, KDI sold, in separate transactions, six of its recently  completed projects and 41 out-parcels for approximately $264.1 million.  These sales resulted in pre-tax gains of  approximately $33.6 million.  Details  are as follows:

Operating Real Estate Joint Venture Investments -

Kimco Income  REIT (“KIR”)

-

The Company has a 43.3% non-controlling limited partnership interest in  KIR, manages the portfolio and accounts for its investment under the equity  method of accounting.

During March 2005, KIR disposed of an operating property and an  out-parcel, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of  approximately $43.1 million.  These  sales resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $17.8 million of which the  pro-rata gain to the Company was approximately $7.7 million.  In connection with the sale of the operating  property, KIR incurred a $2.0 million loan defeasance charge, of which the  Company’s pro-rata share was approximately $0.9 million.

During October 2005, KIR sold an operating property for a sales price  of approximately $8.1 million.  This  sale resulted in a gain of approximately $2.4 million of which the pro-rata  gain to the Company was approximately $1.0 million.

Additionally, during March 2005, KIR acquired an operating property  located in Delran, NJ, for a purchase price of approximately $4.6 million.

In April 2005, KIR entered into a three-year $30.0 million unsecured  revolving credit facility which bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.40%.  As of December 31, 2005, there were no  amounts outstanding under this facility.


Back to Contents

As of December 31, 2005, the KIR portfolio was comprised of 68 shopping  center properties aggregating approximately 14.2 million square feet of GLA  located in 20 states.

KROP Venture

-

During 2001, the Company formed a joint venture (the “Kimco Retail  Opportunity Portfolio” or “KROP”) with GE Capital Real Estate (“GECRE”), in  which the Company has a 20% non-controlling interest and manages the portfolio.  The purpose of this joint venture is to acquire established, high-growth  potential retail properties in the United States.  Total capital commitments to KROP from GECRE and the Company are  for $200.0 million and $50.0 million, respectively, and such commitments are  funded proportionately as suitable opportunities arise and are agreed to by  GECRE and the Company.  During 2005,  GECRE and the Company contributed approximately $21.2 million and $5.3 million,  respectively, towards their capital commitments.  The Company accounts for its investment in KROP under the equity  method of accounting.

During 2005, KROP acquired four operating properties and one  out-parcel, in separate transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of  approximately $74.6 million, including the assumption of approximately $26.2  million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering two of the  properties and preferred units of approximately $4.2 million associated with  another property.

During 2005, KROP disposed of three unencumbered operating properties  and two out-parcels, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of  approximately $60.3 million.  These  sales resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $18.3 million of which the  Company’s pro-rata share was approximately $3.7 million.

During 2005, KROP obtained ten-year individual non-recourse, non-cross  collateralized fixed-rate mortgages aggregating approximately $21.9 million on  two of its previously unencumbered properties with rates ranging from 5.2% to  5.3%.

During 2005, KROP obtained two non-recourse, non-cross collateralized  variable-rate mortgages aggregating approximately $25.7 million on two properties  with rates of LIBOR plus 1.30% and LIBOR plus 1.65% with terms of two and three  years, respectively.

As of December 31, 2005, the KROP portfolio was comprised of 38  shopping center properties aggregating approximately 5.6 million square feet of  GLA located in 14 states.

Other  Real Estate Joint Ventures –

During December 2004, the Company acquired the Price Legacy Corporation  through a newly formed joint venture, PL Retail LLC (“PL Retail”), in which the Company has  a 15% non-controlling interest and manages the portfolio.  The Company accounts for its investment  under the equity method of accounting.   In connection with this transaction, PL Retail acquired 33 operating  properties aggregating approximately 7.6 million square feet of GLA located in  ten states.  To partially fund the  acquisition, the Company provided PL Retail approximately $30.6 million of  secured mezzanine financing.  The  Company also, provided PL Retail a secured short-term promissory note of  approximately $8.2 million. This interest-only note bore interest at LIBOR plus  4.50% and was scheduled to mature in June 2005. During 2005, this note was  amended to bear interest at LIBOR plus 6.0% and is now payable on demand. This  interest only loan bears
interest at a fixed rate of 7.5% and matures in  December 2006.  During the year ended  December 31, 2005, PL Retail disposed of nine operating properties, in separate  transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $81.4 million, which  represented the approximate carrying values of the properties.  Proceeds of approximately $22.0 million were  used to partially repay the mezzanine financing that was provided by the  Company.  As of December 31, 2005, PL  Retail had approximately $8.9 million outstanding on the mezzanine financing  and approximately $8.2 million outstanding on the promissory note.

During March 2005, a joint venture in which the Company has a 50%  non-controlling interest, disposed of two vacant land parcels located in  Glendale, AZ, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of  approximately $9.9 million.  These sales  resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $4.8 million, of which the  Company’s share was approximately $2.4 million.

During April 2005, the Company acquired an operating property located  in Hillsborough, NJ, comprising approximately 0.1 million square feet of GLA,  through a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has a 50%  non-controlling interest.  The property  was acquired for approximately $4.0 million including the assumption of  approximately $1.9 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering the  property.  Subsequent to the


Back to Contents

purchase, the joint venture obtained a $3.2 million one-year term loan  which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.55%.   This loan is jointly and severally guaranteed by the joint venture  partners, including the Company.   Proceeds from this loan were used to repay the $1.9 million mortgage  encumbering the property.

During June 2005, the Company acquired land in Tustin, CA, through a  newly formed joint venture in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling  interest, for a purchase price of approximately $23.0 million.  The property will be developed into a 1.0 million  square foot retail center with a total estimated project cost of approximately  $149.3 million.  The purchase of the  land was funded through a new construction loan which bears interest at LIBOR  plus 1.70% and is scheduled to mature in October 2007.  As of December 31, 2005, this construction  loan had an outstanding balance of approximately $40.4 million.

Additionally, during June 2005, the Company acquired an additional 25%  interest in a joint venture in which the Company had previously held a 7.77%  interest for approximately $26.0 million.   This joint venture owns an operating property, comprised of  approximately 0.5 million square feet of GLA, located in Fremont, CA.  During December 2005, the Company sold a portion  of its interest in this joint venture to a new partner who purchased 70% of  this partnership.  The Company now has a  30% non-controlling interest in this joint venture manages and accounts for its  investment under the equity method of accounting.

During July 2005, the Company acquired an interest in an office  property located in Houston, TX, comprising approximately 0.6 million square  feet of GLA through a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has an  85% non-controlling interest.  The  Company’s investment in the joint venture was approximately $12.2 million.  The joint venture purchased the property for  approximately $91.1 million subject to $76.5 million of non-recourse mortgage  debt which bears interest at a fixed-rate of 5.15% per annum and matures during  August 2015.  The Company accounts for  this investment under the equity method of accounting.

During May 2005, the Company acquired a $10.2 million mortgage  receivable through a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has a 50%  non-controlling interest.  The mortgage  encumbered a property located in Derby, CT, comprising approximately 0.1  million square feet of GLA.  During  October 2005, the joint venture foreclosed on the property and obtained fee  title.

Additionally, during 2005, the Company acquired, in separate  transactions, 12 operating properties comprising approximately 1.7 million  square feet of GLA, through newly formed joint ventures in which the company  has non-controlling interests ranging from 5% to 50%. The aggregate purchase  price for these properties was approximately $265.6 million, including the  assumption of approximately $29.1 million of non-recourse mortgage debt  encumbering three of the properties.   The Company accounts for its investment in these joint ventures under  the equity method of accounting.

During September 2005, the Company transferred 45 operating properties,  comprising approximately 0.3 million square feet of GLA, located in Virginia  and Maryland to a newly formed unconsolidated joint venture in which the  Company has a 15% non-controlling interest.   The transfer price was approximately $85.3 million including the  assignment of approximately $65.0 million of cross-collateralized non-recourse  mortgage debt encumbering all of the properties.

Additionally, during 2005, the Company transferred, in separate  transactions, five operating properties comprising approximately 0.7 million  square feet of GLA, to newly formed joint ventures in which the Company has 20%  non-controlling interests, for an aggregate price of approximately $85.6  million, including the assignment of approximately $40.2 million of mortgage  debt encumbering three of the properties.   The Company accounts for its investments in these joint ventures under  the equity method of accounting.

The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated with its  unconsolidated joint ventures is primarily limited to its carrying value in  these investments. As of December 31, 2005, the Company’s carrying value in  these investments approximated $735.6 million.

International  Real Estate Investments -

Canadian  Investments

-

During October 2001, the Company formed the RioCan Venture in which the  Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, to acquire retail properties and  development projects in Canada. The acquisition and development projects are to  be sourced and managed by RioCan and are subject to review and approval by a  joint oversight committee consisting of RioCan management and the Company’s  management personnel.  Capital  contributions will only be


Back to Contents

required as suitable opportunities arise and are agreed to by the  Company and RioCan.

As of December 31, 2005, the RioCan Venture was comprised of 34  operating properties and one development property, consisting of approximately  8.1 million square feet of GLA.

During May 2005, a newly formed joint venture, in which the Company has  a 50% non-controlling interest, acquired in separate transactions, two auto  dealerships located in Toronto, Canada, for an aggregate purchase price of  approximately CAD $6.4 million (approximately USD $5.1 million).

During 2005, the Company, in separate transactions, made four Canadian  preferred equity investments aggregating approximately CAD $24.2 million  (approximately USD $20.7 million) to developers and owners of various real  estate interests.

The Company has used the equity method of accounting for the Canadian  investments described above.

Mexican  Investments

-

During March 2005, the Company transferred 50% of the Company’s 95%  interest in a developed property located in Huehuetoca, Mexico, to a joint  venture partner for approximately $5.3 million, which approximated its carrying  value.  As a result of this transaction,  the Company now holds a 47.5% non-controlling interest and has deconsolidated  the investment.  The Company now  accounts for its investment under the equity method of accounting.

During May 2005, the Company acquired a hotel property located in  Cancun, Mexico, through a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has  an 80% non-controlling interest.  The  property was purchased for approximately $19.7 million.  Simultaneous with the closing, the property  was encumbered with $12.4 million of non-recourse mortgage debt which bears  interest at a fixed rate of 7.63% per annum and matures during May 2010.  During 2005, the property incurred  significant hurricane damage which has temporarily suspended operations.  The Company believes that its property  insurance and business interruption insurance will adequately cover losses  associated with this event.

During July 2005, the Company transferred a developed property located  in Reynosa, Mexico, to a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has a  50% non-controlling interest, for a price of approximately $6.9 million.  The Company now accounts for this investment  under the equity method of accounting.

During October 2005, the Company acquired interests in 57 industrial  properties located in Mexico, through a newly formed joint venture in which the  Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, for a purchase price of  approximately $277.5 million, including the assumption of approximately $167.0  million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 52 properties.  The properties comprise approximately 5.6  million square feet of GLA.

During 2005, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, two  parcels of land located in Saltillo and Pachuca, Mexico, for an aggregate  purchase price of approximately $14.6 million.   The properties will be developed into retail centers with an aggregate  total projected cost of approximately $34.1 million.

Additionally, during 2005, the Company acquired, in separate  transactions, six parcels of land located in various cities throughout Mexico,  through newly formed joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling  interests ranging from 50% to 80%, for an aggregate purchase price of  approximately $42.1 million.  The  properties were at various stages of construction at acquisition and will be  developed into retail centers with a projected total aggregate cost of  approximately $183.1 million.

Other Real Estate Investments -

Kimsouth  -

During November 2002, the Company, through its taxable REIT subsidiary,  together with Prometheus Southeast Retail Trust, completed the merger and  privatization of Konover Property Trust, which has been renamed Kimsouth  Realty, Inc., (“Kimsouth”).  The Company  acquired 44.5% of the common stock of Kimsouth, which consisted primarily of 38  retail shopping center properties comprising approximately 4.6 million square  feet of GLA.  Total acquisition value  was approximately $280.9 million, including approximately $216.2 million in  assumed mortgage debt.  The Company’s  investment strategy with respect to Kimsouth includes re-tenanting,  repositioning and disposition of the properties.


Back to Contents

During 2005, Kimsouth disposed of seven shopping center properties, in  separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $78.8  million, including the assignment of approximately $23.7 million of mortgage  debt encumbering two of the properties.   During 2005, the Company recognized pre-tax profits from the Kimsouth  investment of approximately $4.9 million, which is included in the caption  Income from other real estate investments on the Company’s Consolidated  Statements of Income.

As of December 31, 2005, the Kimsouth portfolio was comprised of five  properties including the office component of an operating property sold in  2004, aggregating approximately 1.2 million square feet of GLA located in four  states.

Preferred  Equity Capital -

The Company maintains a Preferred
    Equity program, which provides capital to developers and owners of real estate
    properties.  During 2005, the Company provided in  separate transactions,
    an aggregate of approximately $84.3 million in investment capital to developers
    and owners of 79 real estate properties.  As of December 31, 2005, the
    Company’s net  investment under the Preferred Equity program was approximately
    $225.9 million relating to 131 properties.  For the  year ended December
    31, 2005, the Company earned approximately $32.8 million, including $12.6
    million from promoted interests earned from six capital transactions from
    these investments.

Mortgages and Other Financing Receivables -

During May 2002, the Company provided a secured $15.0 million  three-year term loan and a secured $7.5 million revolving credit facility to  Frank’s, at an interest rate of 10.25% per annum collateralized by 40 real  estate interests. Interest was payable quarterly in arrears. During 2003, the  revolving credit facility was amended to increase the total borrowing capacity  to $17.5 million. During January 2004, the revolving loan was further amended  to provide up to $33.75 million of borrowings from the Company. During September  2004, Frank’s filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy  Code. The Company committed to provide an additional $27.0 million of  Debtor-in-Possession financing with a term of one year at an interest rate of  Prime plus 1.00% per annum.  During July  2005, Frank’s emerged from bankruptcy as FNC and repaid all outstanding amounts  owed to the Company under the revolving credit facility and
Debtor-in-Possession agreement (See Recent Developments – FNC Realty  Corporation and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  included in this annual report on Form 10-K).

During April 2005, the Company provided a construction loan commitment  of up to MXP 53.5 million (approximately USD $5.0 million) to a developer for  the construction of a new retail center in Acapulco, Mexico.  The loan bears interest at a fixed rate of  11.75% and provides for an additional 20% participation of property cash flow,  as defined.  This loan is initially  interest only and then converts to an amortizing loan at the earlier of 120  days after construction completion or upon opening of the anchor tenant.  This loan is collateralized by the related  property and matures in May 2015.  As of  December 31, 2005, there was approximately MXP 53.5 million (USD $5.0 million)  outstanding on this loan.

Additionally, during April 2005, a newly formed joint venture, in which  the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, provided a retailer with a  three-year $28.0 million revolving line of credit at a floating interest rate  of Prime plus 5.5% per annum.  The  facility also provides for a 3.0% unused line fee and a 2.50% origination  fee.  The facility is collateralized by  certain real estate interests of the borrower.   As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance on this facility was  $10.2 million of which the Company’s share was $5.2 million.

During May 2005, a newly formed joint venture, in which the Company has  a 44.38% non-controlling interest, provided Debtor-in-Possession financing to a  healthcare facility that recently filed for bankruptcy and is closing its  operations.  The term of this loan is  two years and bears interest at prime plus 2.5%.  The loan is collateralized by a hospital building, a six-story  commercial building, a 12-story 133-unit apartment complex and various other  building structures.  The Company’s  share of the outstanding balance of this loan at December 31, 2005, is $2.9  million.

Additionally, during May 2005, the Company acquired four mortgage loans  collateralized by individual properties with an aggregate face value of  approximately $16.6 million for approximately $14.3 million.  These performing loans, which provide for  monthly payments of principal and interest, bear interest at a fixed-rate of  7.57% and mature on June 1, 2019.  As of  December 31, 2005, there was an aggregate of approximately $14.1 million  outstanding on these loans.

During September 2005, a newly formed joint venture, in which the  Company has an 80%


Back to Contents

interest, acquired a $43.6 million mortgage receivable for a purchase  price of approximately $34.2 million.   This performing loan bears interest at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus  2.75% per annum and matures on January 12, 2010.  The loan is collateralized by a 626-room hotel located in Lake  Buena Vista, FL.  The Company has  determined that this entity is a VIE and has further determined that the  Company is the primary beneficiary of this VIE and has therefore consolidated  it for financial reporting purposes.  As  of December 31, 2005, the outstanding loan balance, net of discount, was  approximately $35.0 million.

During October 2005, the Company provided a construction loan  commitment of up to $38.1 million to a developer for acquisition and  re-development of a retail center located in Richland Township, PA.  The loan is interest only at a rate of LIBOR  plus 220 basis points and matures in October 2007.  As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance on this loan was  approximately $3.2 million.

During March 2002, the Company provided a $50.0 million ten-year loan  to Shopko Stores, Inc., at an interest rate of 11.0% per annum collateralized  by 15 properties.  The Company received  principal and interest payments on a monthly basis.  During January 2003, the Company sold a $37.0 million  participation interest in this loan to an unaffiliated third party.  The interest rate on the $37.0 million  participation interest was a variable rate based on LIBOR plus 3.50%.  The Company continued to act as the servicer  for the full amount of the loan.  During  December 2005, Shopko, as part of its privatization transaction, prepaid the  outstanding loan balance of approximately $46.7 million in full satisfaction of  this loan.  As part of this loan  satisfaction, Shopko paid the Company a prepayment fee of approximately $14.0  million.

During July 2004, the Company provided an $11.0 million five-year term  loan to a retailer at a floating interest rate of Prime plus 3.0% per annum or,  at the borrower’s election, LIBOR plus 5.5% per annum.  The facility was interest only, payable  monthly in arrears and was collateralized by certain real estate interests of  the borrower.  During December 2005, the  borrower elected to prepay the outstanding loan balance of $11.0 million in  full satisfaction of this loan.

During December 2005, the Company provided a construction loan  commitment of up to MXP 39.9 million (approximately USD $3.7 million) to a  developer for the construction of a new retail center in Magno Deco,  Mexico.  The loan bears interest at a  fixed rate of 11.75% and provides for an additional 20% participation of  property cash flow, as defined.  This  loan is collateralized by the related property and matures in May 2015.  As of December 31, 2005, there was  approximately MXP 38.7 million (USD $3.6 million) outstanding on this loan.

Financing Transactions -

Non-Recourse Mortgage Debt

-

During 2005, the Company (i) obtained an aggregate of approximately  $95.6 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt on 53 operating  properties, (ii) assumed approximately $79.7 million of individual non-recourse  mortgage debt relating to the acquisition of 11 operating properties, including  approximately $6.3 million of fair value debt adjustments, (iii) consolidated  approximately $33.2 million of non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the  purchase of additional ownership interests in various entities, (iv) assigned  approximately $119.8 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt relating  to the transfer of 49 operating properties to various co-investment ventures in  which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging from 10% to 30%, (v)  paid off approximately $66.9 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt  that encumbered 11 operating properties,(vi) deconsolidated approximately $41.1  million of non-recourse mortgage debt
relating to the reduction of the  Company’s economic interest in a joint venture and (vii) assigned approximately  $7.8 million of non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the sale of one  operating property.

Unsecured Debt

-

During February 2005, the Company issued $100.0 million of fixed rate  unsecured senior notes under its medium-term notes (“MTN”) program.  This  fixed rate MTN matures in February 2015 and bears interest at 4.904% per  annum.  The proceeds from this MTN  issuance were primarily used for the repayment of all $20.0 million of the  Company’s fixed rate notes that matured in April 2005, which bore interest at  7.91%, all $10.25 million of the Company’s fixed rate notes that matured in May  2005, which bore interest at 7.30%, and partial repayment of the Company’s  $100.0 million fixed rate notes, which matured in June 2005, and bore interest  at 6.73%.


Back to Contents

During June 2005, the Company issued $200.0 million of fixed rate  unsecured senior notes under its MTN program.   This fixed rate MTN matures in June 2014 and bears interest at 4.82% per  annum.  The proceeds from this issuance  were primarily used to repay a portion of the outstanding balance under the  Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes.

During November 2005, the Company issued an aggregate $250.0 million of  fixed rate unsecured senior notes under its MTN program.  The Company issued a $150.0 million MTN  which matures in November 2015 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.584% per  annum and a $100.0 million MTN which matures in February 2011 and bears  interest at fixed rate of 5.304% per annum.   Proceeds from these MTN issuances were used for general corporate  purposes and to repay a portion of the outstanding balance under the Company’s  U.S. revolving credit facility.  A  portion of the outstanding balance related to the repayment of the Company’s  $50.0 million 7.68% fixed rate notes, which matured on November 1, 2005, and  repayment of the Company’s $20.0 million 6.83% fixed rate notes, which matured  on November 14, 2005.

During April 2005, Kimco North Trust III, a wholly-owned entity of the  Company, completed the issuance of $150.0 million Canadian denominated senior  unsecured notes.  The notes bear  interest at a fixed rate of 4.45% and mature on April 21, 2010.  The Company has provided a full and  unconditional guarantee of the notes.   The proceeds were used by Kimco North Trust III to pay down outstanding  indebtedness under existing credit facilities, to fund long-term investments in  Canadian real estate and for general corporate purposes.  The senior unsecured notes are governed by  an indenture by and among Kimco North Trust III, the Company, as guarantor, and  BNY Trust Company of Canada, as trustee, dated April 21, 2005.

Construction Loans

-

During 2005, the Company obtained a term loan and construction  financing on two ground-up development projects for an aggregate loan amount of  up to $50.5 million, of which approximately $22.4 million was funded as of  December 31, 2005.  As of December 31,  2005, the Company had a total of 15 construction loans with commitments of up  to $343.5 million, of which $228.5 million had been funded to the Company.  These loans had maturities ranging from 4  months to 31 months and variable interest rates ranging from 6.04% to 6.64% at  December 31, 2005.

Credit  Facilities

-

During July 2005, the Company established a new $850.0 million  unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”),  which is scheduled to expire in July 2008. This Credit Facility replaces the  Company’s $500.0 million unsecured credit facility, which was scheduled to  expire in June 2006. Under the Credit Facility, funds may be borrowed for  general corporate purposes, including the funding of (i) property acquisitions,  (ii) development and redevelopment costs and (iii) any short-term working  capital requirements. Interest on borrowings under the Credit Facility accrue  at a spread (currently 0.45%) to LIBOR and fluctuates in accordance with  changes in the Company’s senior debt ratings.   As part of this Credit Facility, the Company has a competitive bid  option whereby the Company may auction up to $425.0 million of its requested  borrowings to the bank group.  This  competitive bid option provides the Company the
opportunity to obtain pricing  below the currently stated spread to LIBOR of 0.45%.  A facility fee of 0.125% per annum is payable quarterly in  arrears. In addition, the Company has a $200.0 million sub-limit which provides  it the opportunity to borrow in alternative currencies such as Pounds Sterling,  Japanese Yen or Euros.  Pursuant to the  terms of the Credit Facility, the Company, among other things, is (i) subject  to maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios on both unsecured senior  corporate debt and minimum unencumbered asset and equity levels and (ii)  restricted from paying dividends in amounts that exceed 95% of funds from  operations, as defined.  As of December  31, 2005, there was $200.0 million outstanding under this credit facility.

During September 2004, the Company entered into a three-year CAD $150.0  million unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of banks.  This facility bears interest at the CDOR  Rate, as defined, plus 0.50% and is scheduled to expire in September 2007.  During March 2005, this facility was  increased to CAD $250.0 million and the scheduled maturity date was extended to  March 2008.  During January 2006, the  facility was further amended to reduce the borrowing spread to 0.45% and to  modify the covenant package to conform to the Company’s $850.0 million U.S.  Credit Facility.  Proceeds from this  facility will be used for general corporate purposes including the funding of Canadian  denominated investments. As of December 31, 2005, there was CAD $110.0 million  (approximately USD $94.7 million) outstanding under this facility.


Back to Contents

During May 2005, the Company entered into a three-year MXP 500.0  million unsecured revolving credit facility.   This facility bears interest at the TIIE Rate, as defined, plus 1.00%  and is scheduled to expire in May 2008.   Proceeds from this facility will be used to fund peso-denominated  investments.  As of December 31, 2005,  there was MXP 500.0 million (approximately USD $46.7 million) outstanding under  this facility.

Equity

-

During July 2005, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on  Form S-3 for up to $1.0 billion of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary  shares, common stock and common stock warrants.  As of December 31, 2005, the Company had $750.0 million available  for issuance under this shelf registration statement.

During 2005, the Company received approximately $49.0 million through  employee stock option exercises and the dividend reinvestment program.

Exchange Listings

The Company’s common stock and Class F Depositary Shares are traded on  the NYSE under the trading symbols “KIM” and “KIMprF”, respectively.

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments

None

Item 2.  Properties

Real Estate Portfolio

As  of January 1, 2006, the Company’s real estate portfolio was comprised of  interests in approximately 106.6 million square feet of GLA (not including 131  property interests comprising 10.8 million square feet of GLA related to the  Preferred Equity program, 46 property interests comprising 0.8 million square  feet of GLA related to FNC Realty and 15.0 million square feet of planned GLA  for the 45 ground-up development projects) in 786 operating properties  primarily consisting of neighborhood and community shopping centers, 22 retail  store leases and six parcels of undeveloped land located in 44 states, Canada  and Mexico.  The Company’s portfolio  includes a 43.3% interest in 68 shopping center properties comprising approximately  14.2 million square feet of GLA relating to KIR, a 50% interest in 34 shopping  center properties comprising approximately 8.0 million square feet of GLA  relating to the
RioCan Venture, a 20% interest in 38 shopping center properties  comprising approximately 5.6 million square feet of GLA relating to KROP and  various interests in 112 properties comprising approximately 14.5 million  square feet of GLA relating to other institutional co-investment programs.  Neighborhood and community shopping centers  comprise the primary focus of the Company’s current portfolio.  As of January 1, 2006, approximately 94.6%  of the Company’s neighborhood and community shopping center space (excluding  the KIR, KROP and other institutional co-investment program portfolios) was  leased, and the average annualized base rent per leased square foot of the  portfolio was $9.44.

The Company’s neighborhood and community shopping center properties,  generally owned and operated through subsidiaries or joint ventures, had an  average size of approximately 142,000 square feet as of January 1, 2006.  The Company generally retains its shopping  centers for long-term investment and consequently pursues a program of regular  physical maintenance together with major renovations and refurbishing to  preserve and increase the value of its properties.  These projects usually include renovating existing facades,  installing uniform signage, resurfacing parking lots and enhancing parking lot  lighting.  During 2005, the Company  capitalized approximately $6.8 million in connection with these property  improvements and expensed to operations approximately $18.9 million.

The Company’s neighborhood and community shopping centers are usually  “anchored” by a national or regional discount department store, supermarket or  drugstore.  As one of the original  participants in the growth of the shopping center industry and one of the  nation’s largest owners and operators of shopping centers, the Company has  established close relationships with a large number of major national and  regional retailers.  Some of the major  national and regional companies that are tenants in the Company’s shopping  center properties include The Home Depot, TJX Companies, Sears Holdings,  Kohl’s, Royal Ahold, Wal-Mart, Best Buy, Linens N Things, Costco and Bed Bath  & Beyond.

A substantial portion of the Company’s income consists of rent received  under long-term leases.  Most of the  leases provide for the payment of fixed base rentals monthly in advance and for  the payment by tenants of an allocable share of the real estate taxes,  insurance, utilities and common area maintenance expenses incurred in operating  the shopping centers.  Although many of  the leases require the Company to make roof and structural repairs as needed, a  number of tenant leases place that responsibility on the


Back to Contents

tenant, and the Company’s standard small store lease provides for roof  repairs to be reimbursed by the tenant as part of common area maintenance.  The Company’s management places a strong  emphasis on sound construction and safety at its properties.

Approximately 1,750 of the Company’s 7,600 leases also contain  provisions requiring the payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage  of tenants’ gross sales above predetermined thresholds.  Percentage rents accounted for approximately  1% of the Company’s revenues from rental property for the year ended December  31, 2005.

Minimum base rental revenues and operating expense reimbursements  accounted for approximately 99% of the Company’s total revenues from rental  property for the year ended December 31, 2005.   The Company’s management believes that the base rent per leased square  foot for many of the Company’s existing leases is generally lower than the  prevailing market-rate base rents in the geographic regions where the Company  operates, reflecting the potential for future growth.

For the period January 1, 2005, to December 31, 2005, the Company  increased the average base rent per leased square foot in its portfolio of  neighborhood and community shopping centers from $9.02 to $9.44, an increase of  $0.42.  This increase primarily consists  of (i) an $0.18 increase relating to acquisitions, (ii) a $0.01 increase  relating to dispositions or the transfer of properties to various joint venture  entities, (iii) a $0.04 increase related to the fluctuation in exchange rates  related to Canadian and Mexican-denominated leases and (iv) a $0.19 increase  relating to new leases signed net of leases vacated and rent step-ups within the  portfolio.

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through  geographic and tenant diversity.  No  single neighborhood and community shopping center accounted for more than 0.8%  of the Company’s total shopping center GLA or more than 1.2% of total  annualized base rental revenues as of December 31, 2005. The Company’s five  largest tenants at December 31, 2005, were The Home Depot, TJX Companies, Sears  Holdings, Kohl’s and Royal Ahold, which represent approximately 3.6%, 3.2%,  2.7%, 2.5% and 2.0%, respectively, of the Company’s annualized base rental  revenues, including the proportionate share of base rental revenues from  properties in which the Company has less than a 100% economic interest.  The Company maintains an active leasing and  capital improvement program that, combined with the high quality of the  locations, has made, in management’s opinion, the Company’s properties  attractive to
tenants.

The Company’s management believes its experience in the real estate  industry and its relationships with numerous national and regional tenants  gives it an advantage in an industry where ownership is fragmented among a  large number of property owners.

Retail Store Leases

In  addition to neighborhood and community shopping centers, as of January 1, 2006,  the Company had interests in retail store leases totaling approximately 2.0  million square feet of anchor stores in 22 neighborhood and community shopping  centers located in 15 states.  As of  January 1, 2006, approximately 99.9% of the space in these anchor stores had  been sublet to retailers that lease the stores under net lease agreements  providing for average annualized base rental payments of $3.93 per square foot.  The average annualized base rental payments under the Company’s retail store  leases to the landowners of such subleased stores are approximately $2.58 per  square foot.  The average remaining  primary term of the retail store leases (and, similarly, the remaining primary  term of the sublease agreements with the tenants currently leasing such space)  is approximately 4.1 years, excluding options to
renew the leases for terms  which generally range from five to 30 years.   The Company’s investment in retail store leases is included in the  caption Other Real Estate Investments on the Company’s Consolidated Balance  Sheets.

Ground-Leased Properties

The  Company has interests in 60 shopping center properties that are subject to  long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the underlying  land to the Company (or an affiliated joint venture) to construct and/or  operate a shopping center.  The Company  or the joint venture pays rent for the use of the land and generally is  responsible for all costs and expenses associated with the building and improvements.  At the end of these long-term leases, unless  extended, the land together with all improvements revert to the landowner.

Ground-Up Development Properties

The  Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consists of (i)  merchant building through the Company’s wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiary  KDI, which develops neighborhood and community shopping centers and the  subsequent sale thereof upon completion, (ii) ground-up development projects  which will be held as long-term investments by the Company and (iii) various ground-up  development projects located in Mexico and Canada for long-term investment (see  Recent Developments – International Real Estate Investments and Note 3 of the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on  Form 10-K).  The ground-up development


Back to Contents

projects generally have substantial pre-leasing prior to the  commencement of the construction.  As of  December 31, 2005, the Company had in progress a total of 38 ground-up development  projects including 26 merchant building projects, five domestic ground-up  development projects, six ground-up development projects located throughout  Mexico and one ground-up project located in Canada.

As of January 1, 2006, KDI has currently in progress 26 ground-up  development projects located in nine states, which are expected to be sold upon  completion.  These projects had  substantial pre-leasing prior to the commencement of construction.  As of January 1, 2006, the average annual  base rent per leased square foot for the KDI portfolio was $15.34 and the  average annual base rent per leased square foot for new leases executed in 2005  was $15.19.

Undeveloped Land

The  Company owns certain unimproved land tracts and parcels of land adjacent to  certain of its existing shopping centers that are held for possible expansion.  At times, should circumstances warrant, the Company may develop or dispose of  these parcels.

The table on pages 26 to 35 sets
    forth more specific information with respect to each of the Company’s
    property interests.

Item 3.  Legal  Proceedings

The Company is not presently involved in any litigation nor, to its  knowledge, is any litigation threatened against the Company or its subsidiaries  that, in management’s opinion, would result in any material adverse effect on  the Company’s ownership, management or operation of its properties, or which is  not covered by the Company’s liability insurance.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.


Back to Contents


Back to Contents


Back to Contents


Back to Contents


Back to Contents


Back to Contents


Back to Contents


Back to Contents


Back to Contents


Back to Contents


Back to Contents

Executive Officers of the  Registrant

The following table sets forth information with respect to the  executive officers of the Company as of January 31, 2006.

David B. Henry has been Chief Investment Officer since April 2001 and  Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors since May 2001.  Mr. Henry served as the Chief Investment  Officer and Senior Vice President of General Electric’s GE Capital Real Estate  business and Chairman of GE Capital Investment Advisors for more than five  years prior to joining the Company.

Raymond Edwards has been Vice President – Retail Property Solutions  since July 2001.  Prior to joining the  Company in July 2001, Mr. Edwards was Senior Vice President, Managing Director  of SBC Group from 1998 to July 2001. SBC Group is a privately held company that  acquires and invests in assets of retail companies.  Previously, Mr. Edwards worked for 13 years at Keen Realty  Consultants Inc. responsible for the marketing and disposition of real estate  for retail operators including Caldor, Bonwit Teller, Alexander’s and others.

The executive officers of the Company serve in their respective  capacities for approximate one-year terms and are subject to re-election by the  Board of Directors, generally at the time of the Annual Meeting of the Board of  Directors following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.


Back to Contents

PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant’s Common  Equity and Related Shareholder Matters

Market Information

The following table sets forth the common  stock offerings completed by the Company during the three-year period ended  December 31, 2005.  The Company’s common  stock was sold for cash at the following offering prices per share:

The table below sets forth, for the quarterly periods indicated, the  high and low sales prices per share reported on the NYSE Composite Tape and  declared dividends per share for the Company’s common stock.  The Company’s common stock is traded under  the trading symbol “KIM”.

(a)

Paid on January 17, 2006, to stockholders of record    on January 3, 2006.

Holders

The number of  holders of record of the Company’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, was  2,243 as of January 31, 2006.

Dividends

Since the IPO,  the Company has paid regular quarterly dividends to its stockholders. While the  Company intends to continue paying regular quarterly dividends, future dividend  declarations will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will  depend on the actual cash flow of the Company, its financial condition, capital  requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of  the Code and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant. The  Company is required by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, to  distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income. The actual cash flow  available to pay dividends will be affected by a number of factors, including  the revenues received from rental properties, the operating expenses of the  Company, the interest expense on its borrowings, the ability of lessees to meet  their obligations to the Company and any unanticipated capital
expenditures.

The Company has determined that the $1.25 dividend per common share  paid during 2005 represented 86% ordinary income and a 14% capital gain to its  stockholders and the $1.14 dividend per common share paid during 2004  represented 83% ordinary income and 17% return of capital to its stockholders.

In addition to its common stock offerings, the Company has capitalized  the growth in its business through the issuance of unsecured fixed and  floating-rate medium-term notes, underwritten bonds, mortgage debt and  construction loans, convertible preferred stock and perpetual preferred  stock.  Borrowings under the Company’s  revolving credit facilities have also been an interim source of funds to both  finance the purchase of properties and other investments and meet any short-term  working capital requirements.  The  various instruments governing the Company’s issuance of its unsecured public  debt, bank debt, mortgage debt and preferred stock impose certain restrictions  on the Company with regard to dividends, voting, liquidation and other  preferential rights available to the holders of such instruments.  See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 11 and
16 of the Notes  to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form  10-K.


Back to Contents

The Company does not believe that the preferential rights available to  the holders of its Class F Preferred Stock, the financial covenants contained  in its public bond Indenture, as amended, or its revolving credit agreements  will have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to pay dividends in the  normal course to its common stockholders or to distribute amounts necessary to  maintain its qualification as a REIT.

The Company maintains a dividend reinvestment and direct stock purchase  plan (the “Plan”) pursuant to which common and preferred stockholders and other  interested investors may elect to automatically reinvest their dividends to  purchase shares of the Company’s common stock or, through optional cash  payments, purchase shares of the Company’s common stock.  The Company may, from time to time, either  (i) purchase shares of its common stock in the open market or (ii) issue new  shares of its common stock for the purpose of fulfilling its obligations under  the Plan.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The following table sets forth selected, historical consolidated  financial data for the Company and should be read in conjunction with the  Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and Notes thereto and  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of  Operations included in this annual report on Form 10-K.

The Company believes that the book value of its real estate assets,  which reflects the historical costs of such real estate assets less accumulated  depreciation, is not indicative of the current market value of its  properties.  Historical operating  results are not necessarily indicative of future operating performance.


Back to Contents


Back to Contents

Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and  Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the  Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this annual  report on Form 10-K. Historical results and percentage relationships set forth  in the Consolidated Statements of Income contained in the Consolidated  Financial Statements, including trends which might appear, should not be taken  as indicative of future operations.

Executive Summary

Kimco Realty Corporation is one of the nation’s largest publicly-traded  owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers.  As of February 6, 2006, the Company had  interests in 1,046 properties totaling approximately 135.5 million square feet  of GLA located in 44 states, Canada and Mexico.

The Company is self-administered and self-managed through present  management, which has owned and managed neighborhood and community shopping  centers for over 45 years. The executive officers are engaged in the day-to-day  management and operation of real estate exclusively with the Company, with  nearly all operating functions, including leasing, asset management,  maintenance, construction, legal, finance and accounting, administered by the  Company.

In connection with the Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999 (the “RMA”),  which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company is now permitted to  participate in activities which it was precluded from previously in order to  maintain its qualification as a Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”), so long  as these activities are conducted in entities which elect to be treated as  taxable subsidiaries under the Code, subject to certain limitations. As such,  the Company, through its taxable REIT subsidiaries, is engaged in various  retail real estate-related opportunities including (i) merchant building,  through its Kimco Developers, Inc. (“KDI”) subsidiary, which is primarily  engaged in the ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping  centers and the subsequent sale thereof upon completion, (ii) retail real  estate advisory and disposition services, which primarily focuses on leasing  and disposition strategies of
retail real estate controlled by both healthy and  distressed and/or bankrupt retailers and (iii) acting as an agent or principal  in connection with tax deferred exchange transactions. The Company will  consider other investments through taxable REIT subsidiaries should suitable  opportunities arise.

In addition, the Company continues to capitalize on its established  expertise in retail real estate by establishing other ventures in which the  Company owns a smaller equity interest and provides management, leasing and  operational support for those properties.   The Company also provides preferred equity capital for real estate  entrepreneurs and provides real estate capital and advisory services to both  healthy and distressed retailers.  The  Company also makes selective investments in secondary market opportunities  where a security or other investment is, in management’s judgment, priced below  the value of the underlying real estate.

The Company’s strategy is to maintain a strong balance sheet while  investing opportunistically and selectively. The Company intends to continue to  execute its plan of delivering solid growth in earnings and dividends.  As a result of the improved 2005 performance,  the Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend per common share to  $0.33 from $0.305, effective for the fourth quarter of 2005.

Critical Accounting Policies

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include the  accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and all entities in  which the Company has a controlling interest including where the Company has  been determined to be a primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity in  accordance with the provisions and guidance of Interpretation No. 46 (R),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities or meets certain criteria of a sole  general partner or managing member in accordance with Emerging Issues Task  Force (“EITF”) Issue 04-5, Investor’s  Accounting for an Investment in a Limited Partnership when the Investor is the  Sole General Partner and the Limited Partners have Certain Rights (“EITF 04-5”).  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with  accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires  management to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that
affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements  and related notes.  In preparing these  financial statements, management has made its best estimates and assumptions  that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.  These estimates are based on, but not  limited to, historical results, industry standards and current economic  conditions, giving due


Back to Contents

consideration to materiality.   The most significant assumptions and estimates relate to revenue  recognition and the recoverability of trade accounts receivable, depreciable  lives and valuation of real estate.   Application of these assumptions requires the exercise of judgment as to  future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these  estimates.

Revenue  Recognition and Accounts Receivable

Base rental revenues from rental property are recognized on a  straight-line basis over the terms of the related leases.  Certain of these leases also provide for  percentage rents based upon the level of sales achieved by the lessee.  These percentage rents are recorded once the  required sales level is achieved.   Operating expense reimbursements are recognized as earned.  Rental income may also include payments  received in connection with lease termination agreements.  In addition, leases typically provide for  reimbursement to the Company of common area maintenance, real estate taxes and  other operating expenses.

The Company makes estimates of the uncollectability of its accounts  receivable related to base rents, expense reimbursements and other  revenues.  The Company analyzes accounts  receivable and historical bad debt levels, customer credit-worthiness and  current economic trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for  doubtful accounts.  In addition, tenants  in bankruptcy are analyzed and estimates are made in connection with the expected  recovery of pre-petition and post-petition claims.  The Company’s reported net income is directly affected by  management’s estimate of the collectability of accounts receivable.

Real Estate

The Company’s investments in real estate properties are stated at cost,  less accumulated depreciation and amortization.  Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to  operations as incurred.  Significant  renovations and replacements, which improve and extend the life of the asset,  are capitalized.

Upon acquisition of operating real estate properties, the Company  estimates the fair value of acquired tangible assets (consisting of land,  building and improvements) and identified intangible assets and liabilities  (consisting of above and below-market leases, in-place leases and tenant relationships)  and assumed debt in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards  (“SFAS”) No. 141, Business Combinations.   Based on these estimates, the Company allocates the purchase price to  the applicable assets and liabilities.   The Company utilizes methods similar to those used by independent  appraisers in estimating the fair value of acquired assets and  liabilities.  The useful lives of  amortizable intangible assets are evaluated each reporting period with any  changes in estimated useful lives being accounted for over the revised  remaining useful life.

Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method  over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows:

Buildings

15 to 50 years

Fixtures, building and leasehold improvements

(including certain identified intangible assets)

Terms of leases or useful lives,

whichever is shorter

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to the useful  lives of its properties for purposes of determining the amount of depreciation  to reflect on an annual basis with respect to those properties.  These assessments have a direct impact on  the Company’s net income.

Real estate under development on the Company’s Consolidated Balance  Sheets represents ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping  center projects which are subsequently sold upon completion.  These assets are carried at cost and no  depreciation is recorded.  The cost of  land and buildings under development includes specifically identifiable  costs.  The capitalized costs include  pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property,  development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes,  salaries and related costs of personnel directly involved and other costs  incurred during the period of development.   The Company ceases cost capitalization when the property is held  available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but  no later than one year from the completion of major construction activity.  If, in management’s opinion, the estimated
net sales price of these assets is less than the net carrying value, an  adjustment to the carrying value would be recorded to reflect the estimated  fair value of the property.  A gain on  the sale of these assets is generally recognized using the full accrual method  in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 66, Accounting for Real Estate  Sales.


Back to Contents

Long Lived  Assets

On a periodic basis, management assesses whether there are any  indicators that the value of the real estate properties (including any related  amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may be impaired.  A property value is considered impaired only  if management’s estimate of current and projected operating cash flows  (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the property over its remaining  useful life is less than the net carrying value of the property.  Such cash flow projections consider factors  such as expected future operating income, trends, and prospects, as well as the  effects of demand, competition and other factors.  To the extent impairment has occurred, the carrying value of the  property would be adjusted to an amount to reflect the estimated fair value of  the property.

When a real estate asset is identified by management as held for sale,  the Company ceases depreciation of the asset and estimates the sales price of  such asset net of selling costs.  If, in  management’s opinion, the net sales price of the asset is less than the net  book value of such asset, an adjustment to the carrying value would be recorded  to reflect the estimated fair value of the property.

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to whether  there are impairments in the value of its real estate properties, investments  in joint ventures and other investments.   The Company’s reported net income is directly affected by management’s  estimate of impairments and/or valuation allowances.

Results of Operations

Comparison 2005 to 2004

Revenues from rental property increased $14.9 million or 2.9% to $522.5  million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared with $507.6 million  for the year ended December 31, 2004.   This net increase resulted primarily from the combined effect of (i)  acquisitions during 2005 and 2004 providing incremental revenues of $33.8  million for the year ended December 31, 2005, and (ii) an overall increase in  shopping center portfolio occupancy to 94.6% at December 31, 2005, as compared  to 93.6% at December 31, 2004 and the completion of certain redevelopment  projects and tenant buyouts providing incremental revenues of approximately  $18.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to the  corresponding periods last year, offset by (iii) a decrease in revenues of  approximately $37.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared  to the corresponding period last year, resulting from the sale of certain  properties and the
transfer of operating properties to various unconsolidated  joint venture entities during 2005 and 2004.

Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization,  increased approximately $14.0 million or 6.1% to $243.9 million for the year  ended December 31, 2005, as compared with $229.9 million for the preceding  year. These increases are primarily due to operating property acquisitions  during 2005 and 2004, which were partially offset by property dispositions and  operating properties transferred to various unconsolidated joint venture  entities.

Mortgage and other financing income increased $12.6 million to $27.6  million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $15.0 million for  the year ended December 31, 2004. This increase primarily relates to a $14.0  million prepayment fee received by the Company relating to the early repayment  by Shopko of its outstanding loan with the Company.

Management and other fee income increased approximately $5.0 million to  $30.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $25.4  million in the corresponding period in 2004. This increase is primarily due to  incremental fees earned from growth in the co-investment programs.

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $12.6  million to $56.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to  $44.2 million in the preceding calendar year. This increase is primarily due to  (i) a $1.4 million increase in professional fees, due in part to compliance  with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) a $3.0 million increase due to  the expensing of the value attributable to stock options granted, and (iii)  increased personnel and systems related costs associated with the growth of the  Company.

Interest, dividends and other investment income increased approximately  $9.6 million to $28.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared  to $18.7 million in 2004. This increase is primarily due to greater dividend  income and realized gains on the sale


Back to Contents

of certain marketable securities during  2005 as compared to the preceding year.

Interest expense increased $20.5 million to $127.7 million for the year  ended December 31, 2005, as compared with $107.2 million for the year ended  December 31, 2004. This increase is primarily due to an overall increase in  average borrowings outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2005, as  compared to the preceding year, resulting from the funding of investment  activity during 2005.

Income from other real estate investments increased $27.8 million to  $57.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $30.1  million for the preceding year. This increase is primarily due to increased  investment in the Company’s Preferred Equity program, which contributed income  of $32.8 million during 2005, including an aggregate of approximately $12.6  million of promoted interests earned from six capital transactions during 2005,  as compared to $11.4 million in 2004.

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net increased $21.1  million to $77.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared with  $56.4 million for the corresponding period in 2004.  This increase is primarily attributable to (i) the increased  equity in income from the Kimco Income REIT joint venture investment (“KIR”) resulting from the sale of two operating properties  during 2005 which provided an aggregate gain of $20.2 million, of which the  pro-rata share to the Company was $8.7 million, (ii) increased equity in income  in three joint venture investments resulting from the sale of two operating  properties and one development property during 2005, which provided aggregate  gains of approximately $17.9 million, of which the pro-rata share to the  Company was approximately $8.8 million, and (iii) the Company’s growth of its  various other real estate joint ventures.   The Company has made additional capital
investments in these and other  joint ventures for the acquisition of additional shopping center properties  throughout 2005 and 2004.

During 2005, KDI, the Company’s wholly-owned development taxable REIT  subsidiary, in separate transactions, sold six recently completed projects and  41 out-parcels for approximately $264.1 million. These sales provided gains of  approximately $22.8 million, net of income taxes of approximately $10.8  million.

During 2004, KDI, the Company’s wholly-owned development taxable REIT  subsidiary, in separate transactions, sold five recently completed projects,  three completed phases of projects and 28 out-parcels for approximately $169.4  million.  These sales provided gains of  approximately $12.4 million, net of income taxes of approximately $4.4 million.

During 2005, the Company (i) disposed of, in separate transactions, 20  operating properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $93.3 million,  (ii) transferred three operating properties to KROP for an aggregate price of  approximately $49.0 million, (iii) transferred 52 operating properties to  various joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests  ranging from 15% to 50% for an aggregate price of approximately $183.1  million.  For the year ended December  31, 2005, these transactions resulted in gains of approximately $31.9 million  and a loss on sale/transfer from four of the properties for $5.2 million.

During 2004, the Company (i) disposed of, in separate transactions, 16  operating properties and one ground lease for an aggregate sales price of  approximately $81.1 million, including the assignment of approximately $8.0  million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering one of the properties; cash  proceeds of approximately $16.9 million from the sale of two of these  properties were used in a 1031 exchange to acquire shopping center properties  located in Roanoke, VA, and Tempe, AZ, (ii) transferred 17 operating properties  to KROP for an aggregate price of approximately $197.9 million and (iii)  transferred 21 operating properties to various co-investment ventures in which  the Company has non-controlling interests ranging from 10% to 30% for an  aggregate price of approximately $491.2 million. For the year ended December  31, 2004, these dispositions resulted in gains of approximately $15.8 million  and a loss on sale from three of the properties of
approximately $5.1 million.

As part of the Company’s periodic assessment of its real estate  properties with regard to both the extent to which such assets are consistent  with the Company’s long-term real estate investment objectives and the  performance and prospects of each asset, the Company determined in 2004 that  its investment in an operating property comprised of approximately 0.1 million  square feet of GLA, with a net book value of $3.8 million, might not be fully  recoverable. Based upon management’s assessment of current market conditions  and lack of demand for the property, the Company reduced its anticipated  holding period of this investment. As a result of the reduction in the  anticipated holding period, together with reassessment of the potential future  operating cash flow for the property and the effects of current market conditions,  the Company determined that its investment in this asset was


Back to Contents

not fully recoverable and recorded an adjustment of property carrying  value of approximately $3.0 million in 2004.   This adjustment was included, along with the related property operations  in the line Income from discontinued operating properties, in the Company’s  Consolidated Statements of Income.

For those property dispositions for which SFAS No. 144, Accounting for  the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets (“SFAS No. 144”) is  applicable, the operations and gain or loss on the sale of the property have  been included in the caption Discontinued operations in the Company’s  Consolidated Statements of Income.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2005, was $363.6 million,  compared to $297.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.  On a diluted per share basis, net income  increased $0.26 to $1.52 for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to  $1.26 for the previous year.  This  increase is attributable to (i) increased income from other real estate  investments, primarily from the Company’s Preferred Equity program, (ii) an  increase in equity in income of real estate joint ventures achieved from gains  on sales of joint venture operating properties and additional capital  investments in the Company’s joint venture programs for the acquisition of  additional shopping center properties throughout 2005 and 2004, (iii) increased  income contributed from mortgage and other financing receivables as compared to  last year and (iv) increased gains on sale/transfer of development and  operating properties during 2005, as compared to
the same period during 2004.

Comparison 2004 to 2003

Revenues from rental property increased $41.4 million or 8.9% to $507.6  million for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared with $466.2 million  for the year ended December 31, 2003.   This net increase resulted primarily from the combined effect of (i) acquisitions  during 2004 and 2003 providing incremental revenues of $40.4 million for the  year ended December 31, 2004, and (ii) an overall increase in shopping center  portfolio occupancy to 93.6% at December 31, 2004, as compared to 90.7% at  December 31, 2003 and the completion of certain redevelopment projects and  tenant buyouts providing incremental revenues of approximately $16.6 million  for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to the corresponding periods  last year, offset by (iii) a decrease in revenues of approximately $15.6 million  for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to the corresponding period  last year, resulting from the sale of certain properties and the
transfer of  operating properties to various unconsolidated joint venture entities during  2004 and 2003.

Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization,  increased approximately $26.3 million or 12.9% to $229.9 million for the year  ended December 31, 2004, as compared with $203.5 million for the preceding  year. This increase was primarily due to operating property acquisitions during  2004 and 2003, which were partially offset by property dispositions and  operating properties transferred to various unconsolidated joint venture  entities.

Mortgage and other financing income decreased $3.8 million to $15.0  million for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to $18.9 million for  the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease was primarily due to lower  interest and financing income earned related to certain real estate lending  activities during 2004 as compared to the preceding year.

Management and other fee income increased approximately $10.1 million  to $25.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to $15.3  million in the corresponding period in 2003. This increase was primarily due to  incremental fees earned from growth in the co-investment programs and fees  earned from disposition services provided to various retailers.

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $5.9  million to $44.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to  $38.3 million in the preceding calendar year. This increase was primarily due  to (i) a $0.9 million increase in professional fees, mainly attributable to  compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) a $1.6 million  increase due to the expensing of the value attributable to stock options  granted, (iii) increased staff levels related to the growth of the Company and  (iv) other personnel-related costs, associated with a realignment of our  regional operations.

Other income/(expense), net increased approximately $14.2 million to  $10.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to the  preceding year. This increase was primarily due to a prior-year write-down in  the carrying value of the Company’s equity investment in Frank’s Nursery, Inc.,  offset by increased income in 2004 from other equity investments.


Back to Contents

Interest expense increased $4.8 million to $107.2 million for the year  ended December 31, 2004, as compared with $102.4 million for the year ended  December 31, 2003. This increase was primarily due to an overall increase in  average borrowings outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2004, as  compared to the preceding year, resulting from the funding of investment  activity during 2004.

During 2003, the Company reached agreement with certain lenders in  connection with three individual non-recourse mortgages encumbering three  former Kmart sites. The Company paid approximately $14.2 million in full  satisfaction of these loans, which aggregated approximately $24.0 million. As a  result of these transactions, the Company recognized a gain on early  extinguishment of debt of approximately $9.7 million during 2003.

Income from other real estate investments increased $7.3 million to  $30.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to $22.8  million for the preceding year. This increase was primarily due to increased  investment in the Company’s Preferred Equity program, which contributed income  of $11.4 million during 2004, as compared to $4.6 million in 2003.

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net increased $14.1  million to $56.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared with  $42.3 million for the preceding year. This increase was primarily attributable  to the equity in income from the increased investment in the RioCan joint  venture investment (“RioCan Venture”), the Kimco Retail Opportunity Portfolio  joint venture investment (“KROP”) and the Company’s growth of its various other  real estate joint ventures. The Company had made additional capital investments  in these and other joint ventures for the acquisition of additional shopping  center properties throughout 2004 and 2003.

During 2004, KDI, the Company’s wholly-owned development taxable REIT  subsidiary, in separate transactions, sold 28 out-parcels, three completed  phases of projects and five recently completed projects for approximately  $169.4 million. These sales provided gains of approximately $12.4 million, net  of income taxes of approximately $4.4 million.

During the year ended December 31, 2003, KDI sold four projects and 26  out-parcels, in separate transactions, for approximately $134.6 million which  resulted in gains of approximately $10.5 million, net of income taxes of $7.0  million.

During 2004, the Company (i) disposed of, in separate transactions, 16  operating properties and one ground lease for an aggregate sales price of  approximately $81.1 million, including the assignment of approximately $8.0 million  of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering one of the properties; cash proceeds  of approximately $16.9 million from the sale of two of these properties were  used in a 1031 exchange to acquire shopping center properties located in  Roanoke, VA, and Tempe, AZ, (ii) transferred 17 operating properties to KROP  for an aggregate price of approximately $197.9 million and (iii) transferred 21  operating properties to various co-investment ventures in which the Company has  non-controlling interests ranging from 10% to 30% for an aggregate price of  approximately $491.2 million. For the year ended December 31, 2004, these  dispositions resulted in gains of approximately $15.8 million and a loss on  sale from three of the properties of
approximately $5.1 million.

As part of the Company’s periodic assessment of its real estate  properties with regard to both the extent to which such assets are consistent  with the Company’s long-term real estate investment objectives and the  performance and prospects of each asset, the Company determined in 2004 that  its investment in an operating property comprised of approximately 0.1 million  square feet of GLA, with a net book value of $3.8 million, might not be fully  recoverable. Based upon management’s assessment of current market conditions  and lack of demand for the property, the Company reduced its anticipated  holding period of this investment. As a result of the reduction in the  anticipated holding period, together with reassessment of the potential future  operating cash flow for the property and the effects of current market  conditions, the Company determined that its investment in this asset was not  fully recoverable and recorded an adjustment of
property carrying value of  approximately $3.0 million in 2004.   This adjustment was included, along with the related property operations  in the line Income from discontinued operating properties, in the Company’s  Consolidated Statements of Income.

During 2003, the Company disposed of, in separate transactions, (i) ten  operating shopping center properties for an aggregate sales price of  approximately $119.1 million, including the assignment of approximately $1.7  million of mortgage debt encumbering one of the properties, (ii) two regional  malls for an aggregate sales price of approximately $135.6


Back to Contents

million, (iii) one out-parcel for a sales price of approximately $8.1 million,  (iv) transferred three operating properties to KROP for a price of  approximately $144.2 million, (v) transferred an operating property to a newly  formed joint venture in which the Company has a non-controlling 10% interest  for a price of approximately $21.9 million and (vi) terminated four leasehold  positions in locations where a tenant in bankruptcy had rejected its lease.  These transactions resulted in gains of approximately $50.8 million.

During 2003, the Company identified two operating properties, comprised  of approximately 0.2 million square feet of GLA, as “Held for Sale” in  accordance with SFAS No. 144.  The book  value of these properties, aggregating approximately $19.5 million, net of  accumulated depreciation of approximately $2.0 million, exceeded their  estimated fair value.  The Company’s  determination of the fair value of these properties, aggregating approximately  $15.4 million, was based upon contracts of sale with third parties less  estimated selling costs.  As a result,  the Company recorded an adjustment of property carrying values of $4.0 million.  This adjustment was included, along with the  related property operations for the current and comparative years, in the  caption Income from discontinued operations in the Company’s Consolidated  Statements of Income.

For those property dispositions for which SFAS No. 144 was applicable,  the operations and gain or loss on the sale of the property have been included  in the caption Discontinued operations in the Company’s Consolidated Statements  of Income.

Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2004,  was $281.0, compared to $243.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. On  a diluted per share basis, income from continuing operations improved $0.17 to  $1.19 for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to $1.02 for the  preceding year. This improved performance was primarily attributable to (i) the  incremental operating results from the acquisition of operating properties  during 2004 and 2003, including the Mid-Atlantic Realty Trust transaction, (ii)  an increase in equity in income of real estate joint ventures resulting from  additional capital investments in the RioCan Venture, KROP and other joint  venture investments for the acquisition of additional shopping center  properties during 2004 and 2003, (iii) an increase in management and other fee  income related to the growth in the co-investment programs, (iv) increased  income from other real estate investments and
(v) significant leasing within  the portfolio, which improved operating profitability.

Net income for the year ended
December 31, 2004, was $297.1 million, compared to $307.9 million for the year
ended December 31, 2003. On a diluted per share basis, net income decreased
$0.05 to $1.26 for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to $1.31 for
the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease was primarily attributable to
lower income from discontinued operations of $48.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004, compared to the preceding year due to property sales during
2004 and 2003 and gains on early extinguishment of debt during 2003. In
addition, the diluted per share results for the year ended December 31, 2003,
were decreased by a reduction in net income available to common stockholders of
$0.04 resulting from the deduction of original issuance costs associated with
the redemption of the Company’s 7¾% Class A, 8 1/2% Class B and 8 3/8% Class C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stocks during the second quarter of
2003.

Tenant Concentrations

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through  diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties, avoiding  dependence on any single property, and a large tenant base.  At December 31, 2005, the Company’s five  largest tenants were The Home Depot, TJX Companies, Sears Holdings, Kohl’s and  Royal Ahold, which represented approximately 3.6%, 3.2%, 2.7%, 2.5% and 2.0%,  respectively, of the Company’s annualized base rental revenues, including the  proportionate share of base rental revenues from properties in which the  Company has less than a 100% economic interest.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company’s cash flow activities are summarized as follows (in  millions):


Back to Contents

Operating  Activities

The Company anticipates that cash flows from operations will continue  to provide adequate capital to fund its operating and administrative expenses,  regular debt service obligations and all dividend payments in accordance with  REIT requirements in both the short term and long term.  In addition, the Company anticipates that  cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit facilities, issuance of  equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity alternatives, will  provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Net cash flow provided  by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2005, was primarily  attributable to (i) cash flow from the diverse portfolio of rental properties,  (ii) the acquisition of operating properties during 2004 and 2005, (iii) new  leasing, expansion and re-tenanting of core portfolio properties and (iv)  growth in the Company’s joint venture and Preferred Equity programs.

Investing Activities

Acquisitions  and Redevelopments

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company expended  approximately $376.0 million towards acquisition of and improvements to  operating real estate.  (See Note 3 of  the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual  report on Form 10-K.)

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties  to maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace.  During the year ended December 31, 2005, the  Company expended approximately $55.5 million in connection with these major  redevelopments and re-tenanting projects.   The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these and other  redevelopment projects during 2006 will be approximately $90.0 million to  $110.0 million.  The funding of these  capital requirements will be provided by cash flow from operating activities  and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit.

Investments and Advances to Real Estate Joint Ventures

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company expended  approximately $267.3 million for investments and advances to real estate joint  ventures and received approximately $130.6 million from reimbursements of  advances to real estate joint ventures.   (See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

Ground-up Development

The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consists  of (i) merchant building through the Company’s wholly-owned taxable REIT  subsidiary, KDI, which develops neighborhood and community shopping centers and  the subsequent sale thereof upon completion, (ii) ground-up development  projects which will be held as long-term investments by the Company and (iii)  various ground-up development projects located in Mexico and Canada for  long-term investment.  All ground-up  development projects generally have substantial pre-leasing prior to the  commencement of construction. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had in  progress a total of 38 ground-up development projects including 26 merchant  building projects, five domestic ground-up development projects, six ground-up  development projects located throughout Mexico and one ground-up development  project located in Canada.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company expended  approximately $452.7 million in connection with the purchase of land and  construction costs related to these projects and those sold during 2005.  These projects are currently proceeding on  schedule and substantially in line with the Company’s budgeted costs.  The Company anticipates its capital  commitment during 2006 toward these and other development projects will be  approximately $300 million to $350 million.   The proceeds from the sales of the completed ground-up development  projects, proceeds from construction loans and availability under the Company’s  revolving lines of credit are expected to be sufficient to fund these  anticipated capital requirements. (See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated  Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

Dispositions and Transfers

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company received net  proceeds of approximately $348.4 million relating to the sale of various  operating properties and ground-up development projects and approximately  $128.5 million from the transfer of operating properties to various joint  ventures.  (See Notes 3 and 7 of the  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report  on Form 10-K.)


Back to Contents

Financing Activities

It is management’s intention that the Company continually have access  to the capital resources necessary to expand and develop its business.  As such, the Company intends to operate with  and maintain a conservative capital structure with a level of debt to total  market capitalization of 50% or less.   As of December 31, 2005, the Company’s level of debt to total market  capitalization was 26%.  In addition,  the Company intends to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed charge  coverage ratios as part of its commitment to maintaining its investment-grade  debt ratings.  The Company may, from  time to time, seek to obtain funds through additional equity offerings,  unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage/construction loan financings and  other capital alternatives in a manner consistent with its intention to operate  with a conservative debt structure.

Since the completion of the Company’s IPO in 1991, the Company has  utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source of capital  for its expansion needs. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional  offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate  over $4.2 billion for the purposes of, among other things, repaying  indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and community shopping  centers, funding ground-up development projects, expanding and improving  properties in the portfolio and other investments.

The Company has an $850.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility,  which is scheduled to expire in July 2008.   This credit facility has made available funds to both finance the  purchase of properties and other investments and meet any short-term working  capital requirements.  As of December  31, 2005, there was $200.0 million outstanding under this credit facility.

During September 2004, the Company entered into a three-year Canadian  denominated (“CAD”) $150.0 million unsecured credit facility with a group of  banks.  This facility bears interest at  the CDOR Rate, as defined, plus 0.50%, and is scheduled to expire in September  2007.  During March 2005, this facility  was increased to CAD $250.0 million and the scheduled maturity date was  extended to March 2008.  During January  2006, the facility was further amended to reduce the borrowing spread to 0.45%  and to modify the covenant package to conform to the Company’s $850.0 million  U.S. Credit Facility.  Proceeds from  this facility will be used for general corporate purposes including the funding  of Canadian denominated investments.  As  of December 31, 2005, there was CAD $110.0 million (approximately USD $94.7  million) outstanding under this credit facility.

During May 2005, the Company entered into a three-year Mexican Peso  denominated (“MXP”) 500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility.  This facility bears interest at the TIIE  Rate, as defined, plus 1.00% and is scheduled to expire in May 2008.  Proceeds from this facility will be used to  fund peso denominated investments.  As  of December 31, 2005, there was MXP 500.0 million (approximately USD $46.7  million) outstanding under this facility.

The Company has a MTN program pursuant to which it may, from  time-to-time, offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general  corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in  its business, including property acquisitions, development and redevelopment  costs and (ii) managing the Company’s debt maturities. As of December 31, 2005,  the Company had $250.0 million available for issuance under the MTN  program.  (See Note 11 of the Notes to  Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

In addition to the public equity and debt markets as capital sources,  the Company may, from time-to-time, obtain mortgage financing on selected  properties and construction loans to partially fund the capital needs of  KDI.  As of December 31, 2005, the  Company had over 380 unencumbered property interests in its portfolio.

During July 2005, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on  Form S-3 for up to $1.0 billion of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary  shares, common stock and common stock warrants.  As of December 31, 2005, the Company had $750.0 million available  for issuance under this shelf registration statement.

In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for  federal income tax purposes, the Company expects to continue paying regular  dividends to its stockholders.  These  dividends will be paid from operating cash flows, which are expected to  increase due to property acquisitions, growth in operating income in the  existing portfolio and from other investments.   Since cash used to pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital  investment, the Company generally intends to maintain a conservative dividend  payout ratio, reserving such amounts as it considers necessary for the  expansion and renovation


Back to Contents

of shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction,  the acquisition of interests in new properties and other investments as  suitable opportunities arise and such other factors as the Board of Directors  considers appropriate.  Cash dividends  paid increased to $293.3 million in 2005, compared to $265.3 million in 2004  and $246.3 million in 2003.

Although the Company receives substantially all of its rental payments  on a monthly basis, it generally intends to continue paying dividends  quarterly.  Amounts accumulated in  advance of each quarterly distribution will be invested by the Company in  short-term money market or other suitable instruments.

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments

The Company has debt obligations relating to its revolving credit  facilities, MTNs, senior notes, mortgages and construction loans with  maturities ranging from less than one year to 29 years.  As of December 31, 2005, the Company’s total  debt had a weighted average term to maturity of approximately 4.9 years.  In addition, the Company has non-cancelable  operating leases pertaining to its shopping center portfolio.  As of December 31, 2005, the Company has 60  shopping center properties that are subject to long-term ground leases where a  third party owns and has leased the underlying land to the Company to construct  and/or operate a shopping center.  In  addition, the Company has 22 non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to its  retail store lease portfolio.  The  following table summarizes the Company’s debt maturities and obligations under  non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2005 (in
millions):

The Company has $185.0 million of medium term notes, $14.1 million of  mortgage debt and $87.7 million of construction loans maturing in 2006.  The Company anticipates satisfying these  maturities with a combination of operating cash flows, its unsecured revolving  credit facilities, new debt issuances and the sale of completed ground-up  development projects.

The Company has issued letters of credit in connection with completion  and repayment guarantees for construction loans encumbering certain of the Company’s  ground-up development projects, and guaranty of payment related to the  Company’s insurance program. These letters of credit aggregate approximately  $34.8 million.

Additionally, the RioCan Venture, an
entity in which the Company holds a 50% non-controlling interest, has a CAD $7.0
million (approximately USD $6.0 million) letter of credit facility.  This
facility is jointly guaranteed by RioCan and the Company and had approximately
CAD $4.6 million (approximately USD $4.0 million) outstanding as of December 31,
2005, relating to various development projects.  In addition to the letter
of credit facility, various additional Canadian development projects in which
the Company holds interests ranging from 33 1/3% to 50% have letters of credit
issued aggregating approximately CAD $3.5 million (approximately USD $3.0
million) at December 31, 2005.

During 2005, a joint venture entity in which the Company has a  non-controlling interest obtained a CAD $22.5 million credit facility to finance  the construction of a 0.1 million square foot shopping center property located  in Kamloops, B.C.  This facility bears  interest at Royal Bank Prime Rate (“RBP”)  plus 0.5% per annum and is scheduled to mature in May 2007.  The Company and its partner in this entity  each have a limited and several guarantee of CAD $7.5 million on this  facility.  As of December 31, 2005,  there was no outstanding balance on this facility.

During 2005, the Company obtained a term loan and construction financing  on two ground-up development projects for an aggregate net loan commitment  amount of up to $50.5 million of which approximately $22.4 million was  outstanding at December 31, 2005.  As of  December 31, 2005, the Company had 15 construction loans with total commitments  of up to $343.5 million of which $228.5 million had been funded to the  Company.  These loans had maturities  ranging from 4 months to 31 months and interest rates ranging from 6.04% to  6.64% at December 31, 2005.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Ground-Up  Development Joint Ventures


Back to Contents

At December 31, 2005, the Company has three ground-up development  projects through unconsolidated joint ventures in which the Company has 50%  non-controlling interests.  The projects  are financed with individual non-recourse construction loans with total  aggregate loan commitments of up to $219.6 million of which $58.8 million has  been funded.  These loans have variable  interest rates ranging from 4.89% to 8.25% at December 31, 2005 and maturities  ranging from 4 months to 18 months.

Unconsolidated  Real Estate Joint Ventures

The Company has investments in various unconsolidated real estate joint  ventures with varying structures.  These  investments include the Company’s 43.3% non-controlling interest in KIR, the  Company’s 50% non-controlling interest in the RioCan Venture, the Company’s 20%  non-controlling interest in KROP, the Company’s 15% non-controlling interest in  Price Legacy and varying non-controlling interests in other real estate joint  ventures. These joint ventures operate either shopping center properties or are  established for development projects.   Such arrangements are generally with third-party institutional  investors, local developers and individuals. The properties owned by the joint  ventures are primarily financed with individual non-recourse mortgage  loans.  Non-recourse mortgage debt is  generally defined as debt whereby the lenders’ sole recourse with respect to  borrower defaults is limited to the value of
the property collateralized by the  mortgage. The lender generally does not have recourse against any other assets  owned by the borrower or any of the constituent members of the borrower, except  for certain specified exceptions listed in the particular loan documents.

The KIR joint venture was established for the purpose of investing in  high quality real estate properties financed primarily with individual  non-recourse mortgages.  The Company  believes that these properties are appropriate for financing with greater  leverage than the Company traditionally uses.   As of December 31, 2005, KIR had interests in 68 properties comprising  14.2 million square feet of GLA.  As of  December 31, 2005, KIR had individual non-recourse mortgage loans of  approximately $1.1 billion on 65 of these properties.  These non-recourse mortgage loans have maturities ranging from  less than one year to 14 years and rates ranging from 4.99% to 8.52%.  As of December 31, 2005, the Company’s  pro-rata share of non-recourse mortgages relating to the KIR joint venture was  approximately $485.4 million.  (See Note  7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual  report on Form
10-K.)

The RioCan Venture was established with RioCan Real Estate Investment  Trust to acquire properties and development projects in Canada.  As of December 31, 2005, the RioCan Venture  consisted of 34 shopping center properties and one development project with  approximately 8.1 million square feet of GLA.   As of December 31, 2005, the RioCan Venture had individual, non-recourse  mortgage loans on 33 of these properties and a construction loan on its  development property aggregating approximately CAD $706.3 million (USD $607.8  million).  These loans have maturities  ranging from less than one year to 28 years and rates ranging from 3.91% to  9.05%.  As of December 31, 2005, the  Company’s pro-rata share of these non-recourse loans relating to the RioCan  Venture was approximately CAD $349.2 million (USD $300.5 million). (See Note 7  of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual  report on Form
10-K.)

The Kimco Retail Opportunity Portfolio (“KROP”), a joint venture with  GE Capital Real Estate (“GECRE”), was established to acquire high-growth potential  retail properties in the United States.   As of December 31, 2005, KROP consisted of 38 shopping center properties  with approximately 5.6 million square feet of GLA.  As of December 31, 2005, KROP had non-recourse mortgage loans  totaling $481.9 million, with fixed rates ranging from 4.25% to 8.64% and  variable rates ranging from LIBOR plus 1.3% to LIBOR plus 2.2%.  KROP has entered into a series of interest  rate cap agreements to mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates on its  variable-rate mortgage agreements.  Such  mortgage debt is collateralized by the individual shopping center property and  is payable in monthly installments of principal and interest.  At December 31, 2005, the weighted average  interest rate for all mortgage debt outstanding
was 6.09% per annum. As of  December 31, 2005, the Company’s pro-rata share of non-recourse mortgage loans  relating to the KROP joint venture was approximately $96.4 million.  Additionally, the Company and GECRE may  provide interim financing.  All such  financings bear interest at rates ranging from LIBOR plus 4.0% to LIBOR plus  5.25% and have maturities of less than a year.   As of December 31, 2005, KROP had no outstanding short term interim  financing due to the Company or GECRE.   (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included  in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

During December 2004, the Company acquired the Price Legacy Corporation  through a newly formed joint venture, PL Retail LLC (“PL Retail”), in which the  Company has a non-controlling 15% interest.   In connection with this transaction, the joint venture acquired 33  operating properties aggregating approximately 7.6 million square feet of GLA  located


Back to Contents

in ten states.  During the year  ended December 31, 2005, PL Retail disposed of nine operating properties, in  separate transactions, for an aggregate sale price of approximately $21.8  million.  As of December 31, 2005, PL  Retail consisted of 25 operating properties aggregating approximately 6.8  million square feet of GLA.  As of  December 31, 2005, PL Retail had approximately $777.3 million outstanding in  non-recourse mortgage debt, of which approximately $507.2 million had fixed  rates ranging from 4.66% to 9.00% and approximately $270.1 had variable rates  ranging from 5.74% to 9.59%.  The  fixed-rate loans have maturities ranging from three to 11 years and the  variable-rate loans have maturities ranging from one to three years.  Additionally, the Company had provided PL  Retail approximately $30.6 million of secured mezzanine financing.  This interest only loan bears interest at a  fixed rate of 7.5% and matures in
December 2006.  Proceeds from property sales during 2005 of approximately $21.8  million were used to partially repay the mezzanine financing that was provided  by the Company.  The Company also  provided PL Retail a secured short-term promissory note of approximately $8.2  million.  This interest only note bore  interest at LIBOR plus 4.5% and was scheduled to mature in June 2005. During  2005, this note was amended to bear interest at LIBOR plus 6% and is now  payable on demand.  As of December 31,  2005, PL Retail had approximately $8.9 million outstanding on the mezzanine  financing and approximately $8.2 million outstanding on the promissory note. As  of December 31, 2005, the Company’s pro-rata share of non-recourse mortgages  relating to PL Retail was approximately $116.6 million.  (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

The Company has various other unconsolidated real estate joint ventures  with varying structures.  As of December  31, 2005, these unconsolidated joint ventures had individual non-recourse  mortgage loans aggregating approximately $1.5 billion.  The Company’s pro-rata share of these  non-recourse mortgages was approximately $520.6 million.  (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

Other Real  Estate Investments

During November 2002, the Company, through its taxable REIT subsidiary,  together with Prometheus Southeast Retail Trust, completed the merger and  privatization of Konover Property Trust, which has been renamed Kimsouth  Realty, Inc., (“Kimsouth”).  The Company  acquired 44.5% of the common stock of Kimsouth, which consisted primarily of 38  retail shopping center properties comprising approximately 4.6 million square  feet of GLA.  Total acquisition value  was approximately $280.9 million including approximately $216.2 million in  mortgage debt.  The Company’s investment  strategy with respect to Kimsouth includes re-tenanting, repositioning and  disposition of the properties.  As a  result of this strategy, Kimsouth has sold 33 properties as of December 31,  2005.  As of December 31, 2005, the  Kimsouth portfolio was comprised of five properties, including the remaining  office component of an operating property sold
in 2004, totaling 1.2 million  square feet of GLA with non-recourse mortgage debt of approximately $29.4  million encumbering the properties. All mortgages payable are collateralized by  certain properties and are due in monthly installments.  As of December 31, 2005, interest rates  ranged from 6.06% to 9.22% and the weighted-average interest rate for all  mortgage debt outstanding was 8.35% per annum.   As of December 31, 2005, the Company’s pro-rata share of non-recourse  mortgage loans relating to the Kimsouth portfolio was approximately $13.1  million.

During June 2002, the Company acquired a 90% equity participation  interest in an existing leveraged lease of 30 properties.  The properties are leased under a long-term  bond-type net lease whose primary term expires in 2016, with the lessee having  certain renewal option rights.  The  Company’s cash equity investment was approximately $4.0 million.  This equity investment is reported as a net  investment in leveraged lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, Accounting for  Leases (as amended).  The net investment  in leveraged lease reflects the original cash investment adjusted by remaining  net rentals, estimated unguaranteed residual value, unearned and deferred  income, and deferred taxes relating to the investment.

As of December 31, 2005, 14 of these properties were sold, whereby the  proceeds from the sales were used to pay down the mortgage debt by  approximately $24.2 million.  As of  December 31, 2005, the remaining 16 properties were encumbered by third-party  non-recourse debt of approximately $58.7 million that is scheduled to fully  amortize during the primary term of the lease from a portion of the periodic  net rents receivable under the net lease. As an equity participant in the  leveraged lease, the Company has no recourse obligation for principal or  interest payments on the debt, which is collateralized by a first mortgage lien  on the properties and collateral assignment of the lease.  Accordingly, this debt has been offset  against the related net rental receivable under the lease.

The Company maintains a preferred equity program, which provides  capital to developers and owners of shopping centers. The Company accounts for  its investments in preferred equity


Back to Contents

investments under the equity method of accounting. As of December 31,  2005, the Company’s invested capital in its preferred equity investments  approximated $225.9 million relating to 133 real estate properties. As of  December 31, 2005, these preferred equity investment properties had individual  non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating approximately $703.3 million. Due to the  Company’s preferred position in these investments, the Company’s pro-rata share  of each investment is subject to fluctuation and is dependent upon property  cash flows. The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated with its  preferred equity investments is limited to its invested capital.

Effects of Inflation

Many of the Company’s leases contain provisions designed to mitigate  the adverse impact of inflation.  Such  provisions include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of  additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants’ gross sales above  pre-determined thresholds, which generally increase as prices rise, and/or  escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of  the leases. Such escalation clauses often include increases based upon changes  in the consumer price index or similar inflation indices.  In addition, many of the Company’s leases  are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to  increase rents to market rates upon renewal. Most of the Company’s leases  require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses, including  common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby  reducing the Company’s exposure to increases
in costs and operating expenses resulting  from inflation.  The Company  periodically evaluates its exposure to short-term interest rates and foreign  currency exchange rates and will, from time-to-time, enter into interest rate  protection agreements and/or foreign currency hedge agreements which mitigate,  but do not eliminate, the effect of changes in interest rates on its  floating-rate debt and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123, (revised 2004) Share-Based  Payment (“SFAS No. 123(R)”), which supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting  for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. SFAS  No. 123(R) established standards for the accounting for transactions in which  an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services.  It also addresses transactions in which an  entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on  the fair value of the entity’s equity instruments or that may be settled by the  issuance of those equity instruments.   This Statement focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which  an entity obtains employee services in share-based payment transactions.  SFAS No. 123(R) is effective for fiscal  years beginning after December 15, 2005.   The impact of adopting this statement is not expected to have a material  impact on
the Company’s financial position or results of operations.

In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 153, Exchange of  Non-monetary Assets - an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29 (“SFAS No. 153”).  The guidance in APB Opinion No. 29,  Accounting for Non-monetary Transactions, is based on the principle that  exchanges of non-monetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of  the assets exchanged.  The guidance in  that Opinion, however, included certain exceptions to that principle.  This Statement amends Opinion No. 29 to  eliminate the exception for non-monetary assets that do not have commercial  substance.  A non-monetary exchange has  commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to  change significantly as a result of the exchange. SFAS No. 153 is effective for  non-monetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June  15, 2005.  The impact of adopting this  statement did not have a material impact on the
Company’s financial position or  results of operations.

In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for  Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations (“FIN 47”).  FIN 47  requires an entity to recognize a liability for a conditional asset retirement  obligation when incurred if the liability can be reasonably estimated.  FIN 47 clarifies that the term “Conditional  Asset Retirement Obligation” refers to a legal obligation (pursuant to existing  laws or by contract) to perform an asset retirement activity in which the  timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may  or may not be within the control of the entity.  FIN 47 also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient  information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement  obligation.  FIN 47 was effective no  later than fiscal years ended after December 15, 2005.  The Company adopted FIN 47 as required  effective December 31, 2005, and the initial
application of FIN 47 did not have  a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error  Corrections (“SFAS  No. 154”), which  replaces Accounting Principle Board Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes and SFAS  No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements.


Back to Contents

SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements for the accounting for and  reporting of a change in accounting principles.  It requires retrospective application to prior periods’ financial  statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to  determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the  change.  This statement is effective for  accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning  after December 15, 2005.

In September 2005, the EITF issued Issue 04-5, Investor’s Accounting  for an Investment in a Limited Partnership When the Investor is the Sole  General Partner and the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights, (“EITF 04-5”).  At issue is what rights held by the limited partner(s) preclude  consolidation in circumstances in which the sole general partner would  consolidate the limited partnership in accordance with U.S. generally accepted  accounting principles.  The assessment  of limited partners’ rights and their impact on the presumption of control of  the limited partnership by the sole general partner should be made when an  investor becomes the sole general partner and should be reassessed if (i) there  is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited  partners, (ii) the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership of  limited partnership interests, or (iii) there is an increase or
decrease in the  number of outstanding limited partnership interests.  This issue is effective no later than for fiscal years beginning  after December 15, 2005, and as of June 29, 2005, for new or modified  arrangements.  The impact of adopting  EITF 04-5 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial  position or results of operations.

Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The Company’s primary market risk exposure is interest rate risk.  The following table presents the Company’s  aggregate fixed rate and variable rate domestic and foreign debt obligations  outstanding as of December 31, 2005, with corresponding weighted-average  interest rates sorted by maturity date.   The information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, which is the  Company’s reporting currency.  The  instruments actual cash flows are denominated in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars  and Mexican pesos, as indicated by geographic region ($ in USD equivalent in  millions).


Back to Contents

Based on the Company’s variable-rate debt balances, interest expense  would have increased by approximately $6.8 million in 2005 if short-term  interest rates were 1% higher.

As of December 31, 2005, the Company has Canadian investments totaling  CAD $311.8 million (approximately USD $268.3 million) comprised of a real  estate joint venture investments and marketable securities.  In addition, the Company has Mexican real  estate investments of MXN 2.3 billion (approximately USD $215.4 million).  The foreign currency exchange risk has been  partially mitigated through the use of local currency denominated debt, foreign  currency forward contracts (the “Forward Contracts”) and a cross currency swap  (the “CC Swap”) with major financial institutions.  The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of  non-performance by the counter-party to the Forward Contracts and the CC Swap.  The Company believes it mitigates its credit risk by entering into the Forward  Contracts and the CC Swap with major financial institutions.

The Company has not entered, and does not plan to enter, into any  derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. As of  December 31, 2005, the Company had no other material exposure to market risk.

Item 8.     Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data

The response to this Item 8 is included as a separate section of this  annual report on Form 10-K.

Item 9.     Changes in and  Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.     Controls and  Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s chief  executive officer and chief financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness  of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in  Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as  amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of the end of the period covered by this  report.  Based on such evaluation, the  Company’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded  that, as of the end of such period, the Company’s disclosure controls and  procedures are effective in recording, processing, summarizing and reporting,  on a timely basis, information required to be disclosed by the Company in the  reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There have not been any changes in the Company’s internal control over  financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)  under the Exchange Act) during the fourth fiscal quarter to which this report  relates that have materially affected, or are reasonable likely to materially  affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial  Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate  internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange  Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our  management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer,  we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over  financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control–Integrated  Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway  Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in Internal  Control–Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal  control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005.

Our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal  control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 has been audited by  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm,  as stated in their report which is included herein.

Item 9B.     Other  Information

None.


Back to Contents

PART III

Item 10.     Directors and  Executive Officers of the Registrant

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s definitive proxy  statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders  expected to be held on May 18, 2006.

Information with respect to the Executive Officers of the Registrant  follows Part I, Item 4 of this annual report on Form 10-K.

On May 27, 2005, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer submitted to the  New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) the annual certification required by  Section 303A.12 (a) of the NYSE Company Manual.  In addition, the Company has filed with the Securities and  Exchange Commission as exhibits to this Form 10-K the certifications, required  pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, of its Chief Executive  Officer and Chief Financial Officer relating to the quality of its public  disclosure.

Item 11.     Executive  Compensation

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s definitive proxy  statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders  expected to be held on May 18, 2006.

Item 12.     Security  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s definitive proxy  statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders  expected to be held on May 18, 2006.

Item 13.     Certain  Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s definitive proxy  statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders  expected to be held on May 18, 2006.

Item 14.     Principal  Accountant Fees and Services

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s definitive proxy  statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders  expected to be held on May 18, 2006.


Back to Contents

PART IV

Item 15.     Exhibits,  Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K


Back to Contents

INDEX TO EXHIBITS


Back to Contents

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)


Back to Contents

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)


Back to Contents

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)

*

Filed herewith.


Back to Contents

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed  on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,  this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the  Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


Back to Contents

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM  10-K

ITEM 8, ITEM 15 (a) (1)  and (2)

INDEX TO FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS

AND

FINANCIAL STATEMENT  SCHEDULES


Back to Index

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED  PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Kimco Realty Corporation:

We have completed integrated audits of Kimco Realty Corporation’s 2005  and 2004 consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over  financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, and an audit of its 2003  consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Our opinions, based on our audits, are  presented below.

Consolidated financial statements and financial  statement schedules

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the  index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects,  the financial position of Kimco Realty Corporation and its Subsidiaries  (collectively, the “Company”) at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of  their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period  ended December 31, 2005 in conformity with accounting principles generally  accepted in the United States of America.   In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedules listed in  the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) present fairly, in all material  respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the  related consolidated financial statements.   These financial statements and financial statement schedules are the  responsibility of the Company’s management.   Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial  statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of these statements  in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight  Board (United States).  Those standards  require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about  whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit of financial statements includes  examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in  the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and  significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial  statement presentation.  We believe that  our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Internal control over financial reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in Management’s  Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A,  that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting  as of December 31, 2005 based on criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission  (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those  criteria.  Furthermore, in our opinion,  the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control  over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established  in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the COSO.  The Company’s  management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over  financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal  control over
financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on  management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal  control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We conducted our audit of internal control over financial  reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting  Oversight Board (United States).  Those  standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was  maintained in all material respects.  An  audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an  understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating  management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we  consider necessary in the circumstances.   We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process  designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial  reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company’s internal control over financial  reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the  maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly  reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii)  provide reasonable assurance that


Back to Index

transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of  financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting  principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made  only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the  company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely  detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s  assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial  reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future  periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of  changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or  procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

March 6, 2006


Back to Index

Intentionally left blank.


Back to Index

KIMCO  REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED  BALANCE SHEETS

(in  thousands, except share information)

The accompanying notes  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.


Back to Index

KIMCO  REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED  STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(in  thousands, except per share information)

The accompanying notes  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.


Back to Index

KIMCO  REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED  STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(in  thousands)

The accompanying notes  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND  SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003

(in thousands, except per share information)

The accompanying notes  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.


Back to Index

KIMCO  REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED  STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(in  thousands)

The accompanying notes  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Amounts relating to the number of buildings, square footage, tenant and  occupancy data and estimated project costs are unaudited.

1.

Summary of  Significant Accounting Policies:


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

In estimating carrying costs,
management includes real estate taxes, insurance, other operating expenses and
estimates of lost rental revenue during the expected lease-up periods and costs
to execute similar leases including leasing commissions, legal and other related
costs based on current market demand. In estimating the value of tenant
relationships, management considers the nature and extent of the existing tenant
relationship, the expectation of lease renewals, growth prospects, and tenant
credit quality, among other factors.  The value assigned to in-place leases
and tenant relationships is amortized over the estimated remaining term of the
leases.  If a lease were to be terminated prior to its scheduled
expiration, all unamortized costs relating to that lease would be written
off.

Depreciation  and amortization are provided on the straight-line method over the estimated  useful lives of the assets, as  follows:

Buildings

15 to 50    years

Fixtures, building and leasehold improvements    (including certain identified intangible assets)

Terms of leases or useful lives, whichever is    shorter


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

(a)

The effect of the assumed conversion of convertible    units had an anti-dilutive effect upon the calculation of Income from    continuing operations per share.     Accordingly, the impact of such conversion has not been included in    the determination of diluted earnings per share calculations.


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

The Company maintains a stock option plan (the    “Plan”), for which prior to January 1, 2003, the Company accounted for under    the intrinsic value-based method of accounting prescribed by Accounting    Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to    Employees, and related interpretations including FASB Interpretation No. 44, Accounting    for Certain Transactions involving Stock Compensation (an interpretation of    APB Opinion No. 25).  Effective    January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the prospective method provisions of    SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation – Transition and    Disclosure an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123 (“SFAS No. 148”), which    will apply the recognition provisions of FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting    for Stock-Based Compensation (“SFAS No. 123”) to all employee awards granted,    modified or settled after January 1, 2003. 
   Awards under the Company’s Plan generally vest ratably over a three or    five-year term and expire ten years from the date of grant.  Therefore, the cost related to stock-based    employee compensation included in the determination of net income is less    than that which would have been recognized if the fair value based method had    been applied to all awards since the original effective date of SFAS No.    123.  The following table illustrates    the effect on net income and earnings per share if the fair value based    method had been applied to all outstanding stock awards in each period    (amounts presented in thousands, except per share data):


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

(1)

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Other rental    property, net consisted of intangible assets including $23,539 and $14,232,    respectively, of in-place leases, $7,366 and $10,188, respectively, of tenant    relationships and $4,205 and $7,647, respectively, of above-market    leases.  In addition, at December 31,    2005 and 2004, the Company had intangible liabilities relating to    below-market leases from property acquisitions of approximately $50.1 million    and $50.0 million, respectively.     These amounts are included in the caption Other liabilities in the    Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

Other liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated    Balance Sheets include accounts with certain real estate joint ventures    totaling approximately $13.2 million and $13.7 million at December 31, 2005    and 2004, respectively. The Company and its subsidiaries have varying equity    interests in these real estate joint ventures, which may differ from their    proportionate share of net income or loss recognized in accordance with    generally accepted accounting principles.

The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated    with its unconsolidated joint ventures is primarily limited to its carrying    value in these investments.  As of


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

Ward Venture -

During March 2001, through a taxable REIT    subsidiary, the Company formed a real estate joint venture (the “Ward    Venture”), in which the Company has a 50% interest, for purposes of acquiring    asset designation rights for substantially all of the real estate property    interests of the bankrupt estate of Montgomery Ward LLC and its    affiliates.  These asset designation    rights have provided the Ward Venture the ability to direct the ultimate    disposition of the 315 fee and leasehold interests held by the bankrupt    estate.  The asset designation rights    expired in August 2002 for the


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

or five-year term, expire ten years from the date of    grant and are exercisable at the market price on the date of grant, unless    otherwise determined by the Board at its sole discretion. In addition, the    Plan provides for the granting of certain options to each of the Company’s    non-employee directors (the “Independent Directors”) and permits such    Independent Directors to elect to receive deferred stock awards in lieu of    directors’ fees.

Information with respect to stock options under the    Plan for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, is as follows:


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

Reconciliation between GAAP Net Income and Federal    Taxable Income:

The following table reconciles GAAP net income to    taxable income for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, (in    thousands):


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

The Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2005  and 2004, were as follows (in millions):

Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are included in the  caption Other assets and Other liabilities on the accompanying Consolidated  Balance Sheets at December 31, 2005 and 2004.   Operating losses and the valuation allowance are due to the Company’s  consolidation of FNC for accounting and reporting purposes and relate to  pre-bankruptcy emergence operating losses incurred by Frank’s.  At December 31, 2005, FNC had approximately  $152.2 million of net operating loss carry forwards that expire from 2022  through 2025, with a tax value of approximately $59.4 million.  A valuation allowance of $33.8 million has  been established for a portion of these deferred tax assets.  Other deferred tax assets and deferred tax  liabilities relate primarily to differences in the timing of the recognition of  income/(loss) between the GAAP and tax basis of accounting for (i) real estate  joint ventures, (ii) other real estate
investments and (iii) other deductible  temporary differences.  The Company  believes that, based on its operating strategy and consistent history of  profitability, it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets of  $29.1 million will be realized on future tax returns, primarily from the  generation of future taxable income.

The income tax provision differs from the amount computed by applying  the statutory federal income tax rate to taxable income before income taxes as  follows (in thousands):


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

22.

Supplemental Financial  Information:

The following represents the results of operations, expressed in  thousands except per share amounts, for each quarter during the years 2005 and  2004:

(1)

All periods have been adjusted to reflect the impact    of operating properties sold during 2005 and 2004 and properties classified    as held for sale as of December 31, 2005, which are reflected in the caption    Discontinued operations on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of    Income.

Accounts and notes receivable in the accompanying Consolidated Balance  Sheets net of estimated unrecoverable amounts, were approximately $8.5 million  and $8.7 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION  AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY  CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING  ACCOUNTS

For Years Ended December  31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

(in thousands)


Back to Index

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

DECEMBER 31, 2005


Back to Index


Back to Index


Back to Index


Back to Index


Back to Index


Back to Index


Back to Index

Depreciation and amortization are provided on the  straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

Buildings                                                                                15  to 50 years

Fixtures,  building and leasehold  improvements

(including
    certain identified intangible assets)              Terms
    of leases or useful lives, whichever is shorter

The aggregate cost for Federal  income tax purposes was approximately $ 4.2 billion at December 31, 2005.

The changes in total real  estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 are as  follows:

The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended  December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 are as follows:

Reclassifications:

Certain Amounts in the Prior  Period Have Been Reclassified in Order to Conform with the Current Period's  Presentation.

118