10-K


d20385e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Commission file number 1-10042

Atmos Energy Corporation

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code:

(972) 934-9227

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check
mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check
whether the recipient is an accelerated filer (as defined in
Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).     Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate
market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant was $1,265,996,935 as of March 31, 2004. On
March 31, 2004 the registrant had 52,235,980 shares of
common stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the
registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed for the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders on February 9, 2005 are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.



PART I

The terms “we,” “our,”
“us,” “Atmos” and “Atmos Energy”
refer to Atmos Energy Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless
the context suggests otherwise. The abbreviations
“Mcf,” “MMcf” and “Bcf” mean
thousand cubic feet, million cubic feet and billion cubic feet.

Item 1.

Business

Overview

Atmos Energy Corporation and its subsidiaries are
engaged primarily in the natural gas utility business as well as
other natural gas nonutility businesses. As of
September 30, 2004 we distributed natural gas through sales
and transportation arrangements to approximately
1.7 million residential, commercial, public authority and
industrial customers through our six regulated utility
divisions, which covered service areas in 12 states. Our
primary service areas are located in Colorado, Kansas, Kentucky,
Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee and Texas. We have more
limited service areas in Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Missouri and
Virginia. In addition, we transport natural gas for others
through our distribution system.

Through our nonutility businesses, we provide
natural gas management and marketing services to municipalities,
other local gas distribution companies and industrial customers
in 18 states. We own or hold an interest in natural gas
storage fields in Kentucky and Louisiana that we use to supply
natural gas to our customers.

TXU Gas Acquisition

On October 1, 2004, we completed our
acquisition of the natural gas distribution and pipeline
operations of TXU Gas Company (TXU Gas). The TXU Gas operations
we acquired are regulated businesses engaged in the purchase,
transmission, distribution and sale of natural gas in the
north-central, eastern and western parts of Texas. Through these
newly acquired operations, we provide gas distribution services
to approximately 1.5 million residential and business
customers in Texas, including the Dallas/ Fort Worth
metropolitan area. We also now own and operate a system
consisting of 6,162 miles of gas transmission and gathering
lines and five underground storage reservoirs, all within Texas.
The TXU Gas acquisition makes us one of the largest
publicly-traded companies in the United States whose primary
business is the transmission and distribution of natural gas and
the provision of related services. It also makes us one of the
largest intrastate pipeline operators in Texas.

The purchase price for the TXU Gas acquisition
was approximately $1.905 billion (after preliminary closing
adjustments), which we paid in cash. We acquired approximately
$121 million of working capital of TXU Gas and did not
assume any indebtedness of TXU Gas in connection with the
acquisition. TXU Gas provided for the repayment of all of its
indebtedness and redeemed all of its preferred stock prior to
closing and retained and agreed to pay certain other liabilities
under the terms of the acquisition agreement. The purchase price
is subject to further adjustment sixty days after closing for
the actual amount of working capital we acquired and other
specified matters. We anticipate that any post-closing purchase
price adjustments will not be material.

We funded the purchase price for the TXU Gas
acquisition with approximately $235.7 million in net
proceeds from our offering of 9,939,393 shares of common
stock, which we completed on July 19, 2004, and
approximately $1.7 billion in net proceeds from our
issuance on October 1, 2004 of commercial paper backstopped
by a senior unsecured revolving credit agreement, which we
entered into on September 24, 2004 for bridge financing for
the TXU Gas acquisition. In October 2004, we paid off the
commercial paper used to fund the acquisition through the
issuance of senior unsecured notes on October 22, 2004
which generated net proceeds of approximately $1.39 billion
and the sale of 16.1 million shares of common stock on
October 27, 2004, which generated net proceeds of
approximately $382.5 million before other offering costs.
As a result of this refinancing, we canceled the senior
unsecured revolving bridge credit facility.



Operating Segments

Our operations are currently divided into three
segments:

•

the utility segment, which includes our related
    natural gas distribution and sales operations,

•

the natural gas marketing segment, which includes
    a variety of natural gas management services and

•

the other nonutility segment, which includes all
    of our other nonutility operations.

Financial information relating to our operating
segments is contained in Note 17 to the consolidated
financial statements.

Strategy

Our overall strategy is to:

•

integrate the operations of TXU Gas that we
    acquired

•

improve the quality and consistency of earnings
    growth, while operating our natural gas utility and nonutility
    businesses exceptionally well; and

•

enhance and strengthen a culture built on our
    core values.

Over the last five years, we have grown through
several acquisitions, including our acquisition in April 2001 of
the remaining 55 percent interest in Woodward Marketing,
L.L.C. that we did not already own, our acquisition in July 2001
of the assets of Louisiana Gas Service Company, our acquisition
in December 2002 of Mississippi Valley Gas Company and our
acquisition in October 2004 of the natural gas distribution and
pipeline operations of TXU Gas.

We have experienced over 20 consecutive years of
increasing dividends and earnings growth after giving effect to
our acquisitions. We have achieved this record of growth while
operating our utility operations efficiently by managing our
operating and maintenance expenses, leveraging our technology,
such as our 24-hour call center, to achieve more efficient
operations, focusing on regulatory rate proceedings to increase
revenue as our costs increase and mitigating weather-related
risks through weather-normalized rates in many of our service
areas. Additionally, we have strengthened our nonutility
business by ceasing speculative trading activities, increasing
gross profit margins and actively pursuing opportunities to
increase the amount of storage available to us.

Our core values include focusing on our employees
and customers while conducting our business with honesty and
integrity. We are strengthening our culture through ongoing
communication with our employees and enhanced employee training.

Utility Segment Overview

At September 30, 2004, we operated our
utility segment through the following six regulated natural gas
utility divisions:

On October 1, 2004, we created the Atmos
Energy Mid-Tex Division which represents the TXU Gas natural gas
distribution operations we acquired as well as the Atmos
Pipeline — Texas Division which



represents the TXU Gas pipeline operations we
acquired. Throughout this document, we refer to the six
regulated natural gas utility divisions we operated as of
September 30, 2004 as our historical operations.

Our natural gas utility distribution business is
seasonal and dependent on weather conditions in our service
areas. Gas sales to residential and commercial customers are
greater during the winter months than during the remainder of
the year. The volumes of gas sales during the winter months will
vary with the temperatures during these months. The seasonal
nature of our sales to residential and commercial customers is
partially offset by our sales in the spring and summer months to
our agricultural customers in Texas, Colorado and Kansas who use
natural gas to operate irrigation equipment.

In addition to weather, our revenues are affected
by the cost of natural gas and economic conditions in the areas
that we serve. Higher gas costs, which we are generally able to
pass through to our customers under purchased gas adjustment
clauses, may cause customers to conserve, or, in the case of
industrial customers, to use alternative energy sources.

The effect of weather that is above or below
normal are partially offset through weather normalization
adjustments, or WNA, in certain of our service areas. WNA allows
us to increase the base rate portion of customers’ bills
when weather is warmer than normal and decrease the base rate
when weather is colder than normal. As of September 30,
2004 we had, or had received regulatory approvals for, WNA in
the following service areas for the following periods, which
covered approximately 1.1 million of our meters in service:

(1)

Effective beginning in the 2004-2005 winter
    heating season.

(2)

Effective beginning in April 2004.

The TXU Gas operations we acquired do not have
WNA. However, their operations benefit from a rate structure
that combines a monthly customer charge with a declining block
rate schedule to mitigate the impact of warmer-than-normal
weather on revenue. The combination of the monthly customer
charge and the customer billing under the first block of the
declining block rate schedule provides for the recovery of most
of our fixed costs for such operations under most weather
conditions.

We receive gas deliveries for our six historical
divisions through 37 pipeline transportation companies, both
interstate and intrastate, to satisfy our natural gas needs. The
pipeline transportation agreements are firm and many of them
have “pipeline no-notice” storage service which
provides for daily balancing between system requirements and
nominated flowing supplies. These agreements have been
negotiated with the shortest term necessary while still
maintaining our right of first refusal.

We purchase our gas supply for our six historical
divisions from various producers and marketers. Supply
arrangements are contracted on a firm basis with various terms
at market prices. The firm supply consists of both base load and
swing supply quantities. Base load quantities are those that
flow at a constant level throughout the month and swing supply
quantities provide the flexibility to change daily quantities to
match increases or decreases in requirements related to weather
conditions. Except for local production purchases, we select
suppliers through a competitive bidding process by requesting
proposals from suppliers that have demonstrated that they can
provide reliable service. We select these suppliers based on
their ability to deliver gas supply to our designated firm
pipeline receipt points at the lowest cost. Major suppliers for
our historical operations during fiscal 2004 were Anadarko
Energy Services, BP Energy Company, ChevronTexaco Natural Gas,
Duke Energy Trading and Marketing, Enbridge Marketing
(US) L.P., Pioneer Natural Resources, Prior



Energy Corporation, Sempra Energy Trading
Corporation, Tenaska Marketing and Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC,
our natural gas marketing subsidiary. We do not anticipate
problems with obtaining additional gas supply as needed for our
customers.

The natural gas supply for our new Mid-Tex
Division, formed from the TXU Gas operations we acquired, is
delivered by the natural gas transmission and storage operations
that we also acquired in the TXU Gas acquisition. This natural
gas supply generally consists of a combination of base load,
peaking and spot purchase agreements, as well as withdrawals of
gas in storage held under gas storage capacity agreements. We
estimate that the gas demand for the Mid-Tex Division for the
upcoming winter heating season, assuming normal weather
conditions, is approximately 113.0 Bcf. We have existing
purchase agreements to cover a total gas demand of up to
approximately 140.3 Bcf, consisting of approximately
40.5 Bcf under base load purchase agreements, up to
approximately 47.2 Bcf under peaking purchase agreements,
up to approximately 36.9 Bcf under spot purchase agreements
and approximately 15.7 Bcf in storage. We anticipate that
by the end of November 2004, additional amounts of gas totaling
up to approximately 13.9 Bcf will be available under newly
completed base load and peaking agreements and additional
available gas in storage. The mixture of base load, peaking and
spot purchase agreements, coupled with the withdrawal of storage
gas, allows us the flexibility to adjust to changes in weather
without requiring us to agree to excessive firm commitments. We
anticipate that the natural gas supply for the upcoming winter
heating season will consist of, in addition to withdrawals of
gas in storage, a variety of suppliers, including independent
producers, marketers and pipeline companies.

To maintain our deliveries to high priority
customers, we have the ability, and have exercised our right, to
curtail deliveries to certain customers under the terms of
interruptible contracts, applicable state statutes or
regulations. Our estimate of natural gas demand for our Mid-Tex
division is not necessarily indicative of our ability to meet
current or anticipated market demands or immediate delivery
requirements because of factors such as the physical limitations
of gathering, storage and transmission systems, the duration and
severity of cold weather, the availability of gas reserves from
our suppliers, the ability to purchase additional supplies on a
short-term basis and actions by federal and state regulatory
authorities. Curtailment rights provide us flexibility to meet
the human-needs requirements of our customers on a firm basis.
Priority allocations imposed by federal and state regulatory
agencies, as well as other factors beyond our control, may
affect our ability to meet the demands of our customers.

We also contract for storage service in
underground storage facilities on many of the interstate
pipelines serving us.

We estimate the peak-day availability of natural
gas supply from long-term contracts, short-term contracts and
withdrawals from underground storage to be approximately
4.2 Bcf, including approximately 2.2 Bcf associated
with the TXU Gas operations we acquired. The peak-day demand for
our historical operations in fiscal 2004 was on January 6,
2004, when sales to customers reached approximately
1.8 Bcf. The peak-day demand for the TXU Gas operations in
the 12 months ended September 30, 2004 was also on
January 6, 2004 when sales to customers reached
approximately 1.6 Bcf.

The following is a brief description of our six
natural gas utility divisions as well as the Mid-Tex Division
acquired in October 2004. Additional information for our six
natural gas utility divisions we operated at September 30,
2004 is presented under the caption “Operating
Statistics”.

Atmos Energy Colorado-Kansas Division.

Our Colorado-Kansas Division operates
in Colorado, Kansas and the southwestern corner of Missouri and
is regulated by each respective state’s public service
commission with respect to accounting, rates and charges,
operating matters and the issuance of securities. We operate
under terms of non-exclusive franchises granted by the various
cities. In May 2003, we received approval for WNA in Kansas
which is effective October through May of each year. Colorado
Interstate Gas Company, Southern Star Central Pipeline, Public
Service Company of Colorado and Northwest Pipeline are the
principal transporters of the Colorado-Kansas Division’s
gas supply requirements. Additionally, the Colorado-Kansas
Division purchases substantial volumes from producers that are
connected directly to its distribution system.



Atmos Energy Kentucky
Division.

Our Kentucky Division
operates in Kentucky and is regulated by the Kentucky Public
Service Commission, which regulates utility services, rates,
issuance of securities and other matters. We operate in the
various incorporated cities pursuant to non-exclusive franchises
granted by these cities. Sales of natural gas for use as vehicle
fuel in Kentucky are unregulated. We will operate under a
performance-based rate program through 2006. Under the
performance-based program, we and our customers jointly share in
any actual gas cost savings achieved when compared to
pre-determined benchmarks. Our rates are also subject to WNA.
The Kentucky Division’s gas supply is delivered primarily
by Texas Gas Transmission LLC, Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company,
Trunkline Gas Company and Midwestern Pipeline.

Atmos Energy Louisiana Division.

Our Louisiana Division operates in
Louisiana and includes the operations of the assets of Louisiana
Gas Service Company acquired in July 2001 and our previously
existing Trans La Division. Our Louisiana Division is
regulated by the Louisiana Public Service Commission, which
regulates utility services, rates and other matters. We operate
most of our service areas pursuant to a non-exclusive franchise
granted by the governing authority of each area. Direct sales of
natural gas to industrial customers in Louisiana, who use gas
for fuel or in manufacturing processes, and sales of natural gas
for vehicle fuel are exempt from regulation and are recognized
in our natural gas marketing segment. Louisiana Intrastate Gas
Company, Acadian Pipeline, Trans Louisiana Gas Pipeline, Inc.,
Gulf South and Texas Gas Transmission LLC pipelines provide most
of the Louisiana Division’s natural gas requirements.

Atmos Energy Mid-States Division.

Our Mid-States Division operates in
Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Missouri, Tennessee and Virginia. In
each of these states, our rates, services and operations as a
natural gas distribution company are subject to general
regulation by each state’s public service commission. We
operate in each community, where necessary, under a franchise
granted by the municipality for a fixed term of years. In
Tennessee and Georgia, we have WNA and a performance-based rate
program, which provides incentives for us to find ways to lower
costs and share the cost savings with our customers. Beginning
in July 2005, we will have WNA in Virginia that will cover the
entire year. Our Mid-States Division is served by 13 interstate
pipelines; however, the majority of the volumes are transported
through East Tennessee Pipeline, Southern Natural Gas, Tennessee
Gas Pipeline and Columbia Gulf.

Atmos Energy West Texas
Division.

Our West Texas Division,
formerly known as the Atmos Energy Texas Division, operates in
Texas in three primary service areas: the Amarillo service area,
the Lubbock service area and the West Texas service area. The
governing body of each municipality we serve has original
jurisdiction over all utility rates, operations and services
within its city limits, except with respect to sales of natural
gas for vehicle fuel and agricultural use. We operate pursuant
to non-exclusive franchises granted by the municipalities we
serve, which are subject to renewal from time to time. The
Railroad Commission of Texas has exclusive appellate
jurisdiction over all rate and regulatory orders and ordinances
of the municipalities and exclusive original jurisdiction over
rates and services to customers not located within the limits of
a municipality. During 2004, the West Texas Division received
approval from the City of Lubbock, Texas and the 66 cities
in our West Texas system, for WNA in these service areas, which
will be effective October through May of each year, beginning
with the 2004-2005 winter heating season. We also have WNA in
our Amarillo service area. Our West Texas Division receives
transportation service from ONEOK Pipeline. In addition, the
West Texas Division purchases a significant portion of its
natural gas supply from Pioneer Natural Resources which is
connected directly to our Amarillo, Texas distribution system.

Mississippi Valley Gas Company Division.

Our Mississippi Valley Gas Company
Division, acquired in December 2002, operates in Mississippi and
is regulated by the Mississippi Public Service Commission with
respect to rates, services and operations. We operate under
non-exclusive franchises granted by the municipalities we serve.
Since the acquisition, we have been operating under a rate
structure that allows us over a five-year period to recover a
portion of our integration costs associated with the
acquisition, and operations and maintenance costs in excess of
an agreed-upon benchmark. In addition, we are required to file
for rate adjustments based on our expenses every six months. We
also have WNA in Mississippi. This division’s gas supply is
delivered by Gulf South Pipeline Company, Tennessee Gas Pipeline
Company, Southern Natural Gas Company, Texas Eastern
Transmission, Texas Gas Transmission LLC, Trunkline Gas Co. LLC
and Enbridge Marketing LP.



Atmos Energy Mid-Tex Division.

Our Mid-Tex Division, which represents
the assets and operations that we acquired from TXU Gas on
October 1, 2004, includes natural gas distribution
operations that operate in the north-central, eastern and
western parts of Texas and natural gas transmission and storage
operations. This division purchases, distributes and sells
natural gas to approximately 1.5 million residential and
business customers in approximately 550 cities and towns,
including the 11-county Dallas/ Fort Worth metropolitan
area. Under a May 2004 rate filing, this division operates under
a system-wide rate jurisdiction with the pipeline operations we
acquired in the acquisition. Similar to our West Texas Division,
the governing body of each municipality served through this
division has original jurisdiction over all utility rates,
operations and services within its city limits, except with
respect to sales of natural gas for vehicle fuel and
agricultural use. We operate pursuant to non-exclusive
franchises granted by the municipalities we serve, which are
subject to renewal from time to time. The Texas Railroad
Commission has exclusive appellate jurisdiction over all rate
and regulatory orders and ordinances of the municipalities and
exclusive original jurisdiction over rates and services to
customers not located within the limits of a municipality. This
division does not have WNA. However, our operations benefit from
a rate structure that mitigates the impact of warmer-than-normal
weather on revenue. The majority of this division’s
residential and business customers use natural gas for heating,
and their needs are directly affected by the mildness or
severity of the heating season.

The natural gas transmission and storage
operations that we acquired in the TXU Gas acquisition, which
will be operated in the Atmos Pipeline — Texas
Division, also transport natural gas to third parties and
represent one of the largest intrastate pipeline operations in
Texas. These operations include interconnected natural gas
transmission lines, five underground storage reservoirs
(including a salt dome facility), 24 compressor stations and
related properties, all within Texas. These operations may
create additional gas marketing and other opportunities for our
non-regulated subsidiaries.

The gas distribution and transmission lines we
acquired have been constructed over lands of others pursuant to
easements or along public highways, streets and rights-of-way as
permitted by law. In addition to being heavily concentrated in
the established natural gas-producing areas of central, northern
and eastern Texas, the intrastate pipeline system we acquired
also extends into or near the major producing areas of the Texas
Gulf Coast and the Delaware and Val Verde Basins of West Texas.
Nine basins located in Texas are estimated to contain a
substantial portion of the nation’s remaining onshore
natural gas reserves. This pipeline system provides access to
all of these basins. We believe that we are well situated to
receive large volumes into this pipeline system at the major
hubs, such as Katy, Waha and Carthage as well as from storage
facilities where we maintain high delivery capabilities.

At closing of the acquisition, TXU Gas and some
of its affiliates entered into transitional services agreements
with us to provide call center, meter reading, customer billing,
collections, information reporting, software, accounting,
treasury, administrative and other services to the Mid-Tex
Division. The initial term of each of these agreements will
expire on October 1, 2005. Any particular service may be
terminated during the initial term on 90 days notice,
except for call center, customer billing, collections,
information reporting, administrative and other services
provided under our agreement with TXU Gas, which may not be
terminated during the initial term. After the initial term, all
of the service agreements continue on a month-to-month basis
until canceled by either party with at least 30 days prior
written notice. In addition, we have an option to extend the
business services provided during the initial term by TXU Gas
for a period of six months beyond the initial term, so long as
we exercise our option at least 120 days before the
expiration of the initial term. The agreements require us to pay
the service providers’ costs for the services.

However, on November 4, 2004, we entered
into an agreement with Capgemini Energy L.P. pursuant to
which we will assume the operations of the Waco, Texas call
center on April 1, 2005 and will close the purchase of the
related assets on October 1, 2005. In connection therewith,
all call center services provided by TXU Gas under the
transitional services agreement will terminate on April 1,
2005.

Also at closing, we entered into a transitional
access agreement with TXU Gas and some of its affiliates in
order to allow the parties the same level of access to certain
properties, facilities, software applications and other items
that they were provided prior to the closing. The initial term
of this agreement also expires on



October 1, 2005, and the agreement also
continues on a month-to-month basis thereafter until canceled by
either party with at least 30 days prior written notice.

In connection with the TXU Gas acquisition, we
acquired the franchises held by TXU Gas to provide natural gas
utility services to cities, towns and other municipalities in
Texas. As part of the TXU Gas acquisition, we determined, on the
basis of representations and warranties in the acquisition
agreement and our diligence, that we needed the consent of two
such cities for the acquisition of their franchises and we
received the necessary consents prior to closing. However, we
have received letters from two other cities, including the City
of Dallas, raising the issue of whether, under the terms of
their franchises, we should have also obtained their consents.
We are currently in discussions with the City of Dallas on this
issue. As these discussions are at an early stage, we cannot
predict the outcome, but one alternative suggested by the City
of Dallas is that we consider renewing our non-exclusive
franchise with the City of Dallas prior to its 2009 expiration
date. We do not currently know what changes, if any, the City of
Dallas might propose in the terms of the franchise, were we to
agree to an early renewal, or whether the City of Dallas will
take other action with respect to the franchise, were we not to
do so. However, we believe that the costs to us associated with
a renewal would not be material. We have not received any
similar inquiries from other cities, towns or municipalities,
but we cannot be certain that we will not receive similar
inquiries in the future.

Natural Gas Marketing Segment
Overview

Our natural gas marketing and other nonutility
segments, which are organized under Atmos Energy Holdings, Inc.
(AEH), have operations in 18 states. Through
September 30, 2003, Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC, together
with its wholly-owned subsidiaries Woodward Marketing, L.L.C.
and Trans Louisiana Industrial Gas Company, Inc., comprised our
natural gas marketing segment. Effective October 1, 2003,
our natural gas marketing segment was reorganized. The
operations of Atmos Energy Marketing, L.L.C. and Trans Louisiana
Industrial Gas Company, Inc. were merged into Woodward
Marketing, L.L.C., which was renamed Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC
(AEM).

We acquired a 45 percent interest in
Woodward Marketing, L.L.C. in July 1997 as a result of the
merger of Atmos and United Cities Gas Company, which had
acquired that interest in May 1995. In April 2001, we acquired
the remaining 55 percent interest that we did not own for
1,423,193 restricted shares of our common stock.

AEM provides a variety of natural gas management
services to municipalities, natural gas utility systems and
industrial natural gas consumers primarily in the southeastern
and midwestern states and to our Kentucky, Louisiana and
Mid-States divisions. These services primarily consist of
furnishing natural gas supplies at fixed and market-based
prices, contract negotiation and administration, load
forecasting, gas storage acquisition and management services,
transportation services, peaking sales and balancing services,
capacity utilization strategies and gas price management through
the use of derivative products. We use proprietary and
customer-owned transportation and storage assets to provide the
various services our customers’ request. As a result, our
revenues arise from the types of commercial transactions we have
structured with our customers and include the value we extract
by optimizing the storage and transportation capacity we own or
control as well as revenues for services we deliver.

We participate in transactions in which we
combine the natural gas commodity and transportation costs to
minimize our costs incurred to serve our customers.
Additionally, we participate in natural gas storage transactions
in which we seek to capture the pricing differences that occur
over time. We purchase or sell physical natural gas and then
sell or purchase financial contracts at a price sufficient to
cover our carrying costs and provide a gross profit margin.
Through the use of transportation and storage services and
derivatives, we are able to capture gross profit margin through
the arbitrage of pricing differences in various locations and by
recognizing pricing differences that occur over time.

AEM’s management of natural gas requirements
involves the sale of natural gas and the management of storage
and transportation supplies under contracts with customers
generally having one to two year terms. At September 30,
2004, Atmos Energy Marketing had a total of 638 industrial
customers and 80 municipal customers. Atmos Energy Marketing
also sells natural gas to some of its industrial customers on a
delivered burner tip basis under contract terms from
30 days to two years.



Other Nonutility Segment Overview

Our other nonutility segment consists primarily
of the operations of Atmos Pipeline and Storage, L.L.C. and
Atmos Energy Services, LLC, which are wholly-owned by our
subsidiary, Atmos Energy Holdings, Inc. Through Atmos Pipeline
and Storage, we own or have an interest in underground storage
fields in Kentucky and Louisiana. Atmos Pipeline and
Storage’s underground storage fields in Kansas were
transferred to our Atmos Energy Colorado-Kansas utility division
during fiscal 2004. Atmos Pipeline and Storage provides storage
services to our customers and captures pricing arbitrage through
the use of derivatives. We also use these storage facilities to
reduce the need to contract for additional pipeline capacity to
meet customer demand during peak periods.

Through Atmos Energy Services, we provide natural
gas management services to our utility operations. Prior to the
second quarter of fiscal 2004, this entity conducted limited
operations. However, beginning April 1, 2004, Atmos Energy
Services began providing natural gas supply management services
to our utility operations in a limited number of states. These
services include aggregating and purchasing gas supply,
arranging transportation and storage logistics and ultimately
delivering the gas to our utility service areas at competitive
prices. We have expanded these services to substantially all of
our utility service areas as of the end of fiscal 2004.

Through January 20, 2004, United Cities
Propane Gas, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Atmos Energy
Holdings, Inc., owned an approximate 19 percent membership
interest in U.S. Propane L.P. (USP), a joint venture formed
in February 2000 with other utility companies to own a limited
partnership interest in Heritage Propane Partners, L.P.
(Heritage), a publicly-traded marketer of propane through a
nationwide retail distribution network. During fiscal 2004, we
sold our interest in USP and Heritage. As a result of these
transactions, we no longer have an interest in the propane
business.



Operating Statistics

The following tables present certain operating
statistics for our historical utility, natural gas marketing and
other nonutility segments for each of the five fiscal years from
2000 through 2004. These tables do not include data for the
Mid-Tex Division acquired on October 1, 2004. However, note
that based upon the number of meters in service in the Mid-Tex
Division, approximately 90 percent of its customers are
classified as residential, with approximately 9 percent
commercial and industrial, which is substantially similar to
that of our other six divisions.

Utility Sales and Statistical
    Data

See footnotes following these tables.



Utility Sales and Statistical Data By
    Division

(5)

See footnotes following these tables.



See footnotes following these tables.



Natural Gas Marketing and Other Nonutility
    Operations Sales and Statistical Data

Notes to preceding tables:



Ratemaking activity

Overview

The method of determining regulated rates varies
among the states in which our natural gas utility divisions
operate. The regulators have the responsibility of ensuring that
utilities under their jurisdictions operate in the best
interests of customers while providing utility companies the
opportunity to earn a reasonable return on investment. In a
general rate case, the applicable regulatory authority
establishes rates which allow a utility company an opportunity
to collect revenue from customers to recover the cost of
providing utility service.

Generally, the regulatory authority reviews our
rate request and establishes a rate structure intended to
generate revenue sufficient to cover our costs of doing business
and provide a reasonable return on invested capital.

Rates established by regulatory authorities are
adjusted for increases and decreases in our purchased gas cost
through purchased gas adjustment mechanisms. Purchased gas
adjustment mechanisms provide gas utility companies a method of
recovering purchased gas costs on an ongoing basis without
filing a rate case to address all of the utility’s non-gas
costs. These mechanisms are commonly utilized when regulatory
authorities recognize a particular type of expense, such as
purchased gas costs, that (i) is subject to significant
price fluctuations compared to the utility’s other costs,
(ii) represents a large component of the utility’s
cost of service and (iii) is generally outside the control
of the gas utility. There is no gross profit generated through
purchased gas adjustments, but they do provide a
dollar-for-dollar offset to increases or decreases in utility
gas costs. Although substantially all of our utility sales to
our customers fluctuate with the cost of gas that we purchase,
utility gross profit (which is defined as operating revenues
less purchased gas cost) is generally not affected by
fluctuations in the cost of gas due to the purchased gas
adjustment mechanism. Additionally, certain jurisdictions have
introduced performance-based ratemaking adjustments to provide
incentives to natural gas utilities to minimize purchased gas
costs through improved storage management and use of financial
hedges to lock in gas costs. Under the performance-based
ratemaking adjustment, purchased gas costs savings are shared
between the utility and its customers.

The following table summarizes certain
information regarding our historical ratemaking jurisdictions.
This table does not summarize the ratemaking activities of the
Mid-Tex Division we acquired on October 1, 2004.

(1)

The rate base and authorized rate of return
    presented in this table are the rate base and rate of return
    from the last base rate case for each jurisdiction. These rate
    bases and rates of return are not indicative of current or
    future rate bases or rates of return. The equity component of
    “allowed return on equity” is computed by multiplying
    the rate base in each state by the capitalization ratio of Atmos
    Energy as a whole.

(2)

A rate base or rate of return were not included
    in the respective state commission’s final decision.



Recent Ratemaking Activity

Approximately 97 percent, 97 percent
and 96 percent of our utility revenues in the fiscal years
ended September 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002 were derived from
sales at rates set by or subject to approval by local or state
authorities. Net annual rate increases totaling
$16.2 million and $18.6 million became effective in
fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003. There were no rate increases which
became effective in fiscal 2002.

The following table and discussion summarizes the
major rate requests that we have made and other ratemaking
developments during the most recent five fiscal years and the
action taken on such requests. This table does not summarize the
ratemaking activities of the Mid-Tex Division we acquired on
October 1, 2004.

(a)

No requested amounts are presented because either
    (1) we file periodic requests for rate adjustments based
    upon our actual expenses in accordance with the respective state
    commission’s rules or (2) the commission’s ruling
    was not the result of a rate filing initiated by us. See further
    information in the following discussion.



Atmos Energy Colorado-Kansas Division.

In April 2004, the Colorado-Kansas
Division agreed to provide a one-time credit to our Colorado
customers of $1.9 million pending approval of the agreement
by the Colorado Public Utility Commission. The agreement was a
result of an inquiry by the Colorado Office of Consumer Counsel
related to our earnings in Colorado. The staff of the Colorado
Public Utility Commission was also a party to the agreement.

In May 2003, the Colorado-Kansas Division filed a
rate case with the Kansas Corporation Commission for
approximately $7.4 million in additional annual revenues.
In January 2004, the Kansas Corporation Commission approved an
agreement that allowed a $2.5 million increase in our rates
effective March 1, 2004. Additionally, the agreement allows
us to increase our monthly customer charges from $5 to $8 and
provides that we will not file another full rate application
prior to September 1, 2005. WNA became effective in Kansas
in October 2003 in accordance with the Kansas Corporation
Commission’s ruling in May 2003.

In November 2000, the Colorado-Kansas Division
filed a rate case with the Colorado Public Utilities Commission
for approximately $4.2 million in additional annual
revenues. In May 2001, we received an increase in annual
revenues of approximately $2.8 million from the Colorado
Public Utilities Commission. The new rates went into effect on
May 4, 2001.

Atmos Energy Kentucky Division.

On March 25, 2002, the Kentucky
Commission issued an Order approving a four year extension,
effective April 1, 2002, of the Performance-based
Ratemaking mechanism related to gas procurement and gas
transportation activities filed by the Kentucky Division. The
Performance-based Ratemaking mechanism is incorporated into the
Kentucky Division’s gas cost adjustment clause and provides
for the sharing of purchased gas cost savings between our
customers and us. We recognized other income of
$0.9 million, $1.3 million and $1.1 million under
the Kentucky Performance-based-ratemaking mechanism in fiscal
years 2004, 2003 and 2002.

In May 1999, the Kentucky Division requested from
the Kentucky Public Service Commission a $14.1 million
increase in revenues, a weather normalization adjustment and
changes in rate design to shift a portion of revenues from
commodity charges to fixed rates. In December 1999, the Kentucky
Commission granted an increase in annual revenues of
approximately $9.9 million. The new rates were effective
for services rendered on or after December 21, 1999. In
addition, the Kentucky Commission approved a five-year pilot
program for weather normalization beginning in November 2000.

Atmos Energy Louisiana Division.

During fiscal 2004, the Louisiana
Public Service Commission approved tariff revisions for our LGS
System totaling $0.2 million that became effective in
October 2004.

In October 2002, Atmos received written
notification from the Executive Secretary of the Louisiana
Public Service Commission that he was asserting that a monthly
facilities fee of approximately $0.6 million charged since
July 2001 to Atmos by Trans Louisiana Gas Pipeline, Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Atmos, pursuant to a contract between
the parties, was excessive. The Executive Secretary asserted
that all monthly facilities fees in excess of approximately
$0.1 million from July 2001 should be refunded to
ratepayers with interest. On October 8, 2003, the
commission unanimously voted in open session to approve an
agreement that was reached with the commission staff to allow us
to charge a facilities fee of approximately $0.5 million
per month (subject to future escalation) beginning
November 1, 2003 for a period of 14 years. No
retroactive adjustments were required under this agreement.

In January and February 2002, our Louisiana
Division submitted its 2001 Rate Stabilization filings to the
Louisiana Public Service Commission for the two gas systems we
operate in Louisiana. The Louisiana Public Service Commission
audited the filings and found our earnings to be deficient and
that rate adjustments were appropriate. Approved tariff
revisions, which became effective November 1, 2002,
resulted in $15.3 million in additional revenues per year
for our LGS System and $0.5 million for our Trans
La System during the first 24-month period. Subsequent to
the first 24-month period, adjusted rates provided total annual
revenue increases of $11.9 million for our LGS System and
$0.4 million for our Trans La System. As a result of
the actions taken by the Louisiana Public Service Commission, we
have decreased the overall weather impact to our revenues in
Louisiana.



In 2001, in connection with its review of our
acquisition of Louisiana Gas Service, the Louisiana Public
Service Commission approved a rate structure that requires us to
share with the customers of Louisiana Gas Service cost savings
that result from the acquisition. The shared cost savings are
the difference between operation and maintenance expense in any
future year and the 1998 normalized expense for Louisiana Gas
Service, indexed for inflation, annual changes in labor costs
and customer growth. Since January 1, 2002, customers have
been assured they will receive annual savings, which will be
indexed for inflation, annual changes in labor costs and
customer growth. The sharing mechanism will remain in place for
20 years subject to established modification procedures.

In June 1999, our Trans La operations were
involved in a rate investigation before the Louisiana Public
Service Commission, including the redesign of rates to mitigate
the effects of warm winter weather. A decision was rendered by
the Louisiana Commission in October 1999 that increased service
charges associated with customer service calls and increased the
monthly customer charges from $6 to $9, both effective
November 1, 1999. While these changes were revenue neutral,
they mitigated the impact of warmer than normal winter weather
on earnings. The decision also included a three-year rate
stabilization clause which will allow the Trans
La operations of our Louisiana Division’s rates to be
adjusted annually to allow us to earn a return on equity within
certain ranges that will be monitored on an annual basis. This
clause expired in fiscal 2003.

Atmos Energy Mid-States Division.

In February 2004, the Mid-States
Division filed a rate case with the Virginia Corporation
Commission to request a $1.0 million increase in our base
rates, WNA and recovery of the gas cost component of bad-debt
expense. The Virginia Corporation Commission (VCC) granted
a rate increase in November 2004 of $0.4 million that was
retroactively effective to July 27, 2004. Additionally, the
VCC authorized WNA beginning in July 2005 and the ability to
recover the gas cost component of bad debt expense.

In March 2001, the Mid-States Division and the
Iowa Consumer Advocate Division of the Department of Justice
reached an agreement for an annual rate reduction of
$0.3 million relating to our Iowa operations, which was
effective in March 2001. Also in 2001, the Mid-States Division
filed requests for accounting orders related to uncollectible
delinquencies in three states. As a result, we were able to
defer $1.5 million as a regulatory asset.

In February 2000, the Mid-States Division filed a
rate case in Illinois with the Illinois Commerce Commission
requesting an increase in annual revenues of approximately
$3.1 million. After review by the Illinois Commerce
Commission, we received an increase in annual revenues of
approximately $1.4 million. The new rates went into effect
on October 23, 2000 and are collected primarily through an
increase in monthly customer charges.

In March 2000, the Mid-States Division filed a
rate case in Virginia with the Virginia Corporation Commission
requesting an increase in annual revenues of approximately
$2.3 million. A revised filing was submitted in July 2000
requesting an increase in revenues of approximately
$2.1 million. In April 2001, the Mid-States Division agreed
to an annual rate reduction of $0.5 million effective
beginning with the April 2001 billing cycle.

Atmos Energy West Texas
Division.

During fiscal 2004, our West
Texas Division initiated compliance with new Gas Reliability
Infrastructure Program (GRIP) legislation which became law in
Texas in 2003 and allows us to expedite the recovery of capital
expenditures incurred in the Lubbock, Amarillo and West Texas
jurisdictions.

In October 2003, the West Texas Division filed a
rate case in Lubbock requesting a $3.0 million increase in
annual revenues and WNA for our residential, commercial and
public-authority customers. The City of Lubbock approved a
$1.5 million increase effective March 1, 2004, as well
as the proposed WNA.

In September 2003, the West Texas Division filed
a rate case in its West Texas System to request a
$7.7 million increase in annual revenues and WNA for its
residential, commercial and public-authority customers. In May
2004, the 66 cities in its West Texas System approved an
increase of $3.2 million in our annual utility revenues.
The cities also approved a WNA Rider for residential,
commercial, public-authority and state-institution customers.
This Rider became effective in October 2004.



In June 2003, the West Texas Division filed a
rate case in Amarillo, Texas, requesting a $5.1 million
increase in annual revenues. In August 2003, the City of
Amarillo, Texas approved an annual increase of approximately
$2.8 million, which was effective for bills rendered on or
after September 1, 2003. The increase was primarily
comprised of an increase in monthly customer charges. The
agreement with Amarillo also provided for changes in the rate
structure to recover the cost of uncollectible accounts,
adjustments to base rates to compensate for declining gas use
per customer and provided WNA for the period October through May
of each year, which became effective in October 2003.

In August 1999, the West Texas Division filed
rate cases in its West Texas System cities and Amarillo, Texas,
requesting rate increases of approximately $9.8 million and
$4.4 million. The West Texas Division received an increase
in annual revenues of approximately $2.1 million in base
rates plus an increase of $0.1 million in service charges
in Amarillo, Texas, effective for bills rendered on or after
January 1, 2000. The agreement with Amarillo also provided
for changes in the rate structure to reduce the impact of warmer
than normal weather and to improve the recovery of the actual
cost of service calls. The West Texas Division’s request
for its West Texas System cities was initially denied, and in
March 2000 this decision was appealed to the Railroad Commission
of Texas (Railroad Commission). After a series of appeals, the
Railroad Commission approved a settlement which increased annual
revenues by approximately $3.0 million that covered all
67 cities served by the West Texas System effective
December 1, 2000.

Mississippi Valley Gas Company
Division.

The Mississippi Public
Service Commission requires that we file for rate adjustments
based on our expenses every six months. Typically, rate
adjustments are filed in May and November of each year and the
rate becomes effective in June and December. In October 2003,
the Mississippi Public Service Commission (MPSC) issued a
final order that denied our May 2003 request for a rate
adjustment. We filed our second semiannual filing on
November 5, 2003, and received an annual rate increase of
$5.9 million effective on December 1, 2003. We filed
our first semiannual filing for 2004 on May 5, 2004 and we
received an annual rate increase of $4.7 million effective
on June 1, 2004. However, in the same ruling, the MPSC
disallowed certain deferred costs totaling $2.8 million. We
are appealing the MPSC’s decision regarding these deferred
costs. We filed our second semiannual filing for 2004 on
November 4, 2004.

Atmos Energy Mid-Tex
Division.

In May 2003, TXU Gas filed,
for the first time, a system-wide rate case for the distribution
and pipeline operations. The case was filed in all 437
incorporated cities served by the distribution operations, and
at the Railroad Commission for the pipeline business and for
unincorporated areas served by the distribution operations. The
filing requested an annual revenue increase of
$69.5 million or 7.24 percent. On May 25, 2004,
TXU Gas received a decision from the Texas Railroad Commission
that disallowed certain assets and liabilities for ratemaking
purposes. However, the rate case is expected to prospectively
increase the Mid-Tex Division’s revenue by approximately
$11.7 million. The decision in the rate case was available
and considered by us as we finalized our offer for the TXU Gas
operations. Additionally, pursuant to its May 2004 rate order,
the Mid-Tex Division now operates under a system-wide rate
jurisdiction with the pipeline operations we acquired in
connection with the TXU Gas acquisition. Similar to our West
Texas Division, the Mid-Tex Division operates under the new GRIP
regulations. The conditions imposed by the States of Iowa,
Missouri and Virginia, in their approvals of the TXU Gas Company
acquisition, require that we protect the customers of each state
from any adverse effects of the acquisition with respect to
rates and quality of service.

Other Regulation

Each of our utility divisions is regulated by
various state or local public utility authorities. We are also
subject to regulation by the United States Department of
Transportation with respect to safety requirements in the
operation and maintenance of our gas distribution facilities.
Our distribution operations are also subject to various state
and federal laws regulating environmental matters. From time to
time we receive inquiries regarding various environmental
matters. We believe that our properties and operations
substantially comply with and are operated in substantial
conformity with applicable safety and environmental statutes and
regulations. There are no administrative or judicial proceedings
arising under environmental quality statutes pending or known to
be contemplated by governmental agencies which would have a
material adverse effect on us or our operations. Our
environmental claims have arisen primarily from manufactured gas
plant sites in



Tennessee, Iowa and Missouri and mercury
contamination sites in Kansas. These claims are more fully
described in Note 13 to the consolidated financial
statements.

The TXU Gas operations we acquired are wholly
intrastate in character and are subject to regulation by
municipalities in Texas and the Texas Railroad Commission. These
acquired operations do not include any certificated interstate
transmission facilities subject to the jurisdiction of the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (known as the FERC) under
the Natural Gas Act, any sales for resale under the rate
jurisdiction of the FERC or any transportation service that is
subject to FERC jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act. Since
1988, the FERC has allowed, pursuant to Section 311 of the
Natural Gas Policy Act, gas transportation services through the
intrastate transmission facilities we acquired “on behalf
of” interstate pipelines or local distribution companies
served by interstate pipelines, without subjecting the acquired
operations to the jurisdiction of the FERC. We did not acquire
any manufactured gas plant sites in the TXU Gas acquisition. Our
acquisition agreement with TXU Gas addresses other environmental
matters, which we do not expect to have a material adverse
effect on us or our operations.

Competition

Our utility operations are not currently in
significant direct competition with any other distributors of
natural gas to residential and commercial customers within our
service areas. However, we do compete with other natural gas
suppliers and suppliers of alternative fuels for sales to
industrial and agricultural customers. We compete in all aspects
of our business with alternative energy sources, including, in
particular, electricity. Electric utilities offer electricity as
a rival energy source and compete for the space heating, water
heating and cooking markets. Promotional incentives, improved
equipment efficiencies and promotional rates all contribute to
the acceptability of electrical equipment. The principal means
to compete against alternative fuels is lower prices, and
natural gas historically has maintained its price advantage in
the residential, commercial and industrial markets. However,
higher gas prices, coupled with the electric utilities’
marketing efforts have increased competition for residential and
commercial customers. In addition, our Natural Gas Marketing
segment competes with other natural gas brokers in obtaining
natural gas supplies for our customers.

Employees

At September 30, 2004, we had 2,864
employees, consisting of 2,742 employees in our utility segment
and 122 employees in our other segments. The acquisition of the
TXU Gas operations increased our number of employees by 1,344.
See “Operating Statistics — Utility Sales and
Statistical Data by Division” for the number of employees
by division.

Other Information

We post our filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on our website at

www.atmosenergy.com

.

Corporate Governance

In accordance with relevant provisions of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related releases of the Securities
and Exchange Commission as well as corporate governance listing
standards of the New York Stock Exchange, in November 2003 the
Board of Directors of the Company adopted the Company’s
Corporate Governance Guidelines and revised the Company’s
Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all directors, officers
and employees of the Company. In addition, the Board of
Directors amended the charters for each of its Audit, Human
Resources and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees.
All of the foregoing documents are posted on the Corporate
Governance page of the Company’s website.



Item 2.

Properties

Distribution, transmission and related
assets

At September 30, 2004 our utility segment
owned an aggregate of 47,616 miles of underground
distribution and transmission mains throughout our gas
distribution systems. These mains are located on easements or
rights-of-way which generally provide for perpetual use. We
maintain our mains through a program of continuous inspection
and repair and believe that our system of mains is in good
condition. With the acquisition of the TXU gas operations, the
number of miles of underground distribution mains increased by
26,431. Additionally, the acquisition added 6,162 miles of
transmission and gathering lines to our system.

Our utility segment also holds franchises granted
by the incorporated cities and towns that we serve. At
September 30, 2004, we held 667 franchises having terms
generally ranging from five to 25 years. We believe that
each of our franchises will be renewed. With the acquisition of
the TXU Gas operations, our number of franchises increased to
1,103. The additional franchises have initial terms generally
ranging from ten to 35 years. We believe that each of these
franchises will be renewed. A significant number of our
franchises expire each year, which require renewal prior to the
end of their terms.



Storage Assets

Our historical utility and other nonutility
segments own underground gas storage facilities in several
states to supplement the supply of natural gas in periods of
peak demand. The following table summarizes key information
regarding our underground gas storage facilities:



Additionally, we contract for storage service in
underground storage facilities on many of the interstate
pipelines serving us to supplement our proprietary storage
capacity. The following table summarizes our contracted storage
capacity.

(See footnotes on the following
page)



(1)

Maximum daily withdrawal quantity
    (MDWQ) amounts will fluctuate depending upon the season and
    the month. Unless otherwise noted, MDWQ amounts represent the
    MDWQ amounts as of November 1, which is the beginning of
    the winter heating season.

(2)

We contract for storage service in two
    underground storage facilities, Wiseman and Ellis, from this
    company.

Other facilities

Our utility segment owns and operates one propane
peak shaving plant with a total capacity of approximately
180,000 gallons that can produce an equivalent of approximately
3,300 Mcf daily.

Offices

Our administrative offices are consolidated in
Dallas, Texas under one lease. We also maintain field offices
throughout our distribution system, the majority of which are
located in leased facilities. Our nonutility operations are
headquartered in Houston, Texas, with offices in Houston and
other locations, primarily in leased facilities.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

See Note 13 to the consolidated financial
statements.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following table sets forth certain
information as of September 30, 2004, regarding the
executive officers of the Company. It is followed by a brief
description of the business experience of each executive officer.

Robert W. Best was named Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief Executive Officer in March 1997. He
previously served as Senior Vice President — Regulated
Businesses of Consolidated Natural Gas Company (January
1996-March 1997) and was responsible for its transmission and
distribution companies.

John P. Reddy was named Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer in September 2000. From April 2000 to
September 2000, he was Senior Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer. Mr. Reddy previously served the
Company as Vice President, Corporate Development and Treasurer
from December 1998 to March 2000. He joined the Company in
August 1998 from Pacific Enterprises, a Los Angeles, California
based utility holding company whose principal subsidiary was
Southern California Gas Co.

R. Earl Fischer was named Senior Vice
President, Utility Operations in May 2000. He previously served
the Company as President of the Texas Division from January 1999
to April 2000 and as President of the Kentucky Division from
February 1989 to December 1998.

JD Woodward was named Senior Vice President,
Nonutility Operations in April 2001. Prior to joining the
Company, Mr. Woodward was President of Woodward Marketing,
L.L.C. from January 1995 to March 2001.

Louis P. Gregory was named Senior Vice President
and General Counsel in September 2000. Prior to joining the
Company, he practiced law from April 1999 to August 2000 with
the law firm of McManemin & Smith.

Wynn D. McGregor was named Vice President, Human
Resources in January 1994. He previously served the Company as
Director of Human Resources from February 1991 to December 1993
and as Manager, Compensation and Employment from December 1987
to January 1991.



PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities

Our stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange
under the trading symbol “ATO.” The high and low sale
prices and dividends paid per share of our common stock for
fiscal 2004 and 2003 are listed below. The high and low prices
listed are the closing NYSE quotes for shares of our common
stock:

Dividend payments are payable at the discretion
of our Board of Directors out of legally available funds and are
also subject to restriction under the terms of our First
Mortgage Bond agreements. See Note 6 to the consolidated
financial statements. The number of record holders of our common
stock on September 30, 2004 was 27,555. We do not expect to
change our current dividend policy as a result of the TXU Gas
acquisition or the related financings. Future payments of
dividends, and the amounts of these dividends, will depend on
our financial condition, results of operations, capital
requirements and other factors.

The following table sets forth the number of
securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation
plans at September 30, 2004.



Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

The following table sets forth selected financial
data of the Company and should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements included herein.

(1)

Financial results for 2004 include a
    $5.9 million pre-tax gain on the sale of our interest in
    U.S. Propane, L.P. and Heritage Propane Partners, L.P.



The following table presents a condensed income
statement by segment for the year ended September 30, 2004.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Introduction

This section provides management’s
discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial
condition and results of operations of Atmos Energy Corporation
with specific information on results of operations and liquidity
and capital resources. It includes management’s
interpretation of our financial results, the factors affecting
these results, the major factors expected to affect future
operating results and future investment and financing plans.
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the
Company’s consolidated financial statements and notes
thereto.

Cautionary Statement for the Purposes of
    the Safe Harbor under the Private Securities Litigation Reform
    Act of 1995

The statements contained in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K may contain “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than
statements of historical fact included in this Report are
forward-looking statements made in good faith by the Company and
are intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability
established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. When used in this Report, or any other of the
Company’s documents or oral presentations, the words
“anticipate”, “believe”, “expect”,
“estimate”, “forecast”, “goal”,
“intend”, “objective”, “plan”,
“projection”, “seek”, “strategy”
or similar words are intended to identify forward-looking
statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks
and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed or implied in the statements
relating to the Company’s strategy, operations, markets,
services, rates, recovery of costs, availability of gas supply
and other factors. These risks and uncertainties include the
following: adverse weather conditions, such as warmer than
normal weather in the Company’s utility service territories
or colder than normal weather that could adversely affect our
natural gas marketing activities; regulatory trends and
decisions, including deregulation initiatives and the impact of
rate proceedings before various state regulatory commissions;
market risks beyond our control affecting our risk management
activities including market liquidity, commodity price
volatility and counterparty creditworthiness; national, regional
and local economic conditions; the Company’s ability to
continue to access the capital markets; the effects of inflation
and changes in the availability and prices of natural gas,
including the volatility of natural gas prices; increased
competition from energy suppliers and alternative forms of
energy; risks relating to the acquisition of the TXU Gas
operations, including without limitation, the Company’s
increased indebtedness resulting from the acquisition and the
successful integration of the TXU Gas operations; and other
uncertainties discussed herein, all of which are difficult to
predict and many of which are beyond the control of the Company.
Accordingly, while the Company believes these forward-looking
statements to be reasonable, there can be no assurance that they
will approximate actual experience or that the expectations
derived from them will be realized. Further, the Company
undertakes no obligation to update or revise any of its
forward-looking statements whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.

Factors that May Affect our Future
Performance

Our performance in the future will primarily
depend on the results of our utility and natural gas marketing
operations. Several factors exist that could influence our
future financial performance, some of which are described below.
They should be considered in connection with evaluating
forward-looking statements contained in this report or otherwise
made by or on behalf of us since these factors could cause
actual results and conditions to differ materially from those
set out in these forward-looking statements.

Our operations are weather
    sensitive.

Weather is one of the most significant factors
influencing our performance. Our natural gas utility sales
volumes and related revenues are correlated with heating
requirements that result from cold winter weather. Our
agricultural sales volumes are associated with the rainfall
levels during the growing season in our west Texas irrigation
market. However, weather normalized rates in effect in several
of our jurisdictions should



mitigate the adverse effects of warmer than
normal weather on our utility operating results. Finally,
sustained cold weather could adversely affect our natural gas
marketing operations as we may be required to purchase gas at
spot rates in a rising market to obtain sufficient volumes to
fulfill some customer contracts.

Our operations are subject to regulation
    which can directly impact our operations.

Our natural gas utility business is subject to
various regulated returns on its rate base in each of the
12 states in which we operate. We monitor the allowed rates
of return, our effectiveness in earning such rates and initiate
rate proceedings or operating changes as needed. In addition, in
the normal course of the regulatory environment, assets are
placed in service and historical test periods are established
before rate cases can be filed. Once rate cases are filed,
regulatory bodies have the authority to suspend implementation
of the new rates while studying the cases. Because of this
process, we must temporarily suffer the negative financial
effects of having placed assets in service without the benefit
of rate relief, which is commonly referred to as
“regulatory lag”. In addition, our debt and equity
financing programs are also subject to approval by regulatory
bodies in certain states, which could limit our ability to take
advantage of favorable short-term market conditions.

Our business could also be affected by
deregulation initiatives, including the development of
unbundling initiatives in the natural gas industry. Unbundling
is the separation of the provision and pricing of local
distribution gas services into discrete components. It typically
focuses on the separation of the distribution and gas supply
components and the resulting opening of the regulated components
of sales services to alternative unregulated suppliers of those
services. Because of our enhanced technology and distribution
system infrastructures, we believe that we are now positively
positioned as unbundling evolves. Consequently, we expect there
would be no significant adverse effect on our business should
unbundling or further deregulation of the natural gas
distribution service business occur.

Finally, contractual limitations could adversely
affect our ability to withdraw gas from storage, which could
cause us to purchase gas at spot prices in a rising market to
obtain sufficient volumes to fulfill customer contracts. We seek
to minimize this risk by increasing our storage capacity and
enhancing the flexibility of our natural gas marketing contracts.

Our operations are exposed to market risks
    that are beyond our control, which could result in financial
    losses.

Our risk management operations in our natural gas
marketing segment are subject to market risks beyond our control
including market liquidity, commodity price volatility and
counterparty creditworthiness. Market liquidity is affected by
the number of trading partners in the market.

Although we maintain a risk management control
policy, we may not be able to completely offset the price risk
associated with volatile gas prices or the risk in our gas
trading activities which could lead to financial losses.
Physical trading also introduces price risk on any net open
positions at the end of each trading day, as well as a risk of
loss resulting from intra-day fluctuations of gas prices and the
potential for daily price movements between the time natural gas
is purchased or sold for future delivery and the time the
related purchase or sale is hedged. Although we manage our
business to maintain no open positions, at times, limited net
open positions related to our physical storage may occur on a
short-term basis. The determination of our net open position as
of any day requires us to make assumptions as to future
circumstances, including the use of gas by our customers in
relation to our anticipated storage and market positions.
Because the price risk associated with any net open position at
the end of each day may increase if the assumptions are not
realized, we review these assumptions as part of our daily
monitoring activities. Net open positions may result in an
adverse impact on our financial condition or results of
operations if market prices move in an unfavorable manner.

Our utility segment uses a combination of storage
and financial hedges to partially insulate us against volatility
in gas prices and to help moderate the effects of higher
customer accounts receivable caused by higher gas prices. Our
natural gas marketing segment manages margins and limits risk
exposure on the sale of



natural gas inventory or the offsetting
fixed-price purchase or sale commitments for physical quantities
of natural gas through the use of a variety of financial
derivatives.

We could realize financial losses on these
activities as a result of volatility in the market value of the
underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform
under a contract.

Further, the use of financial instruments to
conduct our hedging and market risk activities subjects us to
counterparty risk. Adverse changes in the creditworthiness of
our counterparties could limit the level of trading activities
with these parties and increase the risk that these parties may
not perform under a contract. We believe this risk is mitigated
due to the large number of counterparties used in our risk
management activities.

Our net periodic pension and other postretirement
costs are subject to market risk as the fluctuation in the fair
value of the assets used to fund our various benefit plans could
lead to significant fluctuations in these costs.

Finally, we are subject to interest rate risk on
our commercial paper borrowings and the floating rate debt we
issued in October 2004 to fund the TXU Gas acquisition. We could
experience higher interest expense if interest rates increase or
increased volatility if short-term interest rates become
volatile.

National, regional and local economic
    conditions have a direct impact on our operations.

Our operations are affected by the conditions and
overall strength of the national, regional and local economies,
including interest rates, changes in the capital markets and
increases in the costs of our primary commodity, natural gas.
These factors impact the amount of residential, industrial and
commercial growth in our service territories. Additionally,
these factors could adversely impact our customer collections.

Further, AEM’s operations are concentrated
in the natural gas industry, and its customers and suppliers may
be subject to economic risks affecting that industry.

The execution of our business plan could be
    affected by an inability to access financial
    markets.

We rely upon access to both short-term and
long-term capital markets as a source of liquidity to satisfy
our liquidity requirements. Although we believe we will maintain
sufficient access to these financial markets, adverse changes in
the economy, the overall health of the industries in which we
operate, the increase in our indebtedness after the TXU Gas
acquisition and changes to our credit ratings could limit access
to these markets and restrict the execution of our business plan.

Inflation and increased gas costs could
    adversely impact our customer base and customer collections and
    increase our level of indebtedness.

Inflation has caused increases in certain
operating expenses, and has required assets to be replaced at
higher costs. We have a process in place to continually review
the adequacy of our utility gas rates in relation to the
increasing cost of providing service and the inherent regulatory
lag in adjusting those gas rates. Historically, we have been
able to budget and control operating expenses and investments
within the amounts authorized to be collected in rates and
intend to continue to do so. The ability to control expenses is
an important factor that will influence future results.

The rapid increases in the price of purchased
gas, which has occurred in some prior years, causes us to
experience a significant increase in short-term debt because we
must pay suppliers for gas when it is purchased, which can be
significantly in advance of when these costs may be recovered
through the collection of monthly customer bills for gas
delivered. Increases in purchased gas costs also slow our
utility collection efforts as customers are more likely to delay
the payment of their gas bills, leading to higher than normal
accounts receivable. This situation also results in higher
short-term debt levels and increased bad debt expense. Should
the price of purchased gas increase significantly in the
upcoming heating season, we would expect increases in our
short-term debt, accounts receivable and bad debt expense during
fiscal 2005.



Finally, higher costs of natural gas in recent
years have already caused many of our utility customers to
conserve in the use of our gas services and could lead to even
more customers utilizing such conservation methods.

Our operations are subject to increased
    competition.

We are facing increased competition from other
energy suppliers as well as electric companies and from energy
marketing and trading companies. In the case of industrial
customers, such as manufacturing plants, and agricultural
customers, adverse economic conditions, including higher gas
costs, could cause these customers to use alternative sources of
energy such as electricity or bypass our systems in favor of
special competitive contracts with lower per-unit costs.

Risks Relating to the Acquisition of the TXU
Gas Operations

In addition to the factors affecting our company
and our industry, the risks outlined below relating to the TXU
Gas acquisition could also adversely affect our business,
financial condition or results of operations.

Our indebtedness and leverage increased
    materially with the TXU Gas acquisition.

On October 22, 2004, we issued senior
unsecured notes which generated net proceeds of approximately
$1.39 billion. On October 27, 2004 we sold
16.1 million shares of common stock, which generated net
proceeds of approximately $382.5 million before other
offering costs. These financings were used to pay off the
commercial paper that was issued to fund the TXU Gas
acquisition. Assuming these financings had occurred on
September 30, 2004, our total debt, as of
September 30, 2004, would have increased from
$867.2 million to $2.3 billion and our ratio of total
debt to capitalization (including short-term debt and current
maturities of long-term debt), as of September 30, 2004
would have increased from 43.3 percent to
59.8 percent. Our ratio of total debt to capitalization is
expected to be greater during the current winter heating season
as we make additional short-term borrowings to fund natural gas
purchases and meet our working capital requirements. We also
increased our working capital facility from $350.0 million
to $600.0 million on October 22, 2004 to meet our
increased working capital requirements as a result of the TXU
Gas acquisition. This increase in our indebtedness could limit
our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our
business or economic conditions.

Our long-term debt is currently rated as
“investment grade” by Standard & Poor’s
Corporation, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings,
Inc., the three credit rating agencies that rate our long-term
debt securities. There can be no assurance that these rating
agencies will maintain investment grade ratings for our
long-term debt. If we were to lose our investment-grade rating,
the commercial paper markets and the commodity derivatives
markets could become unavailable to us. This would increase our
borrowing costs for working capital and reduce the borrowing
capacity of our gas marketing affiliate. In addition, if our
commercial paper ratings were lowered, it would increase the
cost of commercial paper financing and could reduce or eliminate
our ability to access the commercial paper markets. If we are
unable to issue commercial paper, we intend to borrow under our
bank credit facilities to meet our working capital needs. This
would increase the cost of our working capital financing.

We may not be able to implement the TXU Gas
    acquisition successfully.

The TXU Gas acquisition is larger than any of the
nine other acquisitions we have made since 1986. In addition to
operating the natural gas distribution system we acquired in the
TXU Gas acquisition, we will manage pipeline operations on a
scale greater than in the past. As a consequence, we may
experience the need for additional management attention and
resources, we may be required to develop relationships with
additional regulatory authorities in the service areas of the
TXU Gas operations we acquired or we may face unanticipated
challenges or delays in integrating the TXU Gas operations we
acquired into our business. In addition, employees important to
the TXU Gas operations we acquired may decide not to continue
employment with us. If these events occur, the acquired
operations may not achieve the results or otherwise perform as
expected.



The TXU Gas operations we acquired are
    subject to their own risks, which we may not be able to manage
    successfully.

The financial results of the TXU Gas operations
we acquired are subject to many of the same factors that have
historically affected our financial condition and results of
operations, including weather sensitivity, extensive federal,
state and local regulation, increasing gas costs, competition,
market risks and national, regional and local economic
conditions.

In addition, the TXU Gas distribution operations
we acquired do not have weather-normalized rates. This means we
will not be able to increase customers’ bills to offset
lower gas usage when the weather is warmer than normal. However,
their operations benefit from a rate structure that combines a
monthly customer charge with a declining block rate schedule to
mitigate the impact of warmer-than-normal weather on revenue.
The combination of the monthly customer charge and the customer
billing under the first block of the declining block rate
schedule provides for the recovery of most of our fixed costs
for such operations under most weather conditions. As a result,
the financial results for the TXU Gas operations we acquired may
be adversely affected in the event of a warmer-than-normal
heating season.

The TXU Gas transmission operations we acquired
include interconnected natural gas transmission lines,
underground storage reservoirs, compressor stations and related
properties within Texas. The operation of these transmission
facilities also involves risks. These include the possibility of
breakdown or failure of equipment or pipelines, the impact of
unusual or adverse weather conditions or other natural events
and the risk of performance below expected levels of throughput
or efficiency. Breakdown or reduced performance of a
transmission facility may prevent the facility from performing
under applicable sales agreements which, in certain situations,
could result in termination of those agreements or incurring a
liability for liquidated damages. Insurance, warranties,
indemnities or performance guarantees may not cover any or all
of the liquidated damages, lost revenues or increased expenses
associated with a breakdown or reduction in performance of a
transmission facility. If we are unsuccessful in managing these
risks, our business, financial condition and results of
operations could be adversely affected.

We have only limited recourse under the
    acquisition agreement for losses relating to the TXU Gas
    acquisition.

The diligence conducted in connection with the
TXU Gas acquisition and the indemnification provided in the
acquisition agreement may not be sufficient to protect us from,
or compensate us for, all losses resulting from the acquisition
or TXU Gas’s prior operations. For example, under the terms
of the acquisition agreement, the first $15 million of many
indemnifiable losses are to be borne by us, and the agreement
provides for sharing of losses with respect to unknown
environmental matters that may affect the assets we acquired
after we have borne $10 million in costs relating to such
matters. In addition, under the terms of the acquisition
agreement, the maximum aggregate amount of such losses for which
TXU Gas will indemnify us is approximately $192.5 million.
A material loss associated with the TXU Gas acquisition for
which there is not adequate indemnification could negatively
affect our results of operations, our financial condition and
our reputation in the industry and reduce the anticipated
benefits of the acquisition.

There may be other risks or costs resulting
    from the TXU Gas acquisition that are not known to
    us.

We may not be aware of all of the risks
associated with the TXU Gas acquisition. Any discovery of
adverse information concerning the assets or operations we
acquired could be material and, in many cases, would be subject
to only limited rights of recovery. In addition, we will likely
have to make capital expenditures, which may be significant, but
which amount has not been fixed, to enhance or integrate the
assets and operations we acquired.

Overview

•

Our utility segment net income increased
    $1.0 million despite weather that was 4 percent warmer
    than normal during fiscal 2004. The increase reflects the full
    year impact of the Mississippi Valley Gas Company
    (MVG) operations and rate increases in Kansas, Texas and
    Mississippi, partially offset by a



Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates

Our consolidated financial statements were
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Preparation of these financial
statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses and the related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities. We based our estimates on historical experience and
various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under
the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our
estimates, including those related to risk management and
trading activities, allowance for doubtful accounts, legal and
environmental accruals, insurance accruals, pension and
postretirement obligations, deferred income taxes and the
valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and
other long-lived assets. Our critical accounting policies are
reviewed by the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. Actual
results may differ from estimates.

Regulation

—
Our utility operations are subject to regulation with respect to
rates, service, maintenance of accounting records and various
other matters by the respective regulatory authorities in the
states in which we operate. Our regulated utility operations are
accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) 71,

Accounting for the
Effects of Certain Types of Regulation.

This



statement requires cost-based, rate-regulated
entities that meet certain criteria to reflect the financial
effects of the ratemaking and accounting practices and policies
of the various regulatory commissions in their financial
statements. We record regulatory assets for costs that have been
deferred for which future recovery through customer rates is
considered probable. Regulatory liabilities are recorded when it
is probable that revenues will be reduced for amounts that will
be credited to customers through the ratemaking process. As a
result, certain costs that would normally be expensed under
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
are permitted to be capitalized because they can be recovered
through rates. Further, regulation may impact the period in
which revenues or expenses are recognized. The amounts to be
recovered or recognized are based upon historical experience and
our understanding of the regulations. The impact of regulation
on our utility operations may be affected by decisions of the
regulatory authorities or the issuance of new regulations.

Revenue
recognition

— Sales of
natural gas to our utility customers are billed on a monthly
cycle basis; however, the billing cycle periods for certain
classes of customers do not necessarily coincide with accounting
periods used for financial reporting purposes. We follow the
revenue accrual method of accounting for utility segment
revenues whereby revenues applicable to gas delivered to
customers, but not yet billed under the cycle billing method,
are estimated and accrued and the related costs are charged to
expense.

Rates established by regulatory authorities are
adjusted for increases and decreases in our purchased gas cost
through purchased gas adjustment mechanisms. Purchased gas
adjustment mechanisms provide gas utility companies a method of
recovering purchased gas costs on an ongoing basis without
filing a rate case to address all of the utility’s non-gas
costs. These mechanisms are commonly utilized when regulatory
authorities recognize a particular type of expense, such as
purchased gas costs, that (i) is subject to significant
price fluctuations compared to the utility’s other costs,
(ii) represents a large component of the utility’s
cost of service and (iii) is generally outside the control
of the gas utility. There is no gross profit generated through
purchased gas adjustments, but they do provide a
dollar-for-dollar offset to increases or decreases in utility
gas costs. Although substantially all of our utility sales to
our customers fluctuate with the cost of gas that we purchase,
utility gross profit is generally not affected by fluctuations
in the cost of gas due to the purchased gas adjustment
mechanism. The effects of these purchased gas adjustment
mechanisms are recorded as deferred gas costs on our balance
sheet.

Energy trading contracts resulting in the
delivery of a commodity where we are the principal in the
transaction are recorded as natural gas marketing sales or
purchases at the time of physical delivery. Realized gains and
losses from the settlement of financial instruments that do not
result in physical delivery related to our natural gas marketing
energy trading contracts and unrealized gains and losses from
changes in the market value of open contracts are included as a
component of natural gas marketing revenues.

Allowance for doubtful
accounts

— For the majority
of our receivables, we establish an allowance for doubtful
accounts based on our collections experience. On certain other
receivables where we are aware of a specific customer’s
inability or reluctance to pay, we record an allowance for
doubtful accounts against amounts due to reduce the net
receivable balance to the amount we reasonably expect to
collect. However, if circumstances change, our estimate of the
recoverability of accounts receivable could be different.
Circumstances which could affect our estimates include, but are
not limited to, customer credit issues, the level of natural gas
prices and general economic conditions.

Derivatives and hedging
activities

— In our utility
segment, we use a combination of storage and financial
derivatives to partially insulate us and our natural gas utility
customers against gas price volatility during the winter heating
season. The financial derivatives we use in our utility segment
are accounted for under the mark-to-market method pursuant to
SFAS 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities.

Changes in the valuation of these
derivatives primarily result from changes in the valuation of
the portfolio of contracts, maturity and settlement of contracts
and newly originated transactions. However, because the costs of
financial derivatives used in our utility segment will
ultimately be recovered through our rates, current period
changes in the assets and liabilities from these risk management
activities are recorded as a component of deferred gas costs in
accordance with SFAS 71. Accordingly, there is no earnings
impact to our utility segment as a result of the use of
financial derivatives. The changes in the assets and liabilities
from



risk management activities are recognized in
purchased gas cost in the income statement when the related
costs are recovered through our rates.

Our natural gas marketing risk management
activities are conducted through AEM. AEM is exposed to risks
associated with changes in the market price of natural gas,
which we manage through a combination of storage and financial
derivatives, including futures, over-the-counter and
exchange-traded options and swap contracts with counterparties.
Option contracts provide the right, but not the requirement, to
buy or sell the commodity at a fixed price. Swap contracts
require receipt of payment for the commodity based on the
difference between a fixed price and the market price on the
settlement date. The use of these contracts is subject to our
risk management policies, which are monitored for compliance on
a daily basis.

We participate in transactions in which we
combine the natural gas commodity and transportation costs to
minimize our costs incurred to serve our customers.
Additionally, we engage in natural gas storage transactions in
which we seek to find and profit from pricing differences that
occur over time. We purchase or sell physical natural gas and
then sell or purchase financial contracts at a price sufficient
to cover our carrying costs and provide a gross profit margin.
Through the use of transportation and storage services and
derivatives, we are able to capture gross profit margin through
the arbitrage of pricing differences in various locations and by
recognizing pricing differences that occur over time.

Under SFAS 133, natural gas inventory is the
hedged item in a fair-value hedge and is marked to market on a
monthly basis using the inside FERC (iFERC) price at the end of
each month. Changes in fair value are recognized as unrealized
gains and losses in the period of change. Costs to store the gas
are recognized in the period the costs are incurred. We
recognize revenue and the carrying value of the inventory as an
associated purchased gas cost in our consolidated statement of
income when we sell the gas and deliver it out of the storage
facility.

Derivatives associated with our natural gas
inventory are marked to market each month based upon the NYMEX
price with changes in fair value recognized as unrealized gains
and losses in the period of change. The difference in the
indices used to mark to market our physical inventory (iFERC)
and the related fair-value hedge (NYMEX) is reported as a
component of revenue and can result in volatility in our
reported net income. Over time, gains and losses on the sale of
storage gas inventory will be offset by gains and losses on the
fair-value hedges, resulting in the realization of the economic
gross profit margin we anticipated at the time we structured the
original transaction. In addition, we continually manage our
positions to optimize value as market conditions and other
circumstances change.

Similar to our inventory position, we attempt to
mitigate substantially all of the commodity price risk
associated with our fixed-price contracts with minimum volume
requirements through the use of various offsetting derivatives.
Prior to April 1, 2004, these derivatives were not
designated as hedges under SFAS 133 because they naturally
locked in the economic gross profit margin at the time we
entered into the contract. The fixed-price forward and
offsetting derivative contracts were marked to market each month
with changes in fair value recognized as unrealized gains and
losses recorded in revenue in our consolidated statement of
income. The unrealized gains and losses were realized as a
component of revenue in the period in which we fulfilled the
requirements of the fixed-price contract and the derivatives
settled. To the extent that the unrealized gains and losses of
the fixed-price forward contracts and the offsetting derivatives
did not offset exactly, our earnings experienced some
volatility. At delivery, the gains and losses on the fixed-price
contracts were offset by gains and losses on the derivatives,
resulting in the realization of the economic gross profit margin
we anticipated at the time we structured the original
transaction. In addition, we continually manage our positions to
optimize value as market conditions and other circumstances
change.

Effective April 1, 2004, we elected to treat
our fixed-price forward contracts as normal purchases and sales.
As a result, we ceased marking the fixed-price forward contracts
to market. We designated the offsetting derivative contracts as
cash flow hedges of anticipated transactions. As a result of
this change, unrealized gains and losses on these open
derivative contracts are now recorded as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in
earnings as a component of revenue when the hedged volumes are
sold. This designation is expected to partially reduce the
amount of volatility in our consolidated income



statement and better reflect the economics of
this type of transaction. Hedge ineffectiveness, to the extent
incurred, is reported as a component of revenue.

During fiscal 2004, we entered into four Treasury
lock agreements to fix the Treasury yield component of the
interest cost of financing associated with the anticipated
issuance of $875 million of long-term debt. We designated
these Treasury lock agreements as cash flow hedges of an
anticipated transaction. Accordingly, to the extent effective,
unrealized gains and losses associated with the Treasury lock
agreements are recorded as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income. Unrealized gains are recorded when
interest rates increase and unrealized losses are recorded when
interest rates decline. These Treasury lock agreements were
terminated in October 2004 and the $43.8 million unrealized
loss will be recognized as a component of interest expense over
the life of the related financing arrangement.

The fair value of our financial derivatives is
determined through a combination of prices actively quoted on
national exchanges, prices provided by other external sources
and prices based on models and other valuation methods. Changes
in the valuation of our financial derivatives primarily result
from changes in market prices, the valuation of the portfolio of
our contracts, maturity and settlement of these contracts and
newly originated transactions, each of which directly affect the
estimated fair value of our derivatives. We believe the market
prices and models used to value these derivatives represent the
best information available with respect to closing exchange and
over-the-counter quotations, time value and volatility factors
underlying the contracts. Values are adjusted to reflect the
potential impact of an orderly liquidation of our positions over
a reasonable period of time under present market conditions.

Impairment
assessments

— We perform
impairment assessments of our goodwill, intangible assets
subject to amortization and long-lived assets. We currently have
no indefinite-lived intangible assets. We annually evaluate our
goodwill balances for impairment during our second fiscal
quarter or as impairment indicators arise. We use a present
value technique based on discounted cash flows to estimate the
fair value of our reporting units. Our reporting units and our
operating segments are the same as each operating unit
represents a component of our business. Goodwill is allocated to
the reporting units responsible for the acquisition that gave
rise to the goodwill.

The discounted cash flow calculations used to
assess goodwill impairment are dependent on several subjective
factors including the timing of future cash flows, future growth
rates and the discount rate. An impairment charge is recognized
if the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill
exceeds its fair value.

We periodically evaluate whether events or
circumstances have occurred that indicate that our intangible
assets subject to amortization and other long-lived assets may
not be recoverable or that the remaining useful life may warrant
revision. When such events or circumstances are present, we
assess the recoverability of these assets by determining whether
the carrying value will be recovered through expected future
cash flows. These cash flow projections consider various factors
such as the timing of the future cash flows and the discount
rate and are based upon the best information available at the
time the estimate is made. Changes in these factors could
materially affect the cash flow projections and result in the
recognition of an impairment charge. An impairment charge is
recognized as the difference between the carrying amount and the
fair value if the sum of the undiscounted cash flows is less
than the carrying value of the related asset.

Pension and other postretirement
plans

— Pension and other
postretirement plan expenses and liabilities are determined on
an actuarial basis and are affected by the market value of plan
assets, estimates of the expected return on plan assets and
assumed discount rates and demographic data. The assumed return
on plan assets is based on management’s expectation of the
long-term return on the portfolio of plan assets. The discount
rate used to compute the present value of plan liabilities
generally is based on rates of high grade corporate bonds with
maturities similar to the average period over which benefits
will be paid. Actual changes in the fair market value of plan
assets and differences between the actual return on plan assets
and the expected return on plan assets could have a material
effect on the amount of pension expense ultimately recognized.



Results of Operations

The following table presents our financial
highlights for the three fiscal years ended September 30,
2004:

(1)

Adjusted for service areas that have weather
    normalized operations.



The following table shows our operating income by
utility division and by segment for the three fiscal years ended
September 30, 2004. The presentation of our utility
operating income is included for financial reporting purposes
and may not reflect operating income for ratemaking purposes.

(1)

Adjusted for service areas that have weather
    normalized operations.

Year ended September 30, 2004 compared
with year ended September 30, 2003

Utility segment

Our utility segment has historically contributed
70 to 85 percent of our consolidated net income. The
primary factors that impact the results of our utility
operations are seasonal weather patterns, competitive factors in
the energy industry and economic conditions in our service
areas. Natural gas sales to residential, commercial and
public-authority customers are affected by winter heating season
requirements. This generally results in higher operating
revenues and net income during the period from October through
March of each year and lower operating revenues and either lower
net income or net losses during the period from April through
September of each year. Accordingly, our second fiscal quarter
has historically been our most critical earnings quarter with an
average of approximately 68 percent of our consolidated net
income having been earned in the second quarter during the three
most recently completed fiscal years. Utility sales to
industrial customers are much less weather sensitive. Utility
sales to agricultural customers, which typically use natural gas
to power irrigation pumps during the period from March through
September, are primarily affected by rainfall amounts and the
price of natural gas.

Changes in the cost of gas impact revenue but do
not directly affect our gross profit from utility operations
because the fluctuations in gas prices are passed through to our
customers. Accordingly, we believe gross profit margin is a
better indicator of our financial performance than revenues.
However, higher gas costs may cause customers to conserve, or,
in the case of industrial customers, to use alternative energy
sources. Higher gas costs may also adversely impact our accounts
receivable collections, resulting in higher bad debt expense.

The effects of weather that is above or below
normal are partially offset through weather normalization
adjustments, or WNA, in certain of our service areas. WNA allows
us to increase the base rate portion of customers’ bills
when weather is warmer than normal and decrease the base rate
when weather is colder than normal.



Operating income

Utility gross profit margin increased to
$503.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2004
from $491.4 million for the year ended September 30,
2003. Total throughput for our utility business was
261.0 Bcf during the year compared to 254.7 Bcf in the
prior year. Excluding intercompany throughput, consolidated
throughput for our utility business was 246.0 Bcf during
the year, compared with 248.0 Bcf in the prior year.

The increase in utility gross profit margin
primarily reflects the impact of the acquisition of Mississippi
Valley Gas Company (MVG) whose operations are included for
the entire first quarter in fiscal year 2004, compared with one
month in the first quarter of the prior fiscal year resulting in
an increase in utility gross profit margin and total throughput
of $12.8 million and 5.0 Bcf. Utility gross profit
margin was also favorably impacted by rate increases received in
Kansas, Texas and Mississippi and a $10.2 million
year-over-year increase in the effect of WNA in our WNA service
areas. These increases were offset partially by the impact of
weather that was 6 percent warmer than that of the prior
year and 4 percent warmer than normal, resulting in a
decrease of approximately $13.8 million and lower
irrigation sales in our West Texas Division resulting in a
decrease of approximately $2.1 million. Warmer than normal
weather particularly impacted our service areas in our
Louisiana, Mid-States and West Texas divisions. The decrease in
throughput also reflects a decrease in consumption attributable
to the impact of conservation and the continued introduction of
more efficient gas appliances in our service areas. Finally, our
utility gross profit margin for the year ended
September 30, 2004 reflects a one-time reduction resulting
from a regulatory ruling to refund $1.9 million to our
customers in our Colorado service area.

Operating expenses, which include operation and
maintenance expense, provision for doubtful accounts,
depreciation and amortization expense and taxes other than
income taxes, increased 3.9 percent to $343.2 million
for the year ended September 30, 2004 from
$330.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2003.
Operation and maintenance expense increased, primarily due to
the addition of $6.1 million related to the MVG acquisition
in December 2002 and higher labor and benefit costs. Taxes other
than income taxes increased $1.5 million, primarily due to
additional franchise, payroll and property taxes associated with
the MVG assets acquired in December 2002. Franchise and state
gross receipts taxes are paid by our customers as a component of
their monthly bills; thus, these amounts are offset in revenues
through customer billings and have no effect on net income.
Depreciation and amortization expense increased
$9.1 million, which primarily reflects MVG depreciation for
the full year of fiscal 2004 compared with ten months in the
prior year. These increases were partially offset by a
$7.9 million reduction in our provision for doubtful
accounts attributable to continued improvement in accounts
receivable collections during fiscal 2004.

As a result of the aforementioned factors, our
utility segment operating income for the year ended
September 30, 2004 decreased to $159.9 million from
$161.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2003.

Miscellaneous income (expense)

Miscellaneous income for the year ended
September 30, 2004 was $5.8 million, compared with
expense of $0.2 million for the year ended
September 30, 2003. The $6.0 million change was
attributable primarily to the absence in 2004 of weather
insurance amortization totaling $5.0 million, which was
recognized in the prior year due to the termination of our
weather insurance policy in the third quarter of fiscal 2003 and
the recognition of a $0.8 million gain on the sale of real
property during fiscal 2004.

Interest charges

Interest charges increased 3.5 percent for
the year ended September 30, 2004 to $65.4 million
from $63.2 million for the year ended September 30,
2003. The increase was attributable primarily to a higher
average outstanding debt balance resulting from the financing
obtained to fund the acquisition of MVG in December 2002.



Natural gas marketing segment

Our natural gas marketing segment aggregates and
purchases gas supply, arranges transportation and/or storage
logistics and ultimately delivers the gas to our customers at
competitive prices. To facilitate this process, we utilize
proprietary and customer-owned transportation and storage assets
to provide the various services our customers request, including
furnishing natural gas supplies at fixed and market-based
prices, contract negotiation and administration, load
forecasting, gas storage acquisition and management services,
transportation services, peaking sales and balancing services,
capacity utilization strategies and gas price hedging through
the use of derivative products. As a result, our revenues arise
from the types of commercial transactions we have structured
with our customers and include the value we extract by
optimizing the storage and transportation capacity we own or
control as well as revenues for services we deliver.

We participate in transactions in which we
combine the natural gas commodity and transportation costs to
minimize our costs incurred to serve our customers.
Additionally, we engage in natural gas storage transactions in
which we seek to find and profit from the pricing differences
that occur over time. We purchase or sell physical natural gas
and then sell or purchase financial contracts at a price
sufficient to cover our carrying costs and provide a gross
profit margin. Through the use of transportation and storage
services and derivatives, we are able to capture gross profit
margin through the arbitrage of pricing differences in various
locations and by recognizing pricing differences that occur over
time.

Operating income

Gross profit margin for our natural gas marketing
segment consists primarily of marketing activities, which
represent the utilization of proprietary and customer-owned
transportation and storage assets to provide the various
services our customers request, and storage activities, which
are derived from the optimization of our managed proprietary and
third party storage and transportation assets.

Our natural gas marketing segment’s gross
profit margin was comprised of the following for the years ended
September 30, 2004 and 2003:

Our natural gas marketing segment’s gross
profit was $46.6 million for the year ended
September 30, 2004 compared to gross profit margin of
$24.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2003.
Natural gas marketing sales volumes were 265.1 Bcf during
the current year compared with 294.8 Bcf for the prior
year. Excluding intercompany sales volumes, natural gas
marketing sales volumes were 222.6 Bcf during the current
year compared with 226.0 Bcf in the prior year. The
decrease in consolidated natural gas marketing sales volumes was
primarily due to overall warmer temperatures during the
2003-2004 heating season compared with the prior-year period.
Our natural gas marketing gross profit margin for the year ended
September 30,



2004 included an unrealized loss on open
contracts of $2.8 million compared with an unrealized gain
on open contracts of $6.3 million in the prior-year period.

The contribution to gross profit from our storage
activities was a loss of $1.5 million for the year ended
September 30, 2004 compared to a loss of $1.9 million
for the year ended September 30, 2003. The
$0.4 million improvement primarily was attributable to a
$5.4 million improvement in the realized storage
contribution for the year ended September 30, 2004 compared
to the prior year offset by a $5.0 million decrease in
unrealized income associated with our storage portfolio compared
to the prior-year period. The improvement in the realized
storage contribution for the year ended September 30, 2004
primarily was due to our inability during the 2002-2003 heating
season to withdraw planned volumes from storage to meet our
customer requirements caused by operational, contractual and
regulatory limitations relating to our storage facilities, which
reduced our realized storage contributions during fiscal 2003.
This situation did not recur in fiscal 2004. The decrease in
unrealized income in the current period was primarily
attributable to a less favorable movement during the year ended
September 30, 2004 in the forward indices used to value the
storage financial instruments than in the prior year combined
with slightly lower physical natural gas storage quantities at
September 30, 2004 compared to the prior year.

Our marketing activities contributed
$48.2 million to our gross profit margin for the year ended
September 30, 2004 compared to $26.1 million for the
year ended September 30, 2003. The increase in the
marketing contribution primarily was attributable to our
continued efforts to amend contracts with third parties to
transfer risk to our customers and to provide higher gross
profit margins and improved position management during the
current year.

Operating expenses, which include operation and
maintenance expense, provision for doubtful accounts,
depreciation and amortization expense and taxes other than
income taxes, increased to $18.9 million for the year ended
September 30, 2004 from $10.6 million for the year
ended September 30, 2003. The increase in operating expense
was attributable primarily to higher labor and benefit costs
resulting from the improvement in earnings for the fiscal year
and an increase in temporary and permanent personnel due to
systems and process improvements in the marketing segment.

The improved gross profit margin resulted in an
increase in our natural gas marketing segment operating income
to $27.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2004
compared with operating income of $13.6 million for the
year ended September 30, 2003.

Miscellaneous income

Miscellaneous income for the year ended
September 30, 2004 was $0.8 million, compared with
income of $1.9 million for the year ended
September 30, 2003. The $1.1 million decrease was
attributable primarily to lower interest income earned on cash
held on deposit in margin accounts due to favorable valuations
on our financial derivatives, which reduced the need to deposit
cash into margin accounts.

Other nonutility segment

Operating income

Our other nonutility operating income decreased
to $6.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2004
from $13.1 million for the year ended September 30,
2003. The decrease in our other nonutility operating income was
attributable primarily to a decrease in demand charges
recognized by Atmos Pipeline and Storage for storage services
provided during the year ended September 30, 2004 compared
to the prior-year period and lower transported volumes of
approximately 2.3 Bcf by Atmos Pipeline and Storage due to
overall warmer weather during the winter heating season. The
decrease was also attributable to a $1.5 million decrease
in a monthly facilities fees charged by Trans Louisiana Gas
Pipeline, Inc. as a result of a settlement reached with the
Louisiana Public Service Commission in October 2003. Our other
nonutility operating income for the year ended
September 30, 2004 also included an unrealized loss on open
contracts of $1.1 million compared with no unrealized gain
our loss in the prior year as Atmos Pipeline and Storage started
to hedge its storage inventory during the fourth quarter of 2004.



Miscellaneous income

Miscellaneous income for the year ended
September 30, 2004 was $8.6 million, compared with
income of $5.0 million for the year ended
September 30, 2003. The $3.6 million increase was
attributable primarily to a $5.9 million pretax gain
associated with the sale in January 2004 of our general and
limited partnership interests in USP and the sale in June 2004
of the remaining limited partnership units in Heritage Propane
Partners, L.P. formerly owned by USP. This increase was offset
partially by lower equity earnings from our investment in USP
resulting from the sale and the absence in 2004 of a
$3.9 million gain recorded in 2003 associated with a
sales-type lease of a distributed electric generation plant.

Interest charges

Interest charges increased to $3.1 million
for the year ended September 30, 2004 from
$2.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2003.
The increase was attributable to a higher average outstanding
debt balance resulting from increased third-party borrowings of
$5.0 million used to reduce AEH’s intercompany
borrowings with Atmos Energy Corporation.

Year ended September 30, 2003 compared
with year ended September 30, 2002

Utility segment

Operating income

Utility gross profit increased to
$491.4 million for the year ended September 30, 2003
from $377.6 million for the year ended September 30,
2002. Total throughput for our utility business was
254.7 billion cubic feet (Bcf) during the year ended
September 30, 2003 compared to 214.1 Bcf in the prior
year. Excluding intercompany throughput, total consolidated
throughput for our utility business was 248.0 Bcf during
fiscal 2003, compared with 208.5 Bcf in the prior year.

The increase in utility gross profit and total
throughput was primarily attributable to the impact of the MVG
acquisition in December 2002, which increased utility gross
profit and total throughput by $73.2 million and
32.6 Bcf. The increase in utility gross profit was also
attributable to a $13.3 million increase in our base
charges primarily in Louisiana as a result of our annual rate
stabilization clause filing which became effective in November
2002. These increases were partially offset by a
$3.9 million decrease in revenues from the impact of WNA as
a result of weather in our WNA service areas being
1 percent colder than normal for the year ended
September 30, 2003.

Operating expenses increased 31 percent to
$330.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2003
from $252.1 million for the year ended September 30,
2002. Operation and maintenance expense increased primarily due
to the addition of $36.0 million related to the MVG
acquisition in December 2002, a $14.2 million increase in
the provision for doubtful accounts as a result of higher
revenues and gas prices and higher employee costs. Taxes other
than income taxes increased $18.8 million primarily due to
additional franchise, payroll and property taxes associated with
the MVG assets acquired in December 2002. Note that franchise
and state gross receipts taxes are paid by our customers; thus,
these amounts are offset in revenues through customer billings
and have no effect on net income.

As a result of the aforementioned factors, our
utility segment operating income for the year ended
September 30, 2003 increased to $161.1 million from
$125.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2002.

Miscellaneous income (expense)

Miscellaneous expense for the year ended
September 30, 2003 was $0.2 million, compared with
income of $1.4 million for the year ended
September 30, 2002. The $1.6 million change was
attributable primarily to a $0.6 million charge associated
with the cancellation of our weather insurance policy during the
third quarter of fiscal 2003, which increased our total
insurance policy amortization to $5.0 million for fiscal
2003 compared with $4.4 million for fiscal 2002.



Interest charges

Interest charges increased seven percent for the
year ended September 30, 2003 to $63.2 million from
$58.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2002.
The increase was attributable primarily to a higher average
outstanding debt balance resulting from the financing obtained
to fund the acquisition of MVG in December 2002.

Natural gas marketing segment

Operating income

Our natural gas marketing segment’s gross
profit margin was comprised of the following for the years ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002:

Our total natural gas marketing segment’s
gross profit margin was $24.2 million for the year ended
September 30, 2003 compared to gross profit margin of
$37.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2002.
Natural gas marketing sales volumes were 294.8 Bcf during
the year ended September 30, 2003 compared to
273.7 Bcf for the prior year. Excluding intercompany sales
volumes, natural gas marketing sales volumes were 226.0 Bcf
during the year ended September 30, 2003 compared with
204.0 Bcf in the prior year. The increase in natural gas
marketing sales volumes was primarily due to overall colder
temperatures during the 2002-2003 heating season compared with
the prior year. Our natural gas marketing gross profit included
an unrealized gain on open contracts of $6.3 million in
fiscal 2003 compared with an unrealized loss on open contracts
of $10.5 million in fiscal 2002.

Our storage activities within the natural gas
marketing segment contributed a loss of $1.9 million to
gross profit margin for the year ended September 30, 2003
compared to a $4.8 million loss for the year ended
September 30, 2002. The $2.9 million improvement in
the contribution from our storage activities was primarily
attributable to a $15.3 million greater realized loss in
the current year due to our inability during the 2002-2003
heating season to withdraw planned volumes from storage to meet
our customer requirements caused by operational, contractual and
regulatory limitations relating to our storage facilities offset
by an $18.1 million increase in the unrealized storage
contributions in the current year compared to the prior year.
The greater unrealized contribution in the current year was
primarily attributable to a favorable movement during the year
ended September 30, 2003 in the forward indices used to
value the storage financial instruments than in the prior year
combined with higher physical natural gas storage quantities at
September 30, 2004 compared to the prior year.

Our marketing activities contributed
$26.1 million to our gross profit margin for the year ended
September 30, 2003 compared to $42.3 million for the
year ended September 30, 2002. The decrease in the
marketing contribution primarily was attributable to a
$14.9 million decrease in realized margin combined



with a $1.3 million decrease in our
unrealized margin. The decrease in realized margin was primarily
attributable to price risk associated with certain full
requirements contracts which reduced marketing margins during
the winter of 2003. We have subsequently restructured these
contracts to mitigate the price risk associated with these
contracts. The decrease in unrealized margin was primarily
attributable to accounting changes related to the rescission of
EITF 98-10 and the impact on certain contracts which had
previously been marked under EITF 98-10, which were not
considered derivatives under SFAS 133.

Operating expenses decreased to
$10.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2003
from $16.9 million for the year ended September 30,
2002. The decrease in operating expenses primarily was
attributable to lower employee incentive compensation costs
during the current year.

As a result of the above, our natural gas
marketing segment generated operating income of
$13.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2003
compared with operating income of $20.6 million for the
year ended September 30, 2002.

Cumulative effect of change in accounting
    principle

On January 1, 2003, we recorded a cumulative
effect of a change in accounting principle to reflect a change
in the way we account for our storage and transportation
contracts. We previously accounted for those contracts under
EITF 98-10,

Accounting for Energy Trading and Risk Management
Activities,

which required us to record estimated future
gains on our storage and transportation contracts at the time we
entered into the contracts and to mark those contracts to market
value each month. Effective January 1, 2003, we no longer
mark those contracts to market. As a result, we expensed
$7.8 million, net of applicable income tax benefit, as a
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.

Other nonutility segment

Operating income

Our other nonutility segment operating income
increased to $13.1 million during the year ended
September 30, 2003 compared with $9.2 million for the
prior year. The increase in our nonutility segment operating
income was primarily attributable to increased asset management
activities in the current year and an increase in leasing income
attributable to the commencement in 2003 of a new lease for a
distributed electric generation plant.

Miscellaneous income

Miscellaneous income for the year ended
September 30, 2003 was $5.0 million, compared with
income of $0.6 million for the year ended
September 30, 2002. The $4.4 million change was
primarily attributable to a $3.9 million gain associated
with a sales-type lease of a distributed electric generation
plant which was recognized in the first quarter of 2003 and
improved earnings from our indirect investment in Heritage
Propane Partners L.P.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Our working capital and liquidity for capital
expenditures and other cash needs are provided from internally
generated funds, borrowings under our credit facilities and
commercial paper program and funds raised from the public debt
and equity capital markets. We believe that these sources of
funds will provide the necessary working capital and liquidity
for capital expenditures and other cash needs for fiscal 2005.
We believe that these needs can be provided from the same
sources of capital.



Capitalization

The following presents our capitalization as of
September 30, 2004 and 2003:

Total debt as a percentage of total
capitalization, including short-term debt, was 43.3 percent
and 53.6 percent at September 30, 2004 and 2003. The
improvement in the debt to capitalization ratio was primarily
attributable to the issuance of 9.9 million shares of our
common stock in July 2004, and reduced short-term debt due to
strong operating cash flow generated during fiscal 2004.
Assuming the TXU Gas acquisition and related debt and equity
financings had occurred on September 30, 2004, our
debt-to-capitalization ratio would have increased to
59.8 percent. Our ratio of total debt to capitalization is
expected to be greater during the current winter heating season
as we make additional short-term borrowings to fund natural gas
purchases and meet our working capital requirements. Within
three to five years from the closing of the acquisition, we
intend to reduce our capitalization ratio to a target range of
53 to 55 percent through cash flow generated from
operations, continued issuance of new common stock under our
Direct Stock Purchase Plan and Retirement Savings Plan, access
to the equity capital markets and reduced annual maintenance and
capital expenditures.

Cash Flows

Our internally generated funds may change in the
future due to a number of factors, some of which we cannot
control. These include regulatory changes, the price for our
products and services, the demand for such products and
services, margin requirements resulting from significant changes
in commodity prices, operational risks, the successful
integration of the natural gas distribution and pipeline
operations of TXU Gas we acquired and other factors.

Cash flows from operating
    activities

Year-over-year changes in our operating cash
flows are attributable primarily to working capital changes
within our utility segment resulting from the impact of weather,
the price of natural gas and the timing of customer collections,
payments for natural gas purchases and deferred gas cost
recoveries.

For the year ended September 30, 2004, we
generated operating cash flow of $270.7 million compared
with $49.5 million in fiscal 2003 and $297.4 million
in fiscal 2002. The significant factors impacting our operating
cash flow for the last three fiscal years are summarized below.

Year ended September 30, 2004

Fiscal 2004 operating cash flows were favorably
impacted by several items. Improved customer collections during
fiscal 2004, compared with the prior year, resulted in a
$62.2 million increase in operating cash flow. Further,
cash used for natural gas inventories decreased by
$33.8 million compared with the prior year. The decrease
was attributable to lower injections of natural gas into
storage, partially offset by higher prices. The reduction in the
lag between the time period when we purchase our natural gas and
the period in which we can include this cost in our gas rates
improved operating cash flow by $65.7 million. Changes in
cash held on deposit in margin accounts resulted in an increase
in operating cash flow of $25.6 million. This account
represents deposits recorded to collateralize certain of our
financial derivatives purchased in support of our natural gas
marketing activities. The favorable change was attributable to
the fact that the fair value of financial instruments held by
AEM represented a net asset position at September 30, 2004,
which eliminated



the need to place cash in margin accounts.
Finally, other working capital and other changes improved
operating cash flow by $33.9 million. These changes primarily
related to various increases in deferred credits and other
liabilities, other current liabilities and income taxes payable
partially offset by lower deferred income tax expense as
compared with the prior year.

Year ended September 30, 2003

Fiscal 2003 operating cash flow was adversely
impacted by a $60.0 million increase in accounts receivable
due to higher revenues and the timing of customer account
collections. The increase in revenues was attributable to a
19 percent increase in consolidated utility throughput as a
result of the impact of our MVG acquisition. Operating cash flow
was also adversely impacted by a significant increase in natural
gas prices. These increases resulted in a $64.9 million
increase in gas stored underground and a $24.2 million
increase in deferred gas costs. Finally, operating cash flow
reflects the impact of the funding of our pension plan in June
2003, which included a $48.6 million cash payment. This
funding is discussed under the caption Pension and
Postretirement Benefits Obligations below.

Year ended September 30, 2002

In fiscal 2002, operating cash flow was impacted
favorably by a $56.5 million reduction in cash held on
deposit in margin accounts. During the winter and spring of
2001, our cash deposit requirements increased as a result of
higher unrealized losses on our financial derivatives. Operating
cash flow was also favorably impacted by a $52.3 million
increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities and a
$34.2 million increase in other current liabilities
primarily attributable to the timing of payments as compared
with the prior year. Finally, operating cash flow was favorably
impacted by a $32.9 million decrease in deferred gas costs
reflecting the favorable timing between the billing of gas costs
to our customers and the purchase of natural gas.

These favorable impacts were partially offset by
a $12.2 million increase in accounts receivable. This
increase was attributable to revenue increases resulting from
the inclusion of the LGS and Woodward Marketing operations for a
full year and the timing of customer account collections.

Cash flows from investing
    activities

During the last three years, a substantial
portion of our cash resources was used to fund acquisitions, our
ongoing construction program to provide natural gas services to
our customer base and technology improvements.

For the year ended September 30, 2004, we
invested $164.9 million compared with $233.4 million
for the year ended September 30, 2003 and
$158.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2002.
Capital expenditures were $190.3 million during the year
ended September 30, 2004 compared to $159.4 million
for the year ended September 30, 2003 and
$132.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2002.
Capital projects for fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002 include
expenditures for additional mains, services, meters and
equipment to grow our customer base. Additionally, capital
expenditures for 2004 include approximately $21.5 million
for Mississippi Valley Gas Company Division capital
expenditures. Fiscal 2002 cash flows from investing activities
also included $8.5 million for the acquisition of assets to
be leased to third parties.

Cash used for investing activities for the
current year includes the receipt of $27.9 million
generated from the sale of our limited and general partnership
interests in USP in January 2004 ($24.7 million), the sale
of the remaining limited partnership units in Heritage Propane
Partners, L.P. formerly owned by USP ($1.9 million) and the
sale of real property ($1.3 million).

Capital expenditures for fiscal 2005 are expected
to range from $250 million to $260 million. These
expenditures include additional mains, services, meters and
equipment. Of this amount, approximately $80 million is
expected to be incurred by the Mid-Tex Division.



Payments for acquisitions

Our cash used for investing activities for fiscal
2004 included approximately $2.0 million for the ComFurT
Gas Inc. acquisition in February 2004. Cash used for investing
activities for fiscal 2003 included $74.7 million for the
cash portion of the Mississippi Valley Gas Company acquisition
completed in December 2002. Cash used for investing activities
for fiscal 2002 included $15.7 million for the acquisition of
Kentucky-based market area storage and associated pipeline
facility assets, certain natural gas purchase and sales
contracts and the outstanding common stock of Southern
Resources, Inc., a natural gas marketing company.

Cash flows from financing
    activities

For the year ended September 30, 2004, our
financing activities provided $80.4 million in cash. Fiscal 2003
cash from financing activities provided cash of
$151.6 million, and in fiscal 2002 our financing activities
represented a use of $106.4 million. Our significant
financing activities for the three years ended
September 30, 2004 are summarized as follows:



During the year ended September 30, 2004, we
issued 11,323,925 shares of common stock. Of these shares,
9,939,393 shares were issued in July 2004 to provide cash to
partially fund the acquisition of the TXU Gas operations. The
following table shows the number of shares issued for the years
ended September 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002:

Shelf Registration

In December 2001, we filed a shelf registration
statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) to issue, from time to time, up to
$600.0 million in new common stock and/or debt. The
registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on
January 30, 2002. On January 16, 2003, we issued
$250.0 million of 5.125% Senior Notes due in 2013 under the
registration statement. The net proceeds of $249.3 million
were used to repay debt under an acquisition credit facility
used to finance our acquisition of MVG, to repay
$54.0 million in unsecured senior notes held by
institutional lenders and short-term debt under our commercial
paper program and for general corporate purposes. Additionally,
we sold 4,100,000 shares of our common stock in connection with
our 2003 Offering under the registration statement to provide
additional funding for our Pension Account Plan. In July 2004,
we sold 9,939,393 shares of our common stock, including the
underwriters’ exercise of their overallotment option, which
exhausted the remaining availability under this shelf
registration statement.

In August 2004, we filed a shelf registration
statement with the SEC to issue, from time to time, up to
$2.2 billion in new common stock and/or debt, which became
effective on September 15, 2004. In October 2004, we sold
16.1 million common shares, including the
underwriters’ exercise of their overallotment option of
2.1 million shares, under the new shelf registration
statement, generating net proceeds of $382.5 million before
other offering costs. Additionally, we issued senior unsecured
debt under the shelf registration statement consisting of
$400 million of 4.00% senior notes due 2009,
$500 million of 4.95% senior notes due 2014,
$200 million of 5.95% senior notes due 2034 and
$300 million of floating rate senior notes due 2007. The
floating rate notes will bear interest at a rate equal to the
three-month LIBOR rate plus 0.375 percent per year. The
initial weighted average effective interest rate on these notes
is 4.76 percent. The net proceeds from the sale of these
senior notes was $1.39 billion.

The net proceeds from the October 2004 common
stock and senior notes offerings, combined with the net proceeds
from our July 2004 offering were used to pay off the
$1.7 billion in outstanding commercial paper backstopped by
a senior unsecured revolving credit agreement, which we entered
into on September 24, 2004 for bridge financing for the TXU
Gas acquisition. After issuing the debt and equity in October
2004 we have approximately $405.1 million of availability
remaining under the shelf registration statement.



Credit facilities

We maintain both committed and uncommitted credit
facilities. Borrowings under our uncommitted credit facilities
are made on a when-and-as-needed basis at the discretion of the
bank. Our credit capacity and the amount of unused borrowing
capacity are affected by the seasonal nature of the natural gas
business and our short-term borrowing requirements, which are
typically highest during colder winter months. Our working
capital needs can vary significantly due to changes in the price
of natural gas charged by suppliers and the increased gas
supplies required to meet customers’ needs during periods
of cold weather. Our cash needs for working capital and capital
expenditures will increase substantially as a result of the
acquisition of the natural gas distribution and pipeline
operations of TXU Gas. On October 22, 2004, we replaced our
$350.0 million credit facility with a new
$600.0 million committed credit facility that will serve as
a backup liquidity facility for our commercial paper program. We
believe this facility, combined with our operating cash flow
will be sufficient to fund these increased working capital
needs. These facilities are described in further detail in Note
6 to the consolidated financial statements.

Credit Rating

Our credit ratings directly affect our ability to
obtain short-term and long-term financing, in addition to the
cost of such financing. In determining our credit ratings, the
rating agencies consider a number of quantitative factors,
including debt to total capitalization, operating cash flow
relative to outstanding debt, operating cash flow coverage of
interest and pension liabilities and funding status. In
addition, the rating agencies consider qualitative factors such
as consistency of our earnings over time, the quality of our
management and business strategy, the risk associated with our
utility and nonutility businesses and the regulatory structures
that govern our rates in the states where we operate.

Our debt is rated by three rating agencies:
Standard & Poor’s Corporation (S&P), Moody’s
Investors Service (Moody’s) and Fitch Ratings, Inc.
(Fitch). Our current debt ratings are all considered investment
grade and are as follows:

These ratings reflect downgrades that each of the
three rating agencies issued us as a result of the TXU Gas
acquisition. Currently, S&P and Moody’s maintains a
stable outlook and Fitch maintains a negative outlook. None of
our ratings are currently under review.

A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy,
sell or hold securities. All of our current ratings for
long-term debt are categorized as investment grade. The highest
investment grade credit rating for S&P is AAA, Moody’s
is Aaa and Fitch is AAA. The lowest investment grade credit
rating for S&P is BBB-, Moody’s is Baa3 and Fitch is
BBB-. Our credit ratings may be revised or withdrawn at any time
by the rating agencies, and each rating should be evaluated
independent of any other rating. There can be no assurance that
a rating will remain in effect for any given period of time or
that a rating will not be lowered, or withdrawn entirely, by a
rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant.

Debt Covenants

In addition to the 70 percent limit on our
total debt-to-capitalization ratio imposed by our committed
credit facilities, our First Mortgage Bonds provide for certain
cash flow requirements and restrictions on additional
indebtedness, sale of assets and payment of dividends. Under the
most restrictive of such covenants, cumulative cash dividends
paid after December 31, 1988, may not exceed the sum of our
accumulated net income for periods after December 31, 1988,
plus $15.0 million. At September 30, 2004,
approximately $103.6 million of retained earnings was
unrestricted with respect to the payment of dividends.

We were in compliance with all of our debt
covenants as of September 30, 2004. If we do not comply
with our debt covenants, we may be required to repay our
outstanding balances on demand, provide additional



collateral or take other corrective actions. Our
two public debt indentures relating to our senior notes and
debentures, as well as our new $600.0 million revolving
credit agreement, each contain a default provision that is
triggered if outstanding indebtedness arising out of any other
credit agreements in amounts ranging from in excess of
$15 million to in excess of $100 million becomes due
by acceleration or is not paid at maturity. In addition,
AEM’s credit agreement contains a cross-default provision
whereby AEM would be in default if it defaults on any other
financial obligation, as defined, by at least $250 thousand.
Additionally, this agreement contains a provision that would
limit the amount of credit available if Atmos is downgraded
below an S&P rating of BBB and a Moody’s rating of Baa2.

Except as described above, we have no trigger
events in our debt instruments that are tied to changes in
specified credit ratings or stock price, nor have we entered
into any transactions that would require us to issue equity
based on our credit rating or other trigger events.

Contractual Obligations and Commercial
Commitments

The following tables provide information about
contractual obligations and commercial commitments at
September 30, 2004.



AEM has commitments to purchase physical
quantities of natural gas under contracts indexed to the forward
Nymex strip or fixed price contracts. At September 30,
2004, AEM was committed to purchase 55.7 Bcf within one
year and 11.1 Bcf between one to three years under indexed
contracts. AEM was committed to purchase 0.5 Bcf within one year
and 0.1 Bcf within one to three years under fixed price
contracts with prices ranging from $4.08 to $6.25.

Our utility segment maintains supply contracts
with several vendors that generally cover a period of up to one
year. Commitments for estimated base gas volumes are established
under these contracts on a monthly basis at contractually
negotiated prices. Commitments for incremental daily purchases
are made as necessary during the month in accordance with the
terms of the individual contract.

On September 22, 2004, we entered into a
senior unsecured revolving credit agreement with a third party
financing institution for bridge financing for the TXU Gas
acquisition. There were no amounts outstanding under the
facility at September 30, 2004. On October 1, 2004, we
issued $1.7 billion in commercial paper that was
backstopped by this facility. In October 2004, we repaid the
$1.7 billion in commercial paper with proceeds received
from our October 2004 debt and equity offerings and canceled the
facility.

Risk Management Activities

We conduct risk management activities through
both our utility and natural gas marketing segments. In our
utility segment, we use a combination of storage, fixed physical
contracts and fixed financial contracts to partially insulate us
and our customers against gas price volatility during the winter
heating season. In our natural gas marketing segment, we manage
our exposure to the risk of natural gas price changes and lock
in our gross profit margin through a combination of storage and
financial derivatives, including futures, over-the-counter and
exchange-traded options and swap contracts with counterparties.
Finally, during fiscal 2004, we entered into four Treasury lock
agreements to fix the Treasury yield component of the interest
cost of financing associated with the anticipated issuance of
$875 million of long-term debt. These Treasury lock
agreements were settled in October 2004 with a net
$43.8 million payment to the counterparties. Approximately
$11.6 million of the $43.8 million obligation will be
recognized as a component of interest expense over the next five
years, and the remaining amount, approximately $32.2 million,
will be recognized as a component of interest expense over the
next ten years. Our risk management activities and related
accounting treatment are described in further detail in Note 5
to the consolidated financial statements.

We record our derivatives as a component of risk
management assets and liabilities, which are classified as
current or noncurrent based upon the anticipated settlement date
of the underlying derivative. Substantially all of our
derivative financial instruments are valued using external
market quotes and indices. The following table shows the
components of the change in fair value of our utility and
natural gas marketing derivative contract activities for the
year ended September 30, 2004 (in thousands):



The fair value of our utility and natural gas
marketing derivative contracts at September 30, 2004, is
segregated below by time period and fair value source.

As of September 30, 2004, a significant
portion of AEM’s stored gas inventory was scheduled to be
sold within six months. Since AEM actively manages and optimizes
its portfolio, it may change its scheduled injection and
withdrawal plans based on market conditions. Therefore, we
cannot predict that our actual inventory withdrawals will match
the planned schedule as of September 30, 2004. Generally,
differences between injection and withdrawal prices are
locked-in through the use of derivatives; therefore, there is
generally no significant permanent earnings impact associated
with changes in monthly prices in the interim between injections
and withdrawals. However, there may be significant quarterly
earnings volatility. Further, permanent earnings impacts may
arise if we experience operational or other issues which limit
our ability to optimally manage our stored gas positions. Any
change in the timing of planned injections or withdrawals from
one time period to another generally is conducted to enhance the
future profitability of the storage position. Additionally, AEM
monitors and adjusts the amount of storage capacity it holds on
a discretionary basis.

Pension and Postretirement Benefits
Obligations

For the fiscal year ended September 30,
2004, our total net periodic pension and other benefits costs
was $26.1 million, compared with $28.0 million and
$13.5 million for the period ended September 30, 2003
and 2002. A portion of these costs is capitalized into our
utility rate base, as these costs are recoverable through our
gas utility rates. Costs that are not capitalized are recorded
as a component of operation and maintenance expense.

The decrease in total net periodic pension and
other benefits cost during fiscal 2004 compared with fiscal 2003
primarily reflects the impact of adopting the provisions of the
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
2003 (the Act), beginning with the second quarter of 2004, which
reduced our accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by
$24.3 million and our net postretirement benefit obligation
costs by $4.1 million. The total income statement impact
was $2.3 million as a portion of this benefit was
capitalized. Further, the expected return on plan assets, which
reduces the net periodic pension cost and other benefits cost,
increased as compared with the prior year primarily due to an
increase in total assets attributable to the full year effect of
the contributions we made to the Atmos Pension Account Plan in
fiscal 2003 and the inclusion of the MVG pension plan assets
during fiscal 2003 partially offset by a 25 basis point decrease
in the expected return on plan asset assumption used to
determine fiscal 2004 net periodic pension cost. These decreases
were partially offset by an increase in the service cost and the
recognized actuarial loss attributable to a 125 basis point
decrease in the discount rate used to determine the net periodic
pension and other benefits costs, resulting from a decrease in
interest rates at the time the assumptions were established.

The increase in total net periodic pension and
other benefits costs during fiscal 2003 compared with fiscal
2002 was primarily attributable to an increase in the service
cost and interest cost attributable to an increase in our
projected benefit obligations. The increase in the projected
benefit obligations reflected the increase in the number of plan
participants due to the MVG acquisition and an increase
attributable to a 125 basis point decrease in the discount rate
used to determine the projected benefit obligation reflecting a
decline in market interest rates.



We did not contribute to our pension plans during
fiscal 2004. In June 2003, we contributed to the Atmos Energy
Corporation Master Retirement Trust for the benefit of the Atmos
Energy Corporation Pension Account Plan $48.6 million in
cash and 1,169,700 shares of Atmos restricted common stock with
a value of $28.8 million. As a result of this contribution
and improved investment returns during fiscal 2003, the
underfunded status of the plan improved by approximately
$8.6 million, and the $39.4 million reduction to
equity recorded as of September 30, 2002 was eliminated as
of September 30, 2003. We are not required to make a
minimum funding contribution to our pension plans during fiscal
2005 nor do we intend to make voluntary contributions during
2005. We contributed $13.8 million, $18.6 million and
$5.9 million to our postretirement benefits plans for the
years ended September 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002. We
anticipate contributing $11.7 million to our postretirement
benefit plans during fiscal 2005.

The projected pension liability, future funding
requirements and the amount of pension expense or income
recognized for the Plan are subject to change, depending upon
the actuarial value of plan assets and the determination of
future benefit obligations as of each subsequent actuarial
calculation date. These amounts are impacted by actual
investment returns, changes in interest rates and changes in the
demographic composition of the participants in the plan. The
discount rate used generally is based on rates of high grade
corporate bonds with maturities similar to the average period
over which benefits will be paid. The expected return on plan
assets is based on management’s expectation of the
long-term return on the portfolio of plan assets. These rates
have generally declined since fiscal 2002 due to a decline in
interest rates and relatively weak market performance of the
underlying plan assets. The rate of compensation increase is
established based upon our internal budgets. The actuarial
assumptions used to determine the pension liability and net
periodic pension and other benefits costs are included in Note 9
to our consolidated financial statements.

We did not assume the existing employee benefit
liabilities or plans of TXU Gas. However, for purposes of
determining our annual pension cost we have agreed to give the
transitioned employees credit for years of TXU Gas service under
our pension plan. For purposes of our post-retirement medical
plan, we received a credit of $20 million (subject to
post-closing adjustment) against the purchase price to permit us
to provide partial past service credits for retiree medical
benefits under our retiree medical plan. The $20 million
credit approximates the actuarially determined present value of
the accumulated benefits related to the past service of the
transferred employees. As a result of the TXU Gas acquisition on
October 1, 2004, our pension and other postretirement
benefits costs should increase substantially during fiscal 2005.

RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS

Recent accounting developments and their impact
on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows
are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk

We are exposed to risks associated with commodity
prices and interest rates. Commodity price risk is the potential
loss that we may incur as a result of changes in the fair value
of a particular instrument or commodity. Interest-rate risk
results from our portfolio of debt and equity instruments that
we issue to provide financing and liquidity for our business.

We conduct risk management activities through
both our utility and natural gas marketing segments. In our
utility segment, we use a combination of storage, fixed physical
contracts and fixed financial contracts to partially insulate us
and our customers against gas price volatility during the winter
heating season. In our natural gas marketing segment, we manage
our exposure to the risk of natural gas price changes and lock
in our gross profit margin through a combination of storage and
financial derivatives including futures, over-the-counter and
exchange-traded options and swap contracts with counterparties.
Our risk management activities and related accounting treatment
are described in further detail in Note 5 to the consolidated
financial statements. Additionally, our earnings are affected by
changes in short-term interest rates as a result of our issuance
of short-term commercial paper, our other short-term borrowings
and, beginning in fiscal 2005, our new floating rate borrowings.



Commodity Price Risk

Utility segment

We purchase natural gas for our utility
operations. Substantially all of the cost of gas purchased for
utility operations is recovered from our customers through
purchased gas adjustment mechanisms. However, our utility
operations have commodity price risk exposure to fluctuations in
spot natural gas prices related to purchases for sales to our
non-regulated energy services customers at fixed prices.

For our utility segment, we use a sensitivity
analysis to estimate commodity price risk. For purposes of this
analysis, we estimate commodity price risk by applying a
hypothetical 10 percent increase in the portion of our gas
cost related to fixed-price non-regulated sales. Based on these
projected non-regulated gas sales, a hypothetical
10 percent increase in fixed prices based upon the
September 30, 2004 three month market strip would increase
our purchased gas cost by approximately $4.9 million in
fiscal 2005.

Natural gas marketing segment

Our natural gas marketing segment is also exposed
to risks associated with changes in the market price of natural
gas. For our natural gas marketing segment, we use a sensitivity
analysis to estimate commodity price risk. For purposes of this
analysis, we estimate commodity price risk by applying a $0.50
change in the forward NYMEX price to our net open position
(including existing storage) at the end of each period. Based on
AEH’s net open position (including existing storage) at
September 30, 2004 of 0.2 Bcf, a $0.50 change in the
forward NYMEX price would have had less than a $0.1 million
impact on our consolidated net income.

Interest Rate Risk

Our earnings are exposed to changes in short-term
interest rates associated with our short-term commercial paper
program, other short-term borrowings and, beginning in fiscal
2005, our new floating rate debt. We use a sensitivity analysis
to estimate our short-term interest rate risk. For purposes of
this analysis, we estimate our short-term interest rate risk as
the difference between our actual interest expense for the
period and estimated interest expense for the period assuming a
hypothetical average of a one percent increase in the interest
rates associated with our short-term borrowings. Had interest
rates associated with our short-term borrowings outstanding
during fiscal 2004 increased by an average of one percent, our
interest expense would have increased by approximately
$1.7 million during 2004. As a result of the TXU Gas
acquisition on October 1, 2004, our interest expense should
increase substantially during fiscal 2005.

We also assess market risk for our fixed-rate,
long-term obligations. We estimate market risk for our
fixed-rate, long-term obligations as the potential increase in
fair value resulting from a hypothetical one percent decrease in
interest rates associated with these debt instruments. Fair
value is estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis.
Assuming this one percent hypothetical decrease, the fair value
of our fixed-rate, long-term obligations outstanding as of
September 30, 2004 would have increased by approximately
$79.6 million.

As of September 30, 2004, we were not
engaged in any other activities which would cause exposure to
the risk of material earnings or cash flow loss due to changes
in interest rates or market commodity prices.



Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data

Index to financial statements and financial
statement schedule:

All other financial statement schedules are
omitted because the required information is not present, or not
present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
schedule or because the information required is included in the
financial statements and accompanying notes thereto.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors

Atmos Energy Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Atmos Energy Corporation as of
September 30, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended
September 30, 2004. Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These
financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of Atmos Energy Corporation at
September 30, 2004 and 2003, and the consolidated results
of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended September 30, 2004, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the financial statements taken as a
whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the financial
information set forth therein.

ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas

November 9, 2004



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’
EQUITY

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

1.

Nature of Business

Atmos Energy Corporation and its subsidiaries are
engaged primarily in the natural gas utility business as well as
other nonutility businesses. We distribute natural gas through
sales and transportation arrangements to approximately
1.7 million residential, commercial, public authority and
industrial customers through our six regulated utility
divisions, which covered the following service areas:

(1)

Denotes locations where we have more limited
    service areas.

(2)

The name of this division was changed from the
    Atmos Energy Texas Division in November 2004.

(3)

Acquired in December 2002.

In addition, we transport natural gas for others
through our distribution system. Our utility business is subject
to federal and state regulation and/or regulation by local
authorities in each of the states in which the utility divisions
operate. Our shared services division is located in Dallas,
Texas, and our customer support centers are located in Amarillo,
Texas and Metairie, Louisiana.

As further described in Note 3, on
October 1, 2004, we completed our acquisition of the
natural gas distribution and pipeline operations of TXU Gas
Company (TXU Gas). The TXU Gas operations we acquired are
regulated businesses engaged in the purchase, transmission,
distribution and sale of natural gas in the north-central,
eastern and western parts of Texas. Through these newly acquired
operations, we provide gas distribution services to
approximately 1.5 million residential and business customers in
Texas, including the Dallas/ Fort Worth metropolitan area. We
also now own and operate a system consisting of 6,162 miles of
gas transmission and gathering lines and five underground
storage reservoirs, all within Texas.

Our nonutility businesses are organized under
Atmos Energy Holdings, Inc. (AEH), and have operations in 18
states. Through September 30, 2003, Atmos Energy Marketing,
LLC, together with its wholly-owned subsidiaries Woodward
Marketing, L.L.C. and Trans Louisiana Industrial Gas Company,
Inc., comprised our natural gas marketing segment. Effective
October 1, 2003, our natural gas marketing segment was
reorganized. The operations of Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC and
Trans Louisiana Industrial Gas Company, Inc. were merged into
Woodward Marketing, L.L.C, which was renamed Atmos Energy
Marketing, LLC (AEM).

AEM provides a variety of natural gas management
services to municipalities, natural gas utility systems and
industrial natural gas customers, primarily in the southeastern
and midwestern states and to our Colorado-Kansas, Kentucky,
Louisiana and Mid-States divisions. These services consist
primarily of furnishing natural gas supplies at fixed and
market-based prices, contract negotiation and administration,
load forecasting, gas storage acquisition and management
services, transportation services, peaking sales and balancing
services, capacity utilization strategies and gas price hedging
through the use of derivative instruments.

Our other nonutility businesses consist primarily
of the operations of Atmos Pipeline and Storage, L.L.C. and
Atmos Energy Services, LLC (AES), which are wholly-owned by AEH.
Through Atmos Pipeline and Storage, L.L.C., we own or have an
interest in underground storage fields in Kentucky and
Louisiana. Through Atmos Pipeline and Storage, L.L.C. we provide
storage services to our customers, as well as capture pricing



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

arbitrage through the use of derivatives. Through
AES, we provide natural gas management services. Prior to the
second fiscal quarter of 2004, this entity conducted limited
operations. However, beginning, April 1, 2004, AES began
providing natural gas supply management services to our utility
operations in a limited number of states. As of
September 30, 2004 we had expanded these services to
substantially all of our utility service areas.

Prior to January 20, 2004, United Cities
Propane Gas, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEH, owned an
approximate 19 percent membership interest in U.S. Propane
L.P. (USP), a joint venture formed in February 2000 with three
other utility companies. Through our ownership in USP, we owned
an approximate 5 percent indirect interest in Heritage Propane
Partners, L.P. (Heritage). During 2004, we sold our interest in
USP and Heritage. We received cash proceeds of
$26.6 million and recorded a pretax book gain of
$5.9 million with these transactions. We no longer have an
interest in the propane industry.

2.

Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies

Principles of
consolidation

— The
accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Atmos Energy Corporation and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries. All material intercompany transactions have been
eliminated.

Basis of
comparison

— Certain
prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the
current year presentation. Beginning in the second quarter of
2004 we have retroactively reclassified our regulatory removal
obligation from accumulated depreciation to a liability for all
periods presented. Additionally, beginning in the fourth quarter
of 2004 we have reclassified our original issue discount costs
from deferred charges and other assets to long-term debt. These
reclassifications did not impact our financial position, results
of operations, cash flows or ability to satisfy our financial
covenants contained in our various credit agreements.

Use of
estimates

— The preparation
of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. The most
significant estimates include the allowance for doubtful
accounts, legal and environmental accruals, insurance accruals,
pension and postretirement obligations, deferred income taxes,
risk management and trading activities and the valuation of
goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other
long-lived assets. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

Regulation

—
Our utility operations are subject to regulation with respect to
rates, service, maintenance of accounting records and various
other matters by the respective regulatory authorities in the
states in which we operate. Our accounting policies recognize
the financial effects of the ratemaking and accounting practices
and policies of the various regulatory commissions. Regulated
utility operations are accounted for in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 71,

Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation

. This statement requires cost-based,
rate-regulated entities that meet certain criteria to reflect
the authorized recovery of costs due to regulatory decisions in
their financial statements. As a result, certain costs are
permitted to be capitalized rather than expensed because they
can be recovered through rates.

We record regulatory assets as a component of
deferred charges and other assets for costs that have been
deferred for which future recovery through customer rates is
considered probable. Regulatory liabilities are recorded either
on the face of the balance sheet or as a component of current
liabilities, deferred income taxes or deferred credits and other
liabilities when it is probable that revenues will be reduced
for amounts that will



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

be credited to customers through the ratemaking
process. Significant regulatory assets and liabilities as of
September 30, 2004 and 2003 included the following:

Currently authorized rates do not include a
return on certain of our merger and integration costs; however,
we recover the amortization of these costs. Merger and
integration costs, net, are generally amortized on a
straight-line basis over estimated useful lives ranging from 5
to 20 years. During the fiscal years ended
September 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, we recognized
$8.2 million, $8.2 million and $6.3 million in
amortization expense related to these costs. Beginning in
December 2004, these amortization costs will decrease
substantially. Environmental costs have been deferred to future
rate filings in accordance with rulings received from various
regulatory commissions.

At September 30, 2004, we had a rate case
pending in our Virginia jurisdiction. In November 2004, the
Virginia Corporation Commission (VCC) granted a rate
increase of $0.4 million that was retroactively effective
to August 1, 2004. Additionally, the VCC authorized WNA
beginning in July 2005 and the ability to recover the gas cost
component of bad debt expense.

In our Mississippi Valley Company Division, we
filed our first semiannual filing for 2004 on May 5, 2004
and we received an annual rate increase of $4.7 million
effective on June 1, 2004. However, in the same ruling, the
Mississippi Public Service Commission (MPSC) disallowed certain
deferred costs totaling $2.8 million. We are appealing the
MPSC’s decision regarding these deferred costs. We filed
our second semiannual filing for 2004 on November 4, 2004.

Revenue
recognition

— Sales of
natural gas to our utility customers are billed on a monthly
cycle basis; however, the billing cycle periods for certain
classes of customers do not necessarily coincide with accounting
periods used for financial reporting purposes. We follow the
revenue accrual method of accounting for utility segment
revenues whereby revenues applicable to gas delivered to
customers, but not yet billed under the cycle billing method,
are estimated and accrued and the related costs are charged to
expense.

Rates established by regulatory authorities are
adjusted for increases and decreases in our purchased gas cost
through purchased gas adjustment mechanisms. Purchased gas
adjustment mechanisms provide gas utility companies a method of
recovering purchased gas costs on an ongoing basis without
filing a rate case to address all of the utility’s non-gas
costs. These mechanisms are commonly utilized when regulatory
authorities recognize a particular type of expense, such as
purchased gas costs, that (i) is subject to significant
price



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

fluctuations compared to the utility’s other
costs, (ii) represents a large component of the
utility’s cost of service and (iii) is generally
outside the control of the gas utility. There is no gross profit
generated through purchased gas adjustments, but they do provide
a dollar-for-dollar offset to increases or decreases in utility
gas costs. Although substantially all of our utility sales to
our customers fluctuate with the cost of gas that we purchase,
utility gross profit is generally not affected by fluctuations
in the cost of gas due to the purchased gas adjustment
mechanism. The effects of these purchased gas adjustment
mechanisms are recorded as deferred gas costs on our balance
sheet.

Energy trading contracts resulting in the
delivery of a commodity where we are the principal in the
transaction are recorded as natural gas marketing sales or
purchases at the time of physical delivery. Realized gains and
losses from the settlement of financial instruments that do not
result in physical delivery related to our natural gas marketing
energy trading contracts and unrealized gains and losses from
changes in the market value of open contracts are included as a
component of natural gas marketing revenues. For the years ended
September 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, we included unrealized
gains (losses) on open contracts of ($2.8) million,
$6.3 million and ($10.5) million as a component of natural
gas marketing revenues.

Cash and cash
equivalents

— We consider
all highly liquid investments with an initial or remaining
maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful
accounts

— Accounts
receivable consist of natural gas sales to residential,
commercial, industrial, municipal, agricultural and other
customers. For the majority of our receivables, we establish an
allowance for doubtful accounts based on our collections
experience. On certain other receivables where we are aware of a
specific customer’s inability or reluctance to pay, we
record an allowance for doubtful accounts against amounts due to
reduce the net receivable balance to the amount we reasonably
expect to collect. However, if circumstances change, our
estimate of the recoverability of accounts receivable could be
different. Circumstances which could affect our estimates
include, but are not limited to, customer credit issues, the
level of natural gas prices, customer deposits and general
economic conditions. Accounts are written off once they are
deemed to be uncollectible.

Gas stored
underground

— Our gas stored
underground is comprised of natural gas injected into storage to
support the winter season withdrawals for our utility operations
and natural gas held by our natural gas marketing and other
nonutility subsidiaries to conduct their operations. The average
cost method is used for all our utility divisions, except for
the Mid-States Division, where it is valued on the first-in
first-out method basis, in accordance with regulatory
requirements. The average gas cost method is used for our
natural gas marketing segment. Gas in storage that is retained
as cushion gas to maintain reservoir pressure is classified as
property, plant and equipment and is valued at cost.

Utility property, plant and
equipment

— Utility
property, plant and equipment is stated at original cost net of
contributions in aid of construction. The cost of additions
includes direct construction costs, payroll related costs
(taxes, pensions and other fringe benefits), administrative and
general costs and an allowance for funds used during
construction. The allowance for funds used during construction
represents the estimated cost of funds used to finance the
construction of major projects and are capitalized in the rate
base for ratemaking purposes when the completed projects are
placed in service. Interest expense of $1.2 million,
$0.8 million and $1.3 million was capitalized in 2004,
2003 and 2002.

Major renewals and betterments are capitalized
while the costs of maintenance and repairs are charged to
expense as incurred. The costs of large projects are accumulated
in construction in progress until the project is completed. When
the project is completed, tested and placed in service, the
balance is transferred to the utility plant in service account
included in the rate base and depreciation begins.

Utility property, plant and equipment is
depreciated at various rates on a straight-line basis over the
estimated useful lives of the assets. These rates are approved
by our regulatory commissions and are comprised of two
components, one based on average service life and one based on
cost of removal. Accordingly, we



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

recognize our cost of removal expense as a
component of depreciation expense. The related cost of removal
accrual is reflected as a regulatory liability on the
consolidated balance sheet. At the time property, plant and
equipment is retired, removal expenses less salvage, are charged
to the regulatory cost of removal accrual. The composite
depreciation rate for the years ended September 30, 2004,
2003 and 2002 was 3.8 percent.

Nonutility property, plant and
equipment

— Nonutility
property, plant and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation is
generally computed on the straight-line method for financial
reporting purposes based upon estimated useful lives ranging
from 8 to 38 years.

Asset retirement
obligations

— SFAS 143,

Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations

which was
effective for us October 1, 2002 requires that we record a
liability at fair value for an asset retirement obligation when
the legal obligation to retire the asset has been incurred with
an offsetting increase to the carrying value of the related
asset. Accretion of the asset retirement obligation due to the
passage of time is recorded as an operating expense. As of
September 30, 2004 and 2003, we have asset retirement
obligations; however, we cannot determine when the legal
obligation will be incurred.

Impairment of long-lived
assets

— We periodically
evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred that
indicate that other long-lived assets may not be recoverable or
that the remaining useful life may warrant revision. When such
events or circumstances are present, we assess the
recoverability of long-lived assets by determining whether the
carrying value will be recovered through the expected future
cash flows. In the event the sum of the expected future cash
flows resulting from the use of the asset is less than the
carrying value of the asset, an impairment loss equal to the
excess of the asset’s carrying value over its fair value is
recorded. To date, no impairment has been recognized.

Goodwill and intangible assets —

We annually evaluate our goodwill
balances for impairment during our second fiscal quarter or more
frequently as impairment indicators arise. We use a present
value technique based on discounted cash flows to estimate the
fair value of our reporting units. These calculations are
dependent on several subjective factors including the timing of
future cash flows, future growth rates and the discount rate. An
impairment charge is recognized if the carrying value of a
reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its fair value.

Intangible assets are amortized over their useful
lives ranging from 3 to 10 years. These assets are reviewed for
impairment as impairment indicators arise. When such events or
circumstances are present, we assess the recoverability of
long-lived assets by determining whether the carrying value will
be recovered through the expected future cash flows. In the
event the sum of the expected future cash flows resulting from
the use of the asset is less than the carrying value of the
asset, an impairment loss equal to the excess of the
asset’s carrying value over its fair value is recorded. To
date, no impairment has been recognized.

Marketable securities —

As of September 30, 2004 and
2003, all of our marketable securities were classified as
available-for-sale securities based upon the criteria of
SFAS 115,

Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities

. In accordance with that standard, these
securities are reported at market value with unrealized gains
and losses shown as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss). We regularly evaluate the
performance of these investments on a fund by fund basis for
impairment, taking into consideration the fund’s purpose,
volatility and current returns. If a determination is made that
a decline in fair value is other than temporary, the related
fund is written down to its estimated fair value.

Derivatives and hedging
activities

— Our derivative
and hedging activities are tailored to the segment to which they
relate. We record our derivatives as a component of risk
management assets and liabilities, which are classified as
current or noncurrent, based upon the anticipated settlement
date of the underlying derivative. These assets and liabilities
are recorded as components of other current assets, deferred
charges and other assets, other current liabilities or deferred
credits and other liabilities depending on the expiration or
maturity date of the instrument.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Utility Segment

In our utility segment, we use a combination of
storage and financial derivatives to partially insulate us and
our natural gas utility customers against gas price volatility
during the winter heating season. The financial derivatives we
use in our utility segment are accounted for under the
mark-to-market method pursuant to SFAS 133,

Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

. Changes in
the valuation of these derivatives primarily result from changes
in the valuation of the portfolio of contracts, maturity and
settlement of contracts and newly originated transactions.
However, because the gains or losses of financial derivatives
used in our utility segment will ultimately be recovered through
our rates, current period changes in the assets and liabilities
from these risk management activities are recorded as a
component of deferred gas costs in accordance with SFAS 71.
Accordingly, there is no earnings impact to our utility segment
as a result of the use of financial derivatives. The changes in
the assets and liabilities from risk management activities are
recognized in purchased gas cost in the income statement when
the related gain or loss is recovered through our rates.

Natural Gas Marketing Segment

Our natural gas marketing risk management
activities are conducted through AEM. AEM is exposed to risks
associated with changes in the market price of natural gas, and
we manage our exposure to the risk of natural gas price changes
through a combination of storage and financial derivatives,
including futures, over-the-counter and exchange-traded options
and swap contracts with counterparties. Option contracts provide
the right, but not the requirement, to buy or sell the commodity
at a fixed price. Swap contracts require receipt of payment for
the commodity based on the difference between a fixed price and
the market price on the settlement date. The use of these
contracts is subject to our risk management policies, which are
monitored for compliance on a daily basis.

We participate in transactions in which we
combine the natural gas commodity and transportation costs to
minimize our costs incurred to serve our customers.
Additionally, we engage in natural gas storage transactions in
which we seek to find and profit from pricing differences that
occur over time. We purchase or sell physical natural gas and
then sell or purchase financial contracts at a price sufficient
to cover our carrying costs and provide a gross profit margin.
Through the use of transportation and storage services and
derivatives, we are able to capture gross profit margin through
the arbitrage of pricing differences in various locations and by
recognizing pricing differences that occur over time.

Under SFAS 133, natural gas inventory is
designated as the hedged item in a fair-value hedge and is
marked to market on a monthly basis using the inside FERC
(iFERC) price at the end of each month. Changes in fair value
are recognized as unrealized gains and losses in revenue in the
period of change. Costs to store the gas are recognized in the
period the costs are incurred. We recognize revenue and the
carrying value of the inventory as an associated purchased gas
cost in our consolidated statement of income when we sell the
gas and deliver it out of the storage facility.

Derivatives associated with our natural gas
inventory are marked to market each month based upon the NYMEX
price with changes in fair value recognized as unrealized gains
and losses in the period of change. The difference in the
indices used to mark to market our physical inventory (iFERC)
and the related fair-value hedge (NYMEX) is reported as a
component of revenue and can result in volatility in our
reported net income. Over time, gains and losses on the sale of
storage gas inventory will be offset by gains and losses on the
fair-value hedges, resulting in the realization of the economic
gross profit margin we anticipated at the time we structured the
original transaction. In addition, we continually manage our
positions to optimize value as market conditions and other
circumstances change.

Similar to our inventory position, we attempt to
mitigate substantially all of the commodity price risk
associated with our fixed-price contracts with minimum volume
requirements through the use of various



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

offsetting derivatives. Prior to April 1,
2004, these derivatives were not designated as hedges under SFAS
133 because they naturally locked in the economic gross profit
margin at the time we entered into the contract. The fixed-price
forward and offsetting derivative contracts were marked to
market each month with changes in fair value recognized as
unrealized gains and losses recorded in revenue in our
consolidated statement of income. The unrealized gains and
losses are realized as a component of revenue in the period in
which we fulfill the requirements of the fixed-price contract
and the derivatives are settled. To the extent that the
unrealized gains and losses of the fixed-price forward contracts
and the offsetting derivatives do not offset exactly, our
earnings will experience some volatility. At delivery, the gains
and losses on the fixed-price contracts were offset by gains and
losses on the derivatives, resulting in the realization of the
economic gross profit margin we anticipated at the time we
structured the original transaction. In addition, we continually
manage our positions to optimize value as market conditions and
other circumstances change.

Effective April 1, 2004, we elected to treat
our fixed-price forward contracts as normal purchases and sales.
As a result, we ceased marking the fixed-price forward contracts
to market. We have designated the offsetting derivative
contracts as cash flow hedges of anticipated transactions. As a
result of this change, unrealized gains and losses on these open
derivative contracts are now recorded as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in
earnings as a component of revenue when the hedged volumes are
sold. This designation is expected to partially reduce the
amount of volatility in our consolidated income statement and
better reflect the economics of this type of transaction. Hedge
ineffectiveness, to the extent incurred, is reported as a
component of revenues.

Treasury Activities

During fiscal 2004, we entered into four Treasury
lock agreements to fix the Treasury yield component of the
interest cost of financing associated with the anticipated
issuance of $875 million of long-term debt. We designated
these Treasury lock agreements as cash flow hedges of an
anticipated transaction. Accordingly, to the extent effective,
unrealized gains and losses associated with the Treasury lock
agreements are recorded as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income. Unrealized gains are recorded when
interest rates increase and unrealized losses are recorded when
interest rates decline. These Treasury lock agreements were
terminated in October 2004 and the $43.8 million unrealized
loss will be recognized as a component of interest expense over
the life of the related financing arrangement.

The fair value of our financial derivatives is
determined through a combination of prices actively quoted on
national exchanges, prices provided by other external sources
and prices based on models and other valuation methods. Changes
in the valuation of our financial derivatives primarily result
from changes in market prices, the valuation of the portfolio of
our contracts, maturity and settlement of these contracts and
newly originated transactions, each of which directly affect the
estimated fair value of our derivatives. We believe the market
prices and models used to value these derivatives represent the
best information available with respect to closing exchange and
over-the-counter quotations, time value and volatility factors
underlying the contracts. Values are adjusted to reflect the
potential impact of an orderly liquidation of our positions over
a reasonable period of time under present market conditions.

Pension and other postretirement
plans

— Pension and
other postretirement plan expenses and liabilities are
determined on an actuarial basis and are affected by the market
value of plan assets, estimates of the expected return on plan
assets and assumed discount rates and demographical data. Actual
changes in the fair market value of plan assets and differences
between the actual return on plan assets and the expected return
on plan assets could have a material effect on the amount of
pension expense ultimately recognized. The assumed return on
plan assets is based on management’s expectation of the
long-term return on the portfolio of plan assets. The discount
rate used to compute the present value of plan liabilities
generally is based on rates of high grade corporate bonds with
maturities similar to the average period over which benefits
will be paid.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Income
taxes

— Income taxes are
provided based on the liability method, which results in income
tax assets and liabilities arising from temporary differences.
Temporary differences are differences between the tax bases of
assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the
financial statements that will result in taxable or deductible
amounts in future years. The liability method requires the
effect of tax rate changes on current and accumulated deferred
income taxes to be reflected in the period in which the rate
change was enacted. The liability method also requires that
deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance unless
it is more likely than not that the assets will be realized.

Stock-based compensation
plans

— We have two
stock-based compensation plans that provide for the granting of
incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock
appreciation rights, bonus stock, restricted stock and
performance-based stock to officers and key employees: the 1998
Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Long-Term Stock Plan for the
Mid-States Division. Nonemployee directors are also eligible to
receive such stock-based compensation under the 1998 Long-Term
Incentive Plan. The objectives of these plans include attracting
and retaining the best personnel, providing for additional
performance incentives and promoting our success by providing
employees with the opportunity to acquire common stock. These
plans are more fully described in Note 8. As permitted by SFAS
123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,

we account
for these plans under the intrinsic-value method described in
Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion 25,

Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees

. Under this method, no
compensation cost for stock options is recognized for
stock-option awards granted at or above fair-market value.

Awards of restricted stock are valued at the
market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of
grant. The unearned compensation is amortized to operation and
maintenance expense over the vesting period of the restricted
stock.

Had compensation expense for our stock options
issued under the Long-Term Incentive Plan been recognized based
on the fair value on the grant date under the methodology
prescribed by SFAS 123, our net income and earnings per share
for the years ended September 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002 would
have been impacted as shown in the following table:



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Accounting pronouncements
implemented —

In January
2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) 46,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, An
Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51

.
The primary objectives of FIN 46 are to provide guidance on how
to identify entities for which control is achieved through means
other than through voting rights (variable interest entities
(VIE)) and how to determine when to consolidate and which
business enterprises should consolidate the VIE. Under the
guidance of FIN 46, we are considered the primary beneficiary of
the Rabbi Trust used to fund our supplemental executive
retirement plan described in Note 9. However, since we already
consolidate these assets and related liabilities, the adoption
of this interpretation did not have a material impact on our
financial position, results of operations or net cash flows.

During 2003, the Emerging Issues Task Force (the
Task Force) added to its agenda Emerging Issues Task Force
(EITF) Issue 03-01,

The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary
Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments,

to
address the meaning of “other-than-temporary”
impairment and its application to certain investments carried at
cost. In November 2003, the Task Force developed new disclosure
requirements concerning unrealized losses on available-for-sale
debt and equity securities accounted for under SFAS 115,

Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities

. We have adopted the disclosure requirements
prescribed by EITF 03-01, which are contained in Note 9. In
March 2004, the Task Force defined the meaning of
“other-than-temporary” and issued guidance regarding
the measurement and recognition of an investment that had
experienced an “other-than-temporary” impairment.
However, in September 2004 the Task Force delayed the effective
date for the measurement and recognition criteria of EITF 03-01
while it considers additional questions pertaining to these
issues.

In December 2003, the FASB issued SFAS 132
(revised),

Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and
Other Postretirement Benefits

. These revisions require
additional disclosures in annual reports on Form 10-K
concerning the assets, obligations, cash flows and net
periodic-benefit cost of defined-benefit pension plans and other
defined-benefit postretirement plans which became effective for
fiscal years ending after June 15, 2004. We have adopted
these disclosure requirements which are contained in Note 9.

In January 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff
Position FAS (FSP) 106-1,

Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003,

which permitted a
plan sponsor to defer recognizing the effects of the Medicare
Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003
(the Act) in accounting for its plan under SFAS 106 and in
providing disclosures related to the plan required by SFAS 132
(revised). FSP 106-2, issued in March 2004, superseded FSP 106-1
and provided guidance on the accounting for the effects of the
Act for employers that sponsor a single-employer defined benefit
postretirement health care plan for which the employer has
concluded that prescription drug benefits available under the
plan are actuarially equivalent to the Medicare Part D benefit
and the expected subsidy will offset or reduce the
employer’s share of the cost of the benefit. We determined
that the prescription drug benefits of our plan were actuarially
equivalent to the Medicare Part D benefit. The implementation of
the Act reduced our accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation by $24.3 million and our fiscal 2004 net
postretirement benefit obligation costs by $4.1 million based
upon calculations prepared by our independent actuaries. The
total income statement impact for fiscal 2004 approximated
$2.3 million, as a portion of this benefit was capitalized.

3.     Acquisitions

TXU Gas Company

On October 1, 2004, we completed our
acquisition of the natural gas distribution and pipeline
operations of TXU Gas Company (TXU Gas). The TXU Gas operations
we acquired are regulated businesses engaged in the purchase,
transmission, distribution and sale of natural gas in the
north-central, eastern and western parts of Texas. Through these
newly acquired operations, we provide gas distribution services
to approximately 1.5 million residential and business
customers in Texas, including the Dallas/ Fort Worth
metropolitan area.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

We also now own and operate a system consisting
of 6,162 miles of gas transmission and gathering lines and five
underground storage reservoirs, all within Texas.

The purchase price for the TXU Gas acquisition
was approximately $1.905 billion (after preliminary closing
adjustments), which we paid in cash. We acquired approximately
$121 million of working capital of TXU Gas and did not
assume any indebtedness of TXU Gas in connection with the
acquisition. TXU Gas retained certain assets and provided for
the repayment of all of its indebtedness and redeemed all of its
preferred stock prior to closing and retained and agreed to pay
certain other liabilities under the terms of the acquisition
agreement. The purchase price is subject to further adjustment
sixty days after closing for the actual amount of working
capital we acquired and other specified matters. We anticipate
that any post-closing purchase price adjustments will not be
material.

We funded the purchase price for the TXU Gas
acquisition with approximately $235.7 million in net
proceeds from our offering of 9,939,393 shares of common stock,
which we completed on July 19, 2004, and approximately
$1.7 billion in net proceeds from our issuance on
October 1, 2004 of commercial paper backstopped by a senior
unsecured revolving credit agreement, which we entered into on
September 24, 2004 for bridge financing for the TXU Gas
acquisition. In October 2004, we paid off the outstanding
commercial paper used to fund the acquisition through the
issuance of senior unsecured notes on October 22, 2004,
which generated net proceeds of approximately
$1.39 billion, and the sale of 16.1 million shares of
common stock on October 27, 2004, which generated net
proceeds of $382.5 million before other offering costs.

The following table summarizes the fair values of
the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on October 1,
2004, in thousands:

The sale of TXU Gas’s assets was held
through a competitive bid process. We believe the resulting
goodwill is recoverable given the expected synergies we can
achieve as a result of the TXU Gas acquisition. To that end, the
TXU Gas acquisition significantly expands our existing utility
operations in Texas. The North Texas operations of TXU Gas
bridge our geographic operations between our existing utility
operations in West Texas and Louisiana. TXU Gas’s
headquarters and service area are centered in Dallas, Texas,
which is also the location of our corporate headquarters.
Further, the addition of the regulated pipelines in North Texas
may create additional gas marketing and other opportunities for
our non-regulated subsidiaries, which include gas marketing and
storage operations. The goodwill generated in the acquisition is
deductible for tax purposes.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Our allocation of the purchase is preliminary and
is subject to change. The amount currently allocated to
property, plant and equipment represents our estimate of the
fair value of the assets acquired. We have based that estimate
on the amount we believe will ultimately be approved as rate
base for rate setting purposes.

The table below reflects the unaudited pro forma
results of the Company and TXU Gas for the year ended
September 30, 2004 as if the acquisition and related
financing had taken place at the beginning of fiscal 2004 (in
thousands, except per share data):

ComFurT Gas Inc.

Effective March 1, 2004, we completed the
acquisition of the natural gas distribution assets of ComFurT
Gas Inc., a privately held natural gas utility and propane
distributor based in Buena Vista, Colorado, for approximately
$2.0 million in cash. This company served approximately 1,800
natural gas utility customers. The acquisition enabled us to
expand our contiguous service area in our Colorado-Kansas
division. Unaudited pro forma results of the Company and ComFurT
have not been presented as the acquisition was not material to
our financial position or results of operations.

Mississippi Valley Gas
    Company

On December 3, 2002, we completed the
acquisition of Mississippi Valley Gas Company (MVG),
Mississippi’s largest natural gas utility. The acquisition
of MVG enabled us to expand our service area into Mississippi.
MVG served approximately 261,500 residential, commercial,
industrial and other customers located primarily in the northern
and central regions of Mississippi. MVG’s rate design
provides timely returns on capital investment and earnings
stability and enabled us to leverage our existing centralized
management structure, shared services organization and
information systems to manage costs in all of Atmos
Energy’s utility service areas over the long term.

We paid approximately $74.7 million in cash
and $74.7 million in Atmos Energy common stock consisting
of 3,386,287 unregistered shares. We also repaid approximately
$70.9 million of MVG’s outstanding debt. The results
of operations of MVG have been consolidated with our results of
operations from the acquisition date.

4.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

Goodwill and intangible assets were comprised of
the following as of September 30, 2004 and 2003.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following presents our goodwill balance
allocated by segment and changes in the balance for the year
ended September 30, 2004:

(1)

During the preparation of the fiscal 2004 tax
    provision, we adjusted certain deferred taxes recorded in
    connection with a fiscal 2001 acquisition which resulted in a
    decrease to goodwill and deferred tax liabilities of
    $38.5 million.

(2)

During 2004, we transferred Atmos Pipeline and
    Storage’s underground storage fields in Kansas to our Atmos
    Energy Colorado-Kansas utility division. As a result of the
    transfer, approximately $1.7 million in goodwill was
    transferred from the other nonutility segment to the utility
    segment.

Information regarding our intangible assets is
included in the following table. As of September 30, 2004
and 2003, we had no indefinite-lived intangible assets.

The following table presents actual amortization
expense recognized during 2004 and an estimate of future
amortization expense based upon our intangible assets at
September 30, 2004.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

5.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities

We conduct risk management activities through
both our utility and natural gas marketing segments. We record
our derivatives as a component of risk management assets and
liabilities, which are classified as current or noncurrent based
upon the anticipated settlement date of the underlying
derivative. Our determination of the fair value of these
derivative financial instruments reflects the estimated amounts
that we would receive or pay to terminate or close the contracts
at the reporting date, taking into account the current
unrealized gains and losses on open contracts. In our
determination of fair value, we consider various factors,
including closing exchange and over-the-counter quotations, time
value and volatility factors underlying the contracts.

The following table shows the fair values of our
risk management assets and liabilities by segment at
September 30, 2004 and 2003:

Utility Hedging Activities

We use a combination of storage, fixed physical
contracts and fixed financial contracts to partially insulate us
and our customers against gas price volatility during the winter
heating season. For the 2003-2004 heating season, we hedged
between 50 and 55 percent of our anticipated winter flowing
gas requirements at a weighted average cost of approximately
$5.36 per MCF.

In June 2001, we purchased a three-year
weather-insurance policy with an option to cancel the third year
of coverage. The insurance covered our Texas and Louisiana
operations to protect against weather that was at least
7 percent warmer than normal for the entire heating season
of October through March, beginning with the 2001-2002 heating
season. The prepaid cost of the three-year policy was
$13.2 million and was amortized over the appropriate
heating seasons based on heating degree days. In the third
quarter of fiscal 2003, we cancelled this policy, primarily as a
result of rate relief in Louisiana and at that time, prospects
for weather normalization adjustments in Texas. During fiscal
2003 and 2002, we recognized amortization expense of
$5.0 million and $4.4 million. However, we did not
collect under this policy because weather was not at least
7 percent warmer than normal.

Out utility hedging activities also includes the
fair value of our treasury lock agreements which are described
in further detail below.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Nonutility Hedging Activities

For the year ended September 30, 2004, the
increase in the deferred hedging gain in accumulated other
comprehensive income was attributable to the initiation of cash
flow hedge accounting treatment described above and increases in
future commodity prices relative to the commodity prices
stipulated in the derivative contracts, partially offset by the
recognition of $3.5 million in net deferred hedge gains in
net income when the derivatives matured according to their
terms. The net deferred hedge losses associated with open cash
flow hedges remain subject to market price fluctuations until
the positions are either settled under the terms of the hedge
contracts or terminated prior to settlement. Substantially all
of the deferred hedging gain as of September 30, 2004 is
expected to be recognized in net income within the next fiscal
year.

Under our risk management policies, we seek to
match our financial derivative positions to our physical storage
positions as well as our expected current and future sales and
purchase obligations to maintain no open positions at the end of
each trading day. The determination of our net open position as
of any day, however, requires us to make assumptions as to
future circumstances, including the use of gas by our customers
in relation to our anticipated storage and market positions.
Because the price risk associated with any net open position at
the end of each day may increase if the assumptions are not
realized, we review these assumptions as part of our daily
monitoring activities. We can also be affected by intraday
fluctuations of gas prices, since the price of natural gas
purchased or sold for future delivery earlier in the day may not
be hedged until later in the day. At times, limited net open
positions related to our existing and anticipated commitments
may occur. At the close of business on September 30, 2004,
AEH had a net open position (including existing storage) of 0.2
Bcf.

Adoption of EITF 02-03

On October 25, 2002, EITF 02-03,

Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk
Management,

was issued. It rescinded EITF 98-10,

Accounting for Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities,

and required that all energy trading contracts entered into
after October 25, 2002 be accounted for pursuant to the
provisions of SFAS 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities.

Beginning January 1, 2003, we
have no longer marked our storage and transportation contracts
to market value each month in accordance with EITF 98-10 and
adopted EITF 02-03. As a result, we recorded a $7.8 million, net
of applicable income tax benefit, as a cumulative effect of a
change in accounting principle in fiscal 2003.

Treasury Activities

During fiscal 2004, we entered into four Treasury
lock agreements to fix the Treasury yield component of the
interest cost of financing associated with the anticipated
issuance of $875 million of long-term debt subsequent to
September 30, 2004. This long-term debt was issued on
October 22, 2004 and was used to repay a portion of the
commercial paper used to fund the TXU Gas acquisition, as
described in Note 3.

We designated these Treasury lock agreements as
cash flow hedges of an anticipated transaction. Accordingly, to
the extent effective, unrealized gains and losses associated
with the Treasury locks are recorded as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). At
September 30, 2004, we recorded deferred hedging losses of
$21.3 million, net of tax, as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) related to these Treasury
lock agreements due to a decline in the 5 and 10 year
Treasury rates between the inception of the Treasury locks and
September 30, 2004. These Treasury lock agreements were
settled in October 2004 with a net $43.8 million payment to
the counterparties. Approximately $11.6 million of the
$43.8 million obligation will be recognized as a component
of interest expense over the next five years, and the remaining
amount, approximately $32.2 million, will be recognized as
a component of interest expense over the next ten years.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table presents our hedging
transactions that were recorded to other comprehensive income
(loss), net of taxes during the year ended September 30, 2004.
Prior to fiscal 2004, we did not designate any of our derivative
instruments as cash flow hedges.

(1)

Utilizing an income tax rate of approximately 38%
    comprised of the effective rates in each taxing jurisdiction.

The following amounts net of deferred taxes
represent the expected recognition into earnings for our
derivative instruments, based upon the fair values of these
derivatives as of September 30, 2004:



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

6.     Debt

Long-term debt

Long-term debt at September 30, 2004 and
2003 consisted of the following:

Most of the First Mortgage Bonds contain
provisions that allow us to prepay the outstanding balance in
whole at any time, subject to a prepayment premium. The First
Mortgage Bonds provide for certain cash flow requirements and
restrictions on additional indebtedness, sale of assets and
payment of dividends. Under the most restrictive of such
covenants, cumulative cash dividends paid after
December 31, 1988 may not exceed the sum of accumulated net
income for periods after December 31, 1988 plus
$15.0 million. At September 30, 2004, approximately
$103.6 million of retained earnings were unrestricted with
respect to the payment of dividends. We were in compliance with
all of our debt covenants as of September 30, 2004.

In December 2001, we filed a shelf registration
statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) to issue, from time to time, up to
$600.0 million in new common stock and/or debt. The
registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on
January 30, 2002. On January 16, 2003, we issued
$250.0 million of 5.125% Senior Notes due 2013 under the
registration statement. The net proceeds of $249.3 million
were used to repay debt under an acquisition credit facility
used to finance our acquisition of MVG, to repay
$54.0 million in unsecured senior notes held by
institutional lenders and short-term debt under our commercial
paper program and to provide funds for general corporate
purposes. Additionally, we sold 4,100,000 shares of our common
stock in connection with our June and July 2003 Offering under
the registration statement to provide additional funding for our
Pension Account Plan. In July 2004, we sold



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

9,939,393 shares of our common stock, including
the underwriters’ exercise of their overallotment option.
We used the net proceeds from this offering, together with
borrowings under a bridge financing facility to consummate the
acquisition of substantially all of the assets of TXU Gas and
pay related fees and expenses. As a result of the offering, we
exhausted the remaining availability under our December 2001
shelf registration statement.

In August 2004, we filed another shelf
registration statement with the SEC to issue, from time to time,
up to $2.2 billion in new common stock and/or debt, which
became effective on September 15, 2004. In October 2004, we
sold 16.1 million common shares, including the
underwriters’ exercise of their overallotment option, under
the new shelf registration statement, generating net proceeds of
$382.5 million before other offering costs. Additionally,
we issued senior unsecured debt under the shelf registration
statement consisting of $400 million of 4.00% senior notes
due 2009, $500 million of 4.95% senior notes due 2014,
$200 million of 5.95% senior notes due 2034 and
$300 million of floating rate senior notes due 2007. The
floating rate notes will bear interest at a rate equal to the
three-month LIBOR rate plus 0.375 percent per year. The
initial weighted average effective interest rate on these notes
is 4.76 percent. The net proceeds from the sale of these
senior notes were $1.39 billion.

The net proceeds from the October 2004 common
stock and senior notes offerings, combined with the net proceeds
from our July 2004 offering were used to pay off the
$1.7 billion in outstanding commercial paper backstopped by
a senior unsecured revolving credit agreement, which we entered
into on September 24, 2004 for bridge financing for the TXU
Gas acquisition. After issuing the debt and equity in October
2004 we have approximately $405.1 million in availability
remaining under the shelf registration statement. Also, as a
result of this refinancing in October 2004, we canceled the
senior unsecured revolving credit facility.

As of September 30, 2004, all of the
Colorado-Kansas Division utility plant assets with a net book
value of approximately $219.7 million were subject to a
lien under the 9.4 percent Series J First Mortgage
Bonds assumed by us in the acquisition of Greeley Gas Company.
Also, substantially all of the Mid-States Division utility plant
assets, totaling $363.3 million, were subject to a lien
under the Indenture of Mortgage of the Series P through V
First Mortgage Bonds.

Based on the borrowing rates currently available
to us for debt with similar terms and remaining average
maturities, the fair value of long-term debt at
September 30, 2004 and 2003 is estimated, using discounted
cash flow analysis, to be $936.6 million and
$1,003.9 million.

Maturities of long-term debt at
September 30, 2004 were as follows (in thousands):

Short-term debt

At September 30, 2004, there were no
short-term amounts outstanding under our commercial paper
program or bank credit facilities. At September 30, 2003,
short-term debt consisted of $118.6 million of commercial
paper. The weighted average interest rate on short-term
borrowings outstanding at September 30, 2003 was
1.7 percent.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Credit facilities

We maintain both committed and uncommitted credit
facilities. Borrowings under our uncommitted credit facilities
are made on a when-and-as-needed basis at the discretion of the
bank. Our credit capacity and the amount of unused borrowing
capacity are affected by the seasonal nature of the natural gas
business and our short-term borrowing requirements, which are
typically highest during colder winter months. Our working
capital needs can vary significantly due to changes in the price
of natural gas charged by suppliers and the increased gas
supplies required to meet customers’ needs during periods
of cold weather.

Committed credit facilities

As of September 30, 2004, we had two
short-term committed credit facilities totaling
$368.0 million, one of which was an unsecured facility for
$350.0 million that bore interest at the Eurodollar rate
plus 0.625 percent and served as a backup liquidity
facility for our commercial paper program. In July 2004, we
renewed this facility with substantially the same terms as those
of the existing facility that was set to expire in January 2005.
However, on October 22, 2004 we replaced this credit
facility with a new 364-day $600.0 million committed credit
facility that will serve as a backup liquidity facility for our
commercial paper program on terms that are substantially similar
to our $350.0 million facility.

We have a second unsecured facility in place for
$18.0 million that bears interest at the Fed Funds rate
plus 0.5 percent and is used for working-capital purposes.
At September 30, 2004, there were no amounts outstanding
under these credit facilities. These credit facilities are
negotiated at least annually. On April 1, 2004, the
$18.0 million working-capital credit facility was renewed
for an additional 12 months on terms substantially similar
to those of the prior facility.

On October 7, 2002, we entered into a
$150.0 million short-term unsecured committed credit
facility. This credit facility was used to provide initial
funding for the cash portion of the MVG acquisition and to repay
MVG’s existing debt. A total of $147.0 million was
borrowed under this credit facility during the first quarter of
fiscal 2003. This amount was paid off in January 2003 with a
portion of the proceeds of our $250.0 million debt
offering, as discussed above.

The availability of funds under our credit
facilities is subject to conditions specified in the respective
credit agreements, all of which we currently meet. These
conditions include our compliance with financial covenants and
the continued accuracy of representations and warranties
contained in these agreements. We are required by the financial
covenants in our $350.0 million credit facility to
maintain, at the end of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of total
debt to total capitalization of no greater than 70 percent.
At September 30, 2004, our total-debt-to-total-capitalization
ratio, as defined, was 45 percent. In addition, both the
interest margin over the Eurodollar rate and the fee that we pay
on unused amounts under our $350.0 million credit facility
are subject to adjustment depending upon our credit ratings. We
and our lead bank amended this facility’s terms prior to
closing the TXU Gas acquisition to accommodate the expected
increase in our debt to capital ratio that resulted from the
acquisition. Under this amendment, the total debt to total
capitalization ratio is calculated quarterly and up to
$200 million in short-term debt will be excluded from the
calculation as of December 31, 2004. This provision also
was incorporated into the new $600.0 million credit
facility that replaced the $350.0 million facility in
October 2004.

Uncommitted credit facilities

AEM has a $250.0 million uncommitted-demand
working capital credit facility that bears interest at the
Eurodollar rate plus 2.5 percent and expires on
March 31, 2005. Effective October 1, 2003, with the
reorganization of our natural gas marketing segment, AEM became
the borrower under the credit facility, and AEH became the sole
guarantor of the facility. At September 30, 2004, no
amounts were outstanding under this credit facility. AEM letters
of credit totaling $55.0 million have been issued under the
facility and reduce



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

the amount available that can be borrowed. The
amount available under this credit facility is also limited by
various covenants, including covenants based on working capital.
Under the most restrictive covenant, the amount available to AEM
under this credit facility was $62.1 million at
September 30, 2004.

We also have an unsecured short-term uncommitted
credit line for $25.0 million that is used for
working-capital and letter-of-credit purposes. There were no
borrowings under this uncommitted credit facility at
September 30, 2004, but Atmos Energy Corporation
(AEC) letters of credit reduced the amount available by
$3.8 million. This uncommitted line is renewed or
renegotiated at least annually with varying terms, and we pay no
fee for the availability of the line. Borrowings under this line
are made on a when- and as-available basis at the discretion of
the bank.

In addition, AEM has a $100.0 million
intercompany credit facility with AEC through AEH for its
nonutility business which bears interest at the Eurodollar rate
plus 2.75 percent. Any outstanding amounts under this
facility are subordinated to AEM’s $250.0 million
uncommitted-demand credit facility described above. This
facility is used to supplement AEM’s $250.0 million
credit facility. This credit facility was renewed effective
July 1, 2004 on substantially the same terms as those of
the existing facility and has been approved by our state
regulators through December 31, 2004. However, there is no
assurance that our regulators will approve our use of this
credit facility after that time. At September 30, 2004,
$15.0 million was outstanding under this facility and is
eliminated in consolidation.

7.

Shareholders’ Equity

Stock Issuances

During the years ended September 30, 2004,
2003 and 2002 we issued 11,323,925, 9,799,853, and 884,431
shares of common stock.

On October 27, 2004, we completed the public
offering of 16,100,000 shares of our common stock including the
underwriters’ exercise of their overallotment option of
2,100,000 shares. The offering was priced at $24.75 and
generated net proceeds of approximately $382.5 million,
before other offering costs. On July 14, 2004, we completed
the public offering of 8,650,000 shares of our common stock. The
offering was priced at $24.75 and generated net proceeds of
approximately $205.1 million. We sold an additional
1,289,393 shares of our common stock when our underwriters
exercised their overallotment option, which generated net
proceeds of approximately $30.6 million.

We used the net proceeds from these offerings,
together with net proceeds of $1.39 billion received from
the issuance of senior unsecured notes to pay off the
$1.7 billion in outstanding commercial paper described in
Note 3.

On June 23, 2003, we completed a public
offering of 4,000,000 shares of our common stock, and we sold an
additional 100,000 shares of our common stock in July 2003 when
our underwriters exercised their overallotment option (the 2003
Offering). The 2003 Offering was priced at $25.31 per share and
generated net proceeds of approximately $99.2 million. The
proceeds were used to partially fund our pension plan, to repay
short-term debt and for other general corporate purposes
including the purchase of natural gas for storage.

Shareholder Rights Plan

On November 12, 1997, our Board of Directors
declared a dividend distribution of one right for each
outstanding share of our common stock to shareholders of record
at the close of business on May 10, 1998. Each right
entitles the registered holder to purchase from us a one-tenth
share of our common stock at a purchase price of $8.00 per
share, subject to adjustment. The description and terms of the
rights are set forth in a rights agreement between us and the
rights agent.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Subject to exceptions specified in the rights
agreement, the rights will separate from our common stock and a
distribution date will occur upon the earlier of:

•

ten business days following a public announcement
    that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons has
    acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership
    of 15 percent or more of the outstanding shares of our
    common stock, other than as a result of repurchases of stock by
    us or specified inadvertent actions by institutional or other
    shareholders;

•

ten business days, or such later date as our
    Board of Directors shall determine, following the commencement
    of a tender offer or exchange offer that would result in a
    person or group having acquired, or obtained the right to
    acquire, beneficial ownership of 15 percent or more of the
    outstanding shares of our common stock; or

•

ten business days after our Board of Directors
    shall declare any person to be an adverse person within the
    meaning of the rights plan.

The rights expire on May 10, 2008, unless
extended prior thereto by our board or earlier if redeemed by
us. The rights will not have any voting rights. The exercise
price payable and the number of shares of our common stock or
other securities or property issuable upon exercise of the
rights are subject to adjustment from time to time to prevent
dilution. We issue rights when we issue our common stock until
the rights have separated from the common stock. After the
rights have separated from the common stock, we may issue
additional rights if the board of directors deems such issuance
to be necessary or appropriate. The rights have
“anti-takeover” effects and may cause substantial
dilution to a person or entity that attempts to acquire us on
terms not approved by our board of directors except pursuant to
an offer conditioned upon a substantial number of rights being
acquired. The rights should not interfere with any merger or
other business combination approved by our board of directors
because, prior to the time that the rights become exercisable or
transferable, we can redeem the rights at $.01 per right.

Registration Rights and Other
    Agreements

As part of the consideration for our Mississippi
Valley Gas Company acquisition in December 2002, we issued
shares of common stock under an exemption from registration
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In the
transaction, we entered into a registration rights agreement
with the former stockholders of Mississippi Valley Gas Company
that requires us, on no more than two occasions, and with some
limitations, to file a registration statement under the
Securities Act within 60 days of their request for an
offering designed to achieve a wide distribution of shares
through underwriters selected by us. We also granted rights,
subject to some limitations, to participate in future registered
offerings of our securities to these shareholders. As of
September 30, 2004, 1,193,143 shares were covered by the
registration rights agreement. Each of these shareholders has
also agreed, for up to five years from the closing of the
acquisition, and with some exceptions, not to sell or transfer
shares representing more than 1 percent of our total
outstanding voting securities to any person or group or any
shares to a person or group who would hold more than
9.9 percent of our total outstanding voting securities
after the sale or transfer. This restriction, and other agreed
restrictions on the ability of these shareholders to acquire
additional shares, participate in proxy solicitations or act to
seek control, may be deemed to have an “anti-takeover”
effect.

In addition, in connection with our funding of
the Atmos Energy Corporation Pension Account Plan, we issued, in
June 2003, to the Atmos Energy Corporation Master Retirement
Trust, for the benefit of the Pension Account Plan, 1,169,700
shares of common stock under an exemption from registration
under the Securities Act. In the transaction, we entered into a
registration rights agreement with the asset manager of the
Pension Account Plan that requires us, on no more than three
occasions, and with some limitations, to file a registration
statement under the Securities Act within 60 days of its
request for an offering designed to



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

achieve a wide distribution of shares through
underwriters selected by us. We also granted rights, subject to
some limitations, to participate in future registered offerings
of our securities to the asset manager.

8.

Stock and Other Compensation Plans

Stock-Based Compensation
    Plans

We have two stock-based compensation plans that
provide for the granting of incentive stock options,
nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, bonus
stock, restricted stock and performance-based stock to officers
and key employees: the 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the
Long-Term Stock Plan for the Mid-States Division. Nonemployee
directors are also eligible to receive such stock-based
compensation under the 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The
objectives of these plans include attracting and retaining the
best personnel, providing for additional performance incentives
and promoting our success by providing employees with the
opportunity to acquire common stock.

1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan

On August 12, 1998, the Board of Directors
approved and adopted the 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan, which
became effective October 1, 1998 after approval by our
shareholders. The Long-Term Incentive Plan is a comprehensive,
long-term incentive compensation plan providing for
discretionary awards of incentive stock options, non-qualified
stock options, stock appreciation rights, bonus stock,
restricted stock and performance-based stock to help attract,
retain and reward employees and non-employee directors of Atmos
and its subsidiaries. We are authorized to grant awards for up
to a maximum of 4,000,000 shares of common stock under this plan
subject to certain adjustment provisions. As of
September 30, 2004, non-qualified stock options, bonus
stock and restricted stock have been issued under this plan, and
1,760,627 shares were available for issuance. The option price
of the stock options issued under this plan is equal to the
market price of our stock at the date of grant. These stock
options expire 10 years from the date of the grant and vest
annually over a service period ranging from one to three years.

A summary of activity for grants of stock options
under the 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan follows:



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Information about outstanding and exercisable
options under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, as of
September 30, 2004, follows:

The stock options had a weighted average fair
value per share on the date of grant of $3.82 in 2004, $3.32 in
2003 and $3.55 in 2002. We used the Black-Scholes pricing model
to estimate the fair value of each option granted with the
following weighted average assumptions for 2004, 2003 and 2002:

Long-Term Stock Plan for the Mid-States
    Division

Prior to the merger with Atmos, certain United
Cities Gas Company officers and key employees participated in
the United Cities Long-Term Stock Plan implemented in 1989. At
the time of the merger on July 31, 1997, we adopted this
plan by registering a total of 250,000 shares of Atmos stock to
be issued under the Long-Term Stock Plan for the Mid-States
Division. Under this plan, incentive stock options, nonqualified
stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock or
any combination thereof may be granted to officers and key
employees of the Mid-States Division. Options granted under the
plan become exercisable at a rate of 20 percent per year
and expire 10 years after the date of grant. No awards have
been granted under this plan since 1996. During 2004, 6,000
options were exercised under the plan. At September 30,
2004, there were 300 options outstanding, all of which were
fully vested. Because of the limited activities of this plan,
the pro forma effects of applying SFAS 123 would have less than
a $0.01 per diluted share effect on earnings per share.

Restricted Stock Plans

As noted above, the 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan
provides for discretionary awards of restricted stock to help
attract, retain and reward employees and non-employee directors
of Atmos and its subsidiaries. Certain of these awards vest
based upon the passage of time and other awards vest based upon
the passage of time and the achievement of specified performance
targets. The associated expense is recognized ratably over the
vesting period. Additionally, from October 1, 1987 through
February 2002, we maintained a Restricted Stock Grant Plan for
our management and key employees, which provided awards of
common stock that were subject to certain restrictions. This
plan was administered by the non-employee members of the Board
of Directors, who made final determinations regarding
participation in the Plan, awards under the Plan and



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

restrictions on the restricted stock awarded. The
following summarizes information regarding the restricted stock
plans:

Other Plans

Direct Stock Purchase Plan

We maintain a Direct Stock Purchase Plan which
allows participants to have all or part of their cash dividends
paid quarterly in additional shares of our common stock. Through
March 31, 2004, participants were permitted to reinvest
their cash dividends at a three percent discount from market
prices. Effective April 1, 2004, the three percent discount
on reinvested dividends was eliminated and the minimum initial
investment required to join the plan was increased to $1,250.
Direct Stock Purchase Plan participants may purchase additional
shares of Atmos common stock as often as weekly with voluntary
cash payments of at least $25, up to an annual maximum of
$100,000.

Outside Directors Stock-For-Fee Plan

In November 1994, the Board adopted the Outside
Directors Stock-for-Fee Plan which was approved by the
shareholders of Atmos in February 1995 and was amended and
restated in November 1997. The plan permits non-employee
directors to receive all or part of their annual retainer and
meeting fees in stock rather than in cash.

Equity Incentive and Deferred Compensation
    Plan for Non-Employee Directors

In November 1998, the Board of Directors adopted
the Equity Incentive and Deferred Compensation Plan for
Non-Employee Directors which was approved by the shareholders of
Atmos in February 1999. This plan amended the Atmos Energy
Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors
adopted by the Company on May 10, 1990 and replaced the
pension payable under the Company’s Retirement Plan for
Non-Employee Directors. The plan provides non-employee directors
of Atmos with the opportunity to defer receipt, until
retirement, of compensation for services rendered to the
Company, invest deferred compensation into either a cash account
or a stock account and to receive an annual grant of share units
for each year of service on the Board.

Variable Pay Plan

The Variable Pay Plan was created to give each
employee an opportunity to share in the success of Atmos based
on the achievement of key performance measures considered
critical to achieving business objectives for a given year.
These performance measures may include earnings growth
objectives, improved cash flow objectives or crucial customer
satisfaction and safety results. We monitor progress towards the
achievement of the performance measures throughout the year and
record accruals based upon the expected payout using the best
estimates available at the time the accrual is recorded.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

9.

Retirement and Post-Retirement Employee
    Benefit Plans

We have both funded and unfunded noncontributory
defined benefit plans that together cover substantially all of
our employees. We also maintain post-retirement plans that
provide health care benefits to retired employees. Finally, we
sponsor defined contribution plans which cover substantially all
employees. These plans are discussed in further detail below.

Defined benefit plans

Employee Pension Plans

As of September 30, 2004, we maintained two
defined benefit plans: the Atmos Energy Corporation Pension
Account Plan and the Atmos Energy Corporation Retirement Plan
for Mississippi Valley Gas Union Employees. Both plans are held
within the Atmos Energy Corporation Master Retirement Trust (the
Master Trust).

The Atmos Energy Corporation Pension Account Plan
(the Plan) was established effective January 1, 1999 and
covers substantially all employees of Atmos. Opening account
balances were established for participants as of January 1,
1999 equal to the present value of their respective accrued
benefits under the pension plans which were previously in effect
as of December 31, 1998. The Plan credits an allocation to
each participant’s account at the end of each year
according to a formula based on the participant’s age,
service and total pay (excluding incentive pay).

The Plan also provides for an additional annual
allocation based upon a participant’s age as of
January 1, 1999 for those participants who were
participants in the prior pension plans. The Plan will credit
this additional allocation each year through December 31,
2008. In addition, at the end of each year, a participant’s
account will be credited with interest on the employee’s
prior year account balance. A special grandfather benefit also
applies through December 31, 2008, for participants who
were at least age 50 as of January 1, 1999, and who were
participants in one of the prior plans on December 31,
1998. Participants fully vest in their account balances after
five years of service and may choose to receive their account
balances as a lump sum or an annuity.

MVG maintained a defined benefit plan that
covered substantially all full-time employees (the MVG Plan). On
June 30, 2003, all retirees and the active non-union
employees became eligible to participate in the Plan. Active
union employees remained in the MVG Plan, which was renamed the
Atmos Energy Corporation Retirement Plan for Mississippi Valley
Gas Union Employees on July 1, 2003. Under this plan, benefits
are based upon years of benefit service and average final
earnings. Participants vest in the plan after five years and
will receive their benefit in an annuity.

Generally, our funding policy is to contribute
annually an amount in accordance with the requirements of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. However,
additional voluntary contributions are made from time to time as
considered necessary. Contributions are intended to provide not
only for benefits attributed to service to date but also for
those expected to be earned in the future. We did not contribute
to the Master Trust during fiscal 2004. In June 2003, we
contributed to the Master Trust for the benefit of the Plan
$48.6 million in cash and 1,169,700 shares of Atmos
restricted common stock with a value of $28.8 million. As a
result of this contribution and improved investment returns
during fiscal 2003, the underfunded status of the plan improved
by approximately $8.6 million, and the $39.4 million
reduction to equity recorded as of September 30, 2002 was
eliminated as of September 30, 2003. We are not required to
make a minimum funding contribution during fiscal 2005 nor do we
anticipate making any voluntary contributions during fiscal 2005.

We manage the Master Trust’s assets with the
objective of achieving a real rate of return of approximately
four percent per year. We make investment decisions and evaluate
performance on a medium



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

term horizon of at least three to five years. We
also consider our current financial status when making
recommendations and decisions regarding the Master Trust’s
assets. Finally, we strive to ensure the Master Trust’s
assets are appropriately invested to maintain an acceptable
level of risk and meet the Master Trust’s long term asset
allocation policy.

To achieve these objectives, we invest the Master
Trust’s assets in equity securities, fixed income
securities, interests in commingled pension trust funds and cash
and cash equivalents.

Investments in equity securities are diversified
among the market’s various subsectors to diversify risk and
maximize returns. Fixed income securities are invested in
investment grade securities. Cash equivalents are invested in
securities that either are short term (less than 180 days)
or readily convertible to cash with modest risk.

The following table presents asset allocation
information for the Master Trust as of September 30, 2004
and 2003.

At September 30, 2004 and 2003, the Plan
held 1,169,700 shares of Atmos common stock, which represented
9.0 percent and 8.6 percent of total Master Trust
assets. These shares generated dividend income of approximately
$1.4 million and $0.4 million during fiscal 2004 and
2003.

The following table presents the Master
Trust’s funded status for 2004 and 2003. The benefit
obligation and related plan assets used to determine the funded
status are determined as of June 30 of each fiscal year and
are based upon actuarial projections and assumptions, including
the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and the rate
of compensation increase. Discount rates used to determine the
projected benefit obligation and net periodic pension cost are
based on rates of high grade corporate bonds with maturities
similar to the average period over which benefits will be paid.
The expected return on plan assets is based on management’s
expectation of the long-term return on the portfolio of plan
assets. These expectations are based upon the historical returns
earned by the Master Trust’s assets, future market
projections and expectations and surveys of assumptions used by
other companies. The rate of compensation increase is
established based upon our internal budgets.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The accumulated benefit obligation for our
employee pension plans was $305.1 million and
$323.7 million at September 30, 2004 and 2003.

During 2003, we changed the mortality table for
converting cash balance accounts into monthly annuities to
better reflect the anticipated life expectancy of participants
in the plan. The effects of this change are reflected in the
above table as plan amendment.

The actuarial assumptions used to determine the
pension liability for the Master Trust were determined as of
June 30, 2004 and 2003 as follows:



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Net periodic pension cost for the Master Trust
for 2004, 2003 and 2002 is recorded as a component of operating
expense and included the following components:

The actuarial assumptions used to determine the
net periodic pension cost for the Master Trust were determined
as of June 30, 2003, 2002 and 2001 and are as follows:

Supplemental Executive Benefits
    Plans

We have a nonqualified Supplemental Executive
Benefits Plan which provides additional pension, disability and
death benefits to the officers and certain other employees of
Atmos. The Supplemental Plan was amended and restated in August
1998. In addition, in August 1998, we adopted the
Performance-Based Supplemental Executive Benefits Plan which
covers all employees who become officers or division presidents
after August 12, 1998 or any other employees selected by
our Board of Directors in its discretion.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table presents the funded status of
the supplemental plans for 2004 and 2003:

The accumulated benefit obligation for our
supplemental executive plans was $64.8 million and
$62.6 million at September 30, 2004 and 2003. The net
liability for the supplemental plans is recorded as a component
of deferred credits and other liabilities.

The actuarial assumptions used to determine the
pension liability for the supplemental plans were determined as
of June 30, 2004 and 2003 and are as follows:



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Assets for the supplemental plans are held in
separate rabbi trusts and comprise the following:

At September 30, 2004, we maintained
investments in domestic equity mutual funds that were in an
unrealized loss position as of September 30, 2004.
Information concerning these funds follows:

Because these funds are only used to fund the
supplemental plans, we evaluate investment performance over a
long-term horizon. Based upon our intent and ability to hold
these investments and to direct the source of the payments in
order to maximize the life of the portfolio, the improved
investment returns in the last year and the fact that the funds
continue to receive high ratings from mutual fund rating
companies, we consider this impairment to be temporary.

Net periodic pension cost for the supplemental
plans for 2004, 2003 and 2002 is recorded as a component of
operating expense and included the following components:



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The actuarial assumptions used to determine the
net periodic pension cost for the supplemental plans were
determined as of June 30, 2003, 2002 and 2001 and are as
follows:

Supplemental Disclosures For Defined Benefit
    Plans with Accumulated Benefit Obligations in Excess of Plan
    Assets

The following summarizes key information for our
defined benefit plans with accumulated benefit obligations in
excess of plan assets. For fiscal 2003, the accumulated benefit
obligation for both the Plan and MVG’s plan exceeded the
fair value of plan assets for each plan. For fiscal 2004, this
condition only existed for the MVG plan.

Estimated Future Benefit Payments

The following benefit payments for our defined
benefit plans, which reflect expected future service, as
appropriate, are expected to be paid in the following years:

Postretirement Benefits

We sponsor three postretirement plans other than
pensions that provide health care benefits to retired employees:
the Retiree Medical Plan for Retirees and Disabled Employees of
Atmos Energy Corporation, the Atmos Energy Corporation Retiree
Welfare Benefits Plan for Certain MVG Non-Union Employees and
the Atmos Energy Corporation Retiree Welfare Benefits Plan for
MVG Union Employees. Substantially all of our employees become
eligible for these benefits if they reach retirement age while
working for us and attain certain specified years of service. In
addition, participant contributions are required under the plan.

Generally, our funding policy is to contribute
annually an amount in accordance with the requirements of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. However,
additional voluntary contributions are made annually as
considered necessary. Contributions are intended to provide not
only for benefits attributed



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

to service to date but also for those expected to
be earned in the future. We expect to contribute
$11.7 million to our postretirement benefits plans during
fiscal 2005.

We currently do not maintain a formal investment
policy with respect to the assets in our postretirement benefits
plans. However, we strive to ensure the assets funding the
postretirement benefit plans are appropriately invested to
maintain an acceptable level of risk. We also consider our
current financial status when making recommendations and
decisions regarding the postretirement benefits plans.

We currently invest the assets funding our
postretirement benefit plans in money market funds, equity
mutual funds, fixed income funds and a balanced fund. The
following table presents asset allocation information for the
postretirement benefit plan assets as of September 30, 2004
and 2003.

(1)

This fund invests in a diversified portfolio of
    common stocks, preferred stocks and fixed income securities. It
    may invest up to 75 percent of assets in common stocks and
    convertible securities.

The following table presents the funding status
for the postretirement plans for 2004 and 2003. The benefit
obligation and related plan assets used to determine the funded
status are determined as of June 30 of each fiscal year and
are based upon actuarial projection and assumptions, including
the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and the rate
of compensation increase. Discount rates used to determine the
benefit obligation and net periodic pension cost are based on
rates of high grade corporate bonds with maturities similar to
the average period over which benefits will be paid. The
expected return on plan assets is based on management’s
expectation of the long-term return on the portfolio of plan
assets. These expectations are based upon the historical returns
earned by the plan’s assets, future market projections and
expectations and surveys of assumptions used by other companies.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The current portion of the accrued
post-retirement cost is recorded as a component of other current
liabilities and the long-term portion of the accrued
post-retirement cost is recorded as a component of deferred
credits and other liabilities.

The actuarial assumptions used to determine the
liability for the post-retirement plans were determined as of
June 30, 2004 and 2003 and are as follows:



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Net periodic postretirement cost for 2004, 2003
and 2002 is recorded as a component of operating expense and
included the following components. The 2004 amounts reflect the
impact of adopting the provisions of the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act)
beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2004 as the plan is
considered “actuarially equivalent” to Medicare
Part D.

The actuarial assumptions used to determine the
net periodic benefit cost for the postretirement plans were
determined as of June 30, 2003, 2002 and 2001 and are as
follows:

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a
significant effect on the amounts reported for the plan. A
one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend
rates would have the following effects on the latest actuarial
calculations:

We are currently recovering other postretirement
benefits costs through our regulated rates under SFAS 106
accrual accounting in substantially all of our service areas.
Other postretirement benefits costs have been specifically
addressed in rate orders in each jurisdiction served by our
Mid-States Division and our Mississippi Valley Gas Company
Division or have been included in a rate case and not
disallowed. Management believes that accrual accounting in
accordance with SFAS 106 is appropriate and will continue
to seek rate recovery of accrual-based expenses in its
ratemaking jurisdictions that have not yet approved the recovery
of these expenses.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Estimated Future Benefit Payments

The following benefit payments paid by us and
retirees for our postretirement benefit plans, which reflect
expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid
in the following years:

Defined Contribution Plans

As of September 30, 2004, we maintained two
contribution benefit plans: the Atmos Energy Corporation
Retirement Savings Plan and Trust (the Retirement Savings Plan)
and the Mississippi Valley Gas Company Savings Plan for Union
Employees (the MVG 401K Plan).

The Retirement Savings Plan covers substantially
all employees and is subject to the provisions of
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Effective
January 1, 1999 the Retirement Savings Plan was amended to
allow the deferral of a portion of a participant’s salary
ranging from a minimum of one percent of eligible compensation,
as defined by the Plan, up to the maximum allowed by the
Internal Revenue Service. We match 100 percent of a
participant’s contributions, limited to four percent of the
participant’s salary, in Atmos common stock. However,
participants have the option to immediately transfer this
matching contribution into other funds held within the plan.
Participants are also permitted to take out loans against their
accounts subject to certain restrictions.

The MVG 401K Plan covers substantially all
employees who are members of the International Chemical Workers
Union Council, United Food and Commercial Workers Union
International (Union) and is subject to the provisions of
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Employees of
the Union automatically become participants of the MVG 401K plan
on the date of union employment. We match 50 percent of a
participant’s contribution, limited to six percent of the
participant’s eligible contribution. Participants are also
permitted to take out loans against their accounts subject to
certain restrictions.

Matching contributions to our defined
contribution plans are expensed as incurred and amounted to
$4.6 million, $4.1 million, and $3.6 million for
2004, 2003 and 2002. The Board of Directors may also approve
discretionary contributions, subject to the provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and applicable regulations of the
Internal Revenue Service. No discretionary contributions were
made for 2004, 2003 or 2002. At September 30, 2004 and
2003, the Retirement Savings Plan held 3.7 percent and
4.4 percent of our common stock.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

10.

Details of Selected Consolidated Balance Sheet
    Captions

The following tables provide additional
information regarding the composition of certain of our balance
sheet captions.

Accounts receivable

Accounts receivable was comprised of the
following at September 30, 2004 and 2003:

Other current assets

Other current assets as of September 30,
2004 and 2003 were comprised of the following accounts.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment was comprised of
the following as of September 30, 2004 and 2003:

Deferred charges and other
    assets

Deferred charges and other assets as of
September 30, 2004 and 2003 were comprised of the following
accounts.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Other current liabilities

Other current liabilities as of
September 30, 2004 and 2003 were comprised of the following
accounts.

Deferred credits and other
    liabilities

Deferred credits and other liabilities as of
September 30, 2004 and 2003 were comprised of the following
accounts.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

11.

Earnings Per Share

Basic and diluted earnings per share at
September 30 are calculated as follows:

There were approximately 3,000, 601,500 and
1,118,167 out-of-the-money options excluded from the computation
of diluted earnings per share for the years ended
September 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002 as their exercise price
was greater than the average market price of the common stock
during that period.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

12.

Income Taxes

The components of income tax expense from
continuing operations for 2004, 2003 and 2002 were as follows:

The provision (benefit) for income taxes is
included in the consolidated financial statements as follows:

During 2003, we recorded a cumulative effect of
accounting change to reflect the adoption of EITF 02-03, as
described in Note 5. The $5.1 million benefit on the
cumulative charge reflects a federal and state tax benefit of
39.7 percent.

Reconciliations of the provision for income taxes
before the cumulative effect of accounting change computed at
the statutory rate to the reported provisions for income taxes
from continuing operations for 2004, 2003 and 2002 are set forth
below:



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of
differences between the basis of assets and liabilities for book
and tax purposes. The tax effect of temporary differences that
give rise to significant components of the deferred tax
liabilities and deferred tax assets at September 30, 2004
and 2003 are presented below:

We have tax carryforwards amounting to
$15.8 million. The tax carryforwards include capital losses
for federal purposes amounting to $0.5 million and state
net operating losses amounting to $0.5 million. The federal
capital loss carryforwards will expire in 2007. Depending on the
jurisdiction in which the net operating loss was generated, the
state net operating losses will begin to expire between 2016 and
2021. Also included in the tax carryforward is
$14.8 million in alternative minimum tax credits which do
not expire.

During fiscal 2003, the Internal Revenue Service
initiated a routine examination of our fiscal 1999, 2000 and
2001 tax returns. We believe all material tax items have been
accrued related to the years under audit.

13.

Commitments and Contingencies

Litigation

Colorado-Kansas Division

We are a defendant in a lawsuit filed by Quinque
Operating Company, Tom Boles and Robert Ditto on
September 23, 1999 in the District Court of Stevens County,
Kansas against more than 200 companies in the



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

natural gas industry as well as in another
similar lawsuit entitled

In Re Natural Gas Royalties Qui Tam
Litigation,

which was remanded to the same court in January
2001. The plaintiffs in these two lawsuits that have now been
consolidated, who purport to represent a class of royalty
owners, allege that the defendants have underpaid royalties on
gas taken from wells situated on non-federal and non-Indian
lands in Kansas, Colorado, and Wyoming, predicated upon
allegations that the defendants’ gas measurements are
inaccurate. The plaintiffs have not specifically alleged an
amount of damages. The District Court denied an earlier motion
in these proceedings to certify a class but gave plaintiffs
permission to try to seek certification of a revised class,
which we intend to oppose. We believe that the plaintiffs’
claims are lacking in merit, and we intend to vigorously defend
this action. While the results of this litigation cannot be
predicted with certainty, we believe the final outcome of such
litigation will not have a material adverse affect on our
financial condition, results of operations, or net cash flows.

West Texas Division

On February 13, 2002, a suit was filed in
the 287th District Court of Parmer County, Texas, by Anderson
Brothers, a Partnership, against Atmos Energy Corporation,

et al.

The plaintiffs’ claims arose out of an
alleged breach of contract by us and by a number of our
divisions and subsidiaries concerning the sale of natural gas
used in irrigation activities since 1998 and an alleged
violation of the Texas Agricultural Gas Users Act of 1985.
During fiscal 2004, we reached a settlement with the
plaintiffs’ attorneys in this case. The settlement
agreement was approved by the court and then by the plaintiffs
as a class. Substantially all of the material terms of the
settlement were implemented during fiscal 2004. The settlement
did not have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or net cash flows.

We are a plaintiff in a case styled

Energas
Company, a Division of Atmos Energy Corporation v. ONEOK
Energy Marketing and Trading Company, L.P., ONEOK Westex
Transmission, Inc., and ONEOK Energy Marketing and Trading
Company II,

filed in December 2001, pending in the
District Court of Lubbock County, Texas, 72nd Judicial
District. In this case, we are seeking to collect our receivable
related to approximately 5.0 Bcf of natural gas that we
believe was not delivered. We have settled a portion of our
claims with the parties and will continue to pursue recovery of
the remaining claims, which we believe are fully recoverable. We
are proceeding with discovery in this case, which has been set
for trial in 2005.

United Cities Propane Gas, Inc.

United Cities Propane Gas, Inc., one of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries, is a party to an action filed in June
2000 that is pending in the Circuit Court of Sevier County,
Tennessee. The plaintiffs’ claims arise out of injuries
alleged to have been caused by a low-level propane explosion.
The plaintiffs seek to recover damages of $13.0 million.
Discovery activities continue in this case. We have denied any
liability, and we intend to vigorously defend against the
plaintiffs’ claims. This case has been set for trial in the
Spring of 2005. While the results of this litigation cannot be
predicted with certainty, we believe the final outcome of such
litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows.

We are a party to other litigation and claims
that arose in the ordinary course of our business, including
certain litigation and claims that arose in the ordinary course
of the business of TXU Gas Company, the natural gas distribution
and pipeline operations we acquired on October 1, 2004.
While the results of such litigation and claims cannot be
predicted with certainty, we believe the final outcome of such
litigation and claims will not have a material adverse effect on
our financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Environmental Matters

Manufactured Gas Plant Sites

We are the owner or previous owner of
manufactured gas plant sites in Johnson City and Bristol,
Tennessee, and Hannibal, Missouri, which were used to supply gas
prior to the availability of natural gas. The gas manufacturing
process resulted in certain byproducts and residual materials,
including coal tar. The manufacturing process used by our
predecessors was an acceptable and satisfactory process at the
time such operations were being conducted. Under current
environmental protection laws and regulations, we may be
responsible for response actions with respect to such materials
if response actions are necessary.

United Cities Gas Company and the Tennessee
Department of Environment and Conservation (TDEC) entered
into a consent order effective January 23, 1997, to
facilitate the investigation, removal and remediation of the
Johnson City site. Prior to our merger with United Cities Gas
Company in July 1997, United Cities Gas Company began the
implementation of the consent order in the first quarter of
fiscal 1997, which we continued through September 30, 2004.
The investigative phase of the work at the site has been
completed, and an interim removal action was completed in June
2001. We installed four groundwater monitoring wells at the site
in 2002 and have submitted the analytical results to the TDEC.
We completed a risk assessment report that has been approved by
the TDEC as well as a feasibility study for this site, which was
submitted to the TDEC in October 2003. The feasibility study
recommends a remedial action that will limit the use of and
access to the impacted soil, cap the site with the addition of a
clay fill and geosynthetic liner, and groundwater monitoring for
a period of up to 30 years. The estimated cost of the
proposed remedial action is $1.5 million, which is
comprised primarily of operating and maintenance costs that
would be associated with a groundwater monitoring project. The
Tennessee Regulatory Authority granted us permission to defer,
until our next rate case in Tennessee, all costs incurred in
Tennessee in connection with state and federally mandated
environmental control requirements.

In March 2002, the TDEC contacted us about
conducting an investigation at a former manufactured gas plant
located in Bristol, Tennessee. We agreed to perform a
preliminary investigation at the site, which we completed in
June 2002. The investigation identified manufactured gas plant
residual materials in the soil beneath the site, and we have
proposed performing a focused removal action to remove any such
residuals. The TDEC requested that the focused removal action be
conducted pursuant to a voluntary agreement. On April 13,
2004, we entered into a voluntary consent agreement with the
TDEC for the performance of the removal action and anticipate
completing such removal action prior to the end of calendar year
2004.

On July 22, 1998, we entered into an
Abatement Order on Consent with the Missouri Department of
Natural Resources to address the former manufactured gas plant
located in Hannibal, Missouri. We agreed to perform a removal
action and a subsequent site evaluation and to reimburse the
response costs incurred by the state of Missouri in connection
with the property. The removal action was conducted and
completed in August 1998, and the site-evaluation field work was
conducted in August 1999. A risk assessment for the site has
been approved by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources.
In preparation for the risk assessment, we executed and recorded
certain site-use limitations, including restricting use of the
site to commercial and industrial purposes and prohibiting the
withdrawal of groundwater for use as drinking water. In
addition, we have installed a geosynthetic liner over the
surface of the site.

In 1995, United Cities Gas Company entered into
an agreement with a third party to resolve its share of the
costs of additional investigations and environmental-response
actions for soil contamination at a former manufactured gas
plant in Keokuk, Iowa. However, the extent of groundwater
contamination at the site, if any, which is not covered by the
agreement, has yet to be determined.

As of September 30, 2004, we had incurred
costs of approximately $1.7 million for the investigations
of the Johnson City and Bristol, Tennessee, and Hannibal,
Missouri, sites and had a remaining accrual relating to these
sites of $0.5 million, which is recorded as a component of
other current liabilities.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Mercury Contamination Sites

We have completed investigation and remediation
activities pursuant to Consent Orders between the Kansas
Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) and United
Cities Gas Company. The Orders provided for the investigation
and remediation of mercury contamination at gas pipeline sites
which utilize or formerly utilized mercury meter equipment in
Kansas. The Final Interim Characterization and Remediation
Report has been submitted to the KDHE. We amended the Orders
with the KDHE to include all mercury meters that belonged to our
Colorado-Kansas Division before the merger with United Cities
Gas Company on July 31, 1997. All work on these sites has
been completed. During fiscal 2004, we received a letter from
the KDHE, stating that we fulfilled the terms of the Consent
Orders.

We are a party to other environmental matters and
claims that arose in the ordinary course of our business,
including certain environmental matters and claims that arose in
the ordinary course of the business of TXU Gas Company, the
natural gas distribution and pipeline operations we acquired on
October 1, 2004. While the ultimate results of response
actions to these environmental matters and claims cannot be
predicted with certainty, we believe the final outcome of such
response actions will not have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows
because we believe that the expenditures related to such
response actions will either be recovered through rates, shared
with other parties or are adequately covered by insurance.

Purchase Commitments

AEM has commitments to purchase physical
quantities of natural gas under contracts indexed to the forward
NYMEX strip or fixed price contracts. At September 30,
2004, AEM was committed to purchase 55.7 Bcf within
one year and 11.1 Bcf within one to three years under
indexed contracts. AEM is committed to purchase 0.5 Bcf
within one year and 0.1 Bcf within one to three years under
fixed-price contracts with prices ranging from $4.08 to $6.25.
Purchases under these contracts totaled $1,252.2 million,
$1,454.8 million and $725.6 million for 2004, 2003 and
2002.

Our utility segment maintains supply contracts
with several vendors, generally for a period of up to one year.
Commitments for estimated base gas volumes are established under
these contracts on a monthly basis at contractually negotiated
prices. Commitments for incremental daily purchases are made as
necessary during the month in accordance with the terms of the
individual contract.

14.

Leases

Leasing Operations

Atmos Power Systems, Inc. constructs and operates
electric peaking power generating plants and associated
facilities and may enter into agreements to either lease or sell
these plants. We completed a sales-type lease transaction for
one distributed electric generation plant in 2001 and a second
sales-type lease transaction in 2003. In 2001, we recognized a
gain of $0.8 million and deferred $4.7 million of
income, which will be recognized using the interest method
through August 2011. In 2003, we recognized a gain of
$3.9 million and deferred $8.6 million in income,
which will be recognized using the interest method through
September 2012. As of September 30, 2004 and 2003, we
recorded receivables of $25.5 million and



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

$28.4 million and recorded income of
$1.9 million, $2.0 million and $0.7 million for
fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002. The future minimum lease
payments to be received for each of the five succeeding years
are as follows:

Capital and Operating Leases

We have entered into non-cancelable operating
leases for office and warehouse space used in our operations.
The remaining lease terms range from one to 20 years and
generally provide for the payment of taxes, insurance and
maintenance by the lessee. Renewal options exist for certain of
these leases. We have also entered into capital leases for
division offices and operating facilities. Property, plant and
equipment included amounts for capital leases of
$5.8 million and $5.2 million at September 30,
2004 and 2003. Accumulated depreciation for these capital leases
totaled $2.4 million and $2.2 million at
September 30, 2004 and 2003. Depreciation expense for these
assets is included in consolidated depreciation expense on the
consolidated statement of income.

The related future minimum lease payments at
September 30, 2004 were as follows:

Consolidated lease and rental expense amounted to
$8.1 million, $8.9 million and $8.1 million for
fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002.

15.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to us
if a customer fails to perform its contractual obligations. We
engage in transactions for the purchase and sale of products and
services with major companies in the energy industry and with
industrial, commercial, residential and municipal energy
consumers. These transactions principally occur in the southern
and midwestern regions of the United States. We believe that
this geographic concentration does not contribute significantly
to our overall exposure to credit risk. Credit risk associated
with trade accounts receivable for the utility segment is
mitigated by the large number of individual customers and



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

diversity in customer base. Due to minimal
receivables, the credit risk for our other nonutility segment is
not significant.

The diversification in AEM’s customers helps
mitigate its credit exposure. AEM maintains credit policies with
respect to its counterparties that it believes minimizes overall
credit risk. Where appropriate, such policies include the
evaluation of a prospective counterparty’s financial
condition, collateral requirements and the use of standardized
agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows associated
with a single counterparty. AEM also monitors the financial
condition of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis.
Customers not meeting minimum standards are required to provide
adequate assurance of financial performance.

AEM maintains a provision for credit losses based
upon factors surrounding the credit risk of customers,
historical trends and other information. We believe, based on
our credit policies and our provisions for credit losses, that
our financial position, results of operations and cash flows
will not be materially affected as a result of counterparty
nonperformance.

AEM’s estimated credit exposure is monitored
in terms of the percentage of its customers that are rated as
investment grade versus non-investment grade. Credit exposure is
defined as the total of (1) accounts receivable,
(2) delivered, but unbilled physical sales and
(3) mark-to-market exposure for sales and purchases.
Investment grade determinations are set internally by the credit
department, but are primarily based on external ratings provided
by Moody’s Investor Service and/or Standard &
Poor’s Rating Service. For non-rated entities, the default
rating for municipalities is investment grade, while the default
rating for non-guaranteed industrials and commercials is
non-investment grade. The table below shows the percentages
related to the investment ratings as of September 30, 2004
and 2003. As indicated below, a majority of AEM’s customers
are rated as investment grade.

The following table presents our derivative
counterparty credit exposure by operating segment based upon the
unrealized fair value of our derivative contracts that represent
assets as of September 30, 2004. Investment grade
counterparties have minimum credit ratings of BBB-, assigned by
Standard & Poor’s Rating Group; or Baa3, assigned
by Moody’s Investor Service. Non-investment grade
counterparties are composed of counterparties that are below
investment grade or that have not been assigned an internal
investment grade rating due to the short-term nature of the
contracts associated with that counterparty. This category is
composed of numerous smaller counterparties, none of which is
individually significant.

(1)

Counterparty risk for our utility segment is
    minimized because hedging gains and losses are passed through to
    our customers.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

16.

Supplemental Cash Flow Disclosures

Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information
for 2004, 2003 and 2002 are presented below.

There were no significant noncash transactions
during fiscal 2004. In June 2003, we contributed to the Atmos
Energy Corporation Master Retirement Trust for the benefit of
the Atmos Pension Account Plan 1,169,700 shares of Atmos
restricted common stock with a value of $28.8 million. In
December 2002, we partially funded the acquisition of MVG
through the issuance of $74.7 million in Atmos Energy
common stock consisting of 3,386,287 unregistered shares.

17.

Segment Information

Atmos Energy Corporation and its subsidiaries are
engaged primarily in the natural gas utility business as well as
certain nonutility businesses. We distribute natural gas through
sales and transportation arrangements to approximately
1.7 million residential, commercial, public-authority and
industrial customers through our six regulated utility
divisions, which covered service areas located in
12 states. In addition, we transport natural gas for others
through our distribution system.

Through our nonutility businesses, we provide
natural gas management and marketing services to industrial
customers, municipalities and other local distribution companies
located in 18 states.

Our operations are divided into three segments:

•

The utility segment, which includes our regulated
    natural gas distribution and sales operations,

•

The natural gas marketing segment, which includes
    a variety of natural gas management services and

•

The other nonutility segment, which includes all
    of our other nonutility operations.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Our determination of reportable segments
considers the strategic operating units under which we manage
sales of various products and services to customers in differing
regulatory environments. The accounting policies of the segments
are the same as those described in the summary of significant
accounting policies. We evaluate performance based on net income
or loss of the respective operating units. Summarized income
statements and capital expenditures by segment are shown in the
following tables.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table summarizes our revenues by
products and services for the year ended September 30.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Balance sheet information at September 30,
2004 and 2003 by segment is presented in the following tables:



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

18.

Related Party Transactions

AEM provides a variety of natural gas management
services to our Colorado-Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana and
Mid-States divisions including furnishing natural gas supplies
at fixed and market-based prices and the management of certain
of our underground storage facilities. Additionally, at times,
AEM places financial instruments for our various divisions to
partially insulate us and our customers from gas price
volatility.

Atmos Pipeline and Storage (APS) provides
asset management services for certain of our utility storage
fields in exchange for a contractually negotiated demand charge.

Atmos Energy Services (AES) provides natural
gas management services for our own utility operations. Prior to
the second quarter of fiscal 2004, this entity conducted limited
operations. However, beginning April 1, 2004, AES began
providing natural gas supply management services to our utility
operations in a limited number of states. These services include
aggregating and purchasing gas supply, arranging transportation
and storage logistics and ultimately delivering the gas to our
utility service areas at competitive prices. We have expanded
these services to substantially all of our utility service areas
as of the end of fiscal 2004.

The following summarizes our significant
affiliate transactions with AEM, APS and AES.

(1)

Gas purchases are made in a competitive bidding
    process, reflect market prices and exclude demand and other
    charges.

JD Woodward became Senior Vice President,
Nonutility Operations of the Company on April 1, 2001.
Woodward Marketing L.L.C., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company through September 30, 2003 and its successor, AEM
(see Note 1), leases office space from one corporation
owned by Mr. Woodward. The lease originated in April 2002
and expires in March 2007. Base lease payments are $225,000 in
the first year of the lease and increase to $253,000 in the
final year.

During 2004, 2003 and 2002, our utility division
leased office space and vehicles from our natural gas marketing
and other nonutility segments. Base lease payments were
$1.2 million in 2004 and 2003 and $1.4 million in 2002.

Effective in October 1994, Charles Vaughan
retired as an officer and employee of the Company and entered
into a consulting agreement with the Company. Under the terms of
the agreement, Mr. Vaughan performed such consulting
services as the Board requested from time to time. During fiscal
2002, Mr. Vaughan received $130,000 in payment for his
services during that period. In addition, pursuant to the terms
of the agreement, upon early termination of the agreement by the
Company in September 2002, Mr. Vaughan received a total of
$175,000, representing the total sums due him under the
remainder of the agreement that was due to expire
September 30, 2004.



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

19.

Selected Quarterly Financial Data
    (Unaudited)

Summarized unaudited quarterly financial data is
presented below. The sum of net income per share by quarter may
not equal the net income per share for the year due to
variations in the weighted average shares outstanding used in
computing such amounts. Our businesses are seasonal due to
weather conditions in our service areas. For further information
on its effects on quarterly results, see the “Results of
Operations” discussion included in the
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” section herein.



Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

As of the end of the period covered by this
report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and
with the participation of our management, including the
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of
our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act
Rule 13a-15. Based upon that evaluation, the Chairman,
President and Chief Executive Officer, and Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures continue to be effective.

Such disclosure controls and procedures are
controls and procedures designed to ensure that all information
required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange
Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the
time periods set forth in applicable Securities and Exchange
Commission forms, rules and regulations. In addition, we have
reviewed our internal control over financial reporting and have
concluded that there has been no change in such internal control
during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 that has materially
affected or is reasonably likely to materially affect the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.

Other
Information

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant

Information regarding directors and compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
is incorporated herein by reference from the Company’s
Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders on February 9, 2005. Information regarding
executive officers is included in Part I of this
Form 10-K.

Identification of the members of the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors as well as the Board of
Directors’ determination as to whether one or more audit
committee financial experts is serving on the Audit Committee of
the Board of Directors is incorporated herein by reference from
the Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders on February 9, 2005.

The Company has adopted a code of ethics for its
principal executive officer and senior financial officers. Such
code of ethics is represented by the Company’s Code of
Conduct, which is applicable to all directors, officers and
employees of the Company, including the Company’s principal
executive officer and senior financial officers. A copy of the
Company’s Code of Conduct is posted on the Company’s
website at www.atmosenergy.com under “Corporate
Governance”. In addition, any amendment to or waiver
granted from, a provision of the Company’s Code of Conduct
will be posted on the Company’s website under
“Corporate Governance”.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

Incorporated herein by reference from the
Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
of Shareholders on February 9, 2005.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters

Incorporated herein by reference from the
Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
of Shareholders on February 9, 2005.



Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions

Incorporated herein by reference from the
Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
of Shareholders on February 9, 2005.

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and
    Services

Incorporated herein by reference from the
Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
of Shareholders on February 9, 2005.

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement
    Schedules

(a) 1. and 2.

Financial statements and
financial statement schedules.

The financial statements and financial statement
schedule listed in the Index to Financial Statements in
Item 8 are filed as part of this Form 10-K.

3.

Exhibits

The exhibits listed in the accompanying
Exhibits Index are filed as part of this Form 10-K.
The exhibits numbered 10.8(a) through 10.19(b) are management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

(Registrant)

By

/s/ JOHN P. REDDY

John P. Reddy

Senior Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

Date: November 19, 2004



POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person
whose signature appears below hereby constitutes and appoints
Robert W. Best and John P. Reddy, or either of them acting alone
or together, as his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent
with full power to act alone, for him and in his name, place and
stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments
to this Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits
thereto, and all other documents in connection therewith, with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said
attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do and
perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to
be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and
purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorney-in-fact and agent, may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated:





SCHEDULE II

ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

Three Years Ended September 30,

(In thousands)

(1)

This amount was charged to regulatory assets
    within deferred charges and other assets as recovery was
    specifically permitted by the relevant regulators.

(2)

Uncollectible accounts written off.



EXHIBITS INDEX

Item 14.(a)(3)











*

This exhibit constitutes a “management
    contract or compensatory plan, contract, or arrangement.”

**

These certifications pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
    Section 1350 by the Company’s Chief Executive Officer
    and Chief Financial Officer, furnished as Exhibit 32 to
    this Annual Report on Form 10-K, will not be deemed to be
    filed with the Commission or incorporated by reference into any
    filing by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that the
    Company specifically incorporates such certifications by
    reference.

124