Item 1.Business

Our Company

Verisk Analytics is a leading provider of information about risk to professionals in insurance, healthcare, mortgage, government, supply
chain, and risk management. Using advanced technologies to collect and analyze billions of records, we draw on industry expertise and unique proprietary data sets to provide predictive analytics and decision-support solutions in fraud prevention,
actuarial science, insurance coverages, fire protection, catastrophe and weather risk, data management, and many other fields. In the United States and around the world, we help customers protect people, property, and financial assets.

Our customers use our solutions to make better risk decisions with greater efficiency and discipline. We refer to these products and
services as ‘solutions’ due to the integration among our services and the flexibility that enables our customers to purchase components or the comprehensive package. These ‘solutions’ take various forms, including data,
statistical models or tailored analytics, all designed to allow our clients to make more logical decisions. We believe our solutions for analyzing risk positively impact our customers’ revenues and help them better manage their costs. In 2011,
our U.S. customers included all of the top 100 P&C insurance providers, as well as numerous health plans and third party administrators, leading mortgage insurers, and mortgage lenders. We believe that our commitment to our customers and the
embedded nature of our solutions serve to strengthen and extend our relationships.







We help those businesses address what we believe are the four primary decision making
processes essential for managing risk as set forth below in the Verisk Risk Analysis Framework:

The Verisk Risk Analysis
Framework





These four processes correspond to various functional areas inside our customers’ operations:



•our loss predictions are typically used by P&C insurance and healthcare actuaries, advanced analytics groups and loss control groups to help drive
their own assessments of future losses;



•our risk selection and pricing solutions are typically used by underwriters as they manage their books of business;



•our fraud detection and prevention tools are used by P&C insurance, healthcare and mortgage underwriters to root out fraud prospectively and by
claims departments to speed claims and find fraud retroactively; and



•our tools to quantify loss are primarily used by claims departments, independent adjustors and contractors.

We add value by linking our solutions across these four key processes; for example, we use the same modeling methods to support the
pricing of homeowner’s insurance policies and to quantify the actual losses when damage occurs to insured homes.

We
offer our solutions and services primarily through annual subscriptions or long-term agreements, which are typically pre-paid and represented approximately 69.0% of our revenues in 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we had revenues of
$1,331.8 million and net income of $282.8 million. For the five year period ended December 31, 2011, our revenues and net income grew at a CAGR of 13.5% and 17.1%, respectively.

Our History

We trace our history to 1971, when Insurance Services Office,
Inc., or ISO, started operations as a not-for-profit advisory and rating organization providing services for the U.S. P&C insurance industry. ISO was formed as an association of insurance companies to gather statistical data and other
information from insurers and report to regulators, as required by law. ISO’s original functions also included developing programs to help insurers define and manage insurance products and providing information to help insurers determine their
own independent premium rates. Insurers used and continue to use our offerings primarily in their product development, underwriting and rating functions. Today, those businesses form the core of our Risk Assessment segment.

Over the past decade, we have transformed our business beyond its original functions by deepening and broadening our data assets,
developing a set of integrated risk management solutions and services and addressing new markets through our Decision Analytics segment.

Our expansion into analytics began when we acquired the American Insurance Services Group, or AISG, and certain operations and assets of the National Insurance Crime Bureau in 1997 and 1998, respectively.
Those organizations brought to the company large databases of insurance claims, as well as expertise in detecting and preventing claims fraud. To further expand our Decision Analytics segment, we acquired AIR Worldwide, or AIR, in 2002, the
technological leader in catastrophe modeling. In 2004, we entered the healthcare space by







acquiring several businesses that now offer web-based analytical and reporting systems for health insurers, provider organizations and self-insured employers. In 2005, we entered the mortgage
sector, acquiring the first of several businesses that now provide automated fraud detection, compliance and decision support solutions for the U.S. mortgage industry. In 2006, to bolster our position in the insurance claims field we acquired
Xactware, a leading supplier of estimating software for professionals involved in building repair and reconstruction. In 2010, we acquired 3E Company, creating a scale presence in supply chain and environmental health and safety. In 2011, we further
bolstered our healthcare solutions by acquiring Health Risk Partners, LLC, or HRP, which provides solutions to optimize revenue, which ensure compliance and improve quality of care for Medicare Advantage and Medicaid health plans, and Bloodhound
Technologies, Inc., or Bloodhound, which provides real-time pre-adjudication medical claims editing.

These acquisitions have
added scale, geographic reach, highly skilled workforces, and a wide array of new capabilities to our Decision Analytics segment. They have helped to make us a leading provider of information and decision analytics for customers involved in the
business of risk in the U.S. and selectively around the world.

Our senior management operating team, which includes our chief
executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, general counsel, and three senior officers who lead our business units, have been with us for an average of over twenty years. This team has led our transformation to a successful
for-profit entity, focused on growth with our U.S. P&C insurer customers and expansion into a variety of new markets.

On
May 23, 2008, in contemplation of our initial public offering, or IPO, ISO formed Verisk Analytics, Inc., or Verisk, a Delaware corporation, to be the holding company for our business. Verisk was initially formed as a wholly-owned subsidiary of
ISO. On October 6, 2009, in connection with our IPO, the company effected a reorganization whereby ISO became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Verisk. Verisk Class A common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on
October 7, 2009 under the symbol “VRSK.”

Segments

We organize our business in two segments: Risk Assessment and Decision Analytics. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this annual report for information regarding our segments.

Risk
Assessment Segment

Our Risk Assessment segment serves our P&C insurance customers and focuses on the first two
decision making processes in our Risk Analysis Framework: prediction of loss and selection and pricing of risk. Within this segment, we also provide solutions to help our insurance customers comply with their reporting requirements in each U.S.
state in which they operate. Our customers include most of the P&C insurance providers in the U.S.

Statistical
Agent and Data Services

The P&C insurance industry is heavily regulated in the U.S. P&C insurers are required
to collect statistical data about their premiums and losses and to report that data to regulators in every state in which they operate. Our statistical agent services have enabled P&C insurers to meet these regulatory requirements for over 30
years. We aggregate the data and, as a licensed “statistical agent” in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia, we report these statistics to insurance regulators. We are able to capture significant economies of scale given
the level of penetration of this service within the U.S. P&C insurance industry.

To provide our customers and the
regulators the information they require, we maintain one of the largest private databases in the world. Over the past four decades, we have developed core expertise in acquiring, processing, managing, and operating large and comprehensive databases
that are the foundation of our Risk Assessment segment. We use our proprietary technology to assemble, organize and update vast amounts of detailed information submitted by our customers. We supplement this data with publicly available information.







Each year, P&C insurers send us approximately 2.9 billion detailed individual records of
insurance transactions, such as insurance premiums collected or losses incurred. We maintain a database of over 15.8 billion statistical records, including approximately 6.1 billion commercial lines records and approximately 9.7 billion personal
lines records. We collect unit-transaction detail of each premium and loss record, which enhances the validity, reliability and accuracy of our data sets and our actuarial analyses. Our proprietary quality process includes almost 2,500 separate
checks to ensure that data meet our high standards of quality.

Actuarial Services

We provide actuarial services to help our customers price their risks as they underwrite. We project future losses and loss expenses
utilizing a broad set of data. These projections tend to be more reliable than if our customers used solely their own data. We provide loss costs by coverage, class, territory, and many other categories. Our customers can use our estimates of future
loss costs in making independent decisions about the prices charged for their policies. For most P&C insurers, in most lines of business, we believe our loss costs are an essential input to rating decisions. We make a number of actuarial
adjustments, including loss development and loss adjustment expenses before the data is used to estimate future loss costs. Our actuarial services are also used to create the analytics underlying our industry-standard insurance programs described
below.

Using our large database of premium and loss data, our actuaries are able to perform sophisticated analyses using our
predictive models and analytic methods to help our P&C insurance customers with pricing, loss reserving, and marketing. We distribute a number of actuarial products and offer flexible services to meet our customers’ needs. In addition, our
actuarial consultants provide customized services for our clients that include assisting them with the development of independent insurance programs, analysis of their own underwriting experience, development of classification systems and rating
plans, and a wide variety of other business decisions. We also supply information to a wide variety of customers in other markets including reinsurance, government agencies and real estate.

Industry-Standard Insurance Programs

We are the recognized leader in the U.S. for industry-standard insurance programs that help P&C insurers define coverages and issue policies. Our policy language, prospective loss cost information and
policy writing rules can serve as integrated turnkey insurance programs for our customers. Insurance companies need to ensure that their policy language, rules, and rates comply with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Insurers must
also make sure their policies remain competitive by promptly changing coverages in response to changes in statutes or case law. To meet their needs, we process and interface with state regulators on average over 2,800 filings each year, ensuring
smooth implementation of our rules and forms. When insurers choose to develop their own alternative programs, our industry-standard insurance programs also help regulators make sure that such insurers’ policies meet basic coverage requirements.

Standardized coverage language, which has been tested in litigation and tailored to reflect judicial interpretation, helps to
ensure consistent treatment of claimants. As a result, our industry-standard language also simplifies claim settlements and can reduce the occurrence of costly litigation, because our language causes the meaning of coverage terminology to become
established and known. Our policy language includes standard coverage language, endorsements and policy writing support language that assist our customers in understanding the risks they assume and the coverages they are offering. With these policy
programs, insurers also benefit from economies of scale. We have over 200 specialized lawyers and insurance experts reviewing changes in each state’s insurance rules and regulations, including on average over 13,000 legislative bills, 1,000
regulatory actions and 2,000 court cases per year, to make any required changes to our policy language and rating information.







To cover the wide variety of risks in the marketplace, we offer a broad range of policy
programs. For example, in the homeowner’s line of insurance, we maintain policy language and rules for 6 basic coverages, 254 national endorsements, and 479 state-specific endorsements. Overall, we provide policy language, prospective loss
costs, policy writing rules, and a variety of other solutions for 25 lines of insurance.

Property-Specific Rating and
Underwriting Information

We gather information on individual properties and communities so that insurers can use our
information to evaluate and price personal and commercial property insurance, as well as commercial liability insurance. Our property-specific rating and underwriting information allow our customers to understand, quantify, underwrite, mitigate, and
avoid potential loss for residential and commercial properties. Our database contains loss costs and other vital information on more than 3.3 million commercial buildings in the United States and also holds information on more than
6 million individual businesses occupying those buildings. We have a staff of approximately 600 field representatives strategically located around the United States who observe and report on conditions at commercial and residential properties,
evaluate community fire-protection capabilities and assess the effectiveness of municipal building-code enforcement. Each year, our field staff visits more than 350,000 commercial properties to collect information on new buildings and verify
building attributes.

We also provide proprietary analytic measures of the ability of individual communities to mitigate
losses from important perils. Nearly every property insurer in the U.S. uses our evaluations of community firefighting capabilities to help determine premiums for fire insurance throughout the country. We provide field-verified and validated data on
the fire protection services for more than 46,000 fire response jurisdictions. We also offer services to evaluate the effectiveness of community enforcement of building codes and the efforts of communities to mitigate damage from flooding. Further,
we provide information on the insurance rating territories, premium taxes, crime risk, and hazards of windstorm, earthquake, wildfire, and other perils. To supplement our data on specific commercial properties and individual communities, we have
assembled, from a variety of internal and third-party sources, information on hazards related to geographic locations representing every postal address in the U.S. Insurers use this information not only for policy quoting but also for analyzing risk
concentration in geographical areas.







Decision Analytics Segment

In the Decision Analytics segment, we support all four phases of our Risk Analysis Framework. We develop predictive models to forecast scenarios and produce both standard and customized analytics that
help our customers better predict loss, select and price risk, detect fraud before and after a loss event, and quantify losses. Effective December 31, 2011, we provided additional disclosure about our revenue within Decision Analytics segment
based on the industry vertical groupings of insurance, mortgage and financial services, healthcare and specialized markets. Previously, we disclosed revenue based on the classification of our solution as fraud identification and detection solutions,
loss prediction solutions and loss quantification solutions. We believe that this change enhances financial reporting transparency and helps investors better understand the themes within the Decision Analytics segment. The businesses are categorized
by the primary end market for their services.





As we develop our models to quantify loss and detect fraud, we improve our ability to predict the loss
and prevent the fraud from happening. We believe this provides us with a significant competitive advantage over firms that do not offer solutions which operate both before and after loss events.

Insurance

Fraud Detection and Prevention:We are a leading provider of fraud-detection tools for the P&C insurance industry. Our
fraud solutions improve our customers’ profitability by both predicting the likelihood that fraud is occurring and detecting suspicious activity after it has occurred. When a claim is submitted, our system searches our database and returns
information about other claims filed by the same individuals or businesses (either as claimants or insurers) that help our customers determine if fraud has occurred. The system searches for matches in identifying information fields, such as name,
address, Social Security number, vehicle identification number, driver’s license number, tax identification number, or other parties to the loss. Our system also includes advanced name and address searching to perform intelligent searches and
improve the overall quality of the matches. Information from match reports speeds payment of meritorious claims while providing a defense against fraud and can lead to denial of a claim, negotiation of a reduced award or further investigation by the
insurer or law enforcement.

We have a comprehensive system used by claims adjusters and investigations professionals to
process claims and fight fraud. Claims databases are one of the key tools in the fight against insurance fraud. The benefits of a single all-claims database include improved efficiency in reporting data and searching for information, enhanced
capabilities for detecting suspicious claims and superior information for investigating fraudulent claims, suspicious individuals and possible fraud rings. Our database contains information on nearly 800 million claims and is the world’s
largest database of claims information used for claims and investigations. Insurers and other participants submit new claim reports, more than 239,000 a day on average, across all categories of the U.S. P&C insurance industry.







We also provide a service allowing insurers to report thefts of automobiles and property,
improving the chances of recovering those items; a service that helps owners and insurers recover stolen heavy construction and agricultural equipment; an expert scoring system that helps distinguish between suspicious and meritorious claims; and
products that use link-analysis technology to help visualize and fight insurance fraud.

Loss Prediction:We
pioneered the field of probabilistic catastrophe modeling used by insurers, reinsurers and financial institutions to manage their catastrophe risk. Our models of global natural hazards, which form the basis of our solutions, enable companies to
identify, quantify and plan for the financial consequences of catastrophic events. We have developed models, covering natural hazards, including hurricanes, earthquakes, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, and flood, for potential loss events in
more than 80 countries. We have also developed and introduced a probabilistic terrorism model capable of quantifying the risk in the U.S. from this emerging threat, which supports pricing and underwriting decisions down to the level of an individual
policy

Loss Quantification:We provide data, analytic and networking products for professionals involved in
estimating all phases of building repair and reconstruction. We provide solutions for every phase of a building’s life, including:



•quantifying the ultimate cost of repair or reconstruction of damaged or destroyed buildings;



•aiding in the settlement of insurance claims; and



•tracking the process of repair or reconstruction and facilitating communication among insurers, adjusters, contractors and policyholders.

To help our customers estimate repair costs, we provide a solution that assists contractors and insurance
adjusters to estimate repairs using a patented plan-sketching program. The program allows our customers to sketch floor plans, roof plans and wall-framing plans and automatically calculates material and labor quantities for the construction of
walls, floors, footings and roofs.

We also offer our customers access to wholesale and retail price lists, which include
structural repair and restoration pricing for 467 separate economic areas in North America. We revise this information monthly and, in the aftermath of a major disaster, we can update the price lists as often as weekly to reflect rapid price
changes. Our structural repair and cleaning database contains more than 13,000 unit-cost line items. For each line item such as smoke cleaning, water extraction and hazardous cleanup, we report time and material pricing, including labor, labor
productivity rates (for new construction and restoration), labor burden and overhead, material costs, and equipment costs. We improve our reported pricing data by several methods including direct market surveys, and an analysis of the actual claims
experience of our customers. We estimate that about 80.0% of all homeowners’ claims settled in the U.S. annually use our solution. Utilization of such a large percentage of the industry’s claims leads to accurate reporting of pricing
information, which we believe is unmatched in the industry.

Our estimates allow our customers to set loss reserves, deploy
field adjusters and verify internal company estimates. Our estimates also keep insurers, their customers, regulators, and other interested parties informed about the total costs of disasters. We also provide our customers access to daily reports on
severe weather and catastrophes and we maintain a database of information on catastrophe losses in the U.S. since 1950.

Mortgage and Financial Services

Fraud Detection and Prevention:We are a leading provider of automated fraud detection, compliance and decision-support tools for the mortgage industry. Utilizing our own
loan level application database combined with actual mortgage loan performance data, we have established a risk scoring system which increases our customers’ ability to detect fraud. We provide solutions that detect fraud through each step of
the mortgage lifecycle and provide regulatory compliance solutions that perform instant compliance reviews of each mortgage application. Our fraud solutions can improve our customers’ profitability by predicting the likelihood that a customer
account is experiencing fraud. Our solution analyzes customer transactions in real time and generates recommendations for







immediate action which are critical to stopping fraud and abuse. These applications can also detect some organized fraud schemes that are too complex and well-hidden to be identified by other
methods.

Effective fraud detection relies on pattern identification, which in turn requires us to identify, isolate and track
mortgage applications through time. Histories of multiple loans, both valid and fraudulent, are required to compare a submitted loan both to actual data and heuristic analyses. For this reason, unless fraud detection solutions are fueled by
comprehensive data, their practicality is limited. Our proprietary database contains more than 21 million current and historical loan applications collected over the past ten years. This database contains data from loan applications as well as
supplementary third-party data.

Our technology employs sophisticated models to identify patterns in the data. Our solution
provides a score, which predicts whether the information provided by a mortgage applicant is correct. Working with data obtained through our partnership with a credit bureau, we have demonstrated a strong correlation between fraudulent information
in the application and the likelihood of both foreclosure and early payment default on loans. We believe our solution is based upon a more comprehensive set of loan level information than any other provider in the mortgage industry.

We also provide forensic audit services for the mortgage origination and mortgage insurance industries. Our predictive screening tools
predict which defaulted loans are the most likely candidates for full audits for the purpose of detecting fraud. We then generate detailed audit reports on defaulted mortgage loans. Those reports serve as a key component of the loss mitigation
strategies of mortgage loan insurers. The recent turmoil in the mortgage industry has created an opportunity for growth in demand for our services, as we believe most mortgage insurers do not have the in-house capacity to respond to and properly
review all of their defaulted loans for evidence of fraud.

Healthcare

Fraud Detection and Prevention:We offer solutions that help healthcare claims payors detect fraud, abuse and overpayment.
Our approach combines computer-based modeling and profiling of claims with analysis performed by clinical experts. We run our customers’ claims through our proprietary analytic system to identify potential fraud, abuse and overpayment, and then
a registered nurse, physician or other clinical specialist skilled in coding and reimbursement decisions reviews all suspect claims and billing patterns. This combination of system and human review is unique in the industry and we believe offers
improved accuracy for paying claims.

We analyze the patterns of claims produced by individual physicians, physicians’
practices, hospitals, dentists, and pharmacies to locate the sources of fraud. After a suspicious source of claims is identified, our real-time analytic solutions investigate each claim individually for particular violations, including upcoding,
multiple billings, services claimed but not rendered, and billing by unlicensed providers. By finding the individual claims with the most cost-recovery potential and also minimizing the number of false-positive indications of fraud, we enable the
special investigation units of healthcare payors to efficiently control their claims costs while maintaining high levels of customer service to their insurers.

We also offer web-based reporting tools that let payors take definitive action to prevent overpayments or payment of fraudulent claims. The tools provide the documentation that helps to identify,
investigate and prevent abusive and fraudulent activity by providers.

Loss Prediction:We are a leading
provider of healthcare business intelligence and predictive modeling. We provide analytical and reporting systems to health insurers, provider organizations and self-insured employers. Those organizations use our solutions to review their healthcare
data, including information on claims, membership, providers and utilization, and provide cost trends, forecasts and actuarial, financial and utilization analyses.

For example, our solutions allow our customers to predict medical costs and improve the financing and organization of health services. Our predictive models help our customers identify high-cost cases for
care- and







disease-management intervention, compare providers adjusting for differences in health, predict resource use for individuals and populations, establish health-based and performance-based
payments, negotiate payments and incentives, negotiate premium rates, and measure return on investment.

We also provide our
customers healthcare services using complex clinical analyses to uncover reasons behind cost and utilization increases. Physicians and hospitals are adopting and acquiring new technologies, drugs and devices more rapidly than ever before. We provide
financial and actuarial analyses, clinical, technical and implementation services and training services to help our customers manage costs and risks to their practices.

Specialized Markets

Loss Prediction:We help
businesses and governments better anticipate and manage climate- and weather-related risks. We prepare certain agencies and companies to anticipate, manage, react to and profit from weather and climate related risk. We serve our clients by providing
state-of-the-art research, development and analysis delivered in reports, databases and software solutions. We are dedicated to the advancement of scientific understanding of the atmospheric, climate and weather, ocean, and planetary sciences.
Through research conducted by our in-house scientific staff, and often in collaboration with world-renowned scientists at academic and other research institutions, we have developed analytical tools to help measure and observe the properties of the
environment and to translate these measurements into useful information to take action.

We also offer a comprehensive suite
of data and information services that enables improved compliance with global Environmental Health & Safety, or EH&S requirements related to the safe manufacturing, distribution, transportation, usage and disposal of chemicals and
products. From the supply chain or solutions lifecycle, we deliver a program specific to the EH&S compliance information and management needs of our customers. We have a full solutions lifecycle and cross-supply chain approach that provide a
single, integrated solution for managing EH&S capabilities, resulting in reduced cost, risk and liability while improving process.

Our
Growth Strategy

Over the past five years, we have grown our revenues at a CAGR of 13.5% through the successful execution
of our business plan. These results reflect strong organic revenue growth, new product development and selected acquisitions. We have made, and continue to make, investments in people, data sets, analytic solutions, technology, and complementary
businesses. The key components of our strategy include:

Increase Sales to Insurance
Customers.We expect to expand the application of our solutions in insurance customers’ internal risk and underwriting processes. Building on our deep knowledge of, and embedded position in, the insurance
industry, we expect to sell more solutions to existing customers tailored to individual insurance segments. By increasing the breadth and relevance of our offerings, we believe we can strengthen our relationships with customers and increase our
value to their decision making in critical ways.

Develop New, Proprietary Data Sets and Predictive
Analytics.We work with our customers to understand their evolving needs. We plan to create new solutions by enriching our mix of proprietary data sets, analytic solutions and effective decision support across the
markets we serve. We constantly seek to add new data sets that can further leverage our analytic methods, technology platforms and intellectual capital.

Leverage Our Intellectual Capital to Expand into Adjacent Markets and New Customer Sectors.Our organization is built on nearly four decades of intellectual property
in risk management. We believe we can continue to profitably expand the use of our intellectual capital and apply our analytic methods in new markets, where significant opportunities for long-term growth exist. We also continue to pursue growth
through targeted international expansion. We have already demonstrated the effectiveness of this strategy with our expansion into healthcare and non-insurance financial services.







Pursue Strategic Acquisitions that Complement Our Leadership
Positions.We will continue to expand our data and analytics capabilities across industries. While we expect this will occur primarily through organic growth, we have and will continue to acquire assets and businesses
that strengthen our value proposition to customers. We have developed an internal capability to source, evaluate and integrate acquisitions that have created value for shareholders.

Our Customers

Risk Assessment Customers

The customers in our Risk Assessment segment include the top 100 P&C insurance providers in the United States. Our statistical agent
services are used by a substantial majority of P&C insurance providers in the U.S. to report to regulators. Our actuarial services and industry-standard insurance programs are used by the majority of insurers and reinsurers in the U.S. In
addition, certain agencies of the federal government, as well as county and state governmental agencies and organizations, use our solutions to help satisfy government needs for risk assessment and emergency response information. See Item 13.
“Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence — Customer Relationships” for more information on our relationship with our principal stockholders.

Decision Analytics Customers

In the Decision Analytics segment, we provide our P&C insurance solutions to the majority of the P&C insurers in the U.S. Specifically, our claims database serves thousands of customers,
representing nearly 93.0% of the P&C insurance industry by premium volume, 26 state workers’ compensation insurance funds, 592 self-insurers, 454 third-party administrators, several state fraud bureaus, and many law-enforcement agencies
involved in investigation and prosecution of insurance fraud. Also, P&C insurance companies using our building and repair solutions represent about 80.0% of the property market in the U.S. We estimate that more than 80.0% of insurance repair
contractors and service providers in the U.S. and Canada with computerized estimating systems use our building and repair pricing data. In the U.S. healthcare industry, our customers include numerous health plans and third party administrators. In
the U.S. mortgage industry, we have more than 750 customers. We provide our solutions to leading mortgage lenders and mortgage insurers. We have been providing services to mortgage insurers for over 20 years.

Our Competitors

We
believe no single competitor currently offers the same scope of services and market coverage we provide. The breadth of markets we serve exposes us to a broad range of competitors.

Risk Assessment Competitors

Our Risk Assessment segment operates primarily in the U.S. P&C insurance industry, where we enjoy a leading market presence. We have a number of competitors in specific lines or services.

We encounter competition from a number of sources, including insurers who develop internal technology and actuarial methods for
proprietary insurance programs. Competitors also include other statistical agents, including the National Independent Statistical Service, the Independent Statistical Service and other advisory organizations, providing underwriting rules,
prospective loss costs and coverage language such as the American Association of Insurance Services and Mutual Services Organization, although we believe none of our competitors has the breadth or depth of data we have.

Competitors for our property-specific rating and underwriting information are primarily limited to a number of regional providers of
commercial property inspections and surveys, including Overland Solutions, Inc. and Regional Reporting, Inc. We also compete with a variety of organizations that offer consulting services,







primarily specialty technology and consulting firms. In addition, a customer may use its own internal resources rather than engage an outside firm for these services. Our competitors also include
information technology product and services vendors including CDS, Inc., management and strategy consulting firms including Deloitte Consulting LLP, and smaller specialized information technology firms and analytical services firms including
Pinnacle Consulting and EMB.

Decision Analytics Competitors

Development of New Solutions

We take a market-focused team approach to developing our solutions. Our operating units are responsible for developing, reviewing and enhancing our various products and services. Our data management and
production team designs and manages our processes and systems for market data procurement, proprietary data production and quality control. Our Enterprise Data Management, or EDM, team supports our efforts to create new information and products from
available data and explores new methods of collecting data. EDM is focused on understanding and documenting business-unit and corporate data assets and data issues; sharing and combining data assets across the enterprise; creating an enterprise data
strategy; facilitating research and product development; and promoting cross-enterprise communication. Our ISO Innovative Analytics, or IIA, team is a corporate center of excellence for analytical methods in applying modeling techniques to predict
risk outcomes.

Our software development team builds the technology used in many of our solutions. As part of our
product-development process, we continually solicit feedback from our customers on the value of our products and services and the market’s needs. We have established an extensive system of customer advisory panels, which meet regularly
throughout the year to help us respond effectively to the needs of our markets. In addition, we use frequent sales calls, executive visits, user group meetings, and other industry forums to gather information to match the needs of the market with
our product development efforts. We also use a variety of market research techniques to enhance our understanding of our clients and the markets in which they operate.

We also add to our offerings through an active acquisition program. Since 2007, we have acquired 13 businesses, which have allowed us to enter new markets, offer new products and enhance the value of
existing products with additional proprietary sources of data.

When we find it advantageous, we augment our proprietary data
sources and systems by forming alliances with other leading information providers and technology companies and integrating their product offerings into our offerings. This approach gives our customers the opportunity to obtain the information they
need from a single source and more easily integrate the information into their workflows.







Sales, Marketing and Customer Support

We sell our products and services primarily through direct interaction with our clients. We employ a three-tier sales structure that
includes salespeople, product specialists and sales support. As of December 31, 2011, we had a sales force of 286 people. Within the company, several areas have sales teams that specialize in specific products and services. These specialized
sales teams sell specific, highly technical product sets to targeted markets.

To provide account management to our largest
customers, we segment the insurance carrier market into three groups. Tier One or “National” Accounts constitutes our largest customers, Tier Two or “Strategic” Accounts represents both larger carrier groups and middle-market
carriers. Tier Three are the small insurance companies that may represent one line of business and/or be one-state or regional writers. A Sales Generalist is assigned to every insurer account and is responsible for our overall relationship with
these insurance companies. Our senior executives are also involved with the senior management of our customers.

Sales people
participate in both customer-service and sales activities. They provide direct support, interacting frequently with assigned customers to assure a positive experience using our services. Salespeople primarily seek out new sales opportunities and
work with the various sales teams to coordinate sales activity and provide the best solutions for our customers. We believe our salespeople’s product knowledge and local presence differentiates us from our competition. Product specialists are
subject-matter experts and work with salespeople on specific opportunities for their assigned products. Both salespeople and product specialists have responsibility for identifying new sales opportunities. A team approach and a common customer
relationship management system allow for effective coordination between the two groups.

Sources of our Data

Information Technology

Technology

Our information technology systems are fundamental to our success. They are used for the storage, processing, access and delivery of the
data which forms the foundation of our business and the development and delivery of our solutions provided to our clients. Much of the technology we use and provide to our customers is







developed, maintained and supported by approximately 1,020 employees. We generally own or have secured ongoing rights to use for the purposes of our business all the customer-facing applications
which are material to our operations. We support and implement a mix of technologies, focused on implementing the most efficient technology for any given business requirement or task.

Data Centers

We have two primary data centers in Jersey City, New Jersey and Orem, Utah. In addition, we have data centers dedicated to certain business units, including AIR and Verisk Health in Boston and AISG
Claimsearch in Israel. In addition to these key data centers, we also have a number of smaller data centers located in other states.

Disaster Recovery

We are committed to a framework for business
continuity management and carry out annual reviews of the state of preparedness of each business unit. All of our critical databases, systems and contracted client services are also regularly recovered. We also have documented disaster recovery
plans in place for each of our major data centers and each of our solutions. Our primary data center recovery site is in New York State, approximately 50 miles northwest of Jersey City, New Jersey.

Security

We have adopted a wide range of measures to ensure the security of our IT infrastructure and data. Security measures generally cover the following key areas: physical security; logical security of the
perimeter; network security such as firewalls; logical access to the operating systems; deployment of virus detection software; and appropriate policies and procedures relating to removable media such as laptops. All laptops are encrypted and media
leaving our premises that is sent to a third-party storage facility is also encrypted. This commitment has led us to achieve certification from CyberTrust (an industry leader in information security certification) since 2002.

Intellectual Property

We own a significant number of intellectual property rights, including copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and patents. Specifically,
our policy language, insurance manuals, software and databases are protected by both registered and common law copyrights, and the licensing of those materials to our customers for their use represents a large portion of our revenue. We also own in
excess of 500 trademarks in the U.S. and foreign countries, including the names of our products and services and our logos and tag lines, many of which are registered. We believe many of our trademarks, trade names, service marks and logos to be of
material importance to our business as they assist our customers in identifying our products and services and the quality that stands behind them. We consider our intellectual property to be proprietary, and we rely on a combination of statutory
(e.g., copyright, trademark, trade secret and patent) and contractual safeguards in a comprehensive intellectual property enforcement program to protect them wherever they are used.

We also own several software method and processing patents and have several pending patent applications in the U.S. that complement our
products. The patents and patent applications include claims which pertain to technology, including a patent for our Claims Outcome Advisor software, and for our Xactware Sketch product. We believe the protection of our proprietary technology is
important to our success and we will continue to seek to protect those intellectual property assets for which we have expended substantial research and development capital and which are material to our business.

In order to maintain control of our intellectual property, we enter into license agreements with our customers, granting each customer a
license to use our products and services, including our software and databases. This helps to maintain the integrity of our proprietary intellectual property and to protect the







embedded information and technology contained in our solutions. As a general practice, employees, contractors and other parties with access to our proprietary information sign agreements that
prohibit the unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary rights, information and technology.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we employed 5,200 full-time and 201 part-time employees. None of our employees are represented by unions. We
consider our relationship with our employees to be good and have not experienced interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements.

Our employees include over 200 actuarial professionals, including 43 Fellows and 25 Associates of the Casualty Actuarial Society, as well as 147 Chartered Property Casualty Underwriters, 19 Certified and
23 Associate Insurance Data Managers, and over 500 professionals with advanced degrees, including PhDs in mathematics and statistical modeling who review both the data and the models.

Regulation

Because our business involves the distribution of certain
personal, public and non-public data to businesses and governmental entities that make eligibility, service and marketing decisions based on such data, certain of our solutions and services are subject to regulation under federal, state and local
laws in the United States and, to a lesser extent, foreign countries. Examples of such regulation include the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which regulates the use of consumer credit report information; the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which regulates the
use of non-public personal financial information held by financial institutions and applies indirectly to companies that provide services to financial institutions; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, which restricts the public
disclosure of patient information and applies indirectly to companies that provide services to healthcare businesses; the Drivers Privacy Protection Act, which prohibits the public disclosure, use or resale by any state’s department of motor
vehicles of personal information about an individual that was obtained by the department in connection with a motor vehicle record, except for a “permissible purpose” and various other federal, state and local laws and regulations.

These laws generally restrict the use and disclosure of personal information and provide consumers certain rights to know the
manner in which their personal information is being used, to challenge the accuracy of such information and/or to prevent the use and disclosure of such information. In certain instances, these laws also impose requirements for safeguarding personal
information through the issuance of data security standards or guidelines. Certain state laws impose similar privacy obligations, as well as obligations to provide notification of security breaches in certain circumstances.

We are also licensed as a rating, rate service, advisory or statistical organization under state insurance codes in all fifty states,
Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands and the District of Columbia. As such an advisory organization, we provide statistical, actuarial, policy language development and related products and services to property/casualty insurers, including advisory
prospective loss costs, other prospective cost information, manual rules and policy language. We also serve as an officially designated statistical agent of state insurance regulators to collect policy-writing and loss statistics of individual
insurers and compile that information into reports used by the regulators.

Many of our products, services and operations as
well as insurer use of our services are subject to state rather than federal regulation by virtue of the McCarran-Ferguson Act. As a result, many of our operations and products are subject to review and/or approval by state regulators. Furthermore,
our operations involving licensed advisory organization activities are subject to periodic examinations conducted by state regulators and our operations and products are subject to state antitrust and trade practice statutes within or outside state
insurance codes, which are typically enforced by state attorneys general and/or insurance regulators.







Available Information

We maintain an Investor Relations website on the Internet at investor.verisk.com. We make available free of charge, on or through this website, our annual, quarterly, and current reports and any
amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To access these, click on the “Financial Information” — “SEC Filings” link found on
our Investor Relations homepage. Verisk trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the ticker symbol “VRSK.” Our stock was first publicly traded on October 7, 2009.



