ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Separation from Abbott Laboratories

On January 1, 2013, AbbVie(1) became an independent company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of
100 percent of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. Each Abbott shareholder of record as of the close of business on December 12, 2012 (the Record Date)
received one share of AbbVie common stock for each Abbott common share held as of the Record Date.

AbbVie
was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012 to hold Abbott's former research-based pharmaceuticals business. AbbVie's common stock began trading "regular-way" under the
ticker symbol "ABBV" on the New York Stock Exchange on January 2, 2013.

Overview

AbbVie is a global, research-based biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie develops and markets advanced therapies that address some of the
world's most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie's products are focused on treating conditions such as chronic autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, and Crohn's disease; low
testosterone; HIV; endometriosis; thyroid disease; Parkinson's disease; and complications associated with chronic kidney disease and cystic fibrosis, among other health conditions. AbbVie's pipeline
of promising new medicines includes more than 20 compounds or indications in Phase II or Phase III development across such important medical specialties as immunology, virology,
oncology, renal disease, neurological diseases and women's health.

Segments

AbbVie operates in one business segment—pharmaceutical products. Incorporated herein by reference is Note 14
entitled "Segment and Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales
information related to HUMIRA included under "Results of Operations."

Products

AbbVie's portfolio of products includes a broad line of therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases.



(1)As
used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "AbbVie" refers to AbbVie Inc., a Delaware corporation, or
AbbVie Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.








HUMIRA.HUMIRA is a biologic therapy administered as a subcutaneous injection. It is approved to treat the following autoimmune
diseases in the
United States, Canada, and Mexico (collectively, North America), and in the European Union:

ConditionPrincipal MarketsRheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe)North America, European UnionPsoriatic arthritisNorth America, European UnionAnkylosing spondylitisNorth America, European UnionCrohn's disease (moderate to severe)North America, European UnionPlaque psoriasis (moderate to severe)North America, European UnionJuvenile idiopathic arthritisNorth America, European UnionUlcerative colitis (moderate to severe)United States, European UnionAxial spondyloarthritisEuropean UnionPediatric Crohn's disease (severe)European Union

HUMIRA
is also approved in over 60 other markets, including Japan, Brazil, and Australia. HUMIRA was introduced to the market in January 2003. HUMIRA accounted for approximately
57 percent of AbbVie's total sales in 2013. The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark HUMIRA) is expected to
expire in December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of European Union countries in April 2018.

AbbVie
continues to dedicate substantial research and development efforts to expanding indications for HUMIRA, including in the fields of rheumatology (pediatric enthesitis related
arthritis), gastroenterology (pediatric Crohn's disease and pediatric ulcerative colitis), dermatology (pediatric psoriasis and hidradenitis suppurativa), and ophthalmology (uveitis).
Phase III trials are ongoing in preparation for regulatory applications for uveitis and hidradenitis suppurativa in the United States and the European Union. AbbVie continues to work on HUMIRA
formulation and delivery enhancements to improve convenience and the overall patient experience.

Metabolics/Hormones products.Metabolic and hormone products target a number of conditions, including hypothyroidism,
testosterone deficiency, and
exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. These products include:

Synthroid.Synthroid is used in the treatment of hypothyroidism.AndroGel.AndroGel is a testosterone replacement therapy for males diagnosed with low testosterone that is available in two strengths:
1 percent and
1.62 percent.Creon.Creon is a pancreatic enzyme therapy for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, a condition that occurs in patients with cystic
fibrosis, chronic
pancreatitis, and several other conditions.

AbbVie
has the rights to sell Synthroid, AndroGel, and Creon only in the United States.

Virology products.AbbVie's virology products include two products for the treatment of HIV infection, Kaletra and Norvir.

Kaletra.Kaletra (also marketed as Aluvia in emerging markets) is a prescription anti-HIV-1 medicine that contains two protease
inhibitors: lopinavir and
ritonavir. Kaletra is used with other anti-HIV-1 medications to increase the chance of treatment response in people with HIV-1.Norvir.Norvir (ritonavir) is a protease inhibitor that is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment
of HIV-1 infection.








Endocrinology products.Lupron (also marketed as Lucrin and Lupron Depot) is a product for the palliative treatment of advanced
prostate cancer,
treatment of endometriosis and central precocious
puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. Lupron is approved for daily subcutaneous injection and one-month, three-month, four-month and six-month
intramuscular injection.

Dyslipidemia products.AbbVie's dyslipidemia products address the range of metabolic conditions characterized by high cholesterol
and/or high
triglycerides. TriCor and TRILIPIX are fibric acid derivatives that are indicated as adjuncts to diet to reduce total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglyceride levels, and to increase HDL
cholesterol levels. Niaspan is an extended release form of niacin that is indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglyceride levels, and to increase HDL
cholesterol levels. These products are primarily marketed to primary care physicians. Generic competitors to these products entered the market in 2012 and 2013.

Other products.AbbVie's other products include the following:

Synagis.Synagis is a product marketed by AbbVie outside of the United States that protects at-risk infants from severe respiratory
disease, or respiratory
syncytial virus (RSV).Anesthesia products.Sevoflurane (sold under the trademarks Ultane and Sevorane) is an anesthesia product that AbbVie sells worldwide
for human use.Duodopa and Duopa.Duodopa is a levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG) marketed outside of the United States to treat advanced
Parkinson's disease. The LCIG therapy
has completed Phase III development for the United States under the name Duopa, and AbbVie is pursuing regulatory approval in the United States.Zemplar.Zemplar is a product sold worldwide for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with
Stage 3, 4, and 5
chronic kidney disease (CKD).

Research and Development Activities

AbbVie has numerous compounds in clinical development, including potential treatments for complex diseases. Over the past five years,
AbbVie has more than doubled the number of compounds in its pipeline through a mix of internal development and external collaboration efforts. AbbVie's ability to discover and develop new compounds is
enhanced by the company's use of integrated discovery and development project teams, which include chemists, biologists, physicians, and pharmacologists who work on the same compounds as a team.

The
research and development process generally begins with discovery research which focuses on the identification of a molecule that has a desired effect against a given disease. If
preclinical testing of an identified compound proves successful, the compound moves into clinical development which generally includes the following
phases:

•Phase I—involves the first human tests in a small number of healthy volunteers or patients to assess
safety, tolerability and potential dosing.•Phase II—tests the drug's efficacy against the disease in a relatively small group of patients.•Phase III—tests a drug that demonstrates favorable results in the earlier phases in a significantly
larger patient population to further demonstrate efficacy and safety based on regulatory criteria.

The
clinical trials from all of the development phases provide the data required to prepare and submit a New Drug Application (NDA), a Biological License Application (BLA) or other
submission for regulatory approval to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or similar government








agencies
outside the U.S. The specific requirements (e.g., scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions.

The
research and development process from discovery through a new drug launch typically takes 8 to 12 years and can be even longer. The research and development of
new pharmaceutical products has a significant amount of inherent uncertainty. There is no guarantee when, or if, a molecule will receive the regulatory approval required to launch a new drug or
indication.

In
addition to the development of new products and new formulations, research and development projects also may include Phase IV trials, sometimes called post-marketing studies.
For such projects, clinical trials are designed and conducted to collect additional data regarding, among other parameters, the benefits and risks of an approved drug.

AbbVie
spent approximately $2.9 billion in 2013, $2.8 billion in 2012, and $2.6 billion in 2011 on research to discover and develop new products, indications and
processes and to improve existing products and processes. These expenses consisted primarily of salaries and related expenses for personnel, license fees, consulting payments, contract research,
manufacturing, the costs of laboratory equipment and facilities, and collaboration fees and expenses.

Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity

Generally, upon approval, products in development may be entitled to exclusivity under applicable intellectual property and regulatory
regimes. AbbVie seeks patent protection, where available, in all significant markets and/or countries for each product in development. In the United States, the expiration date for patents filed on or
after June 8, 1995 is 20 years after the filing date. Given that patents relating to pharmaceutical products are often obtained early in the development process, and given the amount of
time needed to complete clinical trials and other development activities required for regulatory approval, the length of time between product launch and patent expiration is significantly less than
20 years. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent holder to seek a patent extension, commonly called a
"patent term restoration," for patents on products (or processes for making the product) regulated by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The length of the patent extension is roughly based on
50 percent of the period of time from the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application for a compound to the submission of the NDA for such compound, plus 100 percent of the time
period from NDA submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed five years and the patent term remaining after regulatory approval cannot exceed 14 years.

Pharmaceutical
products may be entitled to other forms of legal or regulatory exclusivity upon approval. The scope, length, and requirements for each of these exclusivities varies both
in the United States and in other jurisdictions. In the United States, if the FDA approves a product that does not contain a previously approved active ingredient, the product is typically entitled to
five years of market exclusivity. Other products may be entitled to three years of market exclusivity if approval was based on the FDA's reliance on new clinical studies submitted by the NDA
applicant. If the NDA applicant studies the product for use by children, the FDA may grant pediatric exclusivity, which extends by 180 days the longest existing exclusivity (patent or
regulatory) related to the product. For products that are either used to treat conditions that afflict a relatively small population or for which there is not a reasonable expectation that the
research and development costs will be recovered, the FDA may designate the pharmaceutical as an orphan drug and grant it seven years of market exclusivity.

Applicable
laws and regulations dictate the market exclusivity to which the product is entitled upon its approval in any particular country. In certain instances, regulatory exclusivity
may protect a product where patent protection is no longer available or for a period of time in excess of patent protection. It is not possible to estimate for each product in development the total
period of exclusivity to which it may become entitled until regulatory approval is obtained. However, given the length of time required








to
complete clinical development of a pharmaceutical product, the minimum and maximum periods of exclusivity that might be achieved in any individual case would not be expected to exceed three and
14 years, respectively. These estimates do not consider other factors, such as the difficulty of recreating the manufacturing process for a particular product or other proprietary knowledge
that may delay the introduction of a generic or other follow-on product after the expiration of applicable patent and other regulatory exclusivity periods.

Biologics
such as HUMIRA are entitled to exclusivity under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, which was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title VII to the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act. The law provides a pathway for approval of biosimilars following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic and a potential
additional 180 day-extension term for conducting pediatric studies. The law also includes an extensive process for the innovator biologic and biosimilar manufacturer to litigate patent
infringement, validity, and enforceability prior to the approval of the biosimilar. The European Union has also created a pathway for approval of biosimilars and has published guidelines for approval
of certain biosimilar products. The more complex nature of biologics and biosimilar products has led to greater regulatory scrutiny and more rigorous requirements for approval of follow-on biosimilar
products than for small molecule generic pharmaceutical products, and it has also reduced the effect of biosimilars on sales of the innovator biologic as compared to the sales erosion caused by
generic versions of small molecule pharmaceutical products.

AbbVie
owns or has licensed rights to a substantial number of patents and patent applications. AbbVie licenses or owns a patent portfolio of thousands of patent families, each of which
includes United States patent applications and/or issued patents, and may also contain the non-United States counterparts to these patents and applications.

These
patents and applications, including various patents that expire during the period 2014 to 2031, in aggregate are believed to be of material importance in the operation of AbbVie's
business. However, AbbVie believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold under the
trademark HUMIRA), are material in relation to the company's business as a whole. The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab is expected to expire in
December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of European Union countries in April 2018.

In
addition, the following patents, licenses, and trademarks are significant: those related to lopinavir/ritonavir (which is sold under the trademarks Kaletra and Aluvia), and those
related to testosterone (which is sold under the trademark AndroGel). The United States composition of matter patent covering lopinavir is expected to expire in 2016. A principal United States
non-composition of matter patent covering lopinavir/ritonavir is expected to expire in 2016. The principal United States non-composition of matter patent covering AndroGel 1 percent is expected
to expire in 2021, including pediatric exclusivity. The principal United States non-composition of matter patents covering AndroGel 1.62 percent are expected to expire in 2020 and 2026.
Agreements that may affect exclusivity are discussed in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations."

AbbVie
may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect its technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. AbbVie seeks to protect its technology and product
candidates, in part, by confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, and collaborators. These agreements may be breached and AbbVie may not have adequate remedies
for any breach. In addition, AbbVie's trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that AbbVie's employees, consultants, advisors, contractors,
and collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work for the company, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions.








Sales, Marketing, and Distribution Capabilities

In 2013, AbbVie's products were sold in over 170 countries. AbbVie utilizes a combination of dedicated commercial resources, regional
commercial resources and distributorships to market, sell, and distribute its products worldwide.

In
the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to pharmacies and patients. In 2013,
three wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc., and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) accounted for substantially all of AbbVie's sales in the United States. No
individual wholesaler accounts for greater than 40 percent of AbbVie's 2013 gross sales in the United States. These wholesalers purchase product from AbbVie under standard terms and conditions
of sale.

AbbVie
directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of its brand of products by physicians, key opinion leaders, and other health care
providers. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers), hospitals, and state and federal government agencies (for example, the United States
Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers. AbbVie also markets directly to consumers themselves, although in the United States all of the
company's products must be sold pursuant to a prescription. Outside of the United States, AbbVie focuses its marketing efforts on key opinion leaders, payors, physicians, and country regulatory
bodies. AbbVie also provides patient support programs closely related to its products.

AbbVie's
products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from
AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Approximately
55-60 percent of sales outside the United States are made through wholesalers or distributors. No wholesaler or distributor outside the United States accounts for more than 3 percent of
AbbVie's sales. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would have a material adverse effect on the
company's business.

No
material portion of AbbVie's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.

Third Party Agreements








AbbVie
also has collaboration agreements, as discussed in Note 5, "Acquisitions, Collaborations and Other Arrangements," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and has
certain agreements with Abbott.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

AbbVie purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to its operations from numerous suppliers
around the world, including in the United States. In addition, certain medical devices and components necessary for the manufacture of our products are provided by unaffiliated third party suppliers.
AbbVie has not experienced any recent significant availability problems or supply shortages.

Orders

Orders are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to AbbVie's business.

Environmental Matters

AbbVie believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental
protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. AbbVie's capital
and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2013 were approximately $2 million and $20 million, respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2014 are
estimated to be approximately $2 million and $21 million, respectively.

Abbott
was identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Some of these locations were transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and
distribution, and AbbVie has become a party to these investigations and remediations. Abbott was also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which have been transferred to AbbVie in
connection with the separation and distribution, in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related
to those investigations and remediation activities, AbbVie believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning
environmental protection, should not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.

Competition

The markets for AbbVie's products are highly competitive. AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceuticals and biotechnology
companies that discover, manufacture, market, and sell proprietary pharmaceutical products and biologics. For example, HUMIRA competes with a number of anti-TNF and other products that are approved
for a number of disease states and AbbVie's virology products compete with protease inhibitors and other anti-HIV treatments. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products is a
significant aspect
of competition. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price is also a competitive factor. In addition, the
substitution of generic pharmaceutical products for branded pharmaceutical products creates competitive pressures on AbbVie's products that do not have patent protection.

Biosimilars.Competition for AbbVie's biologic products is affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as
"biosimilars." Biologics
have added major therapeutic options for the








treatment
of many diseases, including some for which therapies were unavailable or inadequate. The advent of biologics has also raised complex regulatory issues and significant pharmacoeconomic
concerns because the cost of developing and producing biologic therapies is typically dramatically higher than for conventional (small molecule) medications, and because many expensive biologic
medications are used for ongoing treatment of chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease, or for the treatment of previously untreatable cancer. Significant
investments in biologics infrastructure and manufacturing are necessary to produce biologic products, as are significant investments in marketing, distribution, and sales organization activities,
which may limit the number of biosimilar competitors.

In
the United States, the FDA regulates biologics under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, and implementing regulations. While the enactment of
federal health care reform legislation in March 2010 was meant to provide a pathway for approval of biosimilars under the Public Health Service Act, recent regulatory guidance suggests that the
approval process for biosimilars will be far more extensive than the approval process for generic or other follow-on versions of small molecule products, in order to ensure that the safety and
efficacy of biosimilars is highly similar to that of an original biologic, such as HUMIRA. Ultimate approval by the FDA is dependent upon many factors, including a showing that the biosimilar is
"highly similar" to the original product and has no clinically meaningful differences from the original product in terms of safety, purity, and potency. The types of data that could ordinarily be
required in an application to show similarity would include analytical data and studies to demonstrate chemical similarity, animal studies (including toxicity studies), and clinical studies.
Applicable regulations also require that the biosimilar must be for the same indication as the original biologic and involve the same mechanism of action, and that the manufacturing facility meets the
standards necessary to assure that the biosimilar is safe, pure, and potent.

Furthermore,
the new law provides that only a biosimilar product that is deemed to be "interchangeable" may be substituted for the original biologic product without the intervention of
the health care provider who prescribed the original biologic product. To prove that a biosimilar product is interchangeable, the applicant must demonstrate that the product can be expected to produce
the same
clinical results as the original biologic product in any given patient, and if the product is administered more than once in a patient, that safety risks and potential for diminished efficacy of
alternating or switching between the use of the interchangeable biosimilar biologic product and the original biologic product is no greater than the risk of using the original biologic product without
switching. The new law is only beginning to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its ultimate impact, implementation, and meaning will likely be subject to substantial uncertainty
for years to come.

In
the European Union, while a pathway for the approval of biosimilars has existed since 2005, the products that have come to market to date have had a mixed impact on the market share
of incumbent products, with significant variation by product.

Other Competitive Products.Although a number of competitive biologic branded products have been approved since HUMIRA was first
introduced in 2003,
most have gained only a modest share of the worldwide market. In addition, the first JAK inhibitor, part of a new class of orally administered products, was recently approved for use in rheumatoid
arthritis in the U.S. AbbVie will continue to face competitive pressure from these biologics and orally administered products.

Regulation—Discovery and Clinical Development

United States.Securing approval to market a new pharmaceutical product in the United States requires substantial effort and
financial resources and
takes several years to complete. The applicant must complete preclinical tests, and obtain FDA approval before commencing clinical trials. Clinical trials are intended to establish the safety and
efficacy of the pharmaceutical product and typically are








conducted
in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap or be combined. If the required clinical testing is successful, the results are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA or BLA
requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. The FDA reviews an NDA or BLA to determine whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its
manufacturing is compliant with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP).

Even
if an NDA or a BLA receives approval, the applicant must comply with post-approval requirements. For example, holders of an approval must report adverse reactions, provide updated
safety and efficacy information, and comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after
approval. The FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP, which imposes extensive procedural, substantive, and record keeping requirements. In addition, as a
condition of approval, the FDA may require post-marketing testing and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product's safety or efficacy after commercialization. Any post-approval regulatory
obligations, and the cost of complying with such obligations, could expand in the future.

Outside the United States.AbbVie is subject to similar regulations outside the United States. AbbVie must obtain approval of a
clinical trial
application or product from the applicable regulatory authorities before it can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product. The approval requirements and process vary, and the time required
to obtain approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. For example, AbbVie may submit marketing authorizations in the European Union under either a centralized or
decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure is mandatory for the approval of biotechnology products and many pharmaceutical products and provides for a single marketing authorization that is
valid for all European Union member states. Under the centralized procedure, a single marketing authorization application is submitted to the European Medicines Agency. After the agency evaluates the
application, it makes a recommendation to the European Commission, which then makes the final determination on whether to approve the application. The decentralized procedure provides for mutual
recognition of national approval decisions and is available for products that are not subject to the centralized procedure.

In
Japan, applications for approval of a new product are made through the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA). Bridging studies to demonstrate that the foreign clinical data
applies to Japanese patients may be required. After completing a comprehensive review, the PMDA reports to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, which then approves or denies the application.

The
regulatory process in many emerging markets continues to evolve. Many emerging markets, including those in Asia, generally require regulatory approval to have been obtained in a
large developed market (such as the United States) before the country will begin or complete its regulatory review process. Some countries also require that local clinical studies be conducted in
order to obtain regulatory approval in the country.

The
requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and product licensing also vary. In addition, post-approval regulatory obligations such as adverse event reporting and cGMP
compliance generally apply and may vary by country. For example, after a marketing authorization has been granted in the European Union, periodic safety reports must be submitted and other
pharmacovigilance measures must be implemented.

Regulation—Commercialization, Distribution, and Manufacturing

The manufacture, marketing, sale, promotion, and distribution of AbbVie's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation.
Government regulation by various national, regional, federal, state, and local agencies, both in the United States and other countries, addresses (among other matters) inspection of, and controls
over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, marketing and promotion, pricing and








reimbursement,
sampling, distribution, quality control, post-marketing surveillance, record keeping, storage, and disposal practices. AbbVie's operations are also affected by trade regulations in many
countries that limit the import of raw materials and finished products and by laws and regulations that seek to prevent corruption and bribery in the marketplace (including the United States Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act, which provide guidance on corporate interactions with government officials) and require safeguards for the protection of personal data. In
addition, AbbVie is subject to laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including state and federal anti-kickback and false claims laws in the United States. Prescription drug
manufacturers such as AbbVie are also subject to taxes, as well as application, product, user, establishment, and other fees.

Compliance
with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects AbbVie's business. Among other effects, health care regulations substantially increase the time, difficulty,
and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products. AbbVie expects compliance with these regulations to continue to require significant technical
expertise and capital investment to ensure compliance. Failure to comply can delay the release of a new product or result in regulatory and enforcement actions, the seizure or recall of a product, the
suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for a product's production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties.

In
addition to regulatory initiatives, AbbVie's business can be affected by ongoing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care products and their
components that are regularly conducted by industry participants, government agencies, and others. These studies can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed
products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of, or limitations on, marketing of such products domestically or worldwide, and may give rise
to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use.

Access
to human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private organizations in the United States
and other countries. A major focus is cost containment. Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private sector, notably by health care payors and providers, which have
instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. AbbVie expects insurers and providers to continue attempts to reduce the cost of health care products. Outside the United States, many
countries control the price of health care products directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing, coverage limitations, or compulsory licensing. Budgetary pressures in the United
States and in other countries may also heighten the scope and severity of pricing pressures on AbbVie's products for the foreseeable future.

United States.Specifically, U.S. federal laws require pharmaceuticals manufacturers to pay certain statutorily-prescribed
rebates to state Medicaid
programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under state Medicaid plans, and the efforts by states to seek additional rebates affect AbbVie's business. Similarly, the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, as
a prerequisite to participation in Medicaid and other federal health care programs, requires that manufacturers extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies,
including the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, and Public Health Service entities and institutions. In addition, recent legislative changes would require similarly
discounted prices to be offered to TRICARE program beneficiaries. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 also established the 340B drug discount program, which requires pharmaceuticals manufacturers to
provide products at reduced prices to various designated health care entities and facilities.

In
the United States, most states also have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a
pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group








(DRG)
payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient,
nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient
treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures for many health care products. Medicare reimburses Part B drugs based on average sales price (ASP)
plus a certain percentage to account for physician administration costs, which have recently been reduced in the hospital outpatient setting. End stage renal disease treatment is covered through a
bundled payment that likewise creates incentives for providers to demand lower pharmaceutical prices. Medicare enters into contracts with private plans to negotiate prices for most
patient-administered medicine delivered under Part D.

In
March 2010, Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the Affordable Care Act). Under the
Affordable Care Act, AbbVie pays a fee related to its pharmaceuticals sales to government programs. Also in 2011, AbbVie began providing a discount of 50 percent for branded prescription drugs
sold to patients who fall into the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut hole."

The
Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs and biologics covered under Medicare and Medicaid
starting in 2012 to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data beginning in 2013 to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public
disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level in the United States, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering
similar laws requiring disclosure of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties.

AbbVie
expects debate to continue during 2014 at all government levels worldwide over the marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services.
AbbVie believes that future legislation and regulation in the markets it serves could affect access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases
for health care products and services, change health care delivery systems, create new fees and obligations for the pharmaceuticals industry, or require additional reporting and disclosure. It is not
possible to predict the extent to which AbbVie or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.

AbbVie
is subject to a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) entered into by Abbott on May 7, 2012 that requires enhancements to AbbVie's compliance program and contains reporting
obligations, including disclosure of financial payments to doctors. If AbbVie fails to comply with the CIA, the Office of Inspector General for the United States Department of Health and Human
Services may impose monetary penalties or exclude AbbVie from federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid.

European Union.The European Union has adopted directives and other legislation governing labeling, advertising, distribution,
supply,
pharmacovigilance, and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Such legislation provides mandatory standards throughout the European Union and permits member states to supplement these standards with
additional regulations. European governments also regulate pharmaceutical product prices through their control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of such products to
consumers. As a result, patients are unlikely to use a pharmaceutical product that is not reimbursed by the government. In many European countries, the government either regulates the pricing of a new
product at launch or subsequent to launch through direct price controls or reference pricing. In recent years, many countries have also imposed new or additional cost containment measures on
pharmaceutical products. Differences between national pricing regimes create price differentials within the European Union that can lead to significant parallel trade in pharmaceutical products.








Most
governments also promote generic substitution by mandating or permitting a pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a pharmaceutical product for the
one prescribed and by permitting or mandating that health care professionals prescribe generic versions in certain circumstances. In addition, governments use reimbursement lists to limit the
pharmaceutical products that are eligible for reimbursement by national health care systems.

Japan.In Japan, the National Health Insurance system maintains a Drug Price List specifying which pharmaceutical products are
eligible for
reimbursement, and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare sets the prices of the products on this list. The government generally introduces price cut rounds every other year and also mandates
price decreases for specific products. New products judged innovative or useful, that are indicated for pediatric use, or that target orphan or small population diseases, however, may be eligible for
a pricing premium. The government has also promoted the use of generics, where available.

Emerging Markets.Many emerging markets take steps to reduce pharmaceutical product prices, in some cases through direct price
controls and in others
through the promotion of generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals.

Since
AbbVie markets its products worldwide, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines must also meet other local regulatory requirements. Certain additional
risks are inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on participation in local
enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.

Employees

AbbVie employed approximately 25,000 persons as of January 31, 2014. Outside the United States, some of AbbVie's employees are
represented by unions or works councils. AbbVie believes that it has good relations with its employees.

Internet Information

Copies of AbbVie's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through AbbVie's investor relations website
(www.abbvieinvestor.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after AbbVie electronically files the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission.

AbbVie's
corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of AbbVie's audit committee, compensation committee,
nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on AbbVie's investor relations website (www.abbvieinvestor.com).

