Item 1A.Risk Factors



You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities.  The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our Company.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.  If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected.  In that case, the value of our securities could decline substantially.



Legislative, Regulatory and Tax



Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may affect our insurance subsidiary capital requirements or reduce our profitability.



State Regulation



Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the states in which we do business.  The supervision and regulation relate to numerous aspects of our business and financial condition.  The primary purpose of the supervision and regulation is the protection of our insurance contract holders and the public, rather than our investors.  The extent of regulation varies, but generally is governed by state statutes.  These statutes delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to state insurance departments.  This system of supervision and regulation covers, among other things:



Market conduct standards;

Standards of minimum capital requirements and solvency, including RBC measurements;

Restrictions on certain transactions, including, but not limited to, reinsurance between our insurance subsidiaries and their affiliates;

Restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments;

Restrictions on the receipt of reinsurance credit;

Restrictions on the types of terms and conditions that we can include in the insurance policies offered by our primary insurance operations;

Limitations on the amount of dividends that insurance subsidiaries can pay;

Licensing status of the company;

Certain required methods of accounting pursuant to statutory accounting principles (“SAP”);

Reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes;

Payment of policy benefits (claims); and

Assignment of residual market business and potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies.



State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products.  Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, sometimes lead to changes in business practices or additional expense, statutory reserves and/or RBC requirements for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  For example, the NAIC recently implemented changes to the accounting, reserve and RBC regulations related to the variable annuity business that went into effect in 2020, which could impact the level of reserves and C-3 capital


we are required to hold on variable annuities (although we do not expect the impacts to be material upon adoption).  The NAIC is also considering modifications to:  (i) the NAIC RBC C-1 capital charges for bonds, which may impact the level of the C-1 related RBC we are required to hold, and (ii) Actuarial Guideline XLIX (“AG 49”) that would affect the way insurance companies are permitted to illustrate certain IUL products, which could impact our sales of such products.  We are monitoring all potential changes and evaluating the potential impact they could have on our product offerings and financial condition and results of operations.



Although we endeavor to maintain all required licenses and approvals, our businesses may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority’s interpretation of the laws and regulations, which may change from time to time.  Also, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals.  If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or impose substantial fines.  Further, insurance regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to issue orders of supervision, which permit such authorities to supervise the business and operations of an insurance company.  As of December 31, 2019, no state insurance regulatory authority had imposed on us any material fines or revoked or suspended any of our licenses to conduct insurance business in any state or issued an order of supervision with respect to our insurance subsidiaries that would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.



Attempts to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and Actuarial Guideline 38 may fail in whole or in part resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.



The Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Model Regulation (“XXX”) requires insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and UL policies with secondary guarantees.  In addition, Actuarial Guideline 38 (“AG38”) clarifies the application of XXX with respect to certain UL insurance policies with secondary guarantees.  A portion of our newly issued term and UL insurance products are affected by XXX and AG38; certain term policies issued in 2017 and later and certain UL insurance products are now reserved under principles-based reserves.  The application of both AG38 and XXX involve numerous interpretations.  If state insurance departments do not agree with our interpretations, we may have to increase reserves related to such policies.  For example, the New York State Department of Financial Services did not recognize the NAIC revisions to AG38 in applying the New York law governing the reserves to be held for UL and VUL products containing secondary guarantees.  The change, which was effective as of December 31, 2013, impacted our New York-domiciled insurance subsidiary, LLANY.  Although LLANY discontinued the sale of these products in early 2013, the change affected those policies previously sold.  As a result, we phased in a $450 million increase in reserves over five years, from 2013 to 2017.



We have implemented, and plan to continue to implement, reinsurance and capital management transactions to mitigate the capital impact of XXX and AG38, including the use of captive reinsurance subsidiaries.  The NAIC adopted Actuarial Guideline 48 (“AG48”) regulating the terms of these arrangements that are entered into or amended in certain ways after December 31, 2014.  This guideline imposed restrictions on the types of assets that can be used to support the reinsurance in these kinds of transactions.  While we have executed AG48 compliant reserve financing transactions, we cannot provide assurance that in light of AG48 and/or future rules and regulations or changes in interpretations by state insurance departments that we will be able to continue to efficiently implement transactions or take other actions to mitigate the impact of XXX or AG38 on future sales of term and UL insurance products and any required reserves.  If we are unable to continue to efficiently implement such solutions for any reason, we may realize lower than anticipated returns and/or reduced sales on such products.



Compliance with existing and emerging privacy regulations could result in increased compliance costs and/or lead to changes in business practices and policies, and any failure to protect the confidentiality of client information could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.





Many of the associates who conduct our business have access to, and routinely process, personal information of clients through a variety of media, including information technology systems.  We rely on various internal processes and controls to protect the confidentiality of client information that is accessible to, or in the possession of, our company and our associates.  It is possible that an associate could, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or misappropriate confidential client information or our data could be the subject of a cybersecurity attack.  If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls or if our associates fail to comply with our policies and procedures,


misappropriation or intentional or unintentional inappropriate disclosure or misuse of client information could occur.  Such internal control inadequacies or non-compliance could materially damage our reputation or lead to regulatory, civil or criminal investigations and penalties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



In addition, we analyze customer data to better manage our business.  There has been increased scrutiny, including from U.S. state and federal regulators, regarding the use of “big data” techniques such as price optimization.  We cannot predict what, if any, actions may be taken with regard to “big data,” but any inquiries could cause reputational harm, and any limitations could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



Federal Regulation



In addition, our broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries as well as our variable annuities and variable life insurance products, are subject to regulation and supervision by the SEC and FINRA.  Applicable laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and self-regulatory organizations broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the subsidiaries from carrying on their businesses in the event that they fail to comply with such laws and regulations.  The foregoing regulatory or governmental bodies, as well as the DOL and others, have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents, advisers, registered representatives, associated persons and employees.  In recent years, there has been increased scrutiny of insurance companies and their affiliates by these bodies, which has included more extensive examinations, regular sweep inquiries and more detailed review of disclosure documents.  These regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper.  These actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.



Regulations adopted relating to the standard of care applicable to investment advisers and broker-dealers have resulted in, and additional regulations could result in, additional disclosure and other requirements related to the sale and delivery of our products and services, which may adversely affect our business.



In 2016, the DOL released the DOL Fiduciary Rule, which became effective in 2017 and substantially expanded the range of activities considered to be fiduciary investment advice under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code.  The DOL Fiduciary Rule was subsequently vacated by the Fifth Circuit in March 2018, and in June 2018, the Fifth Circuit issued a mandate stating that the original definition of “fiduciary,” including the original five-part test, would apply going forward.



On June 5, 2019, the SEC approved a final “Regulation Best Interest,” including a new standard of conduct for broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which requires a broker-dealer to act in the best interest of a retail customer when making a recommendation of any securities transaction, without putting its financial interests ahead of the interests of a retail customer.  The final rule includes guidance on what constitutes a “recommendation” and a definition of who would be a “retail customer” in addition to provisions setting forth certain required disclosures, policies and procedures to identify conflicts of interest, and customer-specific best interest obligations.



In addition, the SEC approved the use of a new disclosure document, the customer or client relationship summary, or Form CRS.  Form CRS is intended to provide retail investors with information about the nature of their relationship with their investment professional and supplements other more detailed disclosures, including existing Form ADV for advisers and the new disclosures under Regulation Best Interest for broker-dealers.  Regulation Best Interest and Form CRS became effective as of September 10, 2019, with a transition period for compliance through June 30, 2020.



Finally, the SEC issued interpretative guidance regarding an investment adviser’s fiduciary obligation under the Advisers Act.  The guidance indicates that investment advisers have a fiduciary duty to their clients that includes both a duty of care and a duty of loyalty and further describes an investment adviser’s responsibilities under these fiduciary duties.



In addition to the SEC rules, the NAIC and several states, including Massachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey and New York, have proposed and/or enacted laws and regulations requiring investment advisers, broker-dealers and/or agents to disclose conflicts of interest to clients and/or to meet a higher standard of care when providing advice to their clients.  The recently enacted state laws and regulations have resulted in, and upon adoption by other states such laws and regulations may result in, additional requirements related to the sale of our products.  Additional disclosure and other requirements could adversely affect our business by causing us to reevaluate or change certain business practices or otherwise.



It is uncertain at this point how the original DOL definition of “fiduciary,” or any new fiduciary rule proposed by the DOL, will work in conjunction with the final rules adopted by the SEC, the NAIC or any individual state.  While we continue to monitor and evaluate the various proposals, we cannot predict what other proposals may be made, or what new legislation or regulation may be introduced or become law.  Therefore, until such time as final rules or laws are in place, the potential impact on our business is uncertain.



Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could impact our tax costs and the products that we sell.



In late 2017, President Trump signed the Tax Act into law.  The Tax Act included tax rate reductions for both individuals and businesses (corporations and unincorporated entities), with the reduction in the U.S. marginal tax rate for corporations from 35% to 21% being one of the central provisions of the Tax Act.  The Tax Act also expanded the tax base through the elimination or reduction of specified deductions and credits and provided incentives related to growth and development.






The changes made by the Tax Act continue to have numerous impacts on our business.  Notably, the change to the new 21% marginal corporate income tax rate has resulted in a lower overall effective tax rate as applied to our financial earnings as compared to years prior to the change.  The marginal rate change resulted in a reduction in our recorded deferred tax liability for GAAP purposes, a reduction in our admitted deferred tax asset recorded for statutory reporting and, beginning with year-end 2018 reporting, changes to the factors used in determining our required surplus for statutory purposes and related RBC percentage.  Any future change in the marginal corporate tax rate will have an impact on our financial results.



In addition to the corporate tax rate reduction provided by the Tax Act, there were several provisions that are specific to insurance companies, namely changes to the proration formula used to determine the amount of dividends eligible for the dividends-received deduction, modifications to the calculation of tax reserves associated with policyholder liabilities, changes to the computations of capitalized expenses for tax purposes of amounts incurred to originate or acquire insurance contracts (commonly referred to as the DAC tax) and the imposition of new life settlement reporting rules.As a result of one of the specific Tax Act changes, the recorded tax benefit for the separate account dividends-received deduction included in our 2019 and 2018 income tax provision was $81 million and $78 million, respectively, as compared to $210 million for 2017.These provisions as a whole resulted in changes to our overall cash tax obligations beginning in 2018.



The IRS and Treasury have issued guidance in regard to specific provisions contained in the Tax Act.  The released guidance has been in the form of notices, proposed regulations and, in certain instances, final regulations.  We continue to review and analyze the guidance as it is released in order to ensure that our initial interpretations of the law changes were appropriate and that our estimates of the post-enactment impacts were reasonable.  Should final guidance in any form differ from preliminary guidance or from our initial interpretations, it could have an impact on our financial results and other related key financial measures.  Specifically, in the event that final guidance related to the Tax Act differs from our current interpretation of the provisions, or if additional tax legislation is enacted (inclusive or exclusive of a change in the marginal corporate tax rate), there could be an impact on our future earnings, GAAP equity and statutory RBC, free cash flows and the sales, pricing and profitability of our products.



Legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could result in financial losses or harm our businesses.



We are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our business.  Pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings relating to aspects of our businesses and operations that are specific to us and proceedings that are typical of the businesses in which we operate.  Some of these legal proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants.  In certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages.  Substantial legal liability in these or future legal or regulatory actions could have a material financial effect or cause significant harm to our reputation, which in turn could materially harm our business prospects.  See Note 14 for a description of legal and regulatory proceedings and actions.



Implementation of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may subject us to substantial additional federal regulation, and we cannot predict the effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.



Since it was enacted in 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act has brought wide-ranging changes to the financial services industry, including changes to the rules governing derivatives; a study by the SEC of the rules governing broker-dealers and investment advisers with respect to individual investors and investment advice, followed by proposed rulemaking; the creation of a Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Treasury to gather information and make recommendations regarding regulation of the insurance industry; the creation of a resolution authority to unwind failing institutions; the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to protect consumers of certain financial products; and changes to executive compensation and certain corporate governance rules, among other things.



Significant rulemaking across numerous agencies within the federal government has been implemented since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Complete implementation has yet to take place, given shifting priorities following the U.S. 2016 election; therefore, the ultimate impact of these provisions on our businesses (including product offerings), results of operations and liquidity and capital resources remains uncertain.



Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements.



Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP as identified in the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards CodificationTM(“ASC”).  From time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or guidance that are incorporated into the FASB ASC.  It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.



Specifically, in August 2018, the FASB released Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2018-12, Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long-Duration Contracts, that is expected toresult in significant changes to how we account for and report our insurance contracts (both in-force and new business),including updating assumptions used to measure the liability for future policy benefits for traditional and limited-payment contracts, measurement of market risk benefits and amortization of deferred acquisition costs (“DAC”).These changes may impose special demands on companies in the areas of employee training, internal controls, contract fulfillment and disclosure and may affect how we manage our business, including business processes such as design of compensation plans, product design, etc.  In October 2019, the effective date of ASU 2018-12 was deferred to January 1, 2022, and there are various


transition methods by topic that we may elect upon adoption.  We will report results under the new accounting method as of the effective date.We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting this ASU on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.  See Note 2 for more information.



Our domestic insurance subsidiaries are subject to SAP.  Any changes in the method of calculating reserves for our life insurance and annuity products under SAP may result in increased reserve requirements.



The NAIC adopted an updated framework for the statutory accounting and capital requirements for variable annuities in the summer of 2018.   Revised regulations to implement the updated framework were adopted by the NAIC in the summer of 2019 and became effective January 1, 2020, with an optional phase-in period and early adoption permitted.  The resulting new variable annuity framework will likely result in changes in reserve and/or capital requirements and statutory surplus, which could impact the volatility of those item(s), particularly in response to changes in interest rates.  However, we do not expect the impact of these changes on our financial condition and results of operations to be material upon adoption.  The NAIC is also considering modifications to the NAIC RBC C-1 capital charges for bonds, which may impact the level of the C-1 related RBC we are required to hold.



Anti-takeover provisions could delay, deter or prevent our change in control, even if the change in control would be beneficial to LNC shareholders.



We are an Indiana corporation subject to Indiana state law.  Certain provisions of Indiana law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change in control events affecting us.  Under Indiana law, directors may, in considering the best interests of a corporation, consider the effects of any action on shareholders, employees, suppliers and customers of the corporation and the communities in which offices and other facilities are located, and other factors the directors consider pertinent.  One statutory provision prohibits, except under specified circumstances, LNC from engaging in any business combination with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (which shareholder, under the statute, would be considered an “interested shareholder”) for a period of five years following the time that such shareholder became an interested shareholder, unless such business combination is approved by the Board of Directors prior to such person becoming an interested shareholder.



In addition to the anti-takeover provisions of Indiana law, there are other factors that may delay, deter or prevent our change in control.  As an insurance holding company, we are regulated as an insurance holding company and are subject to the insurance holding company acts of the states in which our insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled.  The insurance holding company acts and regulations restrict the ability of any person to obtain control of an insurance company without prior regulatory approval.  Under those statutes and regulations, without such approval (or an exemption), no person may acquire any voting security of a domestic insurance company, or an insurance holding company which controls an insurance company, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would “control” the insurance holding company or insurance company.  “Control” is generally defined as the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person and is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more of the voting securities of another person.



Market Conditions



Weak conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.



Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world.  Major central bank policy actions, slowing of global growth, and trade policy uncertainty remain key challenges for markets and our business.  These macro-economic conditions may have an adverse effect on us given our credit and equity market exposure.  In the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis and recession that occurred during 2008 and 2009, we could incur significant losses.  Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss and downgrades due to market volatility.



Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, domestic and foreign government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, the potential for inflation or deflation and uncertainty over domestic and foreign government actions all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business.  In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower disposable income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected.  In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies.  Our contract holders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether.  Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.






Changes in interest rates and sustained low interest rates may cause interest rate spreads to decrease and make it more challenging to meet certain statutory requirements and changes in interest rates may also result in increased contract withdrawals.



Interest rate fluctuations and/or a sustained period of low interest rates could negatively affect our profitability.  Some of our products, principally fixed annuities and UL, including linked-benefit UL, have interest rate guarantees that expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our spread, or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the amounts we are able to earn on our general account investments intended to support our obligations under the contracts.  Spreads are an important component of our net income.  Declines in our spread or instances where the returns on our general account investments are not enough to support the interest rate guarantees on these products could have a material adverse effect on our businesses or results of operations.  In addition, low rates increase the cost of providing variable annuity living benefit guarantees, which could negatively affect our variable annuity profitability.



In periods when interest rates are declining or remain at low levels, we may have to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower yielding instruments reducing our spread.  Moreover, borrowers may prepay fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and mortgage-backed securities in our general account in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates this risk.  Lowering interest crediting rates helps to mitigate the effect of spread compression on some of our products.  However, because we are entitled to reset the interest rates on our fixed-rate annuities only at limited, pre-established intervals, and since many of our contracts have guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates, our spreads could still decrease.  As of December 31, 2019, 35% of our annuities business, 79% of our retirement plan services business and 89% of our life insurance business with guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates were at their guaranteed minimums.



Our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of DAC and value of business acquired (“VOBA”) as it affects the future profitability of the business.  Currently, new money rates continue to be near historically low levels, with the Federal Reserve decreasing the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points three times during 2019 to a range of 1.50% to 1.75%.Due to the low interest rate environment, in 2019 we updated our interest rate assumptions, which included lowering starting new money rates, reducing our long-term new money investment yield assumption and extending the grade-in period from current rates to long-term rates.  As a result of these updates, we recorded unfavorable after-tax unlocking during 2019, which was most pronounced in our Life Insurance segment.  We cannot give assurance that persistent low interest rates will not result in future unfavorable unlocking.For additional information on interest rate risks, see “Part II – Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk.”



A decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations.  During periods of sustained lower interest rates, our recorded policy liabilities may not be sufficient to meet future policy obligations and may need to be strengthened, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period.  Accordingly, declining interest rates may materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability.  In addition, a decline in market interest rates may make it more challenging for us to pass certain asset adequacy tests related to statutory reserves, given the required conservatism of some of the regulations with which we must comply.  To meet these requirements, we may be required to post asset adequacy reserves, which, depending on the size of the reserve, could materially affect our financial results.





Because the equity markets and other factors impact the profitability and expected profitability of many of our products, changes in equity markets and other factors may significantly affect our business and profitability.



The fee income that we earn on variable annuities is based primarily upon account values, and the fee income that we earn on VUL insurance policies is partially based upon account values.  Because strong equity markets result in higher account values, strong equity markets positively affect our net income through increased fee income.  Conversely, a weakening of the equity markets results in lower fee income and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and capital resources.



The increased fee income resulting from strong equity markets increases the estimated gross profits (“EGPs”) from variable insurance products as do better than expected lapses, mortality rates and expenses.  As a result, higher EGPs may result in lower net amortized costs related to DAC, deferred sales inducements (“DSI”), VOBA, deferred front-end loads (“DFEL”) and changes in future contract benefits.  However, a decrease in the equity markets, as well as worse than expected lapses, mortality rates and expenses, depending upon


their significance, may result in higher net amortized costs associated with DAC, DSI, VOBA, DFEL and changes in future contract benefits and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and capital resources.  If we had unlocked our reversion to the mean (“RTM”) assumption in the corridor as of December 31, 2019, we would have recorded favorable unlocking of approximately $185 million, pre-tax, for our Annuities segment, approximately $30 million, pre-tax, for our Retirement Plan Services segment and none for our Life Insurance segment.  For further information about our RTM process, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL – Reversion to the Mean” in the MD&A.



Changes in the equity markets, interest rates and/or volatility affect the profitability of our products with guaranteed benefits; therefore, such changes may have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.





Both the level of expected payments and expected total assessments used in calculating the benefit reserves are affected by the equity markets.  The liabilities related to fair value are impacted by changes in equity markets, interest rates, volatility, foreign exchange rates and credit spreads.  Accordingly, strong equity markets, increases in interest rates and decreases in volatility will generally decrease the reserves calculated using fair value.  Conversely, a decrease in the equity markets along with a decrease in interest rates and an increase in volatility will generally result in an increase in the reserves calculated using fair value.



Increases in reserves would result in a charge to our earnings in the quarter in which the increase occurs.  Therefore, we maintain a customized dynamic hedge program that is designed to mitigate the risks associated with income volatility around the change in reserves on guaranteed benefits.  However, the hedge positions may not be effective to exactly offset the changes in the carrying value of the guarantees due to, among other things, the time lag between changes in their values and corresponding changes in the hedge positions, high levels of volatility in the equity markets and derivatives markets, extreme swings in interest rates, contract holder behavior different than expected, a strategic decision to adjust the hedging strategy in reaction to extreme market conditions or inconsistencies between economic and statutory reserving guidelines and divergence between the performance of the underlying funds and hedging indices.



In addition, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that derivative or reinsurance counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay, and we are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging these guaranteed benefits increases, resulting in a reduction to net income.  These, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on net income, financial condition or liquidity.



Liquidity and Capital Position



Adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital.



We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, to maintain our securities lending activities and to replace certain maturing liabilities.  Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer.  When considering our liquidity and capital position, it is important to distinguish between the needs of our insurance subsidiaries and the needs of the holding company.  For our insurance and other subsidiaries, the principal sources of liquidity are insurance premiums and fees, annuity considerations and cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash.



In the event that current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing.  The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn.  Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us.  See “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources of Liquidity and Cash Flow” in the MD&A for a description of our credit ratings.  Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all.



Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations.  Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs; and access the


capital necessary to grow our business.  As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter term securities than we prefer or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility.  Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets.



Because we are a holding company with no direct operations, the inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations.



We are a holding company and we have no direct operations.  Our principal asset is the capital stock of our insurance subsidiaries.  Our ability to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders, repurchase our securities and pay corporate expenses depends primarily on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us.  Under Indiana laws and regulations, our Indiana insurance subsidiaries, including our primary insurance subsidiary, LNL, may pay dividends to us without prior approval of the Indiana insurance commissioner (the “Commissioner’’) only from unassigned surplus, or must receive prior approval of the Commissioner to pay a dividend if such dividend, along with all other dividends paid within the preceding 12 consecutive months, would exceed the statutory limitation.  The current statutory limitation is the greater of 10% of the insurer’s contract holders’ surplus, as shown on its last annual statement on file with the Commissioner or the insurer’s statutory net gain from operations for the previous 12 months, but in no event to exceed statutory unassigned surplus.  LNL’s subsidiaries, LLANY and LLACB, are bound by similar restrictions under the laws of New York and New Hampshire, respectively.



In addition, payments of dividends and advances or repayment of funds to us by our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by the applicable laws of their respective jurisdictions requiring that our insurance subsidiaries hold a specified amount of minimum reserves in order to meet future obligations on their outstanding policies.  These regulations specify that the minimum reserves shall be calculated to be sufficient to meet future obligations, after giving consideration to future required premiums to be received, and are based on certain specified mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates and methods of valuation, which are subject to change.  In order to meet their claims-paying obligations, our insurance subsidiaries regularly monitor their reserves to ensure we hold sufficient amounts to cover actual or expected contract and claims payments.  At times, we may determine that reserves in excess of the minimum may be needed to ensure sufficiency.



Changes in, or reinterpretations of, these laws can constrain the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us in sufficient amounts and at times necessary to meet our debt obligations and corporate expenses.  Requiring our insurance subsidiaries to hold additional reserves has the potential to constrain their ability to pay dividends to the holding company.  See “Legislative, Regulatory and Tax – Attempts to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and Actuarial Guideline 38 may fail in whole or in part resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations” above for additional information on potential changes in these laws.



The earnings of our insurance subsidiaries impact contract holders’ surplus.  Lower earnings constrain the growth in our insurance subsidiaries’ capital, and therefore, can constrain the payment of dividends and advances or repayment of funds to us.



In addition, the amount of surplus that our insurance subsidiaries could pay as dividends is constrained by the amount of surplus they hold to maintain their financial strength ratings, to provide an additional layer of margin for risk protection and for future investment in our businesses.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, we believe that our insurance subsidiaries have sufficient liquidity to meet their contract holder obligations and maintain their operations.



A decrease in the capital and surplus of our insurance subsidiaries may result in a downgrade to our credit and insurer financial strength ratings.





Alternatively, if we were not to raise additional capital in such a scenario, either at our discretion or because we were unable to do so, our financial strength and credit ratings might be downgraded by one or more rating agencies.  For more information on risks regarding our ratings, see “Covenants and Ratings – A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered and/or hurt our relationships with creditors” below.






An inability to access our credit facilities could result in a reduction in our liquidity and lead to downgrades in our credit and financial strength ratings.



We have a $2.25 billion unsecured facility, which expires on July 31, 2024.  We also have other facilities that we enter into in the ordinary course of business.  See “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources of Liquidity and Cash Flow – Financing Activities” in the MD&A and Note 13.



We rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity.  We also use the credit facility as a potential backstop to provide variable annuity statutory reserve credit.  While our variable annuity hedge assets available to provide reserve credit have normally exceeded the statutory reserves, in certain stressed market conditions, it is possible that these assets could be less than the statutory reserve.  Our credit facility is available to provide reserve credit to LNL in such a case.  If we were unable to access our facility in such circumstances, it could materially impact LNL’s capital position.  The availability of these facilities could be critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market when alternative sources of credit are tight.  The credit facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants.  We must comply with covenants under our credit facilities, including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth.



Our right to borrow funds under these facilities is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under these facilities is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds.  Our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the facilities, would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.



Assumptions and Estimates



As a result of changes in assumptions, estimates and methods in calculating reserves, our reserves for future policy benefits and claims related to our current and future business as well as businesses we may acquire in the future may prove to be inadequate.



We establish and carry, as a liability, reserves based on estimates of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims.  For our insurance products, we calculate these reserves based on many assumptions and estimates, including, but not limited to, estimated premiums we will receive over the assumed life of the policies, the timing of the events covered by the insurance policies, the lapse rate of the policies, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the assets we purchase with the premiums we receive.



The sensitivity of our statutory reserves and surplus established for our variable annuity base contracts and riders to changes in the equity markets will vary depending on the magnitude of the decline.  The sensitivity will be affected by the level of account values relative to the level of guaranteed amounts, product design and reinsurance.  Statutory reserves for variable annuities depend upon the cumulative equity market impacts on the business in force, and therefore, result in non-linear relationships with respect to the level of equity market performance within any reporting period.



The assumptions and estimates we use in connection with establishing and carrying our reserves are inherently uncertain.  Accordingly, we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amount or the timing of the payment of actual benefits and claims or whether the assets supporting the policy liabilities will grow to the level we assume prior to payment of benefits or claims.  If our actual experience is different from our assumptions or estimates, our reserves may prove to be inadequate in relation to our estimated future benefits and claims.  Increases in reserves have a negative effect on income from operations in the quarter incurred.



If our businesses do not perform well and/or their estimated fair values decline or the price of our common stock does not increase, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.



Goodwill represents the excess of the acquisition price incurred to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets as of the date of acquisition.  We test goodwill at least annually for indications of value impairment with consideration given to financial performance, mergers and acquisitions and other relevant factors.  In addition, certain events, including a significant and adverse change in regulations, including tax law changes, legal factors, accounting standards or the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator or unanticipated competition, would cause us to review the carrying amounts of goodwill for impairment.  Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates.  During the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded goodwill impairment of $905 million related to our Life Insurance segment.  Future reviews of goodwill could result in an impairment of goodwill, and such write-downs could have a material adverse effect on our net income and book value, but will not affect the statutory capital of our insurance subsidiaries.  As of December 31, 2019, we had a total of $1.8 billion of goodwill on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  For more information on goodwill, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” in the MD&A and Note 10.



Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities.  Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable.  As of December 31, 2019, we had a deferred tax asset of $1.2 billion.  Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate capital gains from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies.  If, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred


income tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income.  Such valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.



The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial condition.



The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class.  Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.  Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised.  There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial statements.  Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future.  Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.

We regularly review our fixed maturity available-for-sale (“AFS”) securities (also referred to as “debt securities”) for declines in fair value that we determine to be other-than-temporary.



If we intend to sell a debt security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell a debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis and the fair value of the debt security is below amortized cost, we conclude that an other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) has occurred and the amortized cost is written down to current fair value, with a corresponding change to realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  If we do not intend to sell a debt security or it is not more likely than not we will be required to sell a debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis but the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected is less than the amortized cost of the debt security (referred to as the credit loss), we conclude that an OTTI has occurred, and the amortized cost is written down to the estimated recovery value with a corresponding change to realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss), as this is also deemed the credit portion of the OTTI.  The remainder of the decline to fair value is recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) to unrealized OTTI on AFS securities on our Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity, as this is considered a noncredit (i.e., recoverable) impairment.



We adopted amendments to the accounting guidance for measuring credit losses on financial instruments effective January 1, 2020.  For more information regarding the new accounting standard, see “ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments” in Note 2.



Related to our unrealized losses, we establish deferred tax assets for the tax benefit we may receive in the event that losses are realized.  The realization of significant realized losses could result in an inability to recover the tax benefits and may result in the establishment of valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets.  Realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.



Our valuation of fixed maturity, trading and equity securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.



Fixed maturity, trading and equity securities and short-term investments, which are reported at fair value on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, represented the majority of our total investments and cash and invested cash.  We have categorized these securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique.  The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3).



The determination of fair values in the absence of quoted market prices is based on valuation methodologies, securities we deem to be comparable and assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances.  The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty.  Factors considered in estimating fair value include coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer and quoted market prices of comparable securities.  The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.



During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly increasing/decreasing or high/low interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable.  There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment.  In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment.  As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation, thereby resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold.  Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly.  Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.



Significant adverse mortality experience may result in the loss of, or higher prices for, reinsurance.



We reinsure a significant amount of the mortality risk on fully underwritten, newly issued, individual life insurance contracts.  We regularly review retention limits for continued appropriateness and they may be changed in the future.  If we were to experience adverse mortality or morbidity experience, a significant portion of that would be reimbursed by our reinsurers.  Prolonged or severe adverse


mortality or morbidity experience could result in increased reinsurance costs and, ultimately, reinsurers being unwilling to offer coverage.  If we are unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection at comparable rates to what we are paying currently, we may have to accept an increase in our net exposures or revise our pricing to reflect higher reinsurance premiums or both.  If this were to occur, we may be exposed to reduced profitability and cash flow strain or we may not be able to price new business at competitive rates.



Catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for contract holder claims.



Our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic, an act of terrorism, natural disaster or other event that causes a large number of deaths or injuries.  Significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century, but the likelihood, timing or severity of a future pandemic cannot be predicted.  Additionally, the impact of climate change could cause changes in weather patterns, resulting in more severe and more frequent natural disasters such as forest fires, hurricanes, tornados, floods and storm surges.  In our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims.  These events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition.



The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event.  Pandemics, natural disasters and man-made catastrophes, including terrorism, may produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated.  Claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition.  Also, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries.  Accordingly, our ability to write new business could also be affected.



Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event.  We cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established or applicable reinsurance will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities, and a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.



Operational Matters



Our enterprise risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our businesses or result in losses.



We have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future.  Nonetheless, our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective.  Many of our methods of managing risk and exposures are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models.  As a result, these methods may not predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate, such as the risk of pandemics causing a large number of deaths.  Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us, which may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated.  Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective.



We face risks of non-collectability of reinsurance and increased reinsurance rates, which could materially affect our results of operations.





The balance of the reinsurance is due from a diverse group of reinsurers.  The collectability of reinsurance is largely a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers.  We perform due diligence on all reinsurers, including, but not limited to, a review of creditworthiness prior to entering into any reinsurance transaction, and we review our reinsurers on an ongoing basis to monitor credit ratings.  To support balances due and allow reserve credit when reinsurance is obtained from reinsurers not authorized to transact


business in the applicable jurisdictions, we also require assets in trust, LOCs or other acceptable collateral.  Despite these measures, the insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance contract by a large reinsurer or multiple reinsurers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.



We adopted amendments to the accounting guidance for measuring credit losses on financial instruments effective January 1, 2020.  For more information regarding the new accounting standard, see “ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments” in Note 2.



Reinsurers also may attempt to increase rates with respect to our existing reinsurance arrangements.  The ability of our reinsurers to increase rates depends upon the terms of each reinsurance contract.Some of our reinsurance contracts contain provisions that limit the reinsurer’s ability to increase rates on in-force business; however, some do not.An increase in reinsurance rates may affect the profitability of our insurance business.Additionally, such a rate increase could result in our recapture of the business, which may result in a need for additional reserves and increase our exposure to claims.  While in recent years, we have faced a number of rate increase actions on in-force business, our management of those actions has not had a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition.  However, there can be no assurance that the outcome of future rate increase actions would similarly result in no material effect.See Note 14 for a description of reinsurance related actions.



Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business.



Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people.  Intense competition exists for the key employees with demonstrated ability, and we may be unable to hire or retain such employees.  The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations due to their skills, knowledge of our business, their years of industry experience and the potential difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement employees.  We compete with other financial institutions primarily on the basis of our products, compensation, support services and financial condition.  Sales in our businesses and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining key employees, including financial advisers, wholesalers and other employees, as well as independent distributors of our products.



We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.



We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property.  Although we use a broad range of measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property.  We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which represents a diversion of resources that may be significant in amount and may not prove successful.  Additionally, complex legal and factual determinations and evolving laws and court interpretations make the scope of protection afforded our intellectual property uncertain, particularly in relation to our patents.  The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete.



We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event that another party alleges our operations or activities infringe upon another party’s intellectual property rights.  We may be subject to claims by third parties for breach of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret or license usage rights.  Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant liability for damages.  If we were found to have infringed a third-party patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or utilizing and benefiting from certain copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or alternatively could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.



Our information systems may experience interruptions, breaches in security and/or a failure of disaster recovery systems that could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively.



Our information systems are critical to the operation of our business.  We collect, process, maintain, retain and distribute large amounts of personal financial and health information and other confidential and sensitive data about our customers in the ordinary course of our business.  Our business therefore depends on our customers’ willingness to entrust us with their personal information.  Any failure, interruption or breach in security could result in disruptions to our critical systems and adversely affect our customer relationships.



Publicly reported cyber-security threats and incidents have increased over recent periods.  Although hackers have attempted and will likely continue to try to infiltrate our computer systems, to date, we have not had a material security breach.  While we employ a robust and tested information security program, the preventative actions we take to reduce cyber incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyberattacks, compromised credentials, fraud, other security breaches or other unauthorized access to our computer systems, and, given the increasing sophistication of cyberattacks, in some cases, such incidents could occur and persist for an extended period of time without detection.  As a result, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it will be detected in a timely manner or that it can be sufficiently remediated.  Such an occurrence may impede or interrupt our business operations and could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.



In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, epidemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, terrorist attack, cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to


conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data.  In addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable following a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised.  These interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers’ ability to provide goods and services and our employees’ ability to perform their job responsibilities.



The failure of our computer systems and/or our disaster recovery plans for any reason could cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers.  The occurrence of any such failure, interruption or security breach of our systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and financial liability.  Depending on the nature of the information compromised, in the event of a data breach or other unauthorized access to our customer data, we may also have obligations to notify customers about the incident, and we may need to provide some form of remedy, such as a subscription to a credit monitoring service, for the individuals affected by the incident.  For more information, see “Legislative, Regulatory and Tax – State Regulation – Compliance with existing and emerging privacy regulations could result in increased compliance costs and/or lead to changes in business practices and policies, and any failure to protect the confidentiality of client information could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”



Although we conduct due diligence, negotiate contractual provisions and, in many cases, conduct periodic reviews of our vendors, distributors, and other third parties that provide operational or information technology services to us to confirm compliance with our information security standards, the failure of such third parties’ computer systems and/or their disaster recovery plans for any reason might cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers.  Such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results.  While we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third-party liability and first party liability coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect us against all losses.



Acquisitions of businesses, including our recent acquisition of Liberty Life, may not produce anticipated benefits resulting in operating difficulties, unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.



Our acquisition of Liberty Life was completed in May 2018, and our integration efforts were substantially completed in 2019.  Once completed however, an acquired business may not perform as projected, expense and revenue synergies may not materialize as expected and costs associated with the integration may be greater than anticipated.  Our financial results could be adversely affected by unanticipated performance issues, unforeseen liabilities, transaction-related charges, diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges or growth strategies, loss of key employees or customers, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-term assets or goodwill and indemnifications.  Factors such as receiving the required governmental or regulatory approvals to merge the acquired entity, delays in implementation or completion of transition activities or a disruption to our or the acquired entity’s business could impact our results.



Covenants and Ratings



A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered and/or hurt our relationships with creditors.



Nationally recognized rating agencies rate the financial strength of our principal insurance subsidiaries and rate our debt.  Ratings are not recommendations to buy our securities.  Each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically, and our current ratings may not be maintained in the future.



Our financial strength ratings, which are intended to measure our ability to meet contract holder obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a result, our competitiveness.  A downgrade of the financial strength rating of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position in the insurance industry by making it more difficult for us to market our products, as potential customers may select companies with higher financial strength ratings, and by leading to increased withdrawals by current customers seeking companies with higher financial strength ratings.  This could lead to a decrease in fees as net outflows of assets increase, and therefore, result in lower fee income and lower spread income.  Furthermore, sales of assets to meet customer withdrawal demands could also result in losses, depending on market conditions.  The interest rates we pay on our borrowings are largely dependent on our credit ratings.  A downgrade of our debt ratings could affect our ability to raise additional debt, including bank lines of credit, with terms and conditions similar to our current debt, and accordingly, likely increase our cost of capital.



All of our ratings and ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies, and therefore, no assurance can be given that our principal insurance subsidiaries or we can maintain these ratings.  See “Item 1. Business – Financial Strength Ratings” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources of Liquidity and Cash Flow” in the MD&A for a description of our ratings.






We will be required to pay interest on our capital securities with proceeds from the issuance of qualifying securities if we fail to achieve specified capital adequacy or net income and stockholders’ equity levels.



As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately $1.2 billion in principal amount of capital securities outstanding.  All of the capital securities contain covenants that require us to make interest payments in accordance with an alternative coupon satisfaction mechanism (“ACSM”) if we determine that one of the following triggers exists as of the 30th day prior to an interest payment date, or the “determination date”:



1.    LNL’s RBC ratio is less than 175% (based on the most recent annual financial statement filed with the State of Indiana); or



2.    (i) The sum of our consolidated net income for the four trailing fiscal quarters ending on the quarter that is two quarters prior to the most recently completed quarter prior to the determination date is zero or negative, and (ii) our consolidated stockholders’ equity (excluding accumulated OCI and any increase in stockholders’ equity resulting from the issuance of preferred stock during a quarter), or “adjusted stockholders’ equity,” as of (x) the most recently completed quarter and (y) the end of the quarter that is two quarters before the most recently completed quarter, has declined by 10% or more as compared to the quarter that is ten fiscal quarters prior to the last completed quarter, or the “benchmark quarter.”



The ACSM would generally require us to use commercially reasonable efforts to satisfy our obligation to pay interest in full on the capital securities with the net proceeds from sales of our common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock with an exercise price greater than the market price.  We would have to utilize the ACSM until the trigger events above no longer existed, and, in the case of test 2 above, until our adjusted stockholders’ equity amount increased or declined by less than 10% as compared to the adjusted stockholders’ equity at the end of the benchmark quarter for each interest payment date as to which interest payment restrictions were imposed by test 2 above.



If we were required to utilize the ACSM and were successful in selling sufficient shares of common stock or warrants to satisfy the interest payment, we would dilute the current holders of our common stock.  Furthermore, while a trigger event is occurring and if we do not pay accrued interest in full, we may not, among other things, pay dividends on or repurchase our capital stock.  Our failure to pay interest pursuant to the ACSM will not result in an event of default with respect to the capital securities, nor will a nonpayment of interest, unless it lasts for ten consecutive years, although such breaches may result in monetary damages to the holders of the capital securities.



The calculations of RBC, net income (loss) and adjusted stockholders’ equity are subject to adjustments and the capital securities are subject to additional terms and conditions as further described in supplemental indentures filed as exhibits to this Form 10-K.



Certain blocks of our insurance business purchased from third-party insurers under indemnity reinsurance agreements may require us to place assets in trust, secure letters of credit or return the business, if the financial strength ratings and/or capital ratios of certain insurance subsidiaries are not maintained at specified levels.





If the cedent recaptured the business, LNL and LLANY would be required to release reserves and transfer assets to the cedent.  Such a recapture could adversely impact our future profits.  Alternatively, if LNL and LLANY established a security trust for the cedent, the ability to transfer assets out of the trust could be severely restricted, thus negatively impacting our liquidity.






Investments



Some of our investments are relatively illiquid and are in asset classes that have been experiencing significant market valuation fluctuations.



We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as privately placed securities, mortgage loans on real estate, policy loans, limited partnership interests and other investments.  These asset classes represented 29% of the carrying value of our total investments as of December 31, 2019.



If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return collateral in connection with our investment portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending activities, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both.



The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset classes described in the paragraph above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset.  If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them, and we might be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices.



We invest a portion of our investments in investment funds, many of which make private equity investments.  The amount and timing of income from such investment funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments, including private equity investments.  The timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds’ schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict.  In addition, because these funds, and private equity investments, do not trade on public markets and indications of realizable market value may not be readily available, valuations can be infrequent and/or more volatile.  As a result, the amount of income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter, and a sudden or sustained decline in the markets or valuation of one or more substantial investments could result in lower than expected returns earned by our investment portfolio and thereby adversely impact our earnings.



Defaults on our mortgage loans and write-downs of mortgage equity may adversely affect our profitability.



Our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial properties.  The performance of our mortgage loan investments may fluctuate in the future.  In addition, some of our mortgage loan investments have balloon payment maturities.  An increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Further, any geographic or sector exposure in our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.  While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are exposed.



The difficulties faced by other financial institutions could adversely affect us.



We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutions.  Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty.  In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the related loan or derivative exposure.  We also may have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions and/or equity investments.  These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, downturns in the economy or real estate values, operational failure, corporate governance issues or other reasons.  A downturn in the U.S. or other economies could result in increased impairments.  There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets would not materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.



Our requirements to post collateral or make payments related to declines in market value of specified assets may adversely affect our liquidity and expose us to counterparty credit risk.



Many of our transactions with financial and other institutions, including settling futures positions, specify the circumstances under which the parties are required to post collateral.  The amount of collateral we may be required to post under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity.  In addition, under the terms of some of our transactions, we may be required to make payments to our counterparties related to any decline in the market value of the specified assets.



Our investments are reflected within our consolidated financial statements utilizing different accounting bases, and, accordingly, there may be significant differences between cost and fair value that are not recorded in our consolidated financial statements.



Our principal investments are in fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans on real estate, policy loans, short-term investments, derivative instruments, limited partnerships and other investments.  The carrying value of such investments is as follows:



Fixed maturity securities are classified as AFS, except for those designated as trading securities, and are reported at their estimated fair value.  The difference between the estimated fair value and amortized cost of such securities (i.e., unrealized investment gains


and losses) is recorded as a separate component of OCI, net of adjustments to DAC, contract holder related amounts and deferred income taxes;

Fixed maturity securities designated as trading securities and equity securities are recorded at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in realized gain (loss).  However, in certain cases, the trading and equity securities support reinsurance arrangements.  In those cases, offsetting the changes to fair value of the trading and equity securities are corresponding changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liability associated with the underlying reinsurance arrangement.  In other words, the investment results for the trading and equity securities, including gains and losses from sales, are passed directly to the reinsurers through the contractual terms of the reinsurance arrangements.  These types of securities represent 81% of our trading and equity securities as of December 31, 2019;

Short-term investments include investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months, at the time of acquisition and are stated at amortized cost, which approximates fair value;

Also, mortgage loans on real estate are carried at unpaid principal balances, adjusted for any unamortized premiums or discounts and deferred fees or expenses, net of valuation allowances;

Policy loans are carried at unpaid principal balances;

Real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests are carried using the equity method of accounting; and

Other investments consist principally of derivatives with positive fair values.  Derivatives are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in income from non-qualifying derivatives and derivatives in fair value hedging relationships.  Derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships are reflected as a separate component of OCI.



Investments not carried at fair value on our consolidated financial statements, principally, mortgage loans, policy loans and real estate, may have fair values that are substantially higher or lower than the carrying value reflected on our consolidated financial statements.  In addition, unrealized losses are not reflected in net income unless we realize the losses by either selling the security at below amortized cost or determine that the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary (i.e., impaired).  Each of such asset classes is regularly evaluated for impairment under the accounting guidance appropriate to the respective asset class.



Competition



Intense competition could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.



Our businesses are intensely competitive.  We compete based on a number of factors, including name recognition, service, the quality of investment advice, investment performance, product features, price, perceived financial strength and claims-paying and credit ratings.  Our competitors include insurers, broker-dealers, investment advisers, asset managers, hedge funds and other financial institutions.  A number of our business units face competitors that have greater market share, offer a broader range of products or have higher financial strength or credit ratings than we do.



In recent years, there has been consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry resulting in increased competition from large, well-capitalized financial services firms.  Many of these firms also have been able to increase their distribution systems through mergers or contractual arrangements.  Furthermore, larger competitors may have lower operating costs and an ability to absorb greater risk while maintaining their financial strength ratings, thereby allowing them to price their products more competitively.



Our sales representatives are not captive and may sell products of our competitors.



We sell our annuity and life insurance products through independent sales representatives.  These representatives are not captive, which means they may also sell our competitors’ products.  If our competitors offer products that are more attractive than ours, or pay higher commission rates to the sales representatives than we do, these representatives may concentrate their efforts in selling our competitors’ products instead of ours.




Item 1B.Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.Item 2.PropertiesAs of December 31, 2019, LNC and our subsidiaries owned or leased approximately 3.2 million square feet of office and other space.  We leased 0.1 million square feet of office space in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, which includes space for LFN.  We leased 0.2 million square feet of office space in Radnor, Pennsylvania, for our corporate center and for LFD.  We owned or leased 1.0 million square feet of office space in Fort Wayne, Indiana, primarily for our Annuities and Retirement Plan Services segments.  We owned or leased 0.8 million square feet of office space in Greensboro, North Carolina, primarily for our Life Insurance segment.  We owned or leased 0.3 million square feet of office space in Omaha, Nebraska, 0.2 million square feet of office space in Atlanta, Georgia, and 0.1 million square feet in Dover, New Hampshire, primarily for our Group Protection segment.  An additional 0.5 million square feet of office space is owned or leased in other U.S. cities for branch offices.  This discussion regarding properties does not include information on field offices and investment properties.Item 3.Legal ProceedingsFor information regarding legal proceedings, see “Regulatory and Litigation Matters” in Note 14, which is incorporated herein by reference.Item 4.Mine Safety DisclosuresNot applicable.‎




Information About our Executive Officers



Our Executive Officers as of February 14, 2020, were as follows:









NameAge(1)Position with LNC and Business Experience During the Past Five Years



Dennis R. Glass70President, Chief Executive Officer and Director (since July 2007).  President, Chief Operating Officer and Director (April 2006 - July 2007).



Lisa M. Buckingham54Executive Vice President and Chief People, Place and Brand Officer (since August 2018).  Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer (March 2011 - August 2018).  Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer (December 2008 - March 2011).



Ellen Cooper55Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer (since August 2012).



Randal J. Freitag57Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (since January 2011) and Head of Individual Life (since June 2017).  Senior Vice President, Chief Risk Officer (2007 - December 2010).  Senior Vice President, Chief Risk Officer and Treasurer (2007 - October 2009).



Wilford H. Fuller49Executive Vice President (since March 2011) and President, Annuity Solutions (since March 2015).  President, Lincoln Financial Network(2)(since October 2012).  President and CEO, Lincoln Financial Distributors(2)(since February 2009).



Jamie B. Ohl54Executive Vice President (since July 2018), President, Retirement Plan Services (since August 2015), and Head of Life and Annuity Operations (since July 2018).  General Partner, Edward Jones, a financial services firm (October 2014 - August 2015).



Leon E. Roday65Executive Vice President and General Counsel (since December 2018).  Executive Vice President (December 2013 - February 2015), and General Counsel and Secretary (May 2004 - February 2015), Genworth Financial, an insurance company.



Kenneth S. Solon59Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer and Head of Digital (since July 2018).  Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer and Head of Administrative Services (January 2016 - July 2018).  Senior Vice President, Head of Technology (March 2015 - December 2015).  Senior Vice President, Head of Shared Services and Technology (January 2010 - March 2015).



(1)Age shown is based on the officer’s age as of February 14, 2020.

(2)Denotes an affiliate of LNC.







‎




PART II



Item 5.  Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



(a)    Stock Market and Dividend Information



Our common stock is traded on the New York stock exchange under the symbol LNC.  As of February 14, 2020, the number of shareholders of record of our common stock was 6,124.  The dividend on our common stock is declared each quarter by our Board of Directors if we are eligible to pay dividends and the Board determines that we will pay dividends.  In determining dividends, the Board takes into consideration items such as our financial condition, including current and expected earnings, projected cash flows and anticipated financing needs.  For potential restrictions on our ability to pay dividends, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 19 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements presented in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”



For information on securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans, see “Part III – Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters,” which is incorporated herein by reference.



(b)    Not Applicable



(c)    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



The following summarizes purchases of equity securities by the issuer during the quarter ended December 31, 2019 (dollars in millions, except per share data):





(c) Total Number(d) Approximate Dollar(a) Totalof SharesValue of SharesNumber(b) AveragePurchased as Part ofthat May Yet Beof SharesPrice PaidPublicly AnnouncedPurchased Under thePeriodPurchased(1)per SharePlans or Programs(2)Plans or Programs(2)10/1/19 – 10/31/19---$13711/1/19 – 11/30/191,666,95560.011,666,95597012/1/19 – 12/31/19---970



(1)Of the total number of shares purchased, no shares were received in connection with the exercise of stock options and related taxes.  For the quarter ended December 31, 2019, there were 1,666,955 shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs.

(2)On November 13, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in our securities repurchase authorization, bringing the total aggregate repurchase authorization to $1.0 billion.  As of December 31, 2019, our remaining security repurchase authorization was $970 million.  The security repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date.  The amount and timing of share repurchase depends on key capital ratios, rating agency expectations, the generation of free cash flow and an evaluation of the costs and benefits associated with alternative uses of capital.  Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or in privately negotiated transactions and may be made pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement or Rule 10b5-1 plan.



‎


Item 6.Selected Financial Data



The following selected financial data (in millions, except per share data) should be read in conjunction with “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements presented in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”











For the Years Ended December 31,20192018201720162015Total revenues$17,258$16,424$14,257$13,330$13,572Net income (loss)8861,6412,0791,1921,154Per share data:(1)(2)Net income (loss) – basic4.417.609.365.094.60Net income (loss) – diluted4.387.409.225.034.51Common stock dividends1.511.361.201.040.85As of December 31,20192018201720162015Assets$334,761$298,147$281,763$261,627$251,908Long-term debt:Principal5,8275,6864,6735,1235,323Unamortized premiums (discounts), unamortizeddebt issuance costs, unamortized adjustmentsfrom discontinued hedges and fair value hedgeon interest rate swap agreements240153221222230Stockholders’ equity19,68914,35017,32214,47813,617Per common share data:(1)Stockholders’ equity, includingaccumulated other comprehensive income (loss)100.1169.7179.4363.9755.84Stockholders’ equity, excludingaccumulated other comprehensive income (loss)71.2767.7364.6257.0552.38Market value of common stock59.0151.3176.8766.2750.26



(1)Per share amounts were affected by the retirement of 10.4 million, 13.2 million, 10.4 million, 19.3 million and 16.0 million shares of common stock during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

(2)To arrive at diluted earnings per share, if the effect of equity classification would result in a more dilutive earnings per share, we adjust the numerator used in the calculation of our diluted earnings per share to remove the mark-to-market adjustment for deferred units of LNC stock in our deferred compensation plans, which amounted to $18 million, $(7) million and $4 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2015, respectively.  There was no such adjustment for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2016.



‎




Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to help the reader understand the financial condition as of December 31, 2019, compared with December 31, 2018, and the results of operations in 2019 compared to 2018 of Lincoln National Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.Discussions of 2017 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2018 and 2017 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Part II – Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2018 Form 10-K.Unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise requires, “LNC,” “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refers to Lincoln National Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.



The MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements (“Notes”) presented in “Part II – Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” as well as “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors” above.



FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS–CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE



Certain statements made in this report and in other written or oral statements made by us or on our behalf are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“PSLRA”).  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like:  “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “estimate,” “project,” “will,” “shall” and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  We claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.



Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.  Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including:



Deterioration in general economic and business conditions that may affect account values, investment results, guaranteed benefit liabilities, premium levels, claims experience and the level of pension benefit costs, funding and investment results;

Adverse global capital and credit market conditions could affect our ability to raise capital, if necessary, and may cause us to realize impairments on investments and certain intangible assets, including goodwill and the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, which may reduce future earnings and/or affect our financial condition and ability to raise additional capital or refinance existing debt as it matures;

Because of our holding company structure, the inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to the holding company in sufficient amounts could harm the holding company’s ability to meet its obligations;

Legislative, regulatory or tax changes, both domestic and foreign, that affect: the cost of, or demand for, our subsidiaries’ products; the required amount of reserves and/or surplus; our ability to conduct business and our captive reinsurance arrangements as well as restrictions on the payment of revenue sharing and 12b-1 distribution fees; the impact of U.S. federal tax reform legislation on our business, earnings and capital; and the impact of any “best interest” standards of care adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) or other regulations adopted by federal or state regulators or self-regulatory organizations relating to the standard of care owed by investment advisers and/or broker-dealers;

Actions taken by reinsurers to raise rates on in-force business;

Declines in or sustained low interest rates causing a reduction in investment income, the interest margins of our businesses, estimated gross profits (“EGPs”) and demand for our products;

Rapidly increasing interest rates causing contract holders to surrender life insurance and annuity policies, thereby causing realized investment losses, and reduced hedge performance related to variable annuities;

Uncertainty about the effect of continuing promulgation and implementation of rules and regulations under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act on us, the economy and the financial services sector in particular;

The initiation of legal or regulatory proceedings against us, and the outcome of any legal or regulatory proceedings, such as:  adverse actions related to present or past business practices common in businesses in which we compete; adverse decisions in significant actions including, but not limited to, actions brought by federal and state authorities and class action cases; new decisions that result in changes in law; and unexpected trial court rulings;

A decline in the equity markets causing a reduction in the sales of our subsidiaries’ products; a reduction of asset-based fees that our subsidiaries charge on various investment and insurance products; an acceleration of the net amortization of deferred acquisition costs (“DAC”), value of business acquired (“VOBA”), deferred sales inducements (“DSI”) and deferred front-end loads (“DFEL”); and an increase in liabilities related to guaranteed benefit features of our subsidiaries’ variable annuity products;

Ineffectiveness of our risk management policies and procedures, including various hedging strategies used to offset the effect of changes in the value of liabilities due to changes in the level and volatility of the equity markets and interest rates;

A deviation in actual experience regarding future persistency, mortality, morbidity, interest rates or equity market returns from the assumptions used in pricing our subsidiaries’ products, in establishing related insurance reserves and in the net amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL, which may reduce future earnings;

Changes in accounting principles that may affect our financial statements;

Lowering of one or more of our debt ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations and the adverse effect such action may have on our ability to raise capital and on our liquidity and financial condition;




Lowering of one or more of the insurer financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries and the adverse effect such action may have on the premium writings, policy retention, profitability of our insurance subsidiaries and liquidity;

Significant credit, accounting, fraud, corporate governance or other issues that may adversely affect the value of certain investments in our portfolios, as well as counterparties to which we are exposed to credit risk, requiring that we realize losses on investments;

Inability to protect our intellectual property rights or claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others;

Interruption in telecommunication, information technology or other operational systems or failure to safeguard the confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data on such systems from cyberattacks or other breaches of our data security systems;

The effect of acquisitions and divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual items,including the successful implementation of integration strategies or the achievement of anticipated synergies and operational efficiencies related to an acquisition;

The adequacy and collectability of reinsurance that we have purchased;

Acts of terrorism, a pandemic, war or other man-made and natural catastrophes that may adversely affect our businesses and the cost and availability of reinsurance;

Competitive conditions, including pricing pressures, new product offerings and the emergence of new competitors, that may affect the level of premiums and fees that our subsidiaries can charge for their products;

The unknown effect on our subsidiaries’ businesses resulting from evolving market preferences and the changing demographics of our client base; and

The unanticipated loss of key management, financial planners or wholesalers.



The risks and uncertainties included here are not exhaustive.  Other sections of this report and other reports that we file with the SEC include additional factors that could affect our businesses and financial performance, including “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” which are incorporated herein by reference.  Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment.  New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.



Further, it is not possible to assess the effect of all risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report.



INTRODUCTION



Executive Summary



We are a holding company that operates multiple insurance and retirement businesses through subsidiary companies.  We sell a wide range of wealth protection, accumulation, retirement income and group protection products and solutions through our four business segments:



Annuities;

Retirement Plan Services;

Life Insurance; and

Group Protection



We also have Other Operations, which includes the financial data for operations that are not directly related to the business segments.  See “Part I – Item 1. Business” above for a discussion of our business segments and products.



As discussed in Note 3, on May 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition from Liberty Mutual Insurance Company of 100% of the capital stock of Liberty Life Assurance Company of Boston (“Liberty Life”), an operator of a group benefits business (the “Liberty Group Business”) and an individual life and individual and group annuity business.  We ceded insurance policies relating to the individual life and individual and group annuity business to third-party reinsurers.  The acquisition expanded the scale and capabilities of the Group Protection business while further diversifying the Company’s sources of earnings.  Effective September 1, 2019, Liberty Life’s name was changed to Lincoln Life Assurance Company of Boston (“LLACB”).



In this report, in addition to providing consolidated revenues and net income (loss), we also provide segment operating revenues and income (loss) from operations because we believe they are meaningful measures of revenues and the profitability of our operating segments.  Operating revenues and income (loss) from operations are the financial performance measures we use to evaluate and assess the results of our segments.  Accordingly, we define and report operating revenues and income (loss) from operations by segment in Note 21.  Our management believes that operating revenues and income (loss) from operations explain the results of our ongoing businesses in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in our current businesses.  Certain items are excluded from operating revenue and income (loss) from operations because they are unpredictable and not necessarily indicative of current operating fundamentals or future performance of the business segments, and, in many instances, decisions regarding these items do not necessarily relate to the operations of the individual segments.  In addition, we believe that our definitions of operating revenues and income (loss)


from operations will provide investors with a more valuable measure of our performance because it better reveals trends in our businesses.



We provide information about our segments’ and Other Operations’ operating revenue and expense line items and realized gain (loss), key drivers of changes and historical details underlying the line items below.For factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements – Cautionary Language” above.



Industry Trends



We continue to be influenced by a variety of trends that affect the industry.



Interest Rate Environment



Interest rates continue to remain lower than historical levels, which may continue to negatively impact investment portfolio yields and our interest rate spreads.  The level of long-term interest rates and the shape of the yield curve can have a negative effect on the demand for and the profitability of spread-based products such as fixed annuities and universal life insurance (“UL”).  Low interest rates can also increase the cost of providing long-term guarantees.  A flat or inverted yield curve and low long-term interest rates are affecting new money rates on corporate bonds.  For risks related to sustained low interest rates, see “Significant Operational Matters – Low Interest Rate Environment” below and “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors – Market Conditions –Changes in interest rates and sustained low interest rates may cause interest rate spreads to decrease and make it more challenging to meet certain statutory requirements and changes in interest rates may also result in increased contract withdrawals.”



RegulatoryEnvironment



U.S.-domiciled insurance entities are regulated at the state level, while certain products and services are also subject to federal regulation.  Regulators may refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for the life insurance industry.  Regulations recently adopted or currently under review can potentially affect the capital requirements and profitability of the industry and result in increased regulation and oversight for the industry.  See “Part I – Item 1. Business – Regulatory” and “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors – Legislative, Regulatory and Tax” for a discussion of regulatory developments that may impact the Company and the associated risks.



Competitive Environment



See the “Competition” sections for each of our segments in “Part I – Item 1. Business – Business Segments and Other Operations” for discussion of the competitive environment in which we operate.



Demographics



Escalation of income protection and wealth accumulation goals for baby-boomers nearing retirement is a key driver shaping the actions of the insurance industry.  As a result of increasing longevity, retirees will need to accumulate sufficient savings to finance retirements that may span 30 or more years.  Helping the baby-boomers to accumulate assets for retirement and subsequently to convert these assets into retirement income represents an opportunity for the insurance industry.  Another opportunity for the insurance industry is the need for long-term care services as retirees are living longer and will need these services at some point in their lifetime.



Millennials entering the insurance market is another key driver shaping the actions of the insurance industry.  This demographic group could end up having different consumer preferences than our in-force business.  These shifts may be tied to the type of products they purchase and how they choose to purchase these products.



Significant Operational Matters



Targeted Annual Operating Earnings Per Share Growth



Growth in operating earnings per share (“EPS”) is a key driver of our long-term performance.  We believe that the key drivers to growing our operating EPS over time include:



Generating new business and positive net flows through our product development and distribution;

Capital markets performing in-line with our expectations;

Expense discipline, our strategic digitization initiative and expense synergies ofacquired businessesdriving improvement in operating margins; and

Capital generation and active capital deployment, consisting of returning capital to common stockholders.






Sources of Earnings



We monitor our sources of earnings as a factor in managing our businesses.  This information may be useful in assessing our risk profile and cost of capital.  We continue to focus on achieving our long-term goal of increasing mortality and morbidity margins.  Growth in this source of earnings component could be driven by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, pricing actions on our life and group products and acquiring blocks of mortality/morbidity business.The following table presents the sources of earnings components of income (loss) from operations, before income taxes, excluding Other Operations:



OkFor the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Investment spread(1)19.2%26.4%31.0%Mortality/morbidity(2)23.5%26.7%24.3%Fees on AUM(3)55.2%41.4%40.1%VA riders(4)2.1%5.5%4.6%Total(5)100.0%100.0%100.0%



(1)Investment spread earnings consist primarily of net investment income, net of interest credited, earned on the underlying general account investments supporting our fixed products less related expenses.

(2)Mortality/morbidity earnings result from mortality margins, morbidity margins, and certain expense assessments and related fees that are a function of the rates priced into the product and level of business in force.

(3)Fees on assets under management (“AUM”) earnings consist primarily of asset-based fees charged on variable account values less associated benefits and related expenses.

(4)Variable annuity (“VA”) riders’ earnings consist of fees charged to the contract holder related to guaranteed benefit rider features, less the net valuation premium and associated change in benefit reserves and related expenses.

(5)The sources of earnings components include the effect of unlocking resulting from our annual comprehensive review, which for 2019 was significantly unfavorable.  See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL – Unlocking” below for more information about unlocking.



See Note 21 for additional information on income (loss) from operations by segment.



Low Interest Rate Environment



Because the profitability of our business depends in part on interest rate spreads, interest rate fluctuations could negatively affect our profitability.  Changes in interest rates may impact both our profitability from spread businesses and our return on invested capital.  Thus, low interest rates negatively impact margins.  Some of our products, principally our fixed annuities and UL, including indexed universal life insurance (“IUL”) and linked-benefit UL, have interest rate guarantees that expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates or prolonged low interest rates will reduce our spread, or the difference between the interest that we are required to credit to contracts and the yields that we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting our obligations under the contracts.



Although we have been proactive in our investment strategies, product designs, crediting rate strategies and overall asset-liability practices to mitigate the risk of unfavorable consequences in this type of environment, declines in our spread, or instances where the returns on our general account investments are not enough to support the interest rate guarantees on these products, could have an adverse effect on some of our businesses or results of operations.  We have provided disclosures around interest rate spreads and interest rate risk in “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors – Market Conditions –Changes in interest rates and sustained low interest rates may cause interest rate spreads to decrease and make it more challenging to meet certain statutory requirements and changes in interest rates may also result in increased contract withdrawals” and“Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk.”



Variable Annuity Hedge Program Performance



We offer variable annuity products with living benefit guarantees.  As described below in “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Derivatives – GLB,” we use derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to the risks and earnings volatility that result from the guaranteed living benefit (“GLB”) embedded derivatives and benefit ratio unlocking in certain of our variable annuity products.  The income statement effect due to the change in fair value of these instruments tends to move in the opposite direction of the change in embedded derivative reserves and benefit ratio unlocking.  We also use derivative instruments to hedge the income statement effect in the opposite direction of the GLB benefit ratio unlocking for movements in equity markets.  These results are excluded from the Annuities and Retirement Plan Services segments’ operating revenues and income (loss) from operations (see Note 21).  See “Realized Gain (Loss) and Benefit Ratio Unlocking – Variable Annuity Net Derivatives Results” below for information on our methodology for calculating the non-performance risk (“NPR”), which affects the discount rate used in the calculation of the GLB embedded derivative reserves.



We also offer variable annuity products with death benefit guarantees.  As described below in “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates –Future Contract Benefits and Other Contract Holder Obligations – GDB,” we use derivative instruments to hedge the income statement effect of the guaranteed death benefit (“GDB”) benefit ratio unlocking for movements in equity markets.  These results are excluded from income (loss) from operations (see Note 21).






The costs of derivative instruments that we use to hedge these variable annuity products may increase as a result of a low interest rate environment.



Earnings from Account Values



The Annuities and Retirement Plan Services segments are the most sensitive to the equity markets, as well as, to a lesser extent, our Life Insurance segment.  We discuss the earnings effect of the equity markets on account values and the related asset-based earnings below in each business segment’s operating results section and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Equity Market Risk – Effect of Equity Market Sensitivity.”



Strategic Digitization Initiative



We continue to make strategic investments in our businesses to grow revenues, further spur productivity and improve our efficiency and service to our customers.  In 2016, we began our enterprise-wide digitization initiative that intends to significantly enhance our customer experience and provide operational efficiencies over time to meet evolving consumer preferences and marketplace shifts.  We expect to see annual benefits beyond 2020 of approximately $90 million to $150 million, pre-tax, as a result of this initiative.



Outlook



Management expects to focus on the following in 2020:



Continuing to make investments in our businesses, primarily in technology/digitization (including integrating and consolidating systems and processes), product innovation and distribution, to grow revenues, drive margin expansion and reduce costs;

Utilizing our product development and distribution resources to help us respond to evolving trends and regulatory changes and to shift our new business mix to focus on products in line with our long-term growth strategies (including re-pricing actions and shifting our sales mix towards shorter-duration products, which are less sensitive to interest rates);

Closely monitoring ongoing activities in the legal and regulatory environment and taking an active role in the legislative and/or regulatory process;

Closely monitoring our capital and liquidity positions taking into account changing economic conditions and monetary policy, ongoing regulatory activities and our capital deployment strategy;

Continuing to explore additional financing strategies addressing the statutory reserve strain related to our term products and UL products containing secondary guarantees in order to manage our capital position effectively;

Maintaining the flexibility to adjust the risk profile of assets within our investment portfolio; and

Managing our expenses aggressively through our strategic digitization initiative andexpense synergies ofacquired businesses combined with continued financial discipline and execution excellence throughout our operations.



CriticalAccountingPolicies and Estimates



We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to the understanding of our results of operations and our financial condition.  In applying these critical accounting policies in preparing our financial statements, management must use critical assumptions, estimates and judgments concerning future results or other developments, including the likelihood, timing or amount of one or more future events.  Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our assumptions, estimates and judgments based upon historical experience and various other information that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.  For a detailed discussion of other significant accounting policies, see Note 1.



DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL



Accounting for intangible assets requires numerous assumptions, such as estimates of expected future profitability for our operations and our ability to retain existing blocks of life and annuity business in force.  Our accounting policies for DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL affect the Annuities, Retirement Plan Services, Life Insurance and Group Protection segments.



Deferrals



Qualifying deferrable acquisition expenses are recorded as an asset on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as DAC for products we sold during a period or VOBA for books of business we acquired during a period.  In addition, we defer costs associated with DSI and revenues associated with DFEL.  DSI increases interest credited and reduces income when amortized.  DFEL is a liability included within other contract holder funds on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and when amortized, increases fee income on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).






We incur certain costs that can be capitalized in the acquisition of insurance contracts.  Only those costs incurred that result directly from and are essential to the successful acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts may be capitalized as deferrable acquisition costs.  This determination of deferability must be made on a contract-level basis.  Some examples of acquisition costs that are subject to deferral include the following:



Employee, agent or broker commissions;

Wholesaler production bonuses;

Renewal commissions and bonuses to agents or brokers;

Medical and inspection fees;

Premium-related taxes and assessments; and

A portion of the salaries and benefits of certain employees involved in the underwriting, contract issuance and processing, medical and inspection and sales force contract selling functions.



All other acquisition-related costs, including costs incurred by the insurer for soliciting potential customers, market research, training, administration, management of distribution and underwriting functions, unsuccessful acquisition or renewal efforts and product development, are considered non-deferrable acquisition costs and must be expensed in the period incurred.



In addition, the following indirect costs are considered non-deferrable acquisition costs and must be charged to expense in the period incurred:



Administrative costs;

Rent;

Depreciation;

Occupancy costs;

Equipment costs (including data processing equipment dedicated to acquiring insurance contracts);

Trail commissions; and

Other general overhead.



Our DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL balances (in millions) by business segment as of December 31, 2019, were as follows:







RetirementPlanLifeGroupAnnuitiesServicesInsuranceProtectionTotalDAC and VOBAGross$3,933$240$7,362$209$11,744Unrealized (gain) loss(143)(64)(3,843)-(4,050)Carrying value$3,790$176$3,519$209$7,694DSIGross$200$13$31$-$244Unrealized (gain) loss(10)---(10)Carrying value$190$13$31$-$234DFELGross$285$-$3,087$-$3,372Unrealized (gain) loss(3)-(2,719)-(2,722)Carrying value$282$-$368$-$650

Fixed maturity available-for-sale (“AFS”) securities and certain derivatives are stated at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“AOCI”), net of associated DAC, VOBA, DSI, future contract benefits, other contract holder funds and deferred income taxes.  The unrealized balances in the table above represent the DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL balances for these effects of unrealized gains and losses on fixed maturity AFS securities and certain derivatives.



Amortization



DAC for variable annuity and deferred fixed annuity contracts and UL and variable universal life insurance (“VUL”) policies is amortized over the lives of the contracts in relation to the incidence of EGPs derived from the contracts.  Certain broker commissions or broker-dealer expenses that vary with and are related to sales of mutual fund products, respectively, are expensed as incurred rather than deferred


and amortized.  For our traditional products, we amortize deferrable acquisition costs either on a straight-line basis or as a level percent of premium of the related contracts, depending on the block of business.



EGPs vary based on a number of sources including policy persistency, mortality, fee income, investment margins, expense margins and realized gains and losses on investments, including assumptions about the expected level of credit-related losses.  Each of these sources of profit is, in turn, driven by other factors.  For example, assets under management and the spread between earned and credited rates drive investment margins; net amount at risk drives the level of cost of insurance charges and reinsurance premiums.  The level of separate account assets under management is driven by changes in the financial markets (equity and bond markets, hereafter referred to collectively as “equity markets”) and net flows.  Realized gains and losses on investments include amounts resulting from differences in the actual level of impairments and the levels assumed in calculating EGPs.



We generally amortize DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL in proportion to our EGPs for interest-sensitive products.  When actual gross profits are higher in the period than EGPs, we recognize more amortization than planned.  When actual gross profits are lower in the period than EGPs, we recognize less amortization than planned.  In a calendar year where the gross profits for a certain group of policies, or “cohorts,” are negative, our actuarial process limits, or floors, the amortization expense offset to zero.  For a discussion of the periods over which we amortize our DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL see “DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL” in Note 1.



Unlocking



As discussed and defined in “DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL” in Note 1, we conduct our annual comprehensive review of the assumptions and projection models underlying the amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI, DFEL, embedded derivatives and reserves for life insurance and annuity products in the third quarter of each year.  We may have unlocking in other quarters as we become aware of information that warrants updating assumptions outside of our annual comprehensive review.



For illustrative purposes, the following generally presents the hypothetical effects to net income (loss) attributable to changes in certain assumptions from those our model projections assume, assuming all other factors remain constant:





HypotheticalEffect toChange in AssumptionNet Income (Loss)Description of Expected EffectHigher equity marketsFavorableIncrease to fee income and decrease to changes in reserves.Lower equity marketsUnfavorableDecrease to fee income and increase to changes in reserves.Higher investment marginsFavorableIncrease to interest rate spread on our fixed product line, including fixedportion of variable.Lower investment marginsUnfavorableDecrease to interest rate spread on our fixed product line, including fixedportion of variable.Higher lapsesUnfavorableDecrease to fee income, partially offset by decrease to benefits due toshorter contract life.Lower lapsesFavorableIncrease to fee income, partially offset by increase to benefits due tolonger contract life.Unfavorable mortalityUnfavorableDecrease to fee income and increase to changes in reserves due toshorter contract life.Favorable mortalityFavorableIncrease to fee income and decrease to changes in reserves due tolonger contract life.



Details underlying the effect to net income (loss) from unlocking (in millions) were as follows:







For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Income (loss) from operations:Annuities$(93)$13$15Retirement Plan Services-(2)(1)Life Insurance(320)(20)(16)Excluded realized gain (loss)38(20)Net income (loss)$(410)$(1)$(22)






Unlocking was driven primarily by the following:






As part of our annual comprehensive review in the third quarter, weupdated our interest rate assumptions.  These updates included lowering starting new money rates to reflect the current interest rate environment; reducing our long-term new money investment yield assumption by 25 basis points, resulting in an ultimate long-term assumption of 3.5% for a 10-year U.S. Treasury; and extending the grade-in period from current rates to long-term rates from five years to seven years.  As a result of these updates, we recorded unfavorable after-tax unlocking of $225 million for Life Insurance, $63 million for Annuities and $3 million for Retirement Plan Services.



For Annuities, unfavorable unlocking was driven by updates to interest rate assumptions and other items,partially offset by favorable updates to separate account fees and policyholder behavior assumptions.

For Retirement Plan Services, the unfavorable unlocking impact from updates to interest rate assumptions was entirely offset by favorable updates to separate account fees, maintenance expense and policyholder behavior assumptions.

For Life Insurance, unfavorable unlocking was driven by updates to mortality margin, interest rate and reinsurance assumptions, partially offset by favorable updates to investment allocation and reserve discount rate assumptions and other items.

For excluded realized gain (loss), favorable unlocking was driven by updates to capital markets, separate account fees and policyholder behavior assumptions,partially offset by unfavorable updates to other items.






For Annuities, favorable unlocking was driven by updates to capital markets and policyholder behavior assumptions and other items, partially offset by unfavorable updates to interest rate assumptions.

For Retirement Plan Services, unfavorable unlocking was driven by updates to interest rate and maintenance expense assumptions, partially offset by favorable updates to policyholder behavior assumptions and other items.

For Life Insurance, unfavorable unlocking was driven by updates to mortality margin and reinsurance assumptions and other items, partially offset by favorable updates to investment allocation and performance, morbidity and policyholder behavior assumptions.

For excluded realized gain (loss), favorable unlocking was driven by updates to policyholder behavior and capital markets assumptions and other items, partially offset by unfavorable updates to separate account fees assumptions.



Reversion to the Mean



Because returns within the variable sub-accounts (“variable funds”) have a significant effect on the value of variable annuity and VUL products and the fees earned on these accounts, EGPs could increase or decrease with movements in variable fund returns; therefore, significant and sustained changes in variable funds have had and could in the future have an effect on DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL amortization for our variable annuity, annuity-based 401(k) and VUL businesses.



As variable fund returns do not move in a systematic manner, we reset the baseline of account values from which EGPs are projected, which we refer to as our reversion to the mean (“RTM”) process.  Under our RTM process, on each valuation date, future EGPs are projected using stochastic modeling of a large number of market scenarios in conjunction with best estimates of lapse rates, interest rate spreads and mortality to develop a statistical distribution of the present value of future EGPs for our variable annuity, annuity-based 401(k) and VUL blocks of business.  Because variable fund returns are unpredictable, the underlying premise of this process is that best estimate projections of future EGPs need not be affected by random short-term and insignificant deviations from expectations in variable fund returns.  However, long-term or significant deviations from expected variable fund returns require a change to best estimate projections of EGPs and unlocking of DAC, VOBA, DSI, DFEL and changes in future contract benefits.  The statistical distribution is designed to identify when the deviations from expected returns have become significant enough to warrant a change of the future variable fund growth rate assumption.



The stochastic modeling performed for our variable annuity blocks of business as described above is used to develop a range of reasonably possible future EGPs.  We compare the range of the present value of the future EGPs from the stochastic modeling to that used in our amortization model.  A set of intervals around the mean of these scenarios is utilized to calculate two separate statistical ranges of reasonably possible EGPs.  These intervals are then compared to the present value of the EGPs used in the amortization model.  If the present value of EGPs utilized for amortization were to exceed the reasonable range of statistically calculated EGPs, a revision of the EGPs used to calculate amortization would be considered.  If a revision is deemed necessary, future EGPs would be re-projected using the current account values at the end of the period during which the revision occurred along with a long-term variable fund growth rate assumption such that the re-projected EGPs would be our best estimate of EGPs.



Our practice is not necessarily to unlock immediately after exceeding the first of the two statistical ranges, but, rather, if we stay between the first and second statistical range for several quarters, we would likely unlock.  Additionally, if we exceed the ranges as a result of a short-term market reaction, we would not necessarily unlock.  However, if the second statistical range is exceeded for more than one quarter, it is likely that we would unlock.  While this approach reduces adjustments to DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL due to short-term fluctuations, significant changes in variable fund returns that extend beyond one or two quarters could result in a significant favorable or unfavorable unlocking.  Notwithstanding these intervals, if a severe decline or increase in variable fund values were to occur or should other circumstances suggest that the present value of future EGPs no longer represents our best estimate, we could determine that a revision of the EGPs is necessary.






Our long-term variable fund growth rate assumption, which is used in the determination of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL amortization for the variable component of our variable annuity and VUL products, is an immediate decrease of approximately 8% followed by growth going forward of 6.5% to 8.25% depending on the block of business and reflecting differences in contract holder fund allocations between fixed-income and equity-type investments.  If we had unlocked our RTM assumption as of December 31, 2019, we would have recorded favorable unlocking of approximately $185 million, pre-tax, for our Annuities segment, approximately $30 million, pre-tax, for our Retirement Plan Services segment and none for our Life Insurance segment.



Investments



Investments are an integral part of our operations, and we invest in fixed maturity securities that are primarily classified as available-for-sale and carried at fair value with the difference from amortized cost included in stockholders’ equity as a component of AOCI.  We also invest in equity securities that are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in realized gain (loss).  See “Consolidated Investments” below for more information.



Investment Valuation



Our measurement of fair value is based on assumptions used by market participants in pricing the asset or liability, which may include inherent risk, restrictions on the sale or use of an asset or NPR, which would include our own credit risk.  Our estimate of an exchange price is the price in an orderly transaction between market participants to sell the asset or transfer the liability (“exit price”) in the principal market, or the most advantageous market in the absence of a principal market, for that asset or liability, as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or receive a liability (“entry price”).  We categorize our financial instruments carried at fair value into a three-level fair value hierarchy, based on the priority of inputs to the respective valuation technique.  The three-level hierarchy for fair value measurement is defined in Note 1.



The following summarizes investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheetscarried at fair value by pricing source and fair value hierarchy level (in millions) as ofDecember 31, 2019:





QuotedPricesin ActiveMarkets forSignificantSignificantIdenticalObservableUnobservableAssetsInputsInputsTotal(Level 1)(Level 2)(Level 3)Fair ValuePriced by third-party pricing services$576$91,435$318$92,329Priced by independent broker quotations--2,8752,875Priced by matrices-13,229-13,229Priced by other methods(1)--3,1053,105Total$576$104,664$6,298$111,538Percent of total1%94%5%100%



(1)Represents primarily securities for which pricing models were used to compute fair value.



For the categories and associated fair value of our fixed maturity AFS securities classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, see Notes 1 and 20.



Our investments are valued using the appropriate market inputs based on the investment type, and include benchmark yields, reported trades, broker-dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers and reference data.  In addition, market indicators and industry and economic events are monitored, and further market data is acquired if certain triggers are met.  We incorporate the issuer’s credit rating and a risk premium, if warranted, given the issuer’s industry and the security’s time to maturity.  We use an internationally recognized pricing service as our primary pricing source, and we do not adjust prices received from third parties or obtain multiple prices when measuring the fair value of our investments.  We generally use prices from the pricing service rather than broker quotes because we have documentation from the pricing service on the observable market inputs they use, as compared to the limited information on the pricing inputs from broker quotes.  For private placement securities, we use pricing matrices that utilize observable pricing inputs of similar public securities and Treasury yields as inputs to the fair value measurement.It is possible that different valuation techniques and models, other than those described above, could produce materially different estimates of fair value.



When the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability has significantly decreased in relation to normal market activity for the asset or liability, we believe that the market is not active.  Activities that may indicate a market is not active include fewer recent transactions in the market, price quotations that lack current information and/or vary substantially over time or among market makers, limited public information, uncorrelated indexes with recent fair values of assets and abnormally wide bid-ask spread.  As of December 31, 2019, we evaluated the markets that our securities trade in and concluded that none were inactive.  We will continue to re-evaluate this conclusion, as needed, based on market conditions.






We use unobservable inputs to measure the fair value of securities trading in less liquid or illiquid markets with limited or no pricing information.We obtain broker quotes for securities such as synthetic convertibles, index-linked certificates of deposit and collateralized debt obligations when sufficient security structure or other market information is not available to produce an evaluation.  For broker-quoted only securities, non-binding quotes from market makers or broker-dealers are obtained from sources recognized as market participants.  Broker-quoted securities are based solely on receipt of updated quotes from a single market maker or a broker-dealer recognized as a market participant.Our broker-quoted only securities are generally classified as Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  As of December 31, 2019, we used broker quotes for 59 securities as our final price source, representing less than 1% of total securities owned.





Valuation of Alternative Investments



Recognition of investment income on alternative investments is delayed due to the availability of the related financial statements, which are generally obtained from the partnerships’ general partners, as our venture capital, real estate and oil and gas portfolios are generally reported to us on a three-month delay, and our hedge funds are reported to us on a one-month delay.  In addition, the effect of annual audit adjustments related to completion of calendar-year financial statement audits of the investees are typically received during the first or second quarter of each calendar year.  Accordingly, our investment income from alternative investments for any calendar year period may not include the complete effect of the change in the underlying net assets for the partnership for that calendar year period.  Recorded audit adjustments affect our investment income on alternative investments in the period that the adjustments are recorded.



Write-Downs for OTTI and Valuation Allowances



We regularly review our fixed maturity AFS securities for declines in fair value that we determine to be other-than-temporary.  For additional details, see “Consolidated Investments” below and Notes 1 and 5.



For certain securitized fixed maturity securities with contractual cash flows, including asset-backed securities (“ABS”), we use our best estimate of cash flows for the life of the security to determine whether there is an other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) of the security.  In addition, we review for other indicators of impairment as required by the Investments – Debt and Equity Securities Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)Accounting Standards CodificationTM(“ASC”).



As the discussion in Notes 1 and 5 indicates, there are risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in the fair value of investments are other-than-temporary.  These include subsequent significant changes in general overall economic conditions, as well as specific business conditions affecting particular issuers, future financial market effects such as interest rate spreads, stability of foreign governments and economies, future rating agency actions and significant accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues that may adversely affect certain investments.  In addition, there are often significant estimates and assumptions that we use to estimate the fair values of securities as described in “Investment Valuation.”  We continually monitor developments and update underlying assumptions and financial models based upon new information.



Write-downs and valuation allowances on commercial mortgage loans, real estate and other investments are established when the underlying value of the property is deemed to be less than the carrying value.  All commercial mortgage loans that are impaired have an established valuation allowance.  Changing economic conditions affect our valuation of commercial mortgage loans.  Increasing vacancies, declining rents and the like are incorporated into the discounted cash flow analysis that we perform for monitored loans and may contribute to the establishment of (or an increase in) a valuation allowance.  In addition, we continue to monitor the entire commercial mortgage loan portfolio to identify risk.  Areas of emphasis include properties that have deteriorating credits or have experienced debt-service coverage and/or loan-to-value reduction.  Where warranted, we have established or increased our valuation allowance based upon this analysis.



We have also established a valuation allowance on our residential mortgage loan portfolio that includes a specific valuation allowance for loans that are deemed to be impaired as well as a general valuation allowance for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics where a property risk or market specific risk has not been identified but for which we anticipate a loss has occurred.  The general valuation allowance on our residential mortgage loan portfolio is based on loss history adjusted for current conditions.






We adopted amendments to the accounting guidance for measuring credit losses on financial instruments effective January 1, 2020.  For more information regarding the new accounting standard, see “ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments” in Note 2.



Derivatives



We maintain an overall risk management strategy that incorporates the use of derivative instruments to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings that are caused by interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange risk, equity market risk, default risk, basis risk and credit risk.  Assessing the effectiveness of these hedging programs and evaluating the carrying values of the related derivatives often involve a variety of assumptions and estimates.  Our accounting policies for derivatives and the potential effect on interest spreads in a falling rate environment are discussed in “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” Notes 1 and 6.



We carry our derivative instruments at fair value, which we determine through valuation techniques or models that use market data inputs or independent broker quotations.  The fair values fluctuate from period to period due to the volatility of the valuation inputs, including but not limited to swap interest rates, interest and equity volatility and equity index levels, foreign currency forward and spot rates, credit spreads and correlations, some of which are significantly affected by economic conditions.  The effect to revenue is reported in realized gain (loss) and such amount along with the associated federal income taxes is excluded from income (loss) from operations of our segments.



Certain of our variable annuity contracts reported within future contract benefits contain embedded derivatives that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis and are all classified as Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, including our GLB reserves embedded derivatives, a portion of which may be reported in either other assets or other liabilities.  These embedded derivatives are valued based on a stochastic projection of scenarios of the embedded derivative cash flows.  The scenario assumptions, at each valuation date, are those we view to be appropriate for a hypothetical market participant and include assumptions for capital markets, actuarial lapse, benefit utilization, mortality, risk margin, administrative expenses and a margin for profit.  In addition, an NPR component is determined at each valuation date that reflects our risk of not fulfilling the obligations of the underlying liability.  The spread for the NPR is added to the discount rates used in determining the fair value from the net cash flows.  We believe these assumptions are consistent with those that would be used by a market participant; however, as the related markets develop, we will continue to reassess our assumptions.  It is possible that different valuation techniques and assumptions could produce a materially different estimate of fair value.  Changes in the fair value of these embedded derivatives result primarily from changes in market conditions.  For more information, see Notes 1 and 20.



GLB



We have a dynamic hedging strategy designed to mitigate selected risk and income statement volatility caused by changes in the equity markets, interest rates and market-implied volatilities associated with the guaranteed withdrawal benefit (“GWB”) and guaranteed income benefit (“GIB”) features that are available in our variable annuity products.  We have certain GLB variable annuity products with GWB and GIB features that are embedded derivatives.  Certain features of these guarantees have elements of both insurance benefits accounted for under the Financial Services – Insurance – Claim Costs and Liabilities for Future Policy Benefits Subtopic of the FASB ASC (“benefit reserves”) and embedded derivative reserves.  We calculate the value of the embedded derivative reserve and the benefit reserve based on the specific characteristics of each GLB feature.  In addition to mitigating selected risk and income statement volatility, the hedge program is also focused on a long-term goal of accumulating assets that could be used to pay claims under these benefits.



Changes in the value of the hedge contracts hedge the income statement effect of changes in GLB embedded derivative reserves and benefit reserves.  This dynamic hedging strategy utilizes options and total return swaps on U.S.-based equity indices, and futures on U.S.-based and international equity indices, as well as interest rate futures, interest rate swaps and currency futures.  The notional amounts of the underlying hedge instruments are such that the magnitude of the change in the value of the hedge instruments due to changes in equity markets, interest rates and implied volatilities is designed to offset the magnitude of the change in the GLB embedded derivative reserves and GLB benefit reserves caused by changes in equity markets, as well as the change in GLB embedded derivative reserves caused by changes in interest rates and implied volatilities.  See “Realized Gain (Loss) and Benefit Ratio Unlocking – Variable Annuity Net Derivatives Results” below for information on how we determine our NPR.



As part of our current hedging program, equity market, interest rate and market-implied volatility conditions are monitored on a daily basis.  We rebalance our hedge positions based upon changes in these factors as needed.  While we actively manage our hedge positions, these positions may not completely offset changes in the fair value of embedded derivative reserves and benefit reserves caused by movements in these factors due to, among other things, differences in timing between when a market exposure changes and corresponding changes to the hedge positions, extreme swings in the equity markets, interest rates and market-implied volatilities, realized market volatility, contract holder behavior, divergence between the performance of the underlying funds and the hedging indices, divergence between the actual and expected performance of the hedge instruments or our ability to purchase hedging instruments at prices consistent with our desired risk and return trade-off.



Within our individual annuity business, 63% and 64% of our variable annuity account values contained GLB features as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  Underperforming equity markets increase our exposure to potential benefits with the GLB features.  A contract with a GLB feature is “in the money” if the contract holder’s account balance falls below the present value of guaranteed withdrawal or income benefits, assuming no lapses.  As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, 10% and 27%, respectively, of all in-force contracts with a GLB feature were “in the money,” and our exposure, after reinsurance, as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, was $598 million and $1.3 billion, respectively.  However, the only way the contract holder can realize the excess of the present value of benefits


over the account value of the contract is through a series of withdrawals or income payments that do not exceed a maximum amount.  If, after the series of withdrawals or income payments, the account value is exhausted, the contract holder will continue to receive a series of annuity payments.  The account value can also fluctuate with equity market returns on a daily basis resulting in increases or decreases in the excess of the present value of benefits over account value.





The following table presents our estimates of the potential instantaneous effect to net income (loss) that could result from sudden changes that may occur in equity markets, interest rates and implied market volatilities (in millions) at the levels indicated in the table and excludes the net cost of operating the hedging program.  The amounts represent the estimated difference between the change in the portion of GLB reserves that is calculated on a fair value basis and the change in the value of the underlying hedge instruments after the amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL and taxes.  These effects do not include any estimate of unlocking that could occur, nor do they estimate any change in the NPR component of the GLB reserve or any estimate of effects to our GLB benefit ratio unlocking.  These estimates are based upon the recorded reserves as of December 31, 2019, and the related hedge instruments in place as of that date.  The effects presented in the table below are not representative of the aggregate impacts that could result if a combination of such changes to equity market returns, interest rates and implied volatilities occurred.





In-Force SensitivitiesEquity Market Return-20%-10%-5%5%Hypothetical effect to net income$(165)$(38)$(8)$(14)Interest Rates-50 bps-25 bps+25 bps+50 bpsHypothetical effect to net income$(14)$(3)$(6)$(20)Implied Volatilities4%2%-2%-4%Hypothetical effect to net income$(1)$-$(1)$(3)



The following table shows the effect (dollars in millions) of indicated changes in instantaneous shifts in equity market returns, interest rate scenarios and market-implied volatilities:





Assumptions of Changes InEquityInterestMarketMarketRateImpliedNetReturnYieldsVolatilitiesIncomeScenario 1-5%-12.5 bps+1%$(14)Scenario 2-10%-25.0 bps+2%(68)Scenario 3-20%-50.0 bps+4%(299)



‎The actual effects of the results illustrated in the two tables above could vary significantly depending on a variety of factors, many of which are out of our control, and consideration should be given to the following:



The analysis is only valid as of December 31, 2019, due to changing market conditions, contract holder activity, hedge positions and other factors;

The analysis assumes instantaneous shifts in the capital market factors and no ability to rebalance hedge positions prior to the market changes;

The analysis assumes constant exchange rates and implied dividend yields;




Assumptions regarding shifts in the market factors, such as assuming parallel shifts in interest rate and implied volatility term structures, may be overly simplistic and not indicative of actual market behavior in stress scenarios;

It is very unlikely that one capital market sector (e.g., equity markets) will sustain such a large instantaneous movement without affecting other capital market sectors; and

The analysis assumes that there is no tracking or basis risk between the funds and/or indices affecting the GLB reserves and the instruments utilized to hedge these exposures.



IndexBenefits





Future Contract Benefits and Other Contract Holder Obligations



Reserves



Reserves are the amounts that, with the additional premiums to be received and interest thereon compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are calculated to be sufficient to meet the various policy and contract obligations as they mature.  Establishing adequate reserves for our obligations to contract holders requires assumptions to be made regarding mortality and morbidity.  The applicable insurance laws under which insurance companies operate require that they report, as liabilities, policy reserves to meet future obligations on their outstanding contracts.  These laws specify that the reserves shall not be less than reserves calculated using certain specified mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates and methods of valuation.



The reserves reported in our consolidated financial statements contained herein are calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and differ from those specified by the laws of the various states and carried in the statutory financial statements of the life insurance subsidiaries.  These differences arise from the use of mortality and morbidity tables, interest, persistency and other assumptions that we believe to be more representative of the expected experience for these contracts than those required for statutory accounting purposes and from differences in actuarial reserving methods.



The assumptions on which reserves are based are intended to represent an estimation of experience for the period that policy benefits are payable.  If actual experience is better than or equal to the assumptions, then reserves should be adequate to provide for future benefits and expenses.  If experience is worse than the assumptions, additional reserves may be required.  This would result in a charge to our net income during the period the increase in reserves occurred.  The key experience assumptions include mortality rates, policy persistency and interest rates.  We periodically review our experience and update our policy reserves for new issues and reserve for all claims incurred, as we believe appropriate.



GDB



The reserves related to the GDB features available in our variable annuity products are based on the application of a “benefit ratio” (the present value of total expected benefit payments over the life of the contract divided by the present value of total expected assessments over the life of the contract) to total variable annuity assessments received in the period.  The level and direction of the change in reserves will vary over time based on the emergence of the benefit ratio and the level of assessments associated with the variable annuity.



We utilize a delta hedging strategy for variable annuity products with a GDB feature, which uses futures and total return swaps on equity market indices to hedge against movements in equity markets.  The hedging strategy is designed to hedge our exposure to earnings volatility that results from equity market driven changes in the reserve for GDB contracts.  Because the GDB reserves are based upon projected long-term equity market return assumptions, and because the value of the hedging contracts will reflect current capital market conditions, the quarterly changes in values for the GDB reserves and the hedging contracts may not exactly offset each other.  For information on our variable annuity hedge program performance, see our discussion in “Realized Gain (Loss) and Benefit Ratio Unlocking – Variable Annuity Net Derivatives Results” below.






UL Products with Secondary Guarantees



We issue UL contracts where we provide a secondary guarantee to the contract holder.  The policy can remain in force, even if the base policy account value is zero, as long as contractual secondary guarantee requirements have been met.  The reserves related to UL products with secondary guarantees are based on the application of a benefit ratio the same as our GDB features, which are discussed above.  The level and direction of the change in reserves will vary over time based on the emergence of the benefit ratio and the level of assessments associated with the contracts.  For more discussion, see “Results of Life Insurance” below.



Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets



Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually as of October 1 and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.  Intangibles that do not have indefinite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives.  We perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test where the fair value of the reporting unit is determined and compared to the carrying value of the reporting unit.  If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, goodwill is impaired and written down to the reporting unit’s fair value.  The results of one test on one reporting unit cannot subsidize the results of another reporting unit.  For the purposes of the evaluation of the carrying value of goodwill, our reporting units (Annuities, Retirement Plan Services, Life

Insurance and Group Protection) correspond with our reporting segments.



The fair values of our reporting units are comprised of the value of in-force (i.e., existing) business and the value of new business.  Specifically, new business is representative of cash flows and profitability associated with policies or contracts we expect to issue in the future, reflecting our forecasts of future sales volume and product mix over a 10-year period.  To determine the values of in-force and new business, we use a discounted cash flows technique that applies a discount rate reflecting the market expected, weighted-average rate of return adjusted for the risk factors associated with operations to the projected future cash flows for each reporting unit.



As of October 1, 2019 and 2018, we performed our annual quantitative goodwill impairment test for our reporting units, and, as of each such date, the fair value was in excess of each reporting unit’s carrying value for Annuities, Retirement Plan Services, Life Insurance and Group Protection.



We apply significant judgment when determining the estimated fair value of our reporting units.  Factors that can influence the value of goodwill include the capital markets, competitive landscape, regulatory environment, consumer confidence and any items that can directly or indirectly affect new business future cash flows.  Factors that could affect production levels and profitability of new business include mix of new business, pricing changes, customer acceptance of our products and distribution strength.  Spread compression and related effects to profitability caused by lower interest rates affect the valuation of in-force business more significantly than the valuation of new business, as new business pricing assumptions reflect the current and anticipated future interest rate environment.  Estimates of fair value are inherently uncertain and represent only management’s reasonable expectation regarding future developments.  Examples of unfavorable changes to assumptions or factors that could result in future impairment include, but are not limited to, the following:



Lower expectations for future sales levels or future sales profitability;

Higher discount rates on new business assumptions;

Weakened expectations for the ability to execute future reserve financing transactions for life insurance business over the long-term or expectations for significant increases in the associated costs;

Legislative, regulatory or tax changes that affect the cost of, or demand for, our subsidiaries’ products, the required amount of reserves and/or surplus, or otherwise affect our ability to conduct business, including changes to statutory reserve requirements or changes to risk-based capital (“RBC”) requirements; and

Valuations of significant mergers or acquisitions of companies or blocks of business that would provide relevant market-based inputs for our impairment assessment that could support less favorable conclusions regarding the estimated fair value of our reporting units.



Refer to Note 10 for goodwill and specifically identifiable intangible assets by segment.



Income Taxes



Management uses certain assumptions and estimates in determining the income taxes payable or refundable for the current year, the deferred income tax liabilities and assets for items recognized differently in its financial statements from amounts shown on its income tax returns and the federal income tax expense.  Determining these amounts requires analysis and interpretation of current tax laws and regulations.  Management exercises considerable judgment in evaluating the amount and timing of recognition of the resulting income tax liabilities and assets.  These judgments and estimates are re-evaluated on a continual basis as regulatory and business factors change.  Legislative changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, modifications or new regulations, administrative rulings, or court decisions could increase or decrease our effective tax rate.



The application of GAAP requires us to evaluate the recoverability of our deferred tax assets and establish a valuation allowance, if necessary, to reduce our deferred tax asset to an amount that is more likely than not to be realizable.  Considerable judgment and the use of estimates are required in determining whether a valuation allowance is necessary, and if so, the amount of such valuation allowance.  In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we consider many factors, including:  the nature and character of the deferred tax assets and liabilities; taxable income in prior carryback years; future reversals of existing temporary differences; the length of time carryovers can be


utilized; and any tax planning strategies we would employ to avoid a tax benefit from expiring unused.  Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets, including our net operating loss deferred tax asset, will be realized.  For additional information on our income taxes, see Note 7.



Acquisitions and Dispositions



For information about acquisitions and dispositions, see Note 3.



RESULTS OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS



Details underlying the consolidated results, deposits, net flows and account values (in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Net Income (Loss)Income (loss) from operations:Annuities$954$1,102$1,074Retirement Plan Services172171149Life Insurance259645536Group Protection238187103Other Operations(268)(225)(108)Excluded realized gain (loss), after-tax(627)(37)(218)Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt, after-tax(33)(18)(3)Benefit ratio unlocking, after-tax277(136)129Net impact from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act17191,322Impairment of intangibles, after-tax--(905)Acquisition and integration costs related to mergersand acquisitions, after-tax(103)(67)-Net income (loss)$886$1,641$2,079



For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017DepositsAnnuities$14,525$12,363$8,710Retirement Plan Services9,46510,0688,563Life Insurance7,3206,4386,317Total deposits$31,310$28,869$23,590Net FlowsAnnuities$1,851$(139)$(2,707)Retirement Plan Services6202,5461,443Life Insurance5,4224,6794,532Total net flows$7,893$7,086$3,268



As of December 31,201920182017Account ValuesAnnuities$142,128$121,279$137,016Retirement Plan Services78,68967,05567,369Life Insurance54,25549,58949,048Total account values$275,072$237,923$253,433



Comparison of 2019 to 2018



Net income decreased due primarily to the following:



Realized losses in 2019 as compared to realized gains in 2018.

The effect of unlocking.

Less favorable investment income on alternative investments due primarily to the write-down of a large private equity investment during the third quarter of 2019.


The effect of the fourth quarter 2018 reinsurance agreement in the Annuities segment.Spread compression due to average new money rates trailing our current portfolio yields, partially offset by actions implemented to reduce interest crediting rates.Higher acquisition and integration costs incurred associated with our 2018 acquisition.Higher loss on early extinguishment of debt.The decrease in net income was partially offset by the following:Lower federal income tax expense.Inclusion of an additional four months of Liberty Group Business results in 2019.Higher prepayment and bond make-whole premiums.Growth in average account values, business in force and group earned premiums.‎




RESULTS OF ANNUITIES



Income (Loss) from Operations



Details underlying the results for Annuities (in millions) were as follows:

For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Operating RevenuesInsurance premiums(1)$502$390$475Fee income2,3572,3422,244Net investment income1,1401,0051,038Operating realized gain (loss)(2)190192179Amortization of deferred gain onbusiness sold through reinsurance308-Other revenues(3)381446442Total operating revenues4,6004,3834,378Operating ExpensesInterest credited698587581Benefits(1)938673726Commissions and other expenses1,8711,8381,798Total operating expenses3,5073,0983,105Income (loss) from operations before taxes1,0931,2851,273Federal income tax expense (benefit)139183199Income (loss) from operations$954$1,102$1,074



(1)Insurance premiums include primarily our income annuities that have a corresponding offset in benefits.  Benefits include changes in income annuity reserves driven by premiums.

(2)See “Realized Gain (Loss) and Benefit Ratio Unlocking” below.

(3)Consists primarily of revenues attributable to broker-dealer services that are subject to market volatility.



Comparison of 2019 to 2018



Income from operations for this segment decreased due primarily to the following:



Higher benefits due to the effect of unlocking.

Lower other revenues as a result of the net settlement related to the fourth quarter 2018 reinsurance agreement.

Higher commissions and other expenses driven by growth in business and the effect of unlocking.



The decrease in income from operations was partially offset by the following:



Higher net investment income, net of interest credited, driven by higher average gross fixed account values and higher prepayment and bond make-whole premiums, partially offset by less favorable investment income on alternative investments and lower surplus earnings as a result of the fourth quarter 2018 reinsurance agreement.

Higher amortization of deferred gain on business sold through reinsurance as a result of the fourth quarter 2018 reinsurance agreement.

Higher fee income driven by higher expense assessments associated with our variable annuity guaranteed benefit riders.



See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL – Unlocking” above for more information about unlocking.



Additional Information



For information on our fourth quarter 2018 reinsurance agreement, see Note 9.



New deposits are an important component of net flows and key to our efforts to grow our business.  Although deposits do not significantly affect current period income from operations, they can significantly impact future income from operations.  As a result of our strategic decision to participate in more segments of the marketplace and our focus on product and distribution expansion, we returned to positive net flows during the fourth quarter of 2018, which continued throughout 2019.



The other component of net flows relates to the retention of the business.  An important measure of retention is the reduction in account values caused by full surrenders, deaths and other contract benefits.  These outflows as a percentage of average gross account values were 9% in 2019, 2018 and 2017.






Our fixed annuity business includes products with discretionary crediting rates that are reset on an annual basis and are not subject to surrender charges.  Our ability to retain annual reset annuities will be subject to current competitive conditions at the time interest rates for these products reset.  We expect to manage the effects of spreads on near-term income from operations through portfolio management and, to a lesser extent, crediting rate actions, which assumes no significant changes in net flows into or out of our fixed accounts or other changes that may cause interest rate spreads to differ from our expectations.  For information on interest rate spreads and the interest rate risk due to falling interest rates, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors – Market Conditions – Changes in interest rates and sustained low interest rates may cause interest rate spreads to decrease and make it more challenging to meet certain statutory requirements and changes in interest rates may also result in increased contract withdrawals” and “Effect of Interest Rate Sensitivity” and “Interest Rate Risk on Fixed Insurance Businesses – Falling Rates” in “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk.”



Fee Income



Details underlying fee income, account values and net flows (in millions) were as follows:

For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Fee IncomeMortality, expense and other assessments$2,336$2,322$2,212Surrender charges253030DFEL:Deferrals(38)(39)(37)Amortization, net of interest:Amortization, net of interest, excluding unlocking343133Unlocking-(2)6Total fee income$2,357$2,342$2,244









As of or For the Years EndedDecember 31,201920182017Variable Account Value InformationVariable annuity deposits(1)$5,293$5,105$4,524Increases (decreases) in variable annuity account values:Net flows(1)(4,805)(4,580)(4,530)Change in market value(1)19,844(5,412)16,512Contract holder assessments(1)(2,491)(2,484)(2,378)Transfers to the variable portion of variable annuityproducts from the fixed portion of variable annuityproducts1,7602,8671,822Variable annuity account values(1)119,047104,737114,342Average daily variable annuity account values(1)112,978113,595109,189Average daily S&P 500(2)2,9142,7442,448



(1)Excludes the fixed portion of variable.

(2)We generally use the S&P 500 as a benchmark for the performance of our variable account values.  The account values of our variable annuity contracts are invested by our policyholders in a variety of investment options including, but not limited to, domestic and international equity securities and fixed income, which do not necessarily align with S&P 500 performance.  See Note 11 for additional information.



We charge contract holders mortality and expense assessments on variable annuity accounts to cover insurance and administrative expenses.  These assessments are a function of the rates priced into the product and the average daily variable account values.  Average daily variable account values are driven by net flows and variable fund returns.  Charges on GLB riders are assessed based on a contractual rate that is applied either to the account value or the guaranteed amount.  We may collect surrender charges when our fixed and variable annuity contract holders surrender their contracts during the surrender charge period to protect us from premature withdrawals.  Fee income includes charges on both our variable and fixed annuity products, but excludes the attributed fees on our GLB riders; see “Realized Gain (Loss) and Benefit Ratio Unlocking – Operating Realized Gain (Loss)” below for discussion of these attributed fees.




Net Investment Income and Interest Credited



Details underlying net investment income, interest credited, our interest rate spread and fixed account values (dollars in millions) were as follows:

For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Net Investment IncomeFixed maturity AFS securities, mortgage loans on real estateand other, net of investment expenses$1,004$835$841Commercial mortgage loan prepayment and bondmake-whole premiums(1)292145Surplus investments(2)107149152Total net investment income$1,140$1,005$1,038Interest CreditedAmount provided to contract holders$690$600$568DSI deferrals(21)(43)(20)Interest credited before DSI amortization669557548DSI amortization:Amortization, excluding unlocking263029Unlocking3-4Total interest credited$698$587$581



(1)See “Consolidated Investments – Commercial Mortgage Loan Prepayment and Bond Make-Whole Premiums” below for additional information.

(2)Represents net investment income on the required statutory surplus for this segment and includes the effect of investment income on alternative investments for such assets that are held in the portfolios supporting statutory surplus versus the portfolios supporting product liabilities.  See “Consolidated Investments – Alternative Investments” below for more information on alternative investments.

For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Interest Rate SpreadFixed maturity AFS securities, mortgage loans on real estateand other, net of investment expenses3.98%3.88%3.98%Commercial mortgage loan prepayment and bondmake-whole premiums0.11%0.10%0.24%Net investment income yield on reserves4.09%3.98%4.22%Interest rate credited to contract holders2.42%2.27%2.34%Interest rate spread1.67%1.71%1.88%






As of or For the Years Ended‎December 31,201920182017Fixed Account Value InformationFixed annuity deposits(1)$9,232$7,258$4,186Increases (decreases) in fixed annuity account values:Net flows(1)6,6564,4411,823Contract holder assessments(1)(43)(31)(31)Transfers from the fixed portion of variable annuityproducts to the variable portion of variable annuityproducts(1,760)(2,867)(1,822)Reinvested interest credited(1)1,489440878Fixed annuity account values(1)(2)23,08116,54222,675Average fixed account values(1)(2)19,71720,59122,327



(1)Includes the fixed portion of variable.

(2)Net of reinsurance ceded.



A portion of our investment income earned is credited to the contract holders of our deferred fixed annuity products, including the fixed portion of variable annuity contracts.  We expect to earn a spread between what we earn on the underlying general account investments supporting the fixed annuity product line, including the fixed portion of variable annuity contracts, and what we credit to our fixed annuity contract holders’ accounts, including the fixed portion of variable annuity contracts.  Changes in commercial mortgage loan prepayments and bond make-whole premiums, investment income on alternative investments and surplus investment income can vary significantly from period to period due to a number of factors and, therefore, may contribute to investment income results that are not indicative of the underlying trends.



Benefits



Details underlying benefits (in millions) were as follows:

For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017BenefitsNet death and other benefits, excluding unlocking$834$699$743Unlocking104(26)(17)Total benefits$938$673$726



Benefits for this segment include changes in income annuity reserves driven by premiums, changes in benefit reserves and costs associated with the hedging of our benefit ratio unlocking on benefit reserves associated with our variable annuity GDB and GLB riders.  For a corresponding offset of changes in income annuity reserves, see footnote 1 of “Income (Loss) from Operations” above.






Commissions and Other Expenses



Details underlying commissions and other expenses (in millions) were as follows:

For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Commissions and Other ExpensesCommissions:Deferrable$606$505$349Non-deferrable565573567General and administrative expenses453425417Inter-segment reimbursement associated with reservefinancing and LOC expenses(1)444Taxes, licenses and fees353433Total expenses incurred, excluding broker-dealer1,6631,5411,370DAC deferrals(681)(578)(411)Total pre-broker-dealer expenses incurred,excluding amortization, net of interest982963959DAC and VOBA amortization, net of interest:Amortization, net of interest, excluding unlocking396403405Unlocking127(4)Broker-dealer expenses incurred481465438Total commissions and other expenses$1,871$1,838$1,798DAC DeferralsAs a percentage of sales/deposits4.7%4.7%4.7%



(1)Includes reimbursements to Annuities from the Life Insurance segment for reserve financing, net of expenses incurred by Annuities for its use of letters of credit (“LOCs”).  The inter-segment amounts are not reported on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).



Commissions and other costs that result directly from and are essential to the successful acquisition of new or renewal business are deferred to the extent recoverable and are amortized over the lives of the contracts in relation to EGPs.  Certain types of commissions, such as trail commissions that are based on account values, are expensed as incurred rather than deferred and amortized.  Broker-dealer expenses that vary with and are related to sales are expensed as incurred and not deferred and amortized.  Fluctuations in these expenses correspond with fluctuations in other revenues.







‎




RESULTS OF RETIREMENT PLAN SERVICES



Income (Loss) from Operations



Details underlying the results for Retirement Plan Services (in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Operating RevenuesFee income$252$256$248Net investment income924899899Other revenues(1)242318Total operating revenues1,2001,1781,165Operating ExpensesInterest credited585555537Benefits221Commissions and other expenses418421423Total operating expenses1,005978961Income (loss) from operations before taxes195200204Federal income tax expense (benefit)232955Income (loss) from operations$172$171$149



(1)Consists primarily of mutual fund account program revenues from mid to large employers.



Comparison of 2019 to 2018



Income from operations for this segment increased modestly due primarily to the following:



Lower federal income tax expense (benefit) due to more favorable tax return true-ups in 2019.

Lower commissions and other expenses due to the effect of unlocking.



The increase in income from operations was partially offset by the following:



Lower net investment income, net of interest credited, driven by less favorable investment income on alternative investments within our surplus portfolio and spread compression due to average new money rates trailing our current portfolio yields, partially offset by higher prepayment and bond make-whole premiums and higher average fixed account values.

Lower fee income driven by lower average daily variable account values.



See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL – Unlocking” above for information about unlocking.



Additional Information



Net flows in this business fluctuate based on the timing of larger plans being implemented and terminating over the course of the year.



New deposits are an important component of net flows and key to our efforts to grow our business.  Although deposits do not significantly affect current period income from operations, they can significantly impact future income from operations.  The other component of net flows relates to the retention of the business.  An important measure of retention is the reduction in account values caused by plan sponsor terminations and participant withdrawals.  These outflows as a percentage of average account values were 12%, 11% and 12% for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.



Our net flows are negatively affected by the continued net outflows from our oldest blocks of annuities business (as presented on our Net Flows By Market table below as “Multi-Fund® and other”), which are among our higher margin product lines in this segment, due to the fact that they are mature blocks with low distribution and servicing costs.  The proportion of these products to our total account values was 21%, 23% and 25% for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  Due to this expected overall shift in business mix toward products with lower returns, new deposit production continues to be necessary to maintain earnings at current levels.



Our fixed annuity business includes products with discretionary and index-based crediting rates that are reset on either a quarterly or semi-annual basis.  Our ability to retain quarterly or semi-annual reset annuities will be subject to current competitive conditions at the time interest rates for these products reset.  We expect to manage the effects of spreads on near-term income from operations through portfolio management and, to a lesser extent, crediting rate actions, which assumes no significant changes in net flows into or out of our fixed accounts or other changes that may cause interest rate spreads to differ from our expectations.For information on interest rate spreads and the interest rate risk due to falling interest rates, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors – Market Conditions – Changes in interest rates and sustained low interest rates may cause interest rate spreads to decrease and make it more challenging to meet certain


statutory requirements and changes in interest rates may also result in increased contract withdrawals” and “Effect of Interest Rate Sensitivity” and “Interest Rate Risk on Fixed Insurance Businesses – Falling Rates” in “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk.”



Fee Income



Details underlying fee income, net flows and account values (in millions) were as follows:







For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Fee IncomeAnnuity expense assessments$184$189$184Mutual fund fees676563Total expense assessments251254247Surrender charges121Total fee income$252$256$248









For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Net Flows By Market(1)Small market$449$290$232Mid – large market1,3363,4012,243Multi-Fund® and other(1,165)(1,145)(1,031)Total net flows$620$2,546$1,444





As of or For the Years EndedDecember 31,201920182017Variable Account Value InformationVariable annuity deposits(1)$1,880$1,803$1,954Increases (decreases) in variable annuity account values:Net flows(1)(518)(453)(597)Change in market value(1)3,426(885)2,545Contract holder assessments(1)(155)(159)(153)Variable annuity account values(1)16,95214,41316,129Average daily variable annuity account values(1)15,96015,98915,052Average daily S&P 5002,9142,7442,448



Excludes the fixed portion of variable.



As of or For the Years EndedDecember 31,201920182017Mutual Fund Account Value InformationMutual fund deposits$5,602$6,219$4,434Mutual fund net flows1,3162,9021,766Mutual fund account values(1)41,17932,87632,516



Mutual funds are not included in the separate accounts reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we do not have any ownership interest in them.



We charge expense assessments to cover insurance and administrative expenses.  Expense assessments are generally equal to a percentage of the daily variable account values.  Average daily account values are driven by net flows and the equity markets.  Our expense assessments include fees we earn for the services that we provide to our mutual fund programs.  We may collect surrender charges when our fixed and variable annuity contract holders surrender their contracts during the surrender charge period to protect us from premature withdrawals.






Net Investment Income and Interest Credited



Details underlying net investment income, interest credited, our interest rate spread and fixed account values (dollars in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Net Investment IncomeFixed maturity AFS securities, mortgage loans on real estateand other, net of investment expenses$831$806$789Commercial mortgage loan prepayment and bondmake-whole premiums(1)261834Surplus investments(2)677576Total net investment income$924$899$899Interest Credited$585$555$537



(1)See “Consolidated Investments – Commercial Mortgage Loan Prepayment and Bond Make-Whole Premiums” below for additional information.

(2)Represents net investment income on the required statutory surplus for this segment and includes the effect of investment income on alternative investments for such assets that are held in the portfolios supporting statutory surplus versus the portfolios supporting product liabilities.  See “Consolidated Investments – Alternative Investments” below for more information on alternative investments.



For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Interest Rate SpreadFixed maturity AFS securities, mortgage loans on real estateand other, net of investment expenses4.13%4.23%4.32%Commercial mortgage loan prepayment and bondmake-whole premiums0.13%0.09%0.19%Net investment income yield on reserves4.26%4.32%4.51%Interest rate credited to contract holders2.90%2.90%2.92%Interest rate spread1.36%1.42%1.59%















As of or For the Years EndedDecember 31,201920182017Fixed Account Value InformationFixed annuity deposits(1)$1,983$2,046$2,175Increases (decreases) in fixed annuity account values:Net flows(1)(178)97274Reinvested interest credited(1)585558542Contract holder assessments(1)(12)(11)(9)Fixed annuity account values(1)20,55819,76618,724Average fixed account values(1)20,11919,16418,373



(1)Includes the fixed portion of variable.



A portion of our investment income earned is credited to the contract holders of our fixed annuity products, including the fixed portion of variable annuity contracts.  We expect to earn a spread between what we earn on the underlying general account investments supporting the fixed annuity product line, including the fixed portion of variable annuity contracts, and what we credit to our fixed annuity contract holders’ accounts, including the fixed portion of variable annuity contracts.  Commercial mortgage loan prepayments and  bond make-whole premiums, investment income on alternative investments and surplus investment income can vary significantly from period to period due to a number of factors and, therefore, may contribute to investment income results that are not indicative of the underlying trends.



Benefits



Benefits for this segment include changes in annuity benefit reserves.




Commissions and Other ExpensesDetails underlying commissions and other expenses (in millions) were as follows:For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Commissions and Other ExpensesCommissions:Deferrable$6$7$10Non-deferrable737167General and administrative expenses319318331Taxes, licenses and fees171917Total expenses incurred415415425DAC deferrals(23)(22)(29)Total expenses recognized before amortization392393396DAC and VOBA amortization, net of interest:Amortization, net of interest, excluding unlocking272525Unlocking(1)32Total commissions and other expenses$418$421$423DAC DeferralsAs a percentage of annuity sales/deposits0.6%0.6%0.7%Commissions and other costs that result directly from and are essential to the successful acquisition of new or renewal business are deferred to the extent recoverable and are amortized over the lives of the contracts in relation to EGPs.  Certain types of commissions, such as trail commissions that are based on account values, are expensed as incurred rather than deferred and amortized.  Distribution expenses associated with the sale of mutual fund products are expensed as incurred.




RESULTS OF LIFE INSURANCE



Income (Loss) from Operations



Details underlying the results for Life Insurance (in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Operating RevenuesInsurance premiums(1)$885$817$773Fee income3,8823,3923,122Net investment income2,6582,6972,643Operating realized gain (loss)(2)(6)(5)(13)Other revenues192133Total operating revenues7,4386,9226,558Operating ExpensesInterest credited1,4331,4141,404Benefits4,1833,3453,189Commissions and other expenses1,5161,3711,185Total operating expenses7,1326,1305,778Income (loss) from operations before taxes306792780Federal income tax expense (benefit)47147244Income (loss) from operations$259$645$536



(1)Includes term insurance premiums, which have a corresponding partial offset in benefits for changes in reserves.

(2)See “Realized Gain (Loss) and Benefit Ratio Unlocking” below.



Comparison of 2019 to 2018



Income from operations for this segment decreased due primarily to the following:



Higher benefits due to the effect of unlocking and growth in business in force.

Higher commissions and other expenses due to the effect of unlocking.

Lower net investment income, net of interest credited, driven by less favorable investment income on alternative investments and spread compression due to average new money rates trailing our current portfolio yields, partially offset by growth in average general account values.



The decrease in income from operations was partially offset by higher fee income due to the effect of unlocking and growth in business in force.



See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL – Unlocking” above for more information about unlocking.



Strategies to Address Statutory Reserve Strain



Our insurance subsidiaries have statutory surplus and RBC levels above current regulatory required levels.  Term products and other products containing secondary guarantees require reserves calculated pursuant to the Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Model Regulation (“XXX”), Actuarial Guideline 38 (“AG38”) and the newly adopted principles-based reserving framework.  For information on strategies we use to reduce the statutory reserve strain, see “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources of Liquidity and Cash Flow – Insurance Subsidiaries’ Statutory Capital and Surplus” below.



Additional Information



For information on interest rate spreads and the interest rate risk due to falling interest rates, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors – Market Conditions – Changes in interest rates and sustained low interest rates may cause interest rate spreads to decrease and make it more challenging to meet certain statutory requirements and changes in interest rates may also result in increased contract withdrawals” and “Effect of Interest Rate Sensitivity” and “Interest Rate Risk on Fixed Insurance Businesses – Falling Rates” in “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk.”






Insurance Premiums



Insurance premiums relate to traditional products and are a function of the rates priced into the product and the level of business in force.  Business in force, in turn, is driven by sales, persistency and mortality experience.



Fee Income



Details underlying fee income, sales, net flows, account values and in-force face amount (in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Fee IncomeCost of insurance assessments$2,280$2,136$1,981Expense assessments1,6941,5291,455Surrender charges414552DFEL:Deferrals(1,063)(829)(718)Amortization, net of interest:Amortization, net of interest, excluding unlocking504457355Unlocking42654(3)Total fee income$3,882$3,392$3,122



For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Sales by ProductUL$57$43$52MoneyGuard®298226268IUL1556270VUL265268194Term144113114Total individual life sales919712698Executive Benefits16352100Total sales$1,082$764$798Net FlowsDeposits$7,320$6,438$6,317Withdrawals and deaths(1,898)(1,759)(1,785)Net flows$5,422$4,679$4,532Contract Holder Assessments$5,243$4,869$4,647







As of December 31,201920182017Account ValuesGeneral account$37,485$36,612$36,072Separate account16,77012,97712,976Total account values$54,255$49,589$49,048Average General Account Values$37,21536,69836,191In-Force Face AmountUL and other$357,726$343,922$341,044Term insurance472,050399,877379,108Total in-force face amount$829,776$743,799$720,152



Fee income relates only to interest-sensitive products and includes cost of insurance assessments, expense assessments and surrender charges.  Both cost of insurance and expense assessments can have deferrals and amortization related to DFEL.  Cost of insurance and expense assessments are deducted from our contract holders’ account values.  These amounts are a function of the rates priced into the product and premiums received, face amount in force and account values.  Business in force, in turn, is driven by sales, persistency and mortality experience.






Sales are not recorded as a component of revenues (other than for traditional products) and do not have a significant effect on current quarter income from operations but are indicators of future profitability.  Generally, we have higher sales during the second half of the year with the fourth quarter being our strongest.



Sales in the table above and as discussed above were reported as follows:



MoneyGuard®, our linked-benefit product – 15% of total expected premium deposits;

UL, IUL and VUL – first-year commissionable premiums plus 5% of excess premiums received;

Executive Benefits – single premium bank-owned UL and VUL, 15% of single premium deposits, and corporate-owned UL and VUL, first-year commissionable premiums plus 5% of excess premium received; and

Term – 100% of annualized first-year premiums.



We monitor the business environment, including but not limited to the regulatory and interest rate environments, and make changes to our product offerings and in-force products as needed, and as permitted under the terms of the policies, to sustain the future profitability of our segment.



Net Investment Income and Interest Credited



Details underlying net investment income, interest credited (in millions) and our interest rate spread were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Net Investment IncomeFixed maturity AFS securities, mortgage loans on real estateand other, net of investment expenses$2,448$2,366$2,337Commercial mortgage loan prepayment and bondmake-whole premiums(1)472846Alternative investments(2)1213398Surplus investments(3)151170162Total net investment income$2,658$2,697$2,643Interest Credited$1,433$1,414$1,404



(1)See “Consolidated Investments – Commercial Mortgage Loan Prepayment and Bond Make-Whole Premiums” below for additional information.

(2)See “Consolidated Investments – Alternative Investments” below for additional information.

(3)Represents net investment income on the required statutory surplus for this segment and includes the effect of investment income on alternative investments for such assets that are held in the portfolios supporting statutory surplus versus the portfolios supporting product liabilities.



For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Interest Rate Yields and SpreadAttributable to interest-sensitive products:Fixed maturity AFS securities, mortgage loans on real estateand other, net of investment expenses4.85%4.93%5.07%Commercial mortgage loan prepayment and bondmake-whole premiums0.10%0.06%0.10%Alternative investments0.02%0.30%0.23%Net investment income yield on reserves4.97%5.29%5.40%Interest rate credited to contract holders(1)3.70%3.73%3.78%Interest rate spread(1)1.27%1.56%1.62%





(1)Prior year interest rate spreads have been restated to conform to the current year presentation.



A portion of the investment income earned for this segment is credited to contract holder accounts.  Statutory reserves will typically grow at a faster rate than account values because of the AG38 reserve requirements.  Investments allocated to this segment are based upon the statutory reserve liabilities and are affected by various reserve adjustments, including financing transactions providing relief from AG38 reserve requirements.  These financing transactions lead to a transfer of investments from this segment to Other Operations.  We expect to earn a spread between what we earn on the underlying general account investments and what we credit to our contract holders’ accounts.  We use our investment income to offset the earnings effect of the associated growth of our policy reserves for traditional products.  Commercial mortgage loan prepayments and bond make-whole premiums and investment income on alternative investments


can vary significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, and, therefore, may contribute to investment income results that are not indicative of the underlying trends.



Benefits



Details underlying benefits (dollars in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017BenefitsDeath claims direct and assumed$4,594$4,295$4,531Death claims ceded(1,689)(1,648)(1,997)Reserves released on death(616)(586)(646)Net death benefits2,2892,0611,888Change in secondary guarantee life insurance productreserves:Change in reserves, excluding unlocking625676665Unlocking445(61)50Change inMoneyGuard®reserves:Change in reserves, excluding unlocking451385317Unlocking48(24)(19)Other benefits(1)325308288Total benefits$4,183$3,345$3,189Death claims per $1,000 of in-force2.922.822.68



(1)Includes primarily changes in reserves and dividends on traditional and other products.



Benefits for this segment include claims incurred during the period in excess of the associated reserves for its interest-sensitive and traditional products.  In addition, benefits include the change in secondary guarantee and linked-benefit life insurance product reserves.  These reserves are affected by changes in expected future trends of assessments and benefits causing unlocking adjustments to these liabilities similar to DAC, VOBA and DFEL.  Generally, we have higher mortality in the first quarter of the year due to the seasonality of claims.  See “Future Contract Benefits and Other Contract Holder Funds” in Note 1 for additional information.



Commissions and Other Expenses



Details underlying commissions and other expenses (in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Commissions and Other ExpensesCommissions$931$760$734General and administrative expenses617541580Expenses associated with reserve financing959191Taxes, licenses and fees184179155Total expenses incurred1,8271,5711,560DAC and VOBA deferrals(1,094)(914)(847)Total expenses recognized before amortization733657713DAC and VOBA amortization, net of interest:Amortization, net of interest, excluding unlocking441545479Unlocking338165(11)Other intangible amortization444Total commissions and other expenses$1,516$1,371$1,185DAC and VOBA DeferralsAs a percentage of sales101.1%119.6%106.1%



Commissions and costs that result directly from and are essential to successful acquisition of new or renewal business are deferred to the extent recoverable and for our interest-sensitive products are generally amortized over the life of the contracts in relation to EGPs.  For our traditional products, DAC and VOBA are amortized on either a straight-line basis or as a level percent of premium of the related contracts, depending on the block of business.  When comparing DAC and VOBA deferrals as a percentage of salesfor 2019 and 2018,the decrease was primarily a result of changes in sales mix to products with lower commission rates.










RESULTS OF GROUP PROTECTION



Income (Loss) from Operations



Details underlying the results for Group Protection (in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Operating RevenuesInsurance premiums$4,113$3,383$1,998Net investment income307260168Other revenues(1)16811435Total operating revenues4,5883,7572,201Operating ExpensesInterest credited552Benefits3,0362,4551,351Commissions and other expenses1,2461,060690Total operating expenses4,2873,5202,043Income (loss) from operations before taxes301237158Federal income tax expense (benefit)635055Income (loss) from operations$238$187$103







(1)Consists of revenue from third parties for administrative services performed, which has a corresponding partial offset in

commissions and other expenses.



For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Income (Loss) from Operations by Product LineLife$77$72$49Disability16912355Dental(9)(8)(2)Total non-medical237187102Medical1-1Income (loss) from operations$238$187$103



Comparison of 2019 to 2018



Income from operations for this segment increased due primarily to the following:



Inclusion of an additional four months of Liberty Group Business results in 2019, due to the acquisition of Liberty Group Business on May 1, 2018.  The acquisition resulted in increases in all pre-tax line items presented in the Income (Loss) from Operations table above.  For more information about the acquisition, see “Introduction – Executive Summary” above and Note 3 herein.

Higher insurance premiums driven by growth in business.



The increase in income from operations was partially offset by the following:



Higher benefits driven by growth in the business and unfavorable claims severity in our life and long-term disability businesses, partially offset by lower incidence in our long-term disability business and favorable reserve adjustments due to modifying certain assumptions on the reserves in these businesses.

Higher commissions and other expenses driven by growth in business and higher amortization, partially offset by integration synergies and expense efficiencies.



Additional Information



Management compares trends in actual loss ratios to pricing expectations as group-underwriting risks change over time.  We expect normal fluctuations in our total loss ratio, as claims experience is inherently uncertain.  For every one percent increase in the total loss ratio, we would expect an approximate annual $32 million to $36 million decrease to income from operations.  The effects are symmetrical for a comparable decrease in the loss ratio and, therefore, move in an equal and opposite direction.



For information on the effects of current interest rates on our long-term disability claim reserves, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk – Effect of Interest Rate Sensitivity.”




Insurance Premiums



Details underlying insurance premiums (in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Insurance Premiums by Product LineLife$1,500$1,246$829Disability2,3201,838910Dental293299259Total insurance premiums$4,113$3,383$1,998Sales by Product LineLife344222179Disability319257199Dental89101126Total sales$752$580$504

Our cost of insurance and policy administration charges are embedded in the premiums charged to our customers.  The premiums are a function of the rates priced into the product and our business in force.  Business in force, in turn, is driven by sales and persistency experience.



Sales relate to new contract holders and new programs sold to existing contract holders.  We believe that the trend in sales is an important indicator of development of business in force over time.  Sales in the table above are the combined annualized premiums for our products.



Net Investment Income



We use our investment income to offset the earnings effect of the associated build of our reserves, which are a function of our insurance premiums and the yields on our investments.



Benefits and Interest Credited



Details underlying benefits and interest credited (in millions) and loss ratios by product line were as follows:







For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Benefits and Interest Credited by Product LineLife$1,045$857$540Disability1,7831,386633Dental213217180Total benefits and interest credited$3,041$2,460$1,353Loss Ratios by Product LineLife69.7%68.8%65.1%Disability(1)76.8%75.4%67.9%Dental72.8%72.7%69.3%Total(1)73.9%72.7%66.9%



(1)Excludes the impact of the recapture of certain long-term disability business in the third quarter of 2017.



Generally, we experience higher mortality in the first quarter of the year and higher disability claims in the fourth quarter of the year due to the seasonality of claims.  The total loss ratio for 2019 increased due to inclusion of an additional four months of Liberty Group Business results in 2019 as we combined two blocks of business with different loss characteristics.




Commissions and Other ExpensesDetails underlying commissions and other expenses (in millions) were as follows:For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Commissions and Other ExpensesCommissions$367$339$257General and administrative expenses741623374Taxes, licenses and fees1149449Total expenses incurred1,2221,056680DAC deferrals(110)(94)(69)Total expenses recognized before amortization1,112962611DAC and VOBA amortization, net of interest(1)1129379Other intangible amortization(1)225-Total commissions and other expenses$1,246$1,060$690DAC DeferralsAs a percentage of insurance premiums2.7%2.8%3.5%(1)See Note 10 for information regarding intangible assets acquired during 2018.Commissions and other costs that result directly from and are essential to the successful acquisition of new or renewal business are deferred to the extent recoverable and are amortized as a level percent of insurance premiums of the related contracts, depending on the block of business.  Certain broker commissions that vary with and are related to paid premiums are expensed as incurred rather than deferred and amortized.  Generally, we have higher amortization in the first quarter of the year due to a significant number of policies renewing in the quarter.‎




RESULTS OF OTHER OPERATIONS



Income (Loss) from Operations



Details underlying the results for Other Operations (in millions) were as follows:







For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Operating RevenuesInsurance premiums(1)$13$11$10Net investment income194224242Amortization of deferred gain onbusiness sold through reinsurance-122Other revenues13(1)13Total operating revenues220235287Operating ExpensesInterest credited585665Benefits110106117Other expenses622547Interest and debt expense284274253Strategic digitization expense667643Total operating expenses580537525Income (loss) from operations before taxes(360)(302)(238)Federal income tax expense (benefit)(92)(77)(130)Income (loss) from operations$(268)$(225)$(108)



(1)Includes our disability income business, which has a corresponding offset in benefits for changes in reserves.



Comparison of 2019 to 2018



Loss from operations for Other Operations increased due primarily to the following:



Higher other expenses due to the effect of changes in our stock price on our deferred compensation plans, as our stock price increased during 2019, compared to a significant decrease during 2018.

Lower net investment income, net of interest credited, related to lower allocated investments driven by a decline in excess capital retained by Other Operations.

Higher interest and debt expense driven by an increase in average balances of outstanding debt as we prefunded the payment of debt maturing in early 2020 during the third quarter of 2019.



The increase in loss from operations was partially offset by more favorable federal income tax benefits due to excess tax benefits associated with stock option exercises.



Additional Information



We expect to continue making investments as part of our strategic digitization initiative as discussed above in “Introduction – Executive Summary – Significant Operational Matters – Strategic Digitization Initiative,” but we expect those investments to be offset going forward by the expense savings in the business segments.



Net Investment Income and Interest Credited



We utilize an internal formula to determine the amount of capital that is allocated to our business segments.  Investment income on capital in excess of the calculated amounts is reported in Other Operations.If our business segments require increases in statutory reserves, surplus or investments, the amount of excess capital that is retained by Other Operations would decrease and net investment income would be negatively affected.



Write-downs for OTTI decrease the recorded value of investments owned by the business segments.  These write-downs are not included in the income from operations of our business segments.  When impairment occurs, assets are transferred to the business segments’ portfolios and will reduce the future net investment income for Other Operations.  Statutory reserve adjustments for our business segments can also cause allocations of investments between the business segments and Other Operations.



The majority of our interest credited relates to our reinsurance operations sold to Swiss Re Life & Health America, Inc. (“Swiss Re”) in 2001.  A substantial amount of the business was sold through indemnity reinsurance transactions, which is still recorded in our consolidated financial statements.  The interest credited corresponds to investment income earnings on the assets we continue to hold for


this business.  There is no effect to income or loss in Other Operations or on a consolidated basis for these amounts because interest earned on the blocks that continue to be reinsured is passed through to Swiss Re in the form of interest credited.



Benefits



Benefits are recognized when incurred for institutional pension products and disability income business.



Other Expenses





Details underlying other expenses (in millions) were as follows:







For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017General and administrative expenses:Legal$-$1$1Branding454035Other(1)36931Total general and administrative expenses815067Taxes, licenses and fees(2)(7)(13)(8)Inter-segment reimbursement associated with reservefinancing and LOC expenses(3)(12)(12)(12)Total other expenses$62$25$47



(1)Includes expenses that are corporate in nature including charitable contributions, the portion of our deferred compensation plan expense attributable to participants’ selection of LNC stock as the measure for their investment return and other expenses not allocated to our business segments.

(2)Includes state guaranty funds assessments to cover losses to contract holders of insolvent or rehabilitated insurance companies.  Mandatory assessments may be partially recovered through a reduction in future premium taxes in some states.

(3)Consists of reimbursements to Other Operations from the Life Insurance segment for the use of proceeds from certain issuances of senior notes that were used as long-term structured solutions, net of expenses incurred by Other Operations for its use of LOCs.



Interest and Debt Expense



Our current level of interest expense may not be indicative of the future due to, among other things, the timing of the use of cash, the availability of funds from our inter-company cash management program and the future cost of capital.  For additional information on our financing activities, see “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources of Liquidity and Cash Flow – Financing Activities” below.











‎




REALIZEDGAIN (LOSS) AND BENEFIT RATIO UNLOCKING



Details underlying realized gain (loss), after-DAC(1)and benefit ratio unlocking (in millions) were as follows:







For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Components of Realized Gain (Loss), Pre-TaxTotal operating realized gain (loss)$184$187$166Total excluded realized gain (loss)(794)(46)(336)Total realized gain (loss), pre-tax$(610)$141$(170)Reconciliation of Excluded Realized Gain (Loss)Net of Benefit Ratio Unlocking, After-TaxTotal excluded realized gain (loss)$(627)$(37)$(218)Benefit ratio unlocking277(136)129Excluded realized gain (loss) net of benefitratio unlocking, after-tax$(350)$(173)$(89)Components of Excluded Realized Gain (Loss)Net of Benefit Ratio Unlocking, After-TaxRealized gain (loss) related to certain investments$(58)$(66)$(47)Gain (loss) on the mark-to-market on certain instruments(2)(95)7(3)Variable annuity net derivatives results:Hedge program performance, including unlockingfor GLB reserves hedged(97)(137)14GLB NPR component(41)57(43)Total variable annuity net derivatives results(138)(80)(29)Indexed annuity forward-starting option(59)(34)(10)Excluded realized gain (loss) net of benefitratio unlocking, after-tax$(350)$(173)$(89)



(1)DAC refers to the associated amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL and changes in other contract holder funds and funds withheld reinsurance assets and liabilities.

(2)As of December 31, 2019, the modified coinsurance (“Modco”) investment portfolio included fixed maturity securities classified as AFS with changes in fair value recorded in OCI.  Since the corresponding and offsetting changes in fair value of the embedded derivatives related to the Modco investment portfolio are recorded in realized gain (loss), volatility can occur within net income (loss).  See Note 9 for more information.



Comparison of2019to 2018



We had higher realized losses due primarily to the following:



Losses due primarily to unfavorable changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives related to certain Modco reinsurance agreements.

Unfavorable variable annuity net derivatives results attributable to unfavorable GLB NPR component due to our associated reserves decreasing and credit spreads narrowing, partially offset by favorable hedge program performance due to less volatile markets.

Higher losses on our indexed annuity forward-starting option due to a decrease in discountrates and growth in new business.



The above components of excluded realized gain (loss) are described net of benefit ratio unlocking, after-tax.



See “Variable Annuity Net Derivatives Results” below for a discussion of how our NPR adjustment is determined.



See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL – Unlocking” above for more information about unlocking.



Operating Realized Gain (Loss)



Operating realized gain (loss) includes indexed annuity and IUL net derivatives results representing the net difference between the change in the fair value of the options that we hold and a portion of the change in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities of our indexed annuity and IUL products. The portion of the change in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities reported in operating realized gain (loss) represents the amount that is credited to the indexed annuity and IUL contracts.






Our GWB, GIB and 4LATER® features have elements of both benefit reserves and embedded derivative reserves.  We calculate the value of the benefit reserves and the embedded derivative reserves based on the specific characteristics of each GLB feature.For our GLBs that meet the definition of an embedded derivative under the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the FASB ASC, we record them at fair value on our Consolidated Balance Sheets with changes in fair value recorded in realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  In bifurcating the embedded derivative, we attribute to the embedded derivative the portion of total fees collected from the contract holder that relates to the GLB riders (the “attributed fees”).  These attributed fees represent the present value of future claims expected to be paid for the GLB at the inception of the contract (the “net valuation premium”) plus a margin that a theoretical market participant would include for risk/profit (the “risk/profit margin”).



We also include the risk/profit margin portion of the GLB attributed rider fees in operating realized gain (loss) and include the net valuation premium of the GLB attributed rider fees in excluded realized gain (loss).  For our Annuities and Retirement Plan Services segments, the excess of total fees collected from the contract holders over the GLB attributed rider fees is reported in fee income.



Realized Gain (Loss) Related to Certain Investments



See “Consolidated Investments – Realized Gain (Loss) Related to Certain Investments” below.



Gain (Loss) on the Mark-to-Market on Certain Instruments



Gain (loss) on the mark-to-market on certain instruments, including those associated with our consolidated variable interest entities (“VIEs”) represents changes in the fair values of certain derivative investments (not including those associated with our variable annuity net derivatives results), reinsurance related embedded derivatives and trading securities.



See Note 4 for information about our consolidated VIEs.



Variable Annuity Net Derivatives Results



Our variable annuity net derivatives results include the net valuation premium, the change in the GLB embedded derivative reserves and the change in the fair value of the derivative instruments we own to hedge them, including the cost of purchasing the hedging instruments.  In addition, these results include the changes in reserves not accounted for at fair value and results from benefit ratio unlocking on our GDB and GLB riders and the change in the fair value of the derivative instruments we own to hedge the benefit ratio unlocking on our GDB and GLB riders.



We use derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to the risks and earnings volatility that result from changes in the GLB embedded derivative reserves.  The change in fair value of these derivative instruments is designed to generally offset the change in embedded derivative reserves.  Our variable annuity net derivatives results can be volatile, especially when sudden and significant changes in equity markets and/or interest rates occur.  We do not attempt to hedge the change in the NPR component of the liability.

The NPR factors affect the discount rate used in the calculation of the GLB embedded derivative reserve.  Our methodology for calculating the NPR component of the embedded derivative reserve utilizes an extrapolated 30-year NPR spread curve applied to a series of expected cash flows over the expected life of the embedded derivative.  Our cash flows consist of both expected fees to be received from contract holders and benefits to be paid, and these cash flows are different on a pre- and post-NPR basis.  We utilize a model based on our holding company’s credit default swap (“CDS”) spread adjusted for items, such as the security of policyholder liabilities relative to the security of insurance company debt.  Because the guaranteed benefit liabilities are contained within our insurance subsidiaries, we apply items, such as the effect of our insurance subsidiaries’ claims-paying ratings compared to holding company credit risk and the over-collateralization of insurance liabilities, in order to determine factors that are representative of a theoretical market participant’s view of the NPR of the specific liability within our insurance subsidiaries.






Details underlying our variable annuity hedging program (dollars in millions) were as follows:





As ofAs ofAs ofAs ofAs ofDecember 31,September 30,June 30,March 31,December 31,20192019201920192018Variable annuity hedge program assets (liabilities)$1,998$3,292$2,418$1,967$2,357Variable annuity reserves – asset (liability):Embedded derivative reserves, pre-NPR(1)$620$(568)$211$578$252NPR(120)(37)(101)(98)(57)Embedded derivative reserves500(605)110480195Insurance benefit reserves(958)(1,026)(911)(916)(1,060)Total variable annuity reserves – asset (liability)$(458)$(1,631)$(801)$(436)$(865)10-year CDS spread1.14%1.36%1.17%1.43%1.67%NPR factor related to 10-year CDS spread0.13%0.19%0.15%0.18%0.25%



(1)Embedded derivative reserves in an asset (liability) position indicate we estimate the present value of future benefits to be less (greater) than the present value of future net valuation premiums.



The following shows the hypothetical effect (in millions) to net income (loss) for changes in the NPR factor along all points on the spread curve as of December 31, 2019:



HypotheticalEffectNPR factor:Down 13 basis points to zero$(62)Up 20 basis points44



See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Derivatives – GLB” above for additional information about our guaranteed benefits.



Indexed Annuity Forward-Starting Option



The liability for the forward-starting option reflects changes in the fair value of embedded derivative liabilities related to index options we may purchase or sell in the future to hedge contract holder index allocations applicable to future reset periods for our indexed annuity products accounted for under the Derivatives and Hedging and the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topics of the FASB ASC. These fair values represent an estimate of the cost of the options we will purchase or sell in the future, discounted back to the date of the balance sheet, using current market indications of volatility and interest rates, which can vary significantly from period to period due to a number of factors and therefore can provide results that are not indicative of the underlying trends.

‎




CONSOLIDATED INVESTMENTS



Details underlying our consolidated investment balances (in millions) were as follows:



Percentage ofTotal InvestmentsAs of December 31,As of December 31,2019201820192018InvestmentsFixed maturity AFS securities$105,200$94,02478.7%81.6%Trading securities4,6731,9503.5%1.7%Equity securities103990.1%0.1%Mortgage loans on real estate16,33913,26012.2%11.5%Real estate11120.0%0.0%Policy loans2,4772,5091.8%2.2%Derivative investments1,9111,1071.4%1.0%Alternative investments1,8211,7251.4%1.4%Other investments1,1625300.9%0.5%Total investments$133,697$115,216100.0%100.0%



Investment Objective



Investments are an integral part of our operations.  We follow a balanced approach to investing for both current income and prudent risk management, with an emphasis on generating sufficient current income, net of income tax, to meet our obligations to customers, as well as other general liabilities.  This balanced approach requires the evaluation of expected return and risk of each asset class utilized, while still meeting our income objectives.  This approach is important to our asset-liability management because decisions can be made based upon both the economic and current investment income considerations affecting assets and liabilities.  For a discussion of our risk management process, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”



Investment Portfolio Composition and Diversification



Fundamental to our investment policy is diversification across asset classes.  Our investment portfolio, excluding cash and invested cash, is composed of fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans on real estate, real estate (either wholly-owned or in joint ventures) and other long-term investments.  We purchase investments for our segmented portfolios that have yield, duration and other characteristics that take into account the liabilities of the products being supported.



We have the ability to maintain our investment holdings throughout credit cycles because of our capital position, the long-term nature of our liabilities and the matching of our portfolios of investment assets with the liabilities of our various products.



‎




Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Portfolios



Fixed maturity securities consist of portfolios classified as AFS and trading.  Details underlying our fixed maturity AFS securities by industry classification (in millions) are presented in the tables below.  These tables agree in total with the presentation of fixed maturity AFS securities in Note 5; however, the categories below represent a more detailed breakout of the fixed maturity AFS portfolio.  Therefore, the investment classifications listed below do not agree to the investment categories provided in Note 5.



As of December 31, 2019Gross Unrealized%AmortizedLosses andFairFairCostGainsOTTI(1)ValueValueFixed Maturity AFS SecuritiesIndustry corporate bonds:Financial services$13,991$1,632$43$15,58014.8%Basic industry4,57049165,0554.8%Capital goods6,700760107,4507.1%Communications4,31465474,9614.7%Consumer cyclical5,33553695,8625.6%Consumer non-cyclical14,2151,8132116,00715.2%Energy6,080649446,6856.4%Technology4,03938244,4174.2%Transportation3,28330923,5903.4%Industrial other1,5639821,6591.6%Utilities13,5331,8612015,37414.6%Government related entities1,794294122,0762.0%Collateralized mortgage and other obligations ("CMOs"):Agency backed1,89310891,9921.9%Non-agency backed52749(18)5940.6%Mortgage pass through securities ("MPTS"):Agency backed62233-6550.6%Commercial mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS"):Agency backed201-210.0%Non-agency backed1,01844-1,0621.0%Asset-backed securities ("ABS"):Collateralized loan obligations ("CLOs")3,612783,6113.4%Credit card78221990.1%Equipment receivables201-210.0%Home equity36915(27)4110.4%Manufactured housing9--90.0%Student loans301-310.0%Other6921617070.7%Municipals:Taxable4,6751,09175,7595.5%Tax-exempt10322-1250.1%Government:United States38451-4350.4%Foreign32964-3930.4%Hybrid and redeemable preferred securities49782205590.5%Total fixed maturity AFS securities94,29511,086181105,200100.0%Trading Securities(2)4,330353104,673Equity Securities123525103Total fixed maturity AFS, trading and equity securities$98,748$11,444$216$109,976



‎






As of December 31, 2018Gross Unrealized%AmortizedLosses andFairFairCostGainsOTTI(1)ValueValueFixed Maturity AFS SecuritiesIndustry corporate bonds:Financial services$13,762$465$352$13,87514.8%Basic industry4,5421371524,5274.8%Capital goods6,5312361826,5857.0%Communications4,6862101334,7635.1%Consumer cyclical5,4751601805,4555.8%Consumer non-cyclical14,30754350714,34315.3%Energy6,3832172276,3736.8%Technology3,69864813,6813.9%Transportation3,28991993,2813.5%Industrial other1,32824301,3221.4%Utilities13,33069224913,77314.6%Government related entities2,292141632,3702.5%CMOs:Agency backed1,74752561,7431.9%Non-agency backed73248(13)7930.8%MPTS:Agency backed82918108370.9%CMBS:Agency backed20--200.0%Non-agency backed7916137840.8%ABS:CLOs1,7463191,7301.8%Credit card7816-940.1%Equipment receivables371-380.0%Home equity50817(9)5340.6%Manufactured housing151-160.0%Student loans38--380.0%Other240712460.3%Municipals:Taxable4,551711185,2445.6%Tax-exempt965-1010.1%Government:United States3902924170.5%Foreign40642-4480.5%Hybrid and redeemable preferred securities58245345930.6%Total fixed maturity AFS securities92,4293,9812,38694,024100.0%Trading Securities(2)1,823137101,950Equity Securities11611899Total fixed maturity AFS, trading and equity securities$94,368$4,119$2,414$96,073



(1)Includes unrealized gains and (losses) on credit-impaired securities related to changes in the fair value of such securities subsequent to the impairment measurement date.

(2)Certain of our trading securities support our Modco reinsurance agreements and the investment results are passed directly to the reinsurers.  See “Trading Securities” below for more information.

‎




Fixed Maturity AFS Securities



In accordance with the fixed maturity AFS accounting guidance, we reflect stockholders’ equity as if unrealized gains and losses were actually recognized, and consider all related accounting adjustments that would occur upon such a hypothetical recognition of unrealized gains and losses.  Such related balance sheet effects include adjustments to the balances of DAC, VOBA, DFEL, future contract benefits, other contract holder funds and deferred income taxes.  Adjustments to each of these balances are charged or credited to AOCI.  For instance, DAC is adjusted upon the recognition of unrealized gains or losses because the amortization of DAC is based upon an assumed emergence of gross profits on certain insurance business.  Deferred income tax balances are also adjusted because unrealized gains or losses do not affect actual taxes currently paid.



The quality of our fixed maturity AFS securities portfolio, as measured at estimated fair value and by the percentage of fixed maturity AFS securities invested in various ratings categories, relative to the entire fixed maturity AFS security portfolio (in millions) was as follows:



Rating AgencyAs of December 31, 2019As of December 31, 2018NAICEquivalentAmortizedFair% ofAmortizedFair% ofDesignation(1)Designation(1)CostValueTotalCostValueTotalInvestment Grade Securities1AAA / AA / A$51,367$58,23555.4%$49,086$51,11854.4%2BBB39,47343,46041.3%39,87239,64142.1%Total investment grade securities90,840101,69596.7%88,95890,75996.5%Below Investment Grade Securities3BB2,3092,3882.3%2,5652,4482.6%4B9609550.9%8037410.8%5CCC and lower1581360.1%95630.1%6In or near default28260.0%8130.0%Total below investment grade securities3,4553,5053.3%3,4713,2653.5%Total fixed maturity AFS securities$94,295$105,200100.0%$92,429$94,024100.0%Total securities below investmentgrade as a percentage of totalfixed maturity AFS securities3.7%3.3%3.8%3.5%



(1)Based upon the rating designations determined and provided by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) or the major credit rating agencies (Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”), Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) and S&P).  For securities where the ratings assigned by the major credit rating agencies are not equivalent, the second lowest rating assigned is used.  For those securities where ratings by the major credit rating agencies are not available, which does not represent a significant amount of our total fixed maturity AFS securities, we base the ratings disclosed upon internal ratings.



Comparisons between the NAIC ratings and rating agency designations are published by the NAIC.  The NAIC assigns securities quality ratings and uniform valuations, which are used by insurers when preparing their annual statements.  The NAIC ratings are similar to the rating agency designations of the Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations for marketable bonds.  NAIC ratings 1 and 2 include bonds generally considered investment grade (rated Baa3 or higher by Moody’s, or rated BBB- or higher by S&P and Fitch) by such ratings organizations.  However, securities rated NAIC 1 and 2 could be deemed below investment grade by the rating agencies as a result of the current RBC rules for residential mortgage-backed securities (“RMBS”) and CMBS for statutory reporting.  NAIC ratings 3 through 6 include bonds generally considered below investment grade (rated Ba1 or lower by Moody’s, or rated BB+ or lower by S&P and Fitch).



As of December 31, 2019, and 2018, 87% and 95%, respectively, of the total fixed maturity AFS securities in an unrealized loss position were investment grade.  See Note 5 for maturity date information for our fixed maturity investment portfolio.  Our gross unrealized losses,including the portion of OTTI recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”),on fixed maturity AFS securities as of December 31, 2019, decreased by $2.2 billion since December 31, 2018.  As more fully described in Note 1, we regularly review our investment holdings for OTTI.  We concluded the unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2019, does not represent OTTI as:  (i) we do not intend to sell the debt securities; (ii) it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the debt securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis; and (iii) the estimated future cash flows are equal to or greater than the amortized cost basis of the debt securities.  For further information on our unrealized losses on fixed maturity AFS securities, see “Composition by Industry Categories of our Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity AFS Securities” below.






In our evaluation of OTTI, we concluded:  (i) that it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the fixed maturity AFS securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis; and (ii) that the estimated future cash flows are equal to or greater than the amortized cost basis of the debt securities.  This conclusion is consistent with our asset-liability management process.  Management considers the following as part of the evaluation:



The current economic environment and market conditions;

Our business strategy and current business plans;

The nature and type of security, including expected maturities and exposure to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk;

Our analysis of data from financial models and other internal and industry sources to evaluate the current effectiveness of our hedging and overall risk management strategies;

The current and expected timing of contractual maturities of our assets and liabilities, expectations of prepayments on investments and expectations for surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts;

The capital risk limits approved by management; and

Our current financial condition and liquidity demands.



To determine the recoverability of a debt security, we consider the facts and circumstances surrounding the underlying issuer including, but not limited to, the following:



Historical and implied volatility of the security;

Length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost;

Adverse conditions specifically related to the security or to specific conditions in an industry or geographic area;

Failure, if any, of the issuer of the security to make scheduled payments; and

Recoveries or additional declines in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet date.



As reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, we had $136.3 billion of investments and cash, which exceeded the liabilities for our future obligations under insurance policies and contracts, net of amounts recoverable from reinsurers, which totaled $117.3 billion as of December 31, 2019.  If it were necessary to liquidate fixed maturity AFS securities prior to maturity or call to meet cash flow needs, we would first look to those fixed maturity AFS securities that are in an unrealized gain position, which had a fair value of $97.7 billion as of December 31, 2019, rather than selling fixed maturity AFS securities in an unrealized loss position.  The amount of cash that we have on hand at any point in time takes into account our liquidity needs in the future, other sources of cash, such as the maturities of investments, interest and dividends we earn on our investments and the ongoing cash flows from new and existing business.



See “Fixed Maturity AFS Securities – Evaluation for Recovery of Amortized Cost” in Note 1 and Note 5 for additional discussion.



As of December 31, 2019, and 2018, the estimated fair value for all private placement securities was $17.0 billion and $15.3 billion, respectively, representing13% of total investments.



Trading Securities



Trading securities, which in certain cases support reinsurance funds withheld and our Modco reinsurance agreements, are carried at fair value and changes in fair value are recorded in net income as they occur.  Investment results for these certain portfolios, including gains and losses from sales, are passed directly to the reinsurers through the contractual terms of the reinsurance arrangements.  Offsetting these amounts in certain cases are corresponding changes in fair value of the embedded derivative liability associated with the underlying reinsurance arrangement.  See Notes 1 and 9 for more information regarding Modco.



Mortgage-Backed Securities (Included in Fixed Maturity AFS and Trading Securities)



Our fixed maturity securities include mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”).  These securities are subject to risks associated with variable prepayments.  This may result in differences between the actual cash flow and maturity of these securities than that expected at the time of purchase.  Securities that have an amortized cost greater than par and are backed by mortgages that prepay faster than expected will incur a reduction in yield or a loss.  Those securities with an amortized cost lower than par that prepay faster than expected will generate an increase in yield or a gain.  In addition, we may incur reinvestment risks if market yields are lower than the book yields earned on the securities.  Prepayments occurring slower than expected have the opposite effect.  The degree to which a security is susceptible to either gains or losses is influenced by:  the difference between its amortized cost and par; the relative sensitivity of the underlying mortgages backing the assets to prepayment in a changing interest rate environment; and the repayment priority of the securities in the overall securitization structure.



We limit the extent of our risk on MBS by prudently limiting exposure to the asset class, by generally avoiding the purchase of securities with a cost that significantly exceeds par, by purchasing securities with improving collateral performance, and by primarily investing in securities that are current pay and senior priority in their trust structure.  A significant amount of assets in our MBS portfolio are either guaranteed by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises, supported in the securitization structure by junior securities or purchased at discounted prices significantly lower than their expected recovery value, enabling the assets to achieve high investment grade status.






Our exposure to subprime mortgage lending is limited to investments in banks and other financial institutions that may be affected by subprime lending and direct investments in ABS and RMBS.  Mortgage-related ABS are backed by home equity loans and RMBS are backed by residential mortgages.  These securities are backed by loans that are characterized by borrowers of differing levels of creditworthiness:  prime; Alt-A; and subprime.  Prime lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers with excellent credit profiles.  Alt-A lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers who have prime credit profiles but lackdocumentation to substantiate income.  Subprime lending is the origination of loans to customers with weak or impaired credit profiles.



Delinquency and loss rates on residential mortgages and home equity loans have been showing positive trends, and, as long as the unemployment rate remains stable to improving, we expect these trends to continue.  We continue to expect to receive payments in accordance with contractual terms for a significant amount of our securities, largely due to the seniority of the claims on the collateral of the securities that we own.  The tranches of the securities will experience losses according to their seniority level with the least senior (or most junior), typically the unrated residual tranche, taking the first loss.  Our ABS home equity and RMBS had a market value of $3.8 billion and a net unrealized gain of $247 million as of December 31, 2019.





‎




The market value of fixed maturity AFS securities and trading securities backed by subprime loans was $377 million and represented less than 1% of our total investment portfolio as of December 31, 2019.  Fixed maturity AFS securities represented $363 million, or 96%, and trading securities represented $14 million, or 4%, of the subprime exposure as of December 31, 2019.  The table below summarizes our investments in fixed maturity AFS securities backed by pools of residential mortgages (in millions) as of December 31, 2019:



Subprime/AgencyPrimeAlt-AOption ARM(1)TotalAmortizedFairAmortizedFairAmortizedFairAmortizedFairAmortizedFairCostValueCostValueCostValueCostValueCostValueTypeRMBS$2,515$2,647$162$180$135$153$230$261$3,042$3,241ABS home equity1135365054283320369411Total by type(2)(3)$2,516$2,648$197$216$185$207$513$581$3,411$3,652RatingAAA$2,069$2,184$1$1$-$-$4$4$2,074$2,189AA447464192015151213493512A--17171149496767BBB--45141413143133BB and below--156173155177435501746851Total by rating(2)(3)(4)$2,516$2,648$197$216$185$207$513$581$3,411$3,652Origination Year2009 and prior$503$558$181$199$184$206$513$581$1,381$1,5442010205222------20522220119297------929720123536------35362013194201------1942012014697511----707620151641711516----1791872016571570--11--5725712017288303----2883032018222241------2222412019173174------173174Total by originationyear(2)(3)$2,516$2,648$197$216$185$207$513$581$3,411$3,652Total fixed maturity AFS securities backed by pools ofresidential mortgages as a percentage of total fixed maturity AFS securities3.6%3.5%Total prime, Alt-A and subprime/option ARM as a percentage of total fixed maturity AFS securities0.9%1.0%



(1)Includes the amortized cost and fair value of option adjustable rate mortgages (“ARM”) within RMBS, totaling $190 million and $218 million, respectively.

(2)Does not include the amortized cost of trading securities totaling $169 million that primarily support our Modco reinsurance agreements because investment results for these agreements are passed directly to the reinsurers.  The $169 million in trading securities consisted of $155 million prime, $1 million Alt-A and $13 million subprime.

(3)Does not include the fair value of trading securities totaling $174 million that primarily support our Modco reinsurance agreements because investment results for these agreements are passed directly to the reinsurers.  The $174 million in trading securities consisted of $159 million prime, $1 million Alt-A and $14 million subprime.

(4)Based upon the rating designations determined and provided by the major credit rating agencies (Fitch, Moody’s and S&P).  For securities where the ratings assigned by the major credit agencies are not equivalent, the second lowest rating assigned is used.  For those securities where ratings by the major credit rating agencies are not available, which does not represent a significant amount of our total fixed maturity AFS securities, we base the ratings disclosed upon internal ratings.



None of these investments included any direct investments in subprime lenders or mortgages.  We are not aware of material exposure to subprime loans in our alternative asset portfolio.

‎




The following summarizes our investments in AFS securities backed by pools of commercial mortgages (in millions) as of December 31, 2019:



Multiple PropertySingle PropertyTotalAmortizedFairAmortizedFairAmortizedFairCostValueCostValueCostValueTypeCMBS(1)(2)$1,023$1,066$15$17$1,038$1,083RatingAAA$1,005$1,047$4$4$1,009$1,051AA1818672425A--5656BB and below-1---1Total by rating(1)(2)(3)$1,023$1,066$15$17$1,038$1,083Origination Year2009 and prior$12$15$11$13$23$28201033--33201188--8820122728--27282013153155--153155201578--78201686884490922017323338--3233382018164177--1641772019240246--240246Total by origination year(1)(2)$1,023$1,066$15$17$1,038$1,083Total fixed maturity AFS securities backed by pools ofcommercial mortgages as a percentage of total fixed maturity AFS securities1.1%1.0%



(1)Does not include the amortized cost of trading securities totaling $161 million that primarily support our Modco reinsurance agreements because investment results for these agreements are passed directly to the reinsurers.  The $161 million in trading securities consisted of $69 million of multiple property CMBS and $92 million of single property CMBS.

(2)Does not include the fair value of trading securities totaling $163 million that primarily support our Modco reinsurance agreements because investment results for these agreements are passed directly to the reinsurers.  The $163 million in trading securities consisted of $71 million of multiple property CMBS and $92 million of single property CMBS.

(3)Based upon the rating designations determined and provided by the major credit rating agencies (Fitch, Moody’s and S&P).  For securities where the ratings assigned by the major credit rating agencies are not equivalent, the second lowest rating assigned is used.  For those securities where ratings by the major credit rating agencies are not available, which does not represent a significant amount of our total fixed maturity AFS securities, we base the ratings disclosed upon internal ratings.



As of December 31, 2019, the amortized cost and fair value of our fixed maturity AFS exposure to monoline insurers was $356 million and $407 million, respectively.



Composition by Industry Categories of our Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity AFS Securities



When considering unrealized gain and loss information, it is important to recognize that the information relates to the position of securities at a particular point in time and may not be indicative of the position of our investment portfolios subsequent to the balance sheet date.  Further, because the timing of the recognition of realized investment gains and losses through the selection of which securities are sold is largely at management’s discretion, it is important to consider the information provided below within the context of the overall unrealized gain or loss position of our investment portfolios.  These are important considerations that should be included in any evaluation of the potential effect of securities in an unrealized loss position on our future earnings.






The composition by industry categories of all fixed maturity AFS securities in an unrealized loss position (in millions) as of December 31, 2019, was as follows:



%GrossGross%UnrealizedUnrealized%AmortizedAmortizedLossesLossesFairFairCostCostand OTTIand OTTIValueValueBanking$2563.3%$5121.0%$2052.7%Oil field services1511.9%2510.2%1261.7%ABS2,09827.0%177.0%2,08127.7%Government owned, no guarantee1161.5%93.7%1071.4%Integrated861.1%93.7%771.0%Local Authorities3634.7%83.3%3554.7%Utility - other2933.8%83.3%2853.8%Healthcare3654.7%72.8%3584.8%Pharmaceuticals1121.4%72.9%1051.4%Property and casualty350.5%62.4%290.4%Electric4605.9%62.5%4546.0%Finance companies1732.2%62.5%1672.2%Independent1682.2%62.5%1622.2%MBS2913.7%52.1%2863.8%Midstream911.2%52.1%861.1%Food and beverage2122.8%52.1%2072.8%Industries with unrealized lossesless than $5 million2,49432.1%6325.9%2,43132.3%Total by industry$7,764100.0%$243100.0%$7,521100.0%Total by industry as a percentage oftotal fixed maturity AFS securities8.2%100.0%7.1%



As of December 31, 2019, the amortized cost and fair value of securities subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring for potential changes in unrealized loss position was $34 million and $31 million, respectively.



Mortgage Loans on Real Estate



The following tables summarize key information on mortgage loans on real estate (in millions):



As of December 31, 2019CommercialResidentialTotal%Credit Quality IndicatorCurrent$15,606$716$16,32299.9%Delinquent(1)-990.1%Foreclosure(2)-880.0%General valuation allowance--0.0%Total mortgage loans on real estate$15,606$733$16,339100.0%As of December 31, 2018CommercialResidentialTotal%Credit Quality IndicatorCurrent$13,012$247$13,259100.0%Delinquent(1)-110.0%Foreclosure(2)---0.0%Total mortgage loans on real estate$13,012$248$13,260100.0%



(1)As of December 31, 2019, three commercial mortgage loans and 24 residential mortgage loans were delinquent.  As of December 31, 2018, nine commercial loans and two residential loans were delinquent.

(2)As of December 31, 2019, no commercial mortgage loans and 14 residential mortgage loans were in foreclosure.  As of December 31, 2018, there were no mortgage loans in foreclosure.



As of December 31, 2019, there was one specifically identified impaired commercial mortgage loan on real estate with a carrying value of less than $1 million and four specifically identified impaired residential mortgage loans on real estate with an aggregate carrying value of


$1 million.  As of December 31, 2018, there were no specifically identified impaired commercial or residential mortgage loans on real estate.



The total outstanding principal and interest on commercial mortgage loans on real estate that were two or more payments delinquent as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, was less than $1 million.  The total outstanding principal and interest on residential mortgage loans on real estate that were three or more payments delinquent as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, was $9 million and less than $1 million, respectively.



See Note 1 for more information regarding our accounting policy relating to the impairment of mortgage loans on real estate.



The carrying value of mortgage loans on real estate by business segment (in millions) was as follows:



As of December 31,20192018SegmentAnnuities$5,453$3,962Retirement Plan Services4,0963,599Life Insurance4,0963,829Group Protection1,3611,089Other Operations1,333781Total mortgage loans on real estate$16,339$13,260

















The composition of commercial mortgage loans (in millions) by property type, geographic region and state is shown below:



As of December 31, 2019As of December 31, 2019CarryingCarryingValue%Value%Property TypeStateApartment$5,10932.8%CA$3,67523.6%Office building3,79824.3%TX1,78511.4%Industrial2,85518.3%NY9095.8%Retail2,67417.1%FL7384.7%Other commercial7024.5%MD7014.5%Hotel/Motel2421.6%GA6944.5%Mixed use2261.4%TN5823.7%Total$15,606100.0%OH5753.7%Geographic RegionPA5533.5%Pacific$4,55429.2%WA5483.5%South Atlantic3,41521.9%VA4462.9%West South Central1,93412.4%NC4132.6%Middle Atlantic1,69210.8%IL3682.4%East North Central1,4799.5%OR3312.1%Mountain7684.9%MA3252.1%East South Central7324.7%AZ3242.1%West North Central5163.3%WI3212.1%New England4833.1%Non U.S.330.2%Non U.S.330.2%All other states2,28514.6%Total$15,606100.0%Total$15,606100.0%






The following tables show the principal amount (in millions) of our commercial and residential mortgage loans by origination year and by year in which the principal is contractually obligated to be repaid:





As of December 31, 2019CommercialResidentialTotal%Origination Year2014 and prior$3,764$-$3,76423.0%20151,775-1,77510.9%20161,972-1,97212.1%20172,016-2,01612.3%20182,6321942,82617.3%20193,4645183,98224.4%Total$15,623$712$16,335100.0%As of December 31, 2019CommercialResidentialTotal%Principal Repayment Year2020$577$8$5853.5%20211,03281,0406.4%202290699155.6%202390399125.6%20241,242101,2527.7%2025 and thereafter10,96366811,63171.2%Total$15,623$712$16,335100.0%

See Note 5 for information regarding our loan-to-value and debt-service coverage ratios and our valuation allowance for loan losses.



Alternative Investments



Investment income (loss) on alternative investments by business segment (in millions) was as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Annuities$2$27$23Retirement Plan Services21511Life Insurance15161119Group Protection2148Other Operations154Total(1)$22$222$165



(1)Includes net investment income on the alternative investments supporting the required statutory surplus of our insurance businesses.



As of December 31, 2019, and 2018, alternative investments included investments in 258 and 237 different partnerships, respectively, andthe portfolio represented approximately 1% of our total investments.The partnerships do not represent off-balance sheet financing and generally involve several third-party partners.  Some of our partnerships contain capital calls, which require us to contribute capital upon notification by the general partner.  These capital calls are contemplated during the initial investment decision and are planned for well in advance of the call date.  The capital calls are not material in size and are not material to our liquidity.  Alternative investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are included in other investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.



Non-Income Producing Investments



As of December 31, 2019, and 2018, the carrying amount of fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans on real estate and real estate that were non-income producing was $9 million and $7 million, respectively.






Net Investment Income



Details underlying net investment income (in millions) and our investment yield were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Net Investment IncomeFixed maturity AFS securities$4,281$4,209$4,163Equity AFS securities--12Trading securities1918494Equity securities44-Mortgage loans on real estate629496440Real estate112Policy loans129123135Invested cash402611Commercial mortgage loan prepaymentand bond make-whole premiums(1)11979139Alternative investments(2)22222165Consent fees846Other investments30232Investment income5,4545,2715,169Investment expense(231)(186)(179)Net investment income$5,223$5,085$4,990



(1)See “Commercial Mortgage Loan Prepayment and Bond Make-Whole Premiums” below for additional information.

(2)See “Alternative Investments” above for additional information.

For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Interest Rate YieldFixed maturity securities, mortgage loans onreal estate and other, net of investment expenses4.35%4.44%4.55%Commercial mortgage loan prepayment andbond make-whole premiums0.10%0.07%0.14%Alternative investments0.02%0.21%0.16%Net investment income yield on invested assets4.47%4.72%4.85%

We earn investment income on our general account assets supporting fixed annuity, term life, whole life, UL, interest-sensitive whole life and the fixed portion of retirement plan and VUL products.  The profitability of our fixed annuity and life insurance products is affected by our ability to achieve target spreads, or margins, between the interest income earned on the general account assets and the interest credited to the contract holder on our average fixed account values, including the fixed portion of variable.  Net investment income and the interest rate yield table each include commercial mortgage loan prepayments and bond make-whole premiums and alternative investments.  These items can vary significantly from period to period due to a number of factors and, therefore, can provide results that are not indicative of the underlying trends.



Commercial Mortgage Loan Prepayment and Bond Make-Whole Premiums



Prepayment and make-whole premiums are collected when borrowers elect to call or prepay their debt prior to the stated maturity.  A prepayment or make-whole premium allows investors to attain the same yield as if the borrower made all scheduled interest payments until maturity.  These premiums are designed to make investors indifferent to prepayment.



The increase in prepayment and make-whole premiums when comparing 2019 to 2018 was attributable primarily to increased refinancing activity.






Realized Gain (Loss) Related to Certain Investments



Details of the realized gain (loss) related to certain investments (in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Fixed maturity AFS securities:Gross gains$45$38$19Gross losses(73)(80)(44)Gross OTTI(16)(7)(20)Equity AFS securities:Gross gains--6Gain (loss) on other investments(1)(16)(13)(12)Associated amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFELand changes in other contract holder funds(13)(22)(21)Total realized gain (loss) related to certain investments$(73)$(84)$(72)



(1)Includes market adjustments on equity securities still held of $(4) million and $(17) million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.



Amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL and changes in other contract holder funds reflect an assumption for an expected level of credit-related investment losses.  When actual credit-related investment losses are realized, we recognize a true-up to our DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL amortization and changes in other contract holder funds within realized losses reflecting the incremental effect of actual versus expected credit-related investment losses.  These actual to expected amortization adjustments could create volatility in net realized gains and losses.



Realized gains and losses generally originate from asset sales to reposition the portfolio or to respond to product experience. In the process of evaluating whether a security with an unrealized loss reflects declines that are other-than-temporary, we consider our ability and intent to sell the security prior to a recovery of value.  However, subsequent decisions on securities sales are made within the context of overall risk monitoring, assessing value relative to other comparable securities and overall portfolio maintenance.  Although our portfolio managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses that are considered temporary until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell.  These subsequent decisions are consistent with the classification of our investment portfolio as AFS.  We expect to continue to manage all non-trading investments within our portfolios in a manner that is consistent with the AFS classification.



We consider economic factors and circumstances within industries and countries where recent write-downs have occurred in our assessment of the position of securities we own of similarly situated issuers.  While it is possible for realized or unrealized losses on a particular investment to affect other investments, our risk management strategy has been designed to identify correlation risks and other risks inherent in managing an investment portfolio.  Once identified, strategies and procedures are developed to effectively monitor and manage these risks.  The areas of risk correlation that we pay particular attention to are risks that may be correlated within specific financial and business markets, risks within specific industries and risks associated with related parties.



When the detailed analysis by our external asset managers and investment portfolio managers leads us to the conclusion that a security’s decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, the security is written down to estimated recovery value.  In instances where declines are considered temporary, the security will continue to be carefully monitored.  See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Investments – Write-downs for OTTI and Valuation Allowances” above for additional information on our portfolio management strategy.






Details underlying write-downs taken as a result of OTTI that were recognized in net income (loss) and included in realized gain (loss) on fixed maturity AFS securities above and the portion of OTTI recognized in OCI (in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017OTTI Recognized in Net Income (Loss)Fixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$(14)$(5)$(13)State and municipal bonds--(1)RMBS(1)(1)(2)CMBS--(2)ABS(1)(1)(2)Gross OTTI recognized in net income (loss)(16)(7)(20)Associated amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL1-2Net OTTI recognized in net income (loss)$(15)$(7)$(18)OTTI Recognized in OCIGross OTTI recognized in OCI$16$-$-Change in DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL(1)--Net OTTI recognized in OCI$15$-$-



The $16 million of impairments taken during 2019 were all credit-related impairments.  The increase in write-downs for OTTI when comparing 2019 to 2018 was primarily attributable to individual credit risks within our corporate bond holdings.



The increase in OTTI recognized in OCI when comparing 2019 to 2018 was primarily attributable to the fair values and recovery values being less aligned on impaired securities resulting in an increase of the non-credit portion of the impairment.



REINSURANCE



Our insurance companies cede insurance to other companies.  The portion of our life insurance risks exceeding each of our insurance companies’ retention limit is reinsured with other insurers.  We seek life and annuity reinsurance coverage to limit our exposure to mortality losses and/or to enhance our capital and risk management.We acquire other reinsurance as applicable with retentions and limits that management believes are appropriate for the circumstances.  The consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” reflect insurance premiums, insurance fees, benefits and DAC amortization net of insurance ceded.  Our insurance companies remain liable if their reinsurers are unable to meet contractual obligations under applicable reinsurance agreements.We utilize inter-company reinsurance agreements to manage our statutory capital position as well as our hedge program for variable annuity guarantees.  With regard to risk retention from a consolidated basis, these inter-company agreements do not have an effect on our consolidated financial statements.  For information regarding reserve financing and LOC expenses from inter-company reinsurance agreements, see “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Uses of Capital – Contractual Obligations” below.



We focus on obtaining reinsurance from a diverse group of reinsurers.  We have established standards and criteria for our use and selection of reinsurers.  In order for a new reinsurer to participate in our current program, we require the reinsurer to have an A.M. Best rating of A+ or greater or an S&P rating of AA- or better and a specified RBC percentage.  If the reinsurer does not have these ratings, we generally require them to post collateral as described below; however, we may initially waive the collateral requirements based on the facts and circumstances.  In addition, we may require collateral from a reinsurer to mitigate credit/collectability risk.  Typically, in such cases, the reinsurer must either maintain minimum specified ratings and RBC ratios or establish the specified quality and quantity of collateral.  Similarly, we have also required collateral in connection with books of business sold pursuant to indemnity reinsurance agreements.



Reinsurers, including affiliated reinsurers, that are not licensed, accredited or authorized in the state of domicile of the reinsured (“ceding company”), i.e., unauthorized reinsurers, are required to post statutorily prescribed forms of collateral for the ceding company to receive reinsurance credit.  The three primary forms of collateral are:  (i) qualifying assets held in a reserve credit trust; (ii) irrevocable, unconditional, evergreen LOCs issued by a qualified U.S. financial institution; and (iii) assets held by the ceding company in a segregated funds withheld account.  Collateral must be maintained in accordance with the rules of the ceding company’s state of domicile and must be readily accessible by the ceding company to cover claims under the reinsurance agreement.  Accordingly, our insurance subsidiaries require unauthorized reinsurers to post acceptable forms of collateral to support their reinsurance obligations to us.



As a result of our Modco agreement with Athene to reinsure fixed and fixed indexed annuity products, we recorded a $6.6 billion deposit asset reflected within other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2019.  For additional information, see Note 9.



Our amounts recoverable from reinsurers represent receivables from and reserves ceded to reinsurers.  As of December 31, 2019, 88%, or $15.1 billion, of our total reinsurance recoverable was secured by collateral for our benefit.  Of this amount, $14.8 billion was held by


reinsurers in reserve credit trusts (such reserve credit trusts are held by non-affiliated reinsurers; therefore, they are not reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets), $1.8 billion was reflected as funds withheld reinsurance liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2019, although only $164 million can be utilized as collateral due to excess funds withheld above the reinsurance recoverable from our reinsurers, and $97 million was secured by LOCs for which we are the beneficiary, an off-balance sheet arrangement.



We regularly evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and monitor concentration risk with our largest reinsurers at least annually.We monitor all of our existing reinsurers’ financial strength ratings on a monthly basis.  We also monitor our reinsurers’ financial health, trends and commitment to the reinsurance business, statutory surplus, RBC levels, statutory earnings and fluctuations, current claims payment aging and our reinsurers’ own reinsurers.  In addition, we present at least annually information regarding our reinsurance exposures to the Finance Committee of our Board of Directors.  For more discussion of our counterparty risk with our reinsurers, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors – Operational Matters – We face risks of non-collectability of reinsurance and increased reinsurance rates, which could materially affect our results of operations.”



For more information about reinsurance, see Notes 9 and 14 and “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources of Liquidity and Cash Flow – Insurance Subsidiaries’ Statutory Capital and Surplus” below.



For factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in this section, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements – Cautionary Language” above.









REVIEWOF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL CONDITION



Liquidityand Capital Resources



Sources of Liquidity and Cash Flow



Liquidity refers to the ability of an enterprise to generate adequate amounts of cash from its normal operations to meet cash requirements with a prudent margin of safety.  Our principal sources of cash flow from operating activities are insurance premiums and fees and investment income, while sources of cash flows from investing activities result from maturities and sales of investments.  Our operating activities provided (used) cash of $(2.7) billion, $1.9 billion and $788 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.The use of cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2019, was primarily driven by purchases of trading securities in repositioning a portion of a Modco investment portfolio from fixed maturity AFS securities to trading securities.  As a result, the cash outflows from operating activities were largely offset by sales of fixed maturity AFS securities within investing activities.  See Note 9 for more information.When considering our liquidity and cash flow, it is important to distinguish between the needs of our insurance subsidiaries and the needs of the holding company, LNC.  As a holding company with no operations of its own, LNC derives its cash primarily from its operating subsidiaries.‎

The sources of liquidity of the holding company are principally comprised of dividends and interest payments from subsidiaries, augmented by holding company short-term investments, bank lines of credit and the ongoing availability of long-term public financing under an SEC-filed shelf registration statement.  These sources of liquidity and cash flow support the general corporate needs of the holding company, including its common stock dividends, interest and debt service, funding of callable securities, securities repurchases, acquisitions and investment in core businesses.



‎




Details underlying the primary sources of our holding company cash flows (in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Dividends from SubsidiariesThe Lincoln National Life Insurance Company$600$910$954First Penn-Pacific-1520Lincoln Investment Management Company302520Lincoln National Management Corporation5-75Lincoln National Reinsurance Company (Barbados) Limited19575-Total dividends from subsidiaries$830$1,025$1,069Loan Repayments and Interest from SubsidiariesInterest on inter-company notes$132$145$122Other Cash Flow ItemsAmounts received from (paid for taxes on)stock option exercises and restricted stock, net$(10)$2$60



The table above focuses on significant and recurring cash flow items and excludes the effects of certain financing activities, namely the periodic issuance and retirement of debt and cash flows related to our inter-company cash management program (discussed below).  Taxes have been eliminated from the analysis due to a tax sharing agreement among our primary subsidiaries resulting in a modest effect on net cash flows at the holding company.  Also excluded from this analysis is the modest amount of investment income on short-term investments of the holding company.  See “Part IV – Item 15(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules – Schedule II – Condensed Financial Information of Registrant” for the parent company cash flow statement.



Restrictions on Subsidiaries’ Dividends and Other Payments



We are a holding company that transacts substantially all of our business directly and indirectly through subsidiaries.  Our primary

assets are the stock of our operating subsidiaries.  Our ability to meet our obligations on our outstanding debt and to pay dividends

and our general and administrative expenses depends on the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and the ability of our subsidiaries

to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us.





Indiana law also provides that following the payment of any dividend, the insurer’s contract holders’ surplus must be reasonable in

relation to its outstanding liabilities and adequate for its financial needs, and permits the Commissioner to bring an action to rescind a

dividend that violates these standards.  In the event the Commissioner determines that the contract holders’ surplus of one subsidiary

is inadequate, the Commissioner could use his or her broad discretionary authority to seek to require us to apply payments received

from another subsidiary for the benefit of that insurance subsidiary.



We expect our direct domestic insurance subsidiaries could pay dividends to LNC of approximately $845 million in 2020 without prior approval from the respective state commissioners.  The amount of surplus that our insurance subsidiaries could pay as dividends is constrained by the amount of surplus we hold to maintain our ratings, to provide an additional layer of margin for risk protection and for future investment in our businesses.



We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities.  These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks.  An extended disruption in the credit and capital markets could adversely affect LNC and its subsidiaries’ ability to access sources of liquidity, and there can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, in the current market environment.  In addition, further OTTI could reduce our statutory surplus, leading to lower RBC ratios and potentially reducing future dividend capacity from our insurance subsidiaries.




Insurance Subsidiaries’ Statutory Capital and Surplus



Our insurance subsidiaries must maintain certain regulatory capital levels.  We utilize the RBC ratio as a primary measure of the capital adequacy of our insurance subsidiaries.  The RBC ratio is an important factor in the determination of the credit and financial strength ratings of LNC and its subsidiaries, as a reduction in our insurance subsidiaries’ surplus may affect their RBC ratios and dividend-paying capacity.  For a discussion of RBC ratios, see “Part I – Item 1. Business – Regulatory – Insurance Regulation – Risk-Based Capital.”





Our captive reinsurance and reinsurance subsidiaries free up capital the insurance subsidiaries can use for any number of purposes, including paying dividends to the holding company.  The NAIC’s adoption of the Valuation Manual that defines a principles-based reserving framework for newly issued life insurance policies was effective January 1, 2017.  We adopted the framework for our newly issued term business in 2017 and phased in the framework through January 1, 2020, for all other newly issued life insurance products.  We continue to analyze the effects of principles-based reserving on the use of captive reinsurance, reinsurance subsidiaries and third-party reinsurance for reserve financing transactions for our life insurance business.  For more information on the NAIC’s adoption of principles-based reserving, see “Part I – Item 1. Business – Regulatory – Insurance Regulation.”



Statutory reserves established for variable annuity contracts and riders are sensitive to changes in the equity markets and are affected by the level of account values relative to the level of any guarantees, product design and reinsurance arrangements.  As a result, the relationship between reserve changes and equity market performance is non-linear during any given reporting period.  Market conditions greatly influence the ultimate capital required due to its effect on the valuation of reserves and derivative assets hedging these reserves.  We also utilize inter-company reinsurance arrangements to manage our hedge program for variable annuity guarantees.  The NAIC implemented changes to the statutory reserving, capital and accounting framework for variable annuities that went into effect as of January 1, 2020.  The NAIC is also considering modifications to the NAIC RBC C-1 capital charges for bonds, which may impact the level of the C-1 related RBC we are required to hold.  For more information, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors – Federal Regulation – Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements.”



Changes in equity markets may also affect the capital position of our insurance subsidiaries.  We may decide to reallocate available capital among our insurance subsidiaries, including our captive reinsurance subsidiaries, which would result in different RBC ratios for our insurance subsidiaries.  In addition, changes in the equity markets can affect the value of our variable annuity separate accounts.  When the market value of our separate account assets increases, the statutory surplus within our insurance subsidiaries also increases.  Contrarily, when the market value of our separate account assets decreases, the statutory surplus within our insurance subsidiaries may also decrease, which may affect RBC ratios, and in the case of our separate account assets becoming less than the related product liabilities, we must allocate additional capital to fund the difference.



We continueto analyze the use of our existing captive reinsurance structures, as well as additional third-party reinsurance arrangements, and our current hedging strategies relative to managing the effects of equity markets and interest rates on the statutory reserves, statutory capital and the dividend capacity of our life insurance subsidiaries.



Financing Activities



Although our subsidiaries currently generate adequate cash flow to meet the needs of our normal operations, periodically we may issue debt or equity securities to maintain ratings and increase liquidity, as well as to fund internal growth, acquisitions and the retirement of our debt and equity securities.



We currently have an effective shelf registration statement, which allows us to issue, in unlimited amounts, securities, including debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and depository shares.




Details underlying debt and financing activities (in millions) for the year ended December 31, 2019, were as follows:



Maturities,ChangeRepaymentsin FairBeginningandValueOtherEndingBalanceIssuanceRefinancingHedgesChanges(1)BalanceShort-Term DebtCurrent maturities of long-term debt$-$-$-$-$300$300Long-Term DebtSenior notes$4,432$500$(109)$94$(307)$4,610Bank borrowing(2)200250(200)--250Capital securities(2)(3)1,207----1,207Total long-term debt$5,839$750$(309)$94$(307)$6,067



(1)Includes the net increase (decrease) in commercial paper, non-cash reclassification of long-term debt to current maturities of long-term debt, accretion (amortization) of discounts and premiums, amortization of debt issuance costs and amortization of adjustments from discontinued hedges, as applicable.

(2)We refinanced a $200 million floating rate loan that was scheduled to mature on June 6, 2023, into a $250 million floating rate loan maturing on December 3, 2024.

(3)To hedge the variability in rates, we purchased interest rate swaps to lock in a fixed rate of approximately 5% over the remaining terms of the capital securities.



On August 12, 2019, we completed the issuance and sale of $500 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.05% senior notes due 2030.  We used a portion of the net proceeds from the offering to fund the repurchase of $105 million of our 6.15% senior notes due 2036 and $4 million of our 4.85% senior notes due 2021 pursuant to a tender offer.  We intend to use the remaining net proceeds for the repayment, on or prior to maturity, of our outstanding 6.25% senior notes due 2020 and for general corporate purposes.  As of December 31, 2019, the holding company had available liquidity of $702 million.  Available liquidity consists of cash and invested cash, excluding cash held as collateral, and certain short-term investments that can be readily converted into cash, net of commercial paper outstanding.



For more information about our short-term and long-term debt and our credit facilities and LOCs, see Note 13.



We have not accounted for repurchase agreements, securities lending transactions, or other transactions involving the transfer of financial assets with an obligation to repurchase the transferred assets as sales.  For information about our collateralized financing transactions on our investments, see “Payables for Collateral on Investments” in Note 5.



If current credit ratings or claims-paying ratings were downgraded in the future, terms in our derivative agreements may be triggered, which could negatively affect overall liquidity.  For the majority of our counterparties, there is a termination event with respect to LNC if its long-term senior debt ratings drop below BBB-/Baa3 (S&P/Moody’s); or with respect to LNL if its financial strength ratings drop below BBB-/Baa3 (S&P/Moody’s).  Our long-term senior debt held a rating of A-/Baa1 (S&P/Moody’s) as of December 31, 2019.  In addition, contractual selling agreements with intermediaries could be negatively affected, which could have an adverse effect on overall sales of annuities, life insurance and investment products.See “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity and Capital Position – A decrease in the capital and surplus of our insurance subsidiaries may result in a downgrade to our credit and insurer financial strength ratings” and “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors –Covenants and Ratings – A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered and/or hurt our relationships with creditors” for more information.  See “Part I – Item 1. Business – Financial Strength Ratings” for additional information on our current financial strength ratings.



Our indicative credit ratings published by the primary rating agencies are set forth below.  Securities are rated at the time of issuance so actual ratings may differ from the indicative ratings.  There may be other rating agencies that also provide credit ratings, which we do not disclose in our reports.



The long-term credit rating scales of A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody’s and S&P are characterized as follows:



A.M. Best – aaa to c

Fitch – AAA to D

Moody’s – Aaa to C

S&P – AAA to D






As of February 14, 2020, our indicative long-term credit ratings as published by the principal rating agencies that rate our long-term credit were as follows:



A.M. BestFitchMoody'sS&Pa-BBB+Baa1A-(7th of 22)(8th of 21)(8th of 21)(7th of 22)



The short-term credit rating scales of A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody’s and S&P are characterized as follows:



A.M. Best – AMB-1+ to AMB-4

Fitch – F1+ to D

Moody’s – P-1 to NP

S&P – A-1+ to D



As of February 14, 2020, our indicative short-term credit ratings as published by the principal rating agencies that rate our short-term credit were as follows:



3A.M. BestFitchMoody'sS&PAMB-1F2P-2A-2(2nd of 6)(3rd of 8)(2nd of 4)(3rd of 7)



A downgrade of our debt ratings could affect our ability to raise additional debt with terms and conditions similar to our current debt, and accordingly, likely increase our cost of capital.  In addition, a downgrade of these ratings could make it more difficult to raise capital to refinance any maturing debt obligations, to support business growth at our insurance subsidiaries and to maintain or improve the current financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries described in “Part I – Item 1. Business – Financial Strength Ratings.”



All ratings are on outlook stable, except Fitch ratings, which are on outlook positive.All of our ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies, and therefore, no assurance can be given that we can maintain these ratings.  Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.





Alternative Sources of Liquidity



In order to manage our capital more efficiently, we have an inter-company cash management program where certain subsidiaries can lend to or borrow from the holding company to meet short-term borrowing needs.  The cash management program is essentially a series of demand loans between LNC and participating subsidiaries that reduces overall borrowing costs by allowing LNC and its subsidiaries to access internal resources instead of incurring third-party transaction costs.  As of December 31, 2019, the holding company had a net outstanding receivable (payable) of $(206) million from (to) certain subsidiaries resulting from loans made by subsidiaries in excess of amounts placed (borrowed) by the holding company and subsidiaries in the inter-company cash management account.  Any change in holding company cash management program balances is offset by the immediate and equal change in holding company cash and invested cash.  Loans under the cash management program are permitted under applicable insurance laws subject to certain restrictions.  For our Indiana and New Hampshire-domiciled insurance subsidiaries, the borrowing and lending limit is currently 3% of the insurance company’s admitted assets as of its most recent year end.  For our New York-domiciled insurance subsidiary, it may borrow from LNC less than 2% of its admitted assets as of its most recent year end but may not lend any amounts to LNC.



Our insurance subsidiaries, by virtue of their general account fixed-income investment holdings, can access liquidity through securities lending programs and repurchase agreements.  Our primary insurance subsidiary, LNL, is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis (“FHLBI”).  Membership allows LNL access to the FHLBI’s financial services, including the ability to obtain loans and to issue funding agreements as an alternative source of liquidity that are collateralized by qualifying mortgage-related assets, agency securities or U.S. Treasury securities.  LNL had an estimated maximum borrowing capacity of $5.0 billion under the FHLBI facility as of December


31, 2019.  Borrowings under this facility are subject to the FHLBI’s discretion and require the availability of qualifying assets at LNL.  As of December 31, 2019, our insurance subsidiaries had investments with a carrying value of $3.7 billion out on loan or subject to repurchase agreements.  The cash received in our securities lending programs and repurchase agreements is typically invested in cash equivalents, short-term investments or fixed maturity securities.  For additional details, see “Payables for Collateral on Investments” in Note 5.



Cash Flows from Collateral on Derivatives



Our cash flows associated with collateral received from and posted with counterparties change as the market value of the underlying derivative contract changes.  As the value of a derivative asset decreases (or increases), the collateral required to be posted by our counterparties would also decrease (or increase).  Likewise, when the value of a derivative liability decreases (or increases), the collateral we are required to post to our counterparties would also decrease (or increase).  During 2019, our collateral payable for derivative investments increased due primarily to decreasing interest rates that increased the fair values of our associated over-the-counter derivative investments.  In the event of adverse changes in fair value of our derivative instruments, we may need to post collateral with a counterparty if our net derivative liability position reaches certain contractual levels.  If we do not have sufficient high quality securities or cash and invested cash to provide as collateral, we have liquidity sources, as discussed above, to leverage that would be eligible for collateral posting.  For additional information, see “Credit Risk” in Note 6.



Uses of Capital



Our principal uses of cash are to pay policy claims and benefits, operating expenses, commissions and taxes, to purchase new investments, to purchase reinsurance, to fund policy surrenders and withdrawals, to pay dividends to our stockholders, to repurchase our stock and to repay debt.



Return of Capital to Common Stockholders



One of the Company’s primary goals is to provide a return to our common stockholders through share price accretion, dividends and stock repurchases.  In determining dividends, the Board of Directors takes into consideration items such as current and expected earnings, capital needs, rating agency considerations and requirements for financial flexibility.  The amount and timing of share repurchase depends on key capital ratios, rating agency expectations, the generation of free cash flow and an evaluation of the costs and benefits associated with alternative uses of capital.  Free cash flow for the holding company generally represents the amount of dividends and interest received from subsidiaries less interest paid on debt.



Details underlying this activity (in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Dividends to common stockholders$298$286$259Repurchase of common stock640810725Total cash returned to stockholders$938$1,096$984Number of shares repurchased10.413.210.4



On October 29, 2019, our Board of Directors approved an increase of the quarterly dividend on our common stock from $0.37 to $0.40 per share.  Additionally, we may repurchase additional shares of common stock during 2020 depending on market conditions and alternative uses of capital.  For more information regarding share repurchases, see “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities – (c) Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.”



Other Uses of Capital



In addition to the amounts in the table above in “Return of Capital to Common Stockholders,” other uses of holding company cash flow (in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Debt service (interest paid)$288$286$257Capital contribution to subsidiaries5050260Total$338$788$317



The above table focuses on significant and recurring cash flow items and excludes the effects of certain financing activities, namely the periodic retirement of debt and cash flows related to our inter-company cash management account.  Taxes have been eliminated from the analysis due to a tax sharing agreement among our primary subsidiaries resulting in a modest effect on net cash flows at the holding company.






In 2018, we made an investment in our Group Protection business through the acquisition of Liberty Life, now LLACB, which affected our liquidity and capital position.  For additional information onthe acquisition, see“Introduction – Executive Summary” above and Note 3.



Contractual Obligations



Details underlying our future estimated cash payments for our contractual obligations (in millions) as of December 31, 2019, were as follows:



LessMoreThan1 - 33 - 5Than1 YearYearsYears5 YearsTotalFuture contract benefits and other contract holderobligations(1)$21,310$41,824$40,551$369,103$472,788Short-term and long-term debt(2)3005967504,4816,127Reserve financing and LOC expenses(3)69136116370691Payables for collateral on investments(4)3,580---3,580Operating leases(5)49927067278Finance leases(5)5613210712307Certain financing arrangements(6)31110116131Retirement and other plans(7)1102152064901,021Total$25,477$43,006$41,901$374,539$484,923



(1)Estimates are based on financial projections over 40 years and are not discounted for the time value of money.  New business issued or acquired, business ceded or sold, changes to or variances from actuarial assumptions and economic conditions will cause these amounts to change over time, possibly materially.  See Note 1 for details of what these liabilities include and represent.

(2)Represents principal amounts of debt only.  See Note 13 for additional information.

(3)Estimates are based on the level of capacity we expect to utilize during the life of the LOCs and other reserve financing arrangements.  See Note 13 for additional information.

(4)Excludes collateral payable held for derivative investments.  See Note 5 for additional information.

(5)See Note 14 for additional information.

(6)Represents certain financing arrangements that did not meet the requirements to be classified as a sale-leaseback arrangement.

(7)Includes anticipated funding for benefit payments for our retirement and postretirement plans through 2029 and known payments under deferred compensation arrangements.  In addition to these benefit payments, we periodically fund the employees’ defined benefit plans.  The majority of contributions and benefit payments are made by our insurance subsidiaries with little effect on holding company cash flow.  See Note 17 for additional information.



Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2019, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority.  Therefore, $48 million of unrecognized tax benefits and its associated interest have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above.  See Note 7 for additional information.



Contingencies and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources.  Details underlying our contingent commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements (in millions) as of December 31, 2019, were as follows:



Amount of Commitment Expiring per PeriodTotalLess Than1 - 33 - 5AfterAmount1 YearYearsYears5 YearsCommittedBank lines of credit$-$-$2,250$1,972$4,222Investment commitments1,0312355212152,002Total$1,031$235$2,771$2,187$6,224



Significant Trends in Sources and Uses of Cash Flow



As stated above, LNC’s cash flow, as a holding company, is largely dependent upon the dividend capacity of its insurance company subsidiaries as well as their ability to advance funds to it through inter-company borrowing arrangements, which may be affected by factors influencing the insurance subsidiaries’ RBC and statutory earnings performance.  We currently expect to be able to meet the holding company’s ongoing cash needs and to have sufficient capital to offer downside protection in the event that the capital and credit markets experience a period of extreme volatility and disruption.  A decline in capital market conditions, which reduces our insurance


subsidiaries’ statutory surplus and RBC, may require them to retain more capital and may pressure our subsidiaries’ dividends to the holding company, which may lead us to take steps to preserve or raise additional capital.



For factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in this section and that could affect our expectations for liquidity and capital, see “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements – Cautionary Language” above.



Item7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



“Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” as well as “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”



Interest Rate Risk



Interest rate risk is the risk of financial loss due to adverse changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to movements in interest rates.  We are exposed to interest rate risk arising from our fixed maturity securities and interest sensitive liabilities.



With respect to accumulation and investment-oriented products, we seek to earn a stable and profitable spread, or margin, between investment income we earn on our investments and interest credited to account values of our contract holders.  If we have adverse experience on investments that cannot be passed on to customers, our spreads are reduced.The combination of a probable range of interest rate changes over the next 12 months, asset-liability management strategies, flexibility in adjusting policy crediting rate levels and protection afforded by policy surrender charges all work together to mitigate this risk.  The interest rate scenarios of concern are those in which there is a substantial, relatively prolonged decrease in interest rates that is sustained over a long period or a rapid increase in interest rates.



‎




Significant Interest Rate Exposures



The following provides a general measure of our significant interest rate risk; principal, including amortization of premiums and discounts, notional amounts, and estimated fair values of assets, liabilities and derivatives are shown by year of maturity (dollars in millions) as of December 31, 2019:







Estimated

20202021202220232024ThereafterTotalFair Value

Rate Sensitive Assets

Fixed maturity AFS securities:

Fixed interest rate securities$2,807$3,876$3,349$3,751$4,162$75,151$93,096$103,834

Average interest rate4.7%4.5%4.1%4.3%4.2%4.6%4.5%

Variable interest rate securities$24$77$91$6$36$965$1,199$1,366

Average interest rate4.6%6.3%4.1%3.5%4.8%5.5%5.4%

Trading securities:

Fixed interest rate securities$238$148$144$146$127$3,512$4,315$4,653

Average interest rate4.7%3.4%3.8%4.2%7.0%5.1%5.0%

Variable interest rate securities$-$-$-$1$-$14$15$20

Average interest rate0.0%0.0%0.0%3.4%0.0%7.5%7.2%

Mortgage loans on real estate:

Total mortgage loans$585$1,040$915$912$1,252$11,631$16,335$16,872

Average interest rate4.4%4.6%4.4%4.2%4.0%4.2%4.2%

Rate Sensitive Liabilities

Investment type

insurance contracts(1)$1,890$2,660$2,263$2,238$3,525$37,304$49,880$52,692

Average interest rate(1)4.3%4.3%3.9%3.9%3.9%3.6%3.7%

Debt$300$296$300$500$250$4,481$6,127$6,217

Average interest rate6.3%4.9%4.2%4.0%2.8%4.5%4.2%

Rate Sensitive Derivative Financial Instruments

Interest rate, foreign currency swaps and forwards(4)

Pay variable/receive fixed$1,394$1,837$552$3,082$4,466$33,387$44,718$2,666

Average pay rate1.9%2.0%2.4%2.0%1.9%2.1%2.1%

Average receive rate2.7%2.3%3.5%2.6%2.0%2.8%2.7%

Pay fixed/receive variable$326$2,706$1,074$681$3,796$21,365$29,948$(1,736)

Average pay rate3.8%2.1%2.0%2.3%1.9%2.7%2.6%

Average receive rate2.0%1.9%2.1%1.9%2.0%2.1%2.1%

Interest rate cap corridors:$8,750$8,000$1,000$13,500$12,300$-$43,550$4

Average buy strike rate(2)7.0%7.0%7.0%7.0%6.0%0.0%6.7%

Average sell strike rate(2)11.0%11.0%11.0%11.0%10.0%0.0%10.7%

Forward swap curve1.8%2.0%2.1%2.1%2.1%0.0%2.0%

Reverse Treasury locks:

5-year on-the-run treasury$75$35$-$-$-$-$110$4

Average strike rate2.4%2.5%0.0%0.0%0.0%0.0%2.4%

Forward CMT curve(3)1.8%1.9%0.0%0.0%0.0%0.0%1.9%

10-year on-the-run Treasury$75$85$-$-$-$-$160$5

Average strike rate2.6%2.4%0.0%0.0%0.0%0.0%2.5%

Forward CMT curve(3)2.0%2.2%0.0%0.0%0.0%0.0%2.1%

30-year on-the-run Treasury$565$280$-$-$-$-$845$80

Average strike rate3.1%2.4%0.0%0.0%0.0%0.0%2.9%

Forward CMT curve(3)2.4%2.5%0.0%0.0%0.0%0.0%2.5%

Interest rate futures:

2-year Treasury notes$43$-$-$-$-$-$43$-

5-year Treasury notes30-----30-

10-year Treasury notes122-----122-

Treasury bonds79-----79-

(1)The information shown is for our fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans on real estate that support these insurance contracts.

(2)The indexes are the 7-year and 10-year constant maturity swap.

(3)The Constant Maturity Treasury (“CMT”) curve is the applicable 5-year, 10-year or 30-year CMT forward curve.

(4)Includes notional of $161 million and fair value of $2 million that support our Modco reinsurance agreements.  Investment results for these agreements are passed directly to the reinsurers.




The following provides the principal, including amortization of premiums and discounts, notional amounts, and estimated fair values of assets, liabilities and derivatives (in millions) having significant interest rate risks as of December 31, 2018:





Principal/NotionalEstimatedAmountFair ValueFixed maturity AFS securities$92,429$94,024Trading securities1,8231,950Mortgage loans on real estate13,26913,092Investment type insurance contracts(1)37,21737,108Debt5,6865,604Interest rate and foreign currency swaps50,831160Interest rate cap corridors51,80017Reverse Treasury locks1,36719Interest rate futures2,965-



(1)The information shown is for our fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans on real estate that support these insurance contracts.



Effect of Interest Rate Sensitivity



The following table presents our estimate of the effect on income (loss) from operations by segment (in millions) for the next 12-month period if the level of interest rates were to instantaneously increase or decrease by 1% and remain at those levels immediately after December 31, 2019, relative to interest rates remaining flat:



1%1%IncreaseDecreaseAnnuities(1)$(14)$17Retirement Plan Services5(5)Life Insurance5(6)Group Protection4(3)Income (loss) from operations$-$3



(1)Includes the impact on bond funds in our separate accounts, which move in the opposite direction of interest rates.



For purposes of this estimate, we assumed asset purchases are made at prevailing new money rates and exclude the impact of new business, unlocking, persistency, hedge program performance or customer behavior caused by the interest rate changes.



Interest Rate Risk on Fixed Insurance Businesses – Falling Rates



In periods of declining interest rates, we have to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower yielding instruments.  Moreover, borrowers may prepay fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and MBS in our general accounts in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates this risk.  Because we are entitled to reset the interest rates on our fixed-rate annuities only at limited, pre-established intervals, and because many of our contracts have guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates, our spreads could decrease and potentially become negative.



Prolonged historically low rates are not healthy for our business fundamentals.  However, we have recognized this risk and have been proactive in our investment strategies, product designs, crediting rate strategies and overall asset-liability practices to mitigate the risk of unfavorable consequences in this type of environment.  For some time now, new products have been sold with low minimum crediting floors, and we apply disciplined asset-liability management standards, such as locking in spreads on these products at the time of issue.See “Part I – Item 1A. Risk Factors – Market Conditions – Changes in interest rates and sustained low interest rates may cause interest rate spreads to decrease and make it more challenging to meet certain statutory requirements and changes in interest rates may also result in increased contract withdrawals.” for additional information on interest rate risks.



‎


The following provides detail on the percentage differences between the December 31, 2019, interest rates being credited to contract holders based on the fourth quarter of 2019 declared rates and the respective minimum guaranteed policy rate (in millions), broken out by contract holder account values reported within our segments:





Account ValuesRetirement%PlanLifeAccountAnnuitiesServicesInsurance(1)TotalValuesExcess of Crediting Rates over Contract MinimumsDiscretionary rate setting products:(2)Occurring within the next twelve months:(3)No difference$8,825$14,487$30,784$54,09662.2%Up to 0.50%2,8721,561504,4835.2%0.51% to 1.00%2,4031,7791394,3215.0%1.01% to 1.50%2,484478-2,9623.4%1.51% to 2.00%580-3,4514,0314.6%2.01% to 2.50%38--380.1%2.51% to 3.00%1-1021030.1%3.01% or greater----0.0%Occurring after the next twelve months(4)7,729--7,7298.9%Total discretionary rate setting products24,93218,30534,52677,76389.5%Other contracts(5)6,8972,254-9,15110.5%Total account values$31,829$20,559$34,526$86,914100.0%Percentage of discretionary rate setting product accountvalues at minimum guaranteed rates35.4%79.1%89.2%69.6%



(1)Excludes policy loans.

(2)Contracts currently within new money rate bands are grouped according to the corresponding portfolio rate band in which they will fall upon their first anniversary.

(3)The average crediting rates were 40 basis points, 13 basis points and 22 basis point in excess of average minimum guaranteed rates for our Annuities, Retirement Plan Services and Life Insurance segments, respectively.

(4)The average crediting rates were 143 basis points in excess of average minimum guaranteed rates.  Of our account values for these products, 13% are scheduled to reset in more than one year but not more than two years; 16% are scheduled to reset in more than two years but not more than three years; and 71% are scheduled to reset in more than three years.

(5)For Annuities, this amount relates primarily to income annuity and short-term dollar cost averaging business.  For Retirement Plan Services, this amount relates primarily to indexed-based rate setting products in which the average crediting rates were 36 basis points in excess of average minimum guaranteed rates, and 60% of account values were already at their minimum guaranteed rates.



The maturity structure and call provisions of the related portfolios are structured to afford protection against erosion of investment portfolio yields during periods of declining interest rates.  We devote extensive effort to evaluating the risks associated with falling interest rates by simulating asset and liability cash flows for a wide range of interest rate scenarios.  We seek to manage these exposures by maintaining a suitable maturity structure and by limiting our exposure to call risk in each respective investment portfolio.



Long-Term New Money Investment Yield Sensitivity



New money rates continue to be at low levels and, as a result, require careful analysis when forecasting the future direction of changes in rates.  We updated our interest rate assumptions during 2019, which included reducing our long-term new money investment yield assumption (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL – Unlocking” above for more information).  If we were to further change our view of future new money rates and lower our current long-term new money investment yield assumption, then, assuming that all other assumptions remain constant, we estimate the impact of lowering this assumption by 50 basis points would be approximately $(180) million to income (loss) from operations due primarily to unlocking our DAC and VOBA assets.  This impact would be most pronounced in our Life Insurance segment.  The actual impact of a 50 basis point decline in the yield would be based upon a number of factors existing at the time of the assumption update, and, therefore, the actual amount of the loss may differ from our current estimate.  In addition, lower investment margins may also impact the recoverability of intangible assets such as goodwill, require the establishment of additional liabilities or trigger loss recognition events on certain policyholder liabilities.



Interest Rate Risk on Fixed Insurance Businesses – Rising Rates



For both annuities and universal life insurance, a rapid rise in interest rates poses risks of deteriorating spreads and high surrenders.  The portfolios supporting these products have fixed-rate assets laddered over maturities generally ranging from 1 to 10 years or more.  Accordingly, the earned rate on each portfolio lags behind changes in market yields.  As rates rise, the lag may be increased by slowing MBS prepayments.  The greater and faster the rise in interest rates, the more the earned rate will tend to lag behind market rates.  If we


set renewal crediting rates to earn the desired spread, the gap between our renewal crediting rates and competitors’ new money rates may be wide enough to cause increased surrenders that could cause us to liquidate a portion of our portfolio to fund these surrenders.  If we credit more competitive renewal rates to limit surrenders, our spreads will narrow.  We devote extensive effort to evaluating these risks by simulating asset and liability cash flows for a wide range of interest rate scenarios.  Such analysis has led to adjustments in the target maturity structure and to hedging the risk of rising rates by entering into interest rate cap corridor agreements.  With these instruments in place, the potential adverse effect of a rapid and sustained rise in rates is kept within our risk tolerances.



Debt



We manage the timing of maturities and the mixture of fixed-rate and floating-rate debt as part of the process of integrated management of interest rate risk for the entire enterprise.  See Note 13 for additional information on our debt.



Derivatives



See Note 6 for information on our derivatives used to hedge our exposure to changes in interest rates.



Equity Market Risk



Equity market risk is the risk of financial loss due to changes in the value of equity securities or equity indices.  Our revenues, assets and liabilities are exposed to equity market risk that we often hedge with derivatives.  Due to the use of our RTM process and our hedging strategies, we expect that, in general, short-term fluctuations in the equity markets should not have a significant effect on our quarterly earnings from unlocking of assumptions for DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL.  However, earnings are affected by equity market movements on account values and assets under management and the related fees we earn on those assets.  Refer to “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL” in the MD&A for further discussion of the effects of equity markets on our RTM.



Fee Income



The fees earned from variable annuities and variable life insurance products are exposed to the risk of a decline in equity market values.  These fees are generally a fixed percentage of the market value of assets under management.  In a severe equity market decline, fee income could be reduced by not only reduced market valuations but also by customer withdrawals and redemptions.  Such withdrawals and redemptions from equity funds and accounts might be partially offset by transfers to our fixed-income accounts and the transfer of funds to us from our competitors’ customers.



Equity Assets



While we invest in equity assets with the expectation of achieving higher returns than would be available in our core fixed-income investments, the returns on and values of these equity investments are subject to somewhat greater market risk than our fixed-income investments.  These investments, however, add diversification benefits to our fixed-income investments.



Derivatives Hedging Equity Market Risk



We enter into derivative transactions to hedge our exposure to equity market risk.  Such derivatives include over-the-counter equity options, total return swaps, variance swaps, and equity futures.  See Note 6 for additional information on our derivatives used to hedge our exposure to equity market fluctuations.






The following provides the sensitivity of price changes (in millions) to our equity assets owned and derivatives hedging equity market risk:







As of December 31, 2019As of December 31, 2018Carrying/10% Fair10% FairCarrying/NotionalEstimatedValueValueNotionalEstimatedValueFair ValueIncrease(1)Decrease(1)ValueFair ValueEquity AssetsDomestic equities$97$97$10$(10)$107$91Foreign equities661(1)98Total equity securities10310311(11)11699Real estate11131(1)1216Hedge funds22122122(22)222222Private equities1,6851,685169(169)1,5031,503Tax credits13131(1)2020Other equity interests33--33Total equity assets$2,036$2,038$204$(204)$1,876$1,863Derivatives Hedging EquityMarket RiskCall options(2)$16,829$1,353$631$(636)$11,227$219Equity futures1,602-(64)641,078-Put options4,178(245)-53,716590Total return swaps11,460(325)(855)85611,292269Total derivatives hedgingequity market risk$34,069$783$(288)$289$27,314$1,077





(1)Assumes a plus or minus 10% change in underlying indexes.  Estimated fair value does not reflect daily settlement of futures or monthly settlement of total return swaps.

(2)Includes notional of $4 billion and fair value of $145 million that support our Modco reinsurance agreements.  Investment results for these agreements are passed directly to the reinsurers.



Liabilities



We have exposure to changes in our stock price through both our deferred and stock-based incentive compensation plans.  For additional information on our deferred and stock-based incentive compensations plans, see Notes 17 and 18, respectively.



Effect of Equity Market Sensitivity



If the level of the equity markets were to have instantaneously increased or decreased by 1% immediately after December 31, 2019, we estimate the effect on income (loss) from operations for the next 12-month period from the change in asset-based fees and related expenses would be approximately $10 million.  For purposes of this estimate, we excluded any effect related to net flows, unlocking, persistency, hedge program performance, customer behavior or reduction in account values attributable to contract holder assessments.



The effect of quarterly equity market changes upon fee income and asset-based expenses is generally not fully recognized in the first quarter of the change because fee income is earned and related expenses are incurred based upon daily variable account values.  The difference between the current period average daily variable account values compared to the end-of-period variable account values affects fee income in subsequent periods.  Additionally, the effect on earnings may not necessarily be symmetrical with comparable increases or decreases in the equity markets.  This discussion concerning the estimated effects of ongoing equity market volatility on the fees we earn from account values and assets under management is intended to be illustrative and is concentrated primarily in our Annuities and Retirement Plan Services segments.  Actual effects may vary depending on a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, such as changing customer behaviors that might result in changes in the mix of our business between variable and fixed annuity contracts, switching among investment alternatives available within variable products, changes in sales production levels or changes in policy persistency.  For purposes of this guidance, the change in account values is assumed to correlate with the change in the relevant index.



Credit Risk



Credit risk is the risk to earnings and capital that arises from uncertainty of an obligor’s or counterparty’s ability or willingness to meet its obligations in accordance with contractually agreed upon terms.  We are exposed to credit risk primarily by our investments in corporate bonds and mortgage loans on real estate and through our use of derivatives.






Investments



The majority of our credit risk is concentrated in investment holdings.  Our portfolio of investments was $133.7 billion and $115.2 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  Of this total, $92.0 billion and $82.0 billion consisted of corporate bonds and $16.3 billion and $13.3 billion consisted of mortgage loans on real estate as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  We manage the risk of adverse default experience on these investments by applying disciplined credit evaluation and underwriting standards, prudently limiting allocations to lower-quality, higher-yielding investments and diversifying exposures by issuer, industry, region and property type.  For each counterparty or borrowing entity and its affiliates, our exposures from all transactions are aggregated and managed in relation to formal limits set by rating quality.  Additional diversification limits, such as limits per industry, are also applied.  We remain exposed to occasional adverse cyclical economic downturns during which default rates may be significantly higher than the long-term historical average used in pricing.



Derivatives



We are exposed to counterparty credit risk through our various derivative contracts.  We depend on the ability of derivative product dealers and their guarantors to honor their obligations to pay the contract amounts under various derivatives agreements.  In order to minimize the risk of default losses, we diversify our exposures among several dealers and limit the amount of exposure to each in accordance with the credit rating of each dealer or its guarantor.  We generally limit our selection of counterparties that are obligated under these derivative contracts to those with an “A” credit rating or above.  See Note 6 for additional information on managing the credit risk of our counterparties.



We are also exposed to credit risk through the use of certain derivatives.  We buy credit default swaps to minimize our exposure to credit-related events with respect to a single entity or referenced index.  We also sell credit default swaps to offer credit protection to our contract holders and investors with respect to a single entity or referenced index.See Note 6 for additional information on our use of credit derivatives.



Foreign Currency Exchange Risk



Foreign Currency Denominated Investments



Foreign currency exchange risk is the risk of financial loss due to changes in the relative value between currencies.  We have foreign currency exchange risk in our non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, which primarily consist of fixed maturity securities.  The currency risk is hedged using foreign currency derivatives of the same currency as the foreign denominated security.



We invest in fixed maturity securities denominated in foreign currencies for incremental return and risk diversification relative to U.S. dollar-denominated securities.  We use foreign currency swaps to hedge the foreign exchange risk related to our investment in fixed maturity securities denominated in foreign currencies.  As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, our unhedged positions consisted of $8 million and $10 million, respectively, of principal in U.S. dollar equivalents of Canadian-denominated investments with maturity dates up to 2025 and an average interest rate of 2%. As of December 31, 2019, our Modco investment portfolios were partially hedged and consisted of $133 million of principal in U.S. dollar equivalents of foreign denominated investments with maturity dates up to 2063 and an average interest rate of 4%.  Investment results for our Modco reinsurance agreements are passed directly to the reinsurers.  As of December 31, 2018, we had no foreign denominated investments supporting our Modco investment portfolios.  See “Interest Rate Risk – Significant Interest Rate Exposures” above for our notional amounts in U.S. dollar equivalents (in millions) by year of maturity for our foreign currency swaps.



See Note 6 for additional information on our foreign currency swaps used to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk.











‎




Item 8.FinancialStatementsand Supplementary Data



MANAGEMENT REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING



Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for Lincoln National Corporation to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with United States of America generally accepted accounting principles.  Internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:  (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with United States of America generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.



Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Projections of any evaluation of internal control over financial reporting effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks.  Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.



Management assessed our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, the end of our fiscal year.  Management based its assessment on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework).  Management’s assessment included evaluation of such elements as the design and operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls, process documentation, accounting policies, and our overall control environment.



Based on the assessment, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of the end of the fiscal year to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with United States of America generally accepted accounting principles.



The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included on the following page.

‎




Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm



To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Lincoln National Corporation



Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting



We have audited Lincoln National Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the “COSO criteria”). In our opinion, Lincoln National Corporation (the “Company”) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on the COSO criteria.



We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss), stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes and financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15(a)(2)  and our report dated February 20, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.



Basis for Opinion



The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.



We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.



Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.



Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting



A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.



Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.



/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

February 20, 2020

‎


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm



To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Lincoln National Corporation



Opinion on the Financial Statements



We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Lincoln National Corporation (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss), stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes and financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15(a)(2) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”).  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.



We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), and our report dated February 20, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.



Basis for Opinion



These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.



We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.



Critical Audit Matters



The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the Audit Committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.



‎




Deferred Acquisition Costs Asset and Future Contract Benefits Liability



Description of the Matter



At December 31, 2019, deferred acquisition costs totaled $7.4 billion and future contract benefits liabilities totaled $36.4 billion, a portion of which related to universal life-type contracts with secondary guarantees and variable annuity contracts with guaranteed benefit riders.



The carrying amount of the deferred acquisition costs related to these products is the total of costs deferred less amortization, which is calculated in relation to the present value of estimated gross profits of the underlying contracts. As described in Notes 1 (see section onDAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL) and 8 to the consolidated financial statements, there is a significant amount of uncertainty inherent in calculating estimated gross profits as the calculation includes significant management judgment in developing certain assumptions, such as expected future mortality experience, investment margins, capital market performance, retention and rider utilization. Management’s assumptions are adjusted, also known as unlocked, for emerging experience and expected changes in trends. The unlocking results in deferred acquisition cost amortization being recalculated, using the new assumptions for estimated gross profits, that results either in additional or less cumulative amortization expense.



The future contract benefits liability related to these product guarantees is based on estimates of how much the Company will need to pay for future benefits and the amount of fees to be collected from policyholders for these policy features. As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements (see section onFuture Contract Benefits and Other Contract Holder Funds), there is significant uncertainty inherent in estimating this liability because there is a significant amount of management judgment involved in developing certain assumptions that impact the liability balance, which are consistent with the assumptions used to amortize the related deferred acquisition cost asset as noted above and which include expected mortality experience, investment margins, capital market performance, retention and rider utilization.



Auditing the valuation of deferred acquisition costs and future contract benefits liabilities related to these products was complex and required the involvement of our actuarial specialists due to the high degree of judgment used by management in setting the assumptions used in the estimate of both the amortization of deferred acquisition costs and the future contract benefits liability related to these products.



How We Addressed the Matter in Our AuditWe obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the deferred acquisition costs and future contract benefits liability estimation processes, including, among others, controls related to the review and approval processes that management has in place for the assumptions used in estimating the estimated gross profits related to deferred acquisition costs and the future contract benefits liability. This included testing controls related to management’s evaluation of the need to update assumptions based on the comparison of actual Company experience to previous assumptions and updating investment margins for current and expected future market conditions.We involved actuarial specialists to assist with our audit procedures which included, among others, an evaluation of the methodology applied by management with those methods used in prior periods. To assess the significant assumptions used by management, we compared the significant assumptions noted above to historical experience, observable market data or management’s estimates of prospective changes in these assumptions. In addition, we performed an independent recalculation of estimated gross profits related to deferred policy acquisition costs and the future policy benefit reserves for a sample of cohorts or contracts which we compared to the actuarial model used by management.






Variable Annuity Guaranteed Living Benefit Riders Embedded Derivatives



Description of the MatterThe Company’s variable annuity guaranteed living benefit riders include an embedded derivative, represented by an asset totaling $450 million as of December 31, 2019, related to the non-life contingent feature of the product which is accounted for at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in income. As described in Notes 1 (see section onSeparate Account Assets and Liabilities), 6 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements, there is a significant amount of estimation uncertainty inherent in measuring the fair value of the embedded derivative because of the sensitivity of certain assumptions underlying the estimate, including stock market performance, policy lapse experience and rider utilization. Management’s assumptions are adjusted over time for emerging experience and expected changes in trends, resulting in changes to the estimated fair value of the embedded derivative.Auditing the valuation of the embedded derivative related to variable annuity guaranteed living benefit riders was complex and required the involvement of our actuarial specialists due to the high degree of judgment used by management in setting the assumptions used in the estimate of the value of the embedded derivative.



How We Addressed the Matter in Our AuditWe obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the embedded derivative estimation process, including, among others, controls related to the review and approval processes that management has in place to develop the assumptions used in measuring the fair value of the embedded derivative. This included testing controls related to management’s evaluation of current and future market conditions and the need to update policy lapse and rider utilization assumptions.We involved actuarial specialists to assist with our audit procedures which included, among others, an evaluation of the methodology applied by management with those methods used in prior periods. To assess the significant assumptions used by management, we compared the significant assumptions noted above to historical experience, observable market data or management’s estimates of prospective changes in these assumptions. In addition, we performed an independent recalculation of the embedded derivative for a sample of contracts which we compared to the fair value model used by management.

Valuation of Goodwill for the Life Insurance Reporting Unit



Description of the MatterAt December 31, 2019, the Company’s goodwill was $1.8 billion, of which $634 million related to the Company’s Life Insurance reporting unit. As discussed in Notes 1 (see section onGoodwill) and 10 of the consolidated financial statements, goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually at the reporting unit level. Determining the fair value of the Life Insurance reporting unit as part of the goodwill impairment analysis is sensitive to significant assumptions such as the discount rate, which reflects the market expected, weighted-average rate of return adjusted for the risk factors associated with the operations, and other relevant assumptions impacting projected financial information, such as the profitability of new and in-force business, all of which are affected by expectations about future market or economic conditions.Auditing the fair value of the Company’s Life Insurance reporting unit was complex and required the involvement of our valuation and actuarial specialists due to the high degree of judgment used by management.



How We Addressed the Matter in Our AuditWe obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s goodwill impairment review process. This included, among others, controls related to the review and approval processes that management has in place to develop the assumptions used in the estimation process, including management’s determination of the applicable discount rate, and other assumptions for the Life Insurance reporting unit.We involved actuarial and valuation specialists to assist with our audit procedures which included, among others, an evaluation of the methodology applied by management with those methods used in prior periods. To assess the significant assumptions used by management, we compared the significant assumptions noted above to current industry and economic trends, recent market transactions and other relevant factors. We reviewed the historical accuracy of management’s estimate and performed sensitivity analyses of significant assumptions to evaluate the changes in the fair value of the Life Insurance reporting unit that would result from changes in the assumptions.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1966.

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

February 20, 2020








LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in millions, except share data)







As of December 31,


ASSETS

Investments:

Fixed maturity available-for-sale securities, at fair value (amortized cost:  2019 – $94,295; 2018 – $92,429)$105,200$94,024

Trading securities4,6731,950

Equity securities10399

Mortgage loans on real estate16,33913,260

Policy loans2,4772,509

Derivative investments1,9111,107

Other investments2,9942,267

Total investments133,697115,216

Cash and invested cash2,5632,345

Deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired7,69410,264

Premiums and fees receivable465570

Accrued investment income1,1481,119

Reinsurance recoverables17,14417,748

Funds withheld reinsurance assets536557

Goodwill1,7781,782

Other assets16,17015,713

Separate account assets153,566132,833

Total assets$334,761$298,147



LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Liabilities

Future contract benefits$36,420$34,648

Other contract holder funds98,01891,233

Short-term debt300-

Long-term debt6,0675,839

Reinsurance related embedded derivatives3273

Funds withheld reinsurance liabilities1,8101,740

Payables for collateral on investments5,0824,805

Other liabilities13,48212,696

Separate account liabilities153,566132,833

Total liabilities315,072283,797



Contingencies and Commitments (See Note 14)



Stockholders’ Equity

Preferred stock –10,000,000shares authorized--

Common stock –800,000,000shares authorized;196,668,532and205,862,760shares

issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2019, and December 31, 2018, respectively5,1625,392

Retained earnings8,8548,551

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)5,673407

Total stockholders’ equity19,68914,350

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity$334,761$298,147



‎

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements107



LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

(in millions, except per share data)





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017RevenuesInsurance premiums$5,513$4,601$3,256Fee income6,4975,9865,619Net investment income5,2235,0854,990Realized gain (loss):Total other-than-temporary impairment losses on securities(30)(7)(18)Portion of loss recognized in other comprehensive income15--Net other-than-temporary impairment losses on securities recognized in earnings(15)(7)(18)Realized gain (loss), excluding other-than-temporary impairment losses on securities(595)148(152)Total realized gain (loss)(610)141(170)Amortization of deferred gain on business sold through reinsurance31923Other revenues604602539Total revenues17,25816,42414,257ExpensesInterest credited2,7802,6172,590Benefits7,8806,7865,160Commissions and other expenses5,2874,7634,176Interest and debt expense326297253Strategic digitization expense667643Impairment of intangibles--905Total expenses16,33914,53913,127Income (loss) before taxes9191,8851,130Federal income tax expense (benefit)33244(949)Net income (loss)8861,6412,079Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:Unrealized investment gains (losses)5,288(3,449)1,643Foreign currency translation adjustment6(9)13Funded status of employee benefit plans(28)(7)8Total other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax5,266(3,465)1,664Comprehensive income (loss)$6,152$(1,824)$3,743Net Income (Loss) Per Common ShareBasic$4.41$7.60$9.36Diluted$4.38$7.40$9.22Cash Dividends Declared Per Common Share$1.51$1.36$1.20



‎

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements108

LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATIONCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY(in millions)For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Common StockBalance as of beginning-of-year$5,392$5,693$5,869Stock compensation/issued for benefit plans424594Retirement of common stock/cancellation of shares(272)(346)(270)Balance as of end-of-year5,1625,3925,693Retained EarningsBalance as of beginning-of-year8,5518,3997,043Cumulative effect from adoption of new accounting standards-(642)-Net income (loss)8861,6412,079Retirement of common stock(278)(554)(455)Common stock dividends declared(305)(293)(268)Balance as of end-of-year8,8548,5518,399Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)Balance as of beginning-of-year4073,2301,566Cumulative effect from adoption of new accounting standards-642-Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax5,266(3,465)1,664Balance as of end-of-year5,6734073,230Total stockholders’ equity as of end-of-year$19,689$14,350$17,322‎

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements109



LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(in millions)









For the Years Ended December 31,


Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Net income (loss)$886$1,641$2,079

Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by (used in) operating

activities:

Trading securities purchases, sales and maturities, net(2,510)(118)121

Change in:

Deferred acquisition costs, value of business acquired, deferred sales inducements

and deferred front-end loads deferrals and interest, net of amortization(409)(81)16

Premiums and fees receivable105(87)34

Accrued investment income(29)(17)(16)

Future contract benefits and other contract holder funds(1,479)(105)(1,720)

Reinsurance related assets and liabilities(134)718128

Accrued expenses107(101)113

Federal income tax accruals(227)154(1,119)

Realized (gain) loss610(141)170

Amortization of deferred gain on business sold through reinsurance(31)(9)(23)

Impairment of intangibles--905

Other42589100

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities(2,686)1,943788

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Purchases of available-for-sale securities and equity securities(15,326)(12,650)(10,148)

Sales of available-for-sale securities and equity securities6,8073,6681,612

Maturities of available-for-sale securities6,5716,0045,886

Purchase of common stock in acquisition, net of cash acquired-(1,410)-

Sale of business, net-(12)-

Purchases of alternative investments(433)(314)(357)

Sales and repayments of alternative investments131178184

Issuance of mortgage loans on real estate(4,262)(2,927)(2,058)

Repayment and maturities of mortgage loans on real estate1,1631,0851,184

Issuance and repayment of policy loans, net322151

Net change in collateral on investments, derivatives and related settlements79735(429)

Other(261)(193)(113)

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities(5,499)(5,815)(4,188)

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Payment of long-term debt, including current maturities(308)(537)-

Issuance of long-term debt, net of issuance costs7441,094-

Payment related to early extinguishment of debt(42)(23)-

Proceeds from sale-leaseback transactions-8862

Payment related to sale-leaseback transactions(83)--

Proceeds from certain financing arrangements107--

Deposits of fixed account values, including the fixed portion of variable16,06913,63810,797

Withdrawals of fixed account values, including the fixed portion of variable(5,849)(6,007)(5,825)

Transfers to and from separate accounts, net(1,362)(2,469)(1,787)

Common stock issued for benefit plans(20)(6)46

Repurchase of common stock(550)(900)(725)

Dividends paid to common stockholders(303)(289)(262)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities8,4034,5892,306

Net increase (decrease) in cash, invested cash and restricted cash218717(1,094)

Cash, invested cash and restricted cash as of beginning-of-year2,3451,6282,722

Cash, invested cash and restricted cash as of end-of-year$2,563$2,345$1,628





See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements110



LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS







1.  Nature of Operations, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies



Nature of Operations

Lincoln National Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries (“LNC” or the “Company,” which also may be referred to as “we,” “our” or “us”) operate multiple insurance businesses through four business segments.  See Note 21 for additional details.  The collective group of businesses uses “Lincoln Financial Group” as its marketing identity.  Through our business segments, we sell a wide range of wealth protection, accumulation, retirement income and group protection products and solutions.  These products primarily include fixed and indexed annuities, variable annuities, universal life insurance (“UL”), variable universal life insurance (“VUL”), linked-benefit UL, indexed universal life insurance (“IUL”), term life insurance, employer-sponsored retirement plans and services, and group life, disability and dental.



Basis of Presentation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with United States of America generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  Certain GAAP policies, which significantly affect the determination of financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, are summarized below.



Summary of Significant Accounting Policies



Principles of Consolidation



The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of LNC and all other entities in which we have a controlling financial interest and any variable interest entities (“VIEs”) in which we are the primary beneficiary.  As discussed in Note 3, on May 1, 2018, LNC and The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company (“LNL”) completed the acquisition of Liberty Life Assurance Company of Boston (“Liberty Life”), which effective September 1, 2019, was renamed Lincoln Life Assurance Company of Boston (“LLACB”).  We use the equity method of accounting to recognize all of our investments in limited liability partnerships.  All material inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.



Our involvement with VIEs is primarily to invest in assets that allow us to gain exposure to a broadly diversified portfolio of asset classes.  A VIE is an entity that does not have sufficient equity to finance its own activities without additional financial support or where investors lack certain characteristics of a controlling financial interest.  We assess our contractual, ownership or other interests in a VIE to determine if our interest participates in the variability the VIE was designed to absorb and pass onto variable interest holders.  We perform an ongoing qualitative assessment of our variable interests in VIEs to determine whether we have a controlling financial interest and would therefore be considered the primary beneficiary of the VIE.  If we determine we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, we consolidate the assets and liabilities of the VIE in our consolidated financial statements.



Accounting Estimates and Assumptions

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the reporting period.  Those estimates are inherently subject to change and actual results could differ from those estimates.  Included among the material (or potentially material) reported amounts and disclosures that require extensive use of estimates are:  fair value of certain investments and derivatives, other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) and asset valuation allowances,deferred acquisition costs (“DAC”),value of business acquired (“VOBA”), deferred sales inducements (“DSI”), goodwill, future contract benefits, other contract holder funds includingdeferred front-end loads (“DFEL”), pension plans, stock-based incentive compensation, income taxes and the potential effects of resolving litigated matters.



Business Combinations

We use the acquisition method of accounting for all business combination transactions, and accordingly, recognize the fair values of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interests in our consolidated financial statements.  The allocation of fair values may be subject to adjustment after the initial allocation for up to a one-year period as more information becomes available relative to the fair values as of the acquisition date.  The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of any acquired company since the acquisition date.



Fair Value Measurement

Our measurement of fair value is based on assumptions used by market participants in pricing the asset or liability, which may include inherent risk, restrictions on the sale or use of an asset or non-performance risk (“NPR”), which would include our own credit risk.  Our estimate of an exchange price is the price in an orderly transaction between market participants to sell the asset or transfer the liability (“exit price”) in the principal market, or the most advantageous market in the absence of a principal market, for that asset or liability, as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or receive a liability (“entry price”).  Pursuant to the Fair Value


Measurements and Disclosures Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)Accounting StandardsCodificationTM(“ASC”), we categorize our financial instruments carried at fair value into a three-level fair value hierarchy, based on the priority of inputs to the respective valuation technique.  The three-level hierarchy for fair value measurement is defined as follows:



Level 1 – inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices available in active markets for identical investments as of the reporting date, except for large holdings subject to “blockage discounts” that are excluded;

Level 2 – inputs to the valuation methodology are other than quoted prices in active markets, which are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date, and fair value can be determined through the use of models or other valuation methodologies; and

Level 3 – inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable inputs in situations where there is little or no market activity for the asset or liability, and we make estimates and assumptions related to the pricing of the asset or liability, including assumptions regarding risk.



In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy.  In such cases, the level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.  Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the investment.



When a determination is made to classify an asset or liability within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, the determination is based upon the significance of the unobservable inputs to the overall fair value measurement.  Because certain securities trade in less liquid or illiquid markets with limited or no pricing information, the determination of fair value for these securities is inherently more difficult.  However, Level 3 fair value investments may include, in addition to the unobservable or Level 3 inputs, observable components, which are components that are actively quoted or can be validated to market-based sources.



Fixed Maturity Available-For-Sale Securities – Fair Valuation Methodologies and Associated Inputs



Securities classified as available-for-sale (“AFS”) consist of fixed maturity securities and are stated at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“AOCI”), net of associated DAC, VOBA,DSI, future contract benefits, other contract holder funds and deferred income taxes.



We measure the fair value of our securities classified as fixed maturity AFS based on assumptions used by market participants in pricing the security.  The most appropriate valuation methodology is selected based on the specific characteristics of the fixed maturity security, and we consistently apply the valuation methodology to measure the security’s fair value.  Our fair value measurement is based on a market approach that utilizes prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable securities.  Sources of inputs to the market approach primarily include third-party pricing services, independent broker quotations or pricing matrices.  We do not adjust prices received from third parties; however, we do analyze the third-party pricing services’ valuation methodologies and related inputs and perform additional evaluation to determine the appropriate level within the fair value hierarchy.



The observable and unobservable inputs to our valuation methodologies are based on a set of standard inputs that we generally use to evaluate all of our fixed maturity AFS securities.  Observable inputs include benchmark yields, reported trades, broker-dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers and reference data.  In addition, market indicators, industry and economic events are monitored, and further market data is acquired if certain triggers are met.For certain security types, additional inputs may be used, or some of the inputs described above may not be applicable.  For private placement securities, we use pricing matrices that utilize observable pricing inputs of similar public securities and Treasury yields as inputs to the fair value measurement.  Depending on the type of security or the daily market activity, standard inputs may be prioritized differently or may not be available for all fixed maturity AFS securities on any given day.  For broker-quoted only securities, non-binding quotes from market makers or broker-dealers are obtained from sources recognized as market participants.For securities trading in less liquid or illiquid markets with limited or no pricing information, we use unobservable inputs to measure fair value.



The following summarizes our fair valuation methodologies and associated inputs, which are particular to the specified security type and are in addition to the defined standard inputs to our valuation methodologies for all of our fixed maturity AFS securities discussed above:



Corporate bonds and U.S. government bonds – We also use Trade Reporting and Compliance EngineTMreported tables for our corporate bonds and vendor trading platform data for our U.S. government bonds.

Mortgage- and asset-backed securities (“ABS”) – We also utilize additional inputs, which include new issues data, monthly payment information and monthly collateral performance, including prepayments, severity, delinquencies, step-down features and over collateralization features for each of our mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”), which include collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage pass through securities backed by residential mortgages (“RMBS”), commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”), collateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”) and collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”).

State and municipal bonds – We also use additional inputs that include information from the Municipal Securities Rule Making Board, as well as material event notices, new issue data, issuer financial statements and Municipal Market Data benchmark yields for our state and municipal bonds.

Hybrid and redeemable preferred securities – We also utilize additional inputs of exchange prices (underlying and common stock of the same issuer) for our hybrid and redeemable preferred securities.




In order to validate the pricing information and broker-dealer quotes, we employ, where possible, procedures that include comparisons with similar observable positions, comparisons with subsequent sales and observations of general market movements for those security classes.  We have policies and procedures in place to review the process that is utilized by our third-party pricing service and the output that is provided to us by the pricing service.  On a periodic basis, we test the pricing for a sample of securities to evaluate the inputs and assumptions used by the pricing service, and we perform a comparison of the pricing service output to an alternative pricing source.  We also evaluate prices provided by our primary pricing service to ensure that they are not stale or unreasonable by reviewing the prices for unusual changes from period to period based on certain parameters or for lack of change from one period to the next.



Fixed Maturity AFS Securities – Evaluation for Recovery of Amortized Cost



We regularly review our fixed maturity AFS securities (also referred to as “debt securities”) for declines in fair value that we determine to be other-than-temporary.



For our debt securities, we generally consider the following to determine whether our debt securities with unrealized losses are other-than-temporarily impaired:



The estimated range and average period until recovery;

The estimated range and average holding period to maturity;

Remaining payment terms of the security;

Current delinquencies and nonperforming assets of underlying collateral;

Expected future default rates;

Collateral value by vintage, geographic region, industry concentration or property type;

Subordination levels or other credit enhancements as of the balance sheet date as compared to origination; and

Contractual and regulatory cash obligations.



For a debt security, if we intend to sell a security, or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell a debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis and the fair value of the debt security is below amortized cost, we conclude that an OTTI has occurred and the amortized cost is written down to current fair value, with a corresponding charge to realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  If we do not intend to sell a debt security, or it is not more likely than not we will be required to sell a debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis but the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected is less than the amortized cost of the debt security (referred to as the credit loss), we conclude that an OTTI has occurred and the amortized cost is written down to the estimated recovery value with a corresponding charge to realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss), as this amount is deemed the credit portion of the OTTI.  The remainder of the decline to fair value is recorded in other comprehensive income (“OCI”) to unrealized OTTI on fixed maturity AFS securities on our Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity, as this amount is considered a noncredit (i.e., recoverable) impairment.



When assessing our intent to sell a debt security, or if it is more likely than not we will be required to sell a debt security before recovery of its cost basis, we evaluate facts and circumstances such as, but not limited to, decisions to reposition our security portfolio, sales of securities to meet cash flow needs and sales of securities to capitalize on favorable pricing.  Management considers the following as part of the evaluation:



The current economic environment and market conditions;

Our business strategy and current business plans;

The nature and type of security, including expected maturities and exposure to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk;

Our analysis of data from financial models and other internal and industry sources to evaluate the current effectiveness of our hedging and overall risk management strategies;

The current and expected timing of contractual maturities of our assets and liabilities, expectations of prepayments on investments and expectations for surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts;

The capital risk limits approved by management; and

Our current financial condition and liquidity demands.



In order to determine the amount of the credit loss for a debt security, we calculate the recovery value by performing a discounted cash flow analysis based on the current cash flows and future cash flows we expect to recover.  The discount rate is the effective interest rate implicit in the underlying debt security.  The effective interest rate is the original yield, or the coupon if the debt security was previously impaired.  See the discussion below for additional information on the methodology and significant inputs, by security type, that we use to determine the amount of a credit loss.



To determine the recovery period of a debt security, we consider the facts and circumstances surrounding the underlying issuer including, but not limited to, the following:



Historical and implied volatility of the security;

Length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost;

Adverse conditions specifically related to the security or to specific conditions in an industry or geographic area;




Failure, if any, of the issuer of the security to make scheduled payments; and

Recoveries or additional declines in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet date.



In periods subsequent to the recognition of an OTTI, the fixed maturity AFS security is accounted for as if it had been purchased on the measurement date of the OTTI.  Therefore, for the fixed maturity AFS security, the original discount or reduced premium is reflected in net investment income over the contractual term of the investment in a manner that produces a constant effective yield.



To determine recovery value of a corporate bond, CLO or CDO, we perform additional analysis related to the underlying issuer including, but not limited to, the following:



Fundamentals of the issuer to determine what we would recover if they were to file bankruptcy versus the price at which the market is trading;

Fundamentals of the industry in which the issuer operates;

Earnings multiples for the given industry or sector of an industry that the underlying issuer operates within, divided by the outstanding debt to determine an expected recovery value of the security in the case of a liquidation;

Expected cash flows of the issuer (e.g., whether the issuer has cash flows in excess of what is required to fund its operations);

Expectations regarding defaults and recovery rates;

Changes to the rating of the security by a rating agency; and

Additional market information (e.g., if there has been a replacement of the corporate debt security).



Each quarter, we review the cash flows for the MBS to determine whether or not they are sufficient to provide for the recovery of our amortized cost.  We revise our cash flow projections only for those securities that are at most risk for impairment based on current credit enhancement and trends in the underlying collateral performance.To determine recovery value of a MBS, we perform additional analysis related to the underlying issuer including, but not limited to, the following:



Discounted cash flow analysis based on the current cash flows and future cash flows we expect to recover;

Level of creditworthiness of the home equity loans or residential mortgages that back an RMBS or commercial mortgages that back a CMBS;

Susceptibility to fair value fluctuations for changes in the interest rate environment;

Susceptibility to reinvestment risks, in cases where market yields are lower than the securities’ book yield earned;

Susceptibility to reinvestment risks, in cases where market yields are higher than the book yields earned on a security;

Expectations of sale of such a security where market yields are higher than the book yields earned on a security; and

Susceptibility to variability of prepayments.





We further monitor the cash flows of all of our fixed maturity AFS securities backed by mortgages on an ongoing basis.  We also perform detailed analysis on all of our subprime, Alt-A, non-agency residential MBS and on a significant percentage of our fixed maturity AFS securities backed by pools of commercial mortgages.  The detailed analysis includes revising projected cash flows by updating the cash flows for actual cash received and applying assumptions with respect to expected defaults, foreclosures and recoveries in the future.  These revised projected cash flows are then compared to the amount of credit enhancement (subordination) in the structure to determine whether the amortized cost of the security is recoverable.  If it is not recoverable, we record an impairment of the security.



Trading SecuritiesTrading securities consist of fixed maturity securities in designated portfolios, some of which support modified coinsurance (“Modco”) and coinsurance with funds withheld (“CFW”) reinsurance agreements.  Investment results for the portfolios that support Modco and CFW reinsurance agreements, including gains and losses from sales, are passed directly to the reinsurers pursuant to contractual terms of


the reinsurance agreements.  Trading securities are carried at fair value, and changes in fair value and changes in the fair value of embedded derivative liabilities associated with the underlying reinsurance agreements are recorded in realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) as they occur.



Equity Securities

Equity securities are carried at fair value, and changes in fair value are recorded in realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) as they occur.  Equity securities consist primarily of common stock of publicly-traded companies, privately placed securities and mutual fund shares.  We measure the fair value of our equity securities based on assumptions used by market participants in pricing the security.  The most appropriate valuation methodology is selected based on the specific characteristics of the equity security.  Fair values of publicly-traded equity securities are determined using quoted prices in active markets for identical or comparable securities.  When quoted prices are not available, we use valuation methodologies most appropriate for the specific asset.  Fair values for private placement securities are determined using discounted cash flow, earnings multiple and other valuation models.  The fair values of mutual fund shares that transact regularly are based on transaction prices of identical fund shares.

Alternative Investments

Alternative investments, which consist primarily of investments in limited partnerships (“LPs”), are included in other investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.We account for our investments in LPs using the equity method to determine the carrying value.  Recognition of alternative investment income is delayed due to the availability of the related financial statements, which are generally obtained from the partnerships’ general partners.  As a result, our private equity investments are generally on a three-month delay and our hedge funds are on a one-month delay.  In addition, the impact of audit adjustments related to completion of calendar-year financial statement audits of the investees are typically received during the second quarter of each calendar year.  Accordingly, our investment income from alternative investments for any calendar-year period may not include the complete impact of the change in the underlying net assets for the partnership for that calendar-year period.



Payables for Collateral on Investments

When we enter into collateralized financing transactions on our investments, a liability is recorded equal to the cash or non-cash collateral received.  This liability is included within payables for collateral on investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Income and expenses associated with these transactions are recorded as investment income and investment expenses within net investment income on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  Changes in payables for collateral on investments are reflected within cash flows from investing activities on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.



Mortgage Loans on Real Estate



Mortgage loans on real estate consist of commercial and residential mortgage loans and are carried at unpaid principal balances adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts and are net of valuation allowances.  Interest income is accrued on the principal balance of the loan based on the loan’s contractual interest rate.  Premiums and discounts are amortized using the effective yield method over the life of the loan.  Interest income and amortization of premiums and discounts are reported in net investment income on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) along with mortgage loan fees, which are recorded as they are incurred.



Our policy for commercial mortgage loans is to report loans that are60or more days past due, which equates totwoor more payments missed, as delinquent.  Our policy for residential mortgage loans is to report loans that are90or more days past due, which equates tothreeor more payments missed, as delinquent.  We do not accrue interest on loans90days past due, and any interest received on these loans is either applied to the principal or recorded in net investment income on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) when received, depending on the assessment of the collectability of the loan.  We resume accruing interest once a loan complies with all of its original terms or restructured terms.  Mortgage loans deemed uncollectible are charged against the valuation allowance, and subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the valuation allowance.



We establish a valuation allowance to provide for the risk of credit losses inherent in our portfolio.  The valuation allowance includes specific valuation allowances for loans that are deemed to be impaired as well as general valuation allowances for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics where a property risk or market specific risk has not been identified but for which we anticipate a loss may occur.  Loans are considered impaired when it is probable that, based upon current information and events, we will be unable to collect all amounts due under the contractual terms of the loan agreement.  When we determine that a loan is impaired, a specific valuation allowance is established for the excess carrying value of the loan over its estimated value.  The loan’s estimated value is based on:  the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate; the loan’s observable market price; or the fair value of the loan’s collateral.  Changes in valuation allowances are reported in realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  General valuation allowances are primarily based on loss history adjusted for current conditions.



Valuation allowances are maintained at a level we believe is adequate to absorb estimated probable credit losses.  Our periodic evaluation of the adequacy of the valuation allowances is based on historical loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower’s ability to repay (including the timing of future payments), the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and other relevant factors.






Our commercial loan portfolio is primarily comprised of long-term loans secured by existing commercial real estate.  We believe all of the commercial loans in our portfolio share three primary risks:  borrower credit worthiness; sustainability of the cash flow of the property; and market risk; therefore, our methods of monitoring and assessing credit risk are consistent for our entire portfolio.



For our commercial mortgage loan portfolio, trends in market vacancy and rental rates are incorporated into the analysis that we perform for monitored loans and may contribute to the establishment of (or an increase or decrease in) a valuation allowance.  In addition, we review each loan individually in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio on an annual basis to identify emerging risks.  We focus on properties that experienced a reduction in debt-service coverage or that have significant exposure to tenants with deteriorating credit profiles.  Where warranted, we establish or increase a valuation allowance for a specific loan based upon this analysis.



We measure and assess the credit quality of our commercial mortgage loans by using loan-to-value and debt-service coverage ratios.  The loan-to-value ratio compares the principal amount of the loan to the fair value at origination of the underlying property collateralizing the loan and is commonly expressed as a percentage.  Loan-to-value ratios greater than100% indicate that the principal amount is greater than the collateral value.  Therefore, all else being equal, a lower loan-to-value ratio generally indicates a higher quality loan.  The debt-service coverage ratio compares a property’s net operating income to its debt-service payments.  Debt-service coverage ratios of less than1.0indicate that property operations do not generate enough income to cover its current debt payments.  Therefore, all else being equal, a higher debt-service coverage ratio generally indicates a higher quality loan.



Our residential loan portfolio is primarily comprised of first lien mortgages secured by existing residential real estate.  In contrast to the commercial mortgage loan portfolio, residential mortgage loans are primarily smaller-balance homogenous loans that share similar risk characteristics.  Therefore, these pools of loans are collectively evaluated for inherent credit losses.  Such evaluations consider numerous factors, including, but not limited to borrower credit scores, collateral values, loss forecasts, geographic location, delinquency rates and economic trends.  These evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available, which can cause the valuation allowances to increase or decrease over time as such evaluations are revised.  Residential mortgage loan pools exclude loans that have been impaired as those loans are evaluated individually using the evaluation framework for specific valuation allowances described above.



For residential mortgage loans, our primary credit quality indicator is whether the loan is performing or nonperforming.  We generally define nonperforming residential mortgage loans as those that are90or more days past due and/or in nonaccrual status.  There is generally a higher risk of experiencing credit losses when a residential mortgage loan is nonperforming.



Policy Loans

Policy loans represent loans we issue to contract holders that use the cash surrender value of their life insurance policy as collateral.  Policy loans are carried at unpaid principal balances.



Real Estate

Real estate includes both real estate held for the production of income and real estate held-for-sale.  Real estate held for the production of income is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.  Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.  We periodically review properties held for the production of income for impairment.  Properties whose carrying values are greater than their projected undiscounted cash flows are written down to estimated fair value, with impairment losses reported in realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  The estimated fair value of real estate is generally computed using the present value of expected future cash flows from the real estate discounted at a rate commensurate with the underlying risks.  Real estate classified as held-for-sale is stated at the lower of depreciated cost or fair value less expected disposition costs at the time classified as held-for-sale.  Real estate is not depreciated while it is classified as held-for-sale.  Also, valuation allowances are established, as appropriate, for real estate held-for-sale and any changes to the valuation allowances are reported in realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  Real estate acquired through foreclosure proceedings is recorded at fair value at the settlement date.



Derivative Instruments



We hedge certain portions of our exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange risk, equity market risk and credit risk by entering into derivative transactions.  All of our derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at estimated fair value.  We categorized derivatives into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique as discussed above in “Fair Value Measurement.”The accounting for changes in the estimated fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship, and further, on the type of hedging relationship.  For those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, we designate the hedging instrument based upon the exposure being hedged:  as a cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge.



For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instrument is reported as a component of AOCI and reclassified into net income in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects net income.  The remaining gain or loss on the derivative instrument in excess of the cumulative change in the present value of designated future cash flows of the hedged item (hedge ineffectiveness), if any, is recognized in net income during the period of change.  For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in net income during the period of


change in estimated fair values.  For derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments, but that are economic hedges, the gain or loss is recognized in net income.We purchase and issue financial instruments and products that contain embedded derivative instruments.  When it is determined that the embedded derivative possesses economic characteristics that are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract, and a separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a derivative instrument, the embedded derivative is bifurcated from the host for measurement purposes.  The embedded derivative is carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income during the period of change.We employ several different methods for determining the fair value of our derivative instruments.  The fair value of our derivative contracts are measured based on current settlement values, which are based on quoted market prices, industry standard models that are commercially available and broker quotes.  These techniques project cash flows of the derivatives using current and implied future market conditions.  We calculate the present value of the cash flows to measure the current fair market value of the derivative.



Cash and Invested Cash



Cash and invested cash is carried at cost and includes all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less.



DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL



Acquisition costs directly related to successful contract acquisitions or renewals of UL insurance, VUL insurance, traditional life insurance, annuities and other investment contracts have been deferred (i.e., DAC) to the extent recoverable.  VOBA is an intangible asset that reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows from the business in force at the acquisition date.  Bonus credits and excess interest for dollar cost averaging contracts are considered DSI.  Contract sales charges that are collected in the early years of an insurance contract are deferred (i.e., DFEL), and the unamortized balance is reported in other contract holder funds on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.



Both DAC and VOBA amortization, excluding amounts reported in realized gain (loss), is reported within commissions and other expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  DSI amortization, excluding amounts reported in realized gain (loss), is reported in interest credited on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  The amortization of DFEL, excluding amounts reported in realized gain (loss), is reported within fee income on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  The methodology for determining the amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL varies by product type.  For all insurance contracts, amortization is based on assumptions consistent with those used in the development of the underlying contract adjusted for emerging experience and expected trends.



Acquisition costs for UL and VUL insurance and investment-type products, which include fixed and variable deferred annuities, are generally amortized over the lives of the policies in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits (“EGPs”) from surrender charges, investment, mortality net of reinsurance ceded and expense margins and actual realized gain (loss) on investments.  Contract lives for UL and VUL policies are estimated to be40years based on the expected lives of the contracts.  Contract lives for fixed and variable deferred annuities are generally between15and30years, while some of our fixed multi-year guarantee products have amortization periods equal to the guarantee period.  The front-end load annuity product has an assumed life of25years.  Longer lives are assigned to those blocks that have demonstrated lower lapse experience.



Acquisition costs for all traditional contracts, including traditional life insurance contracts, such as individual whole life, group business and term life insurance, are amortized over the expected premium-paying period that generally results in amortization less than30years.  Acquisition costs are either amortized on a straight-line basis or as a level percent of premium of the related policies depending on the block of business.  There is currently no DAC, VOBA, DSI or DFEL balance or related amortization for fixed and variable payout annuities.



We account for modifications of insurance contracts that result in a substantially unchanged contract as a continuation of the replaced contract.  We account for modifications of insurance contracts that result in a substantially changed contract as an extinguishment of the replaced contract.



The carrying amounts of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL are adjusted for the effects of realized and unrealized gains and losses on securities classified as fixed maturity AFS and certain derivatives and embedded derivatives.Amortization expense of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL reflects an assumption for an expected level of credit-related investment losses.  When actual credit-related investment losses are realized, we recognize a true-up to our DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL amortization within realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) reflecting the incremental effect of actual versus expected credit-related investment losses.  These actual to expected amortization adjustments can create volatility from period to period in realized gain (loss).



During the third quarter of each year, we conduct our annual comprehensive review of the assumptions and the projection models used for our estimates of future gross profits underlying the amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL and the calculations of the embedded derivatives and reserves for life insurance and annuity products.  These assumptions include, but are not limited to, capital markets, investment margins, mortality, retention, rider utilization and maintenance expenses (costs associated with maintaining records


relating to insurance and individual and group annuity contracts, and with the processing of premium collections, deposits, withdrawals and commissions).  Based on our review, the cumulative balances of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets are adjusted with an offsetting benefit or charge to revenue or amortization expense to reflect such change related to our expectations of future EGPs (“unlocking”).  We may have unlocking in other quarters as we become aware of information that warrants updating assumptions outside of our annual comprehensive review.  We may also identify and implement actuarial modeling refinements that result in increases or decreases to the carrying values of DAC, VOBA, DSI, DFEL, embedded derivatives and reserves for life insurance and annuity products with living benefit and death benefit guarantees.DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL are reviewed to ensure that the unamortized portion does not exceed the expected recoverable amounts.



Reinsurance



Our insurance subsidiaries enter into reinsurance agreements in the normal course of business to limit our exposure to the risk of loss and to enhance our capital management.



In order for a reinsurance agreement to qualify for reinsurance accounting, the agreement must satisfy certain risk transfer conditions that include, among other items, a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity.  When we apply reinsurance accounting, premiums, benefits and DAC amortization are reported net of insurance ceded on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  Amounts currently recoverable, such as ceded reserves, are reported in reinsurance recoverables and amounts currently payable to the reinsurers, such as premiums, are included in other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Assets and liabilities and premiums and benefits from certain reinsurance contracts that grant statutory surplus relief to our insurance companies are netted on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss), respectively, if there is a contractual right of offset.



We use deposit accounting to recognize reinsurance agreements that do not transfer significant insurance risk.  This accounting treatment results in amounts paid or received by our insurance subsidiaries to be considered on deposit with the reinsurer and such amounts are reported in other assets and other liabilities, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  As amounts are paid or received, consistent with the underlying contracts, deposit assets or liabilities are adjusted.



Goodwill

We recognize the excess of the purchase price, plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree, over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired as goodwill.  Goodwill is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment annually as of October 1 and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.We perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test where the fair value of the reporting unit is determined and compared to the carrying value of the reporting unit.  If the carrying value of the reporting unit is greater than the reporting unit’s fair value, goodwill is impaired and written down to the reporting unit’s fair value; and a charge is reported in impairment of intangibles on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  The results of one goodwill impairment test on one reporting unit cannot subsidize the results of another reporting unit.



Other Assets and Other Liabilities



Other assets consist primarily of DSI, specifically identifiable intangible assets, property and equipment owned by the Company, balances associated with corporate-owned and bank-owned life insurance, certain reinsurance assets, receivables resulting from sales of securities that had not yet settled as of the balance sheet date, debt issuance costs associated with line-of-credit arrangements, operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets, finance lease assets, certain financing arrangements and other prepaid expenses.  Other liabilities consist primarily of current and deferred taxes, pension and other employee benefit liabilities, derivative instrument liabilities, certain reinsurance payables, payables resulting from purchases of securities that had not yet settled as of the balance sheet date, interest on borrowed funds, long-term operating lease liabilities, finance lease liabilities, certain financing arrangements, deferred gain on business sold through reinsurance and other accrued expenses.



Other assets and other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets include guaranteed living benefit (“GLB”) features and remaining guaranteed interest and similar contracts that are carried at fair value, which may be reported in either other assets or other liabilities.  The fair value of these items represents approximate exit price including an estimate for our NPR.  Certain of these features have elements of both insurance benefits and embedded derivatives.  Through our hybrid accounting approach, for reserve calculation purposes we assign product cash flows to the embedded derivative or insurance portion of the reserves based on the life-contingent nature of the benefits.  We classify these GLB reserves embedded derivatives in Level 3 within the hierarchy levels described above in “Fair Value Measurement.”  We report the insurance portion of the reserves in future contract benefits.



The carrying values of specifically identifiable intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for indicators of impairment in value that are other-than-temporary, including unexpected or adverse changes in the following:  the economic or competitive environments in which the company operates; profitability analyses; cash flow analyses; and the fair value of the relevant business operation.  If there was an indication of impairment, then the discounted cash flow method would be used to measure the impairment, and the carrying value would be adjusted as necessary and reported in impairment of intangibles on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income


(Loss).  Sales force intangibles are attributable to the value of the new business distribution system acquired through business combinations.  These assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful life of25years.  Specifically identifiable intangible assets also includes the value of customer relationships acquired (“VOCRA”) and value of distribution agreements (“VODA”) that were acquired through our business combination during 2018.  The carrying values of VOCRA and VODA are amortized using a straight-line basis over their weighted average life of20years and13years, respectively.  See Note 10 for more information regarding specifically identifiable intangible assets acquired.



Property and equipment owned for company use is carried at cost less allowances for depreciation.  Provisions for depreciation of investment real estate and property and equipment owned for company use are computed principally on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which include buildings, computer hardware and software and other property and equipment.  Certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets are related to finance leases and certain financing arrangements and are depreciated in a manner consistent with our current depreciation policy for owned assets.  We periodically review the carrying value of our long-lived assets, including property and equipment, for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be fully recoverable.  For long-lived assets to be held and used, impairments are recognized when the carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value.  The carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset.  An impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value.



Long-lived assets to be disposed of by abandonment or in an exchange for a similar productive long-lived asset are classified as held-for-use until they are disposed.  Long-lived assets to be sold are classified as held-for-sale and are no longer depreciated.  Certain criteria have to be met in order for the long-lived asset to be classified as held-for-sale, including that a sale is probable and expected to occur within one year.  Long-lived assets classified as held-for-sale are recorded at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.



Effective January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, which resulted in a new measurement and recognition of our long-term operating leases on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  We lease office space and certain equipment under various long-term lease agreements.  We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.  Operating lease ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at the commencement date.  Our leases do not provide an implicit rate; therefore, we use our incremental borrowing rate at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.  The ROU asset is calculated using the lease liability carrying amount, plus or minus prepaid/accrued lease payments, minus the unamortized balance of lease incentives received, plus unamortized initial direct costs.  Lease terms used to calculate our lease obligation include options when we are reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.  Our lease agreements may contain both lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for separately.  Lease expense for minimum lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.  See Notes 2 and 14 for additional information.



Other liabilities includes a deferred gain on business sold through reinsurance attributable to our annuity reinsurance agreement with Athene Holding Ltd. (“Athene”) effective October 1, 2018.  We are recognizing the gain related to this transaction over the period over which the majority of account values are expected to run off, or20years.



Separate Account Assets and Liabilities



We maintain separate account assets, which are reported at fair value.  The related liabilities are reported at an amount equivalent to the separate account assets.  Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the contract holders, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by the Company with respect to certain accounts.



We issue variable annuity contracts through our separate accounts for which investment income and investment gains and losses accrue directly to, and investment risk is borne by, the contract holder (traditional variable annuities).  We also issue variable annuity and life contracts through separate accounts that may include various types of guaranteed death benefit (“GDB”), guaranteed withdrawal benefit (“GWB”) and guaranteed income benefit (“GIB”) features.  The GDB features include those where we contractually guarantee to the contract holder either:  return of no less than total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals (“return of net deposits”); total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return (“minimum return”); or the highest contract value on any contract anniversary date through age 80.  The highest contract value is increased by purchase payments and is decreased by withdrawals subsequent to that anniversary date in the same proportion that withdrawals reduce the contract value.

As discussed in Note 6, certain features of these guarantees are accounted for as embedded derivative reserves, whereas other guarantees are accounted for as benefit reserves.  Other guarantees contain characteristics of both and are accounted for under an approach that calculates the value of the embedded derivative reserve and the benefit reserve based on the specific characteristics of each GLB feature.  We use derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to the risks and earnings volatility that result from the embedded derivatives for living benefits in certain of our variable annuity products.  The change in fair value of these instruments tends to move in the opposite direction of the change in the value of the associated reserves.  The net impact of these changes is reported as a component of realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).



The “market consistent scenarios” used in the determination of the fair value of the GLB liability are similar to those used by an investment bank to value derivatives for which the pricing is not transparent and the aftermarket is nonexistent or illiquid.  We use risk-neutral Monte Carlo simulations in our calculation to value the entire block of guarantees, which involve100unique scenarios per policy or approximately49million scenarios.  The market consistent scenario assumptions, as of each valuation date, are those we view to be appropriate for a hypothetical market participant.  The market consistent inputs include, but are not limited to, assumptions for capital markets (e.g., implied volatilities, correlation among indices, risk-free swap curve, etc.), policyholder behavior (e.g., policy lapse, rider


utilization, etc.), mortality, risk margins, maintenance expenses and a margin for profit.  We believe these assumptions are consistent with those that would be used by a market participant; however, as the related markets develop we will continue to reassess our assumptions.  It is possible that different valuation techniques and assumptions could produce a materially different estimate of fair value.



Future Contract Benefits and Other Contract Holder Funds



Future contract benefits represent liability reserves that we have established and carry based on estimates of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims.  Other contract holder funds represent liabilities for fixed account values, including the fixed portion of variable, dividends payable, premium deposit funds, undistributed earnings on participating business and other contract holder funds as well as the carrying value of DFEL discussed above.



The liabilities for future contract benefits and claim reserves for UL and VUL insurance policies consist of contract account balances that are equal to deposits net of withdrawals, excluding surrender charges and fees, plus interest credited, and if applicable an additional reserve for other insurance benefit guarantees.  The liabilities for future insurance contract benefits and claim reserves for traditional life policies are computed using assumptions for investment yields, mortality and withdrawals based principally on generally accepted actuarial methods and assumptions at the time of contract issue.  Investment yield assumptions for traditional direct individual life reserves for all contracts range from2.25% to7.75% depending on the time of contract issue.  The investment yield assumptions for immediate and deferred paid-up annuities range from1.25% to12.75%.  These investment yield assumptions are intended to represent an estimation of the interest rate experience for the period that these contract benefits are payable.



The liabilities for future claim reserves for variable annuity products containing GDB features are calculated by estimating the present value of total expected benefit payments over the life of the contract from inception divided by the present value of total expected assessments over the life of the contract (“benefit ratio”) multiplied by the cumulative assessments recorded from the contract inception through the balance sheet date less the cumulative GDB payments plus interest on the liability.  The change in the liability for a period is the benefit ratio multiplied by the assessments recorded for the period less GDB claims paid in the period plus interest.  As experience or assumption changes result in a change in expected benefit payments or assessments, the benefit ratio is unlocked, that is, recalculated using the updated expected benefit payments and assessments over the life of the contract since inception.  The revised benefit ratio is then applied to the liability calculation described above, with the resulting change in liability reported in benefits on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).



The liability for future claim reserves for long-term disability contracts for incurred and reported claims are calculated based on assumptions as to interest, claim resolution rates and offsets for other insurance including social security.  Claim resolution rate assumptions and social security offsets are based on our actual experience.  The interest rate assumptions used for discounting claim reserves are based on projected portfolio yield rates, after consideration for defaults and investment expenses, for assets supporting the liabilities.  The incurred but not reported claim reserves are based on our experiences as to the reporting lags and ultimate loss experience.  Claim reserves are subject to revision as current claim experience and projections of future factors affecting claim experience change.  Claim reserves do not include a provision for adverse deviation.



With respect to ourfuture contract benefits and other contract holder funds, we continually review overall reserve position, reserving techniques and reinsurance arrangements.  As experience develops and new information becomes known, liabilities are adjusted as deemed necessary.  The effects of changes in estimates are included in the operating results for the period in which such changes occur.



The business written or assumed by us includes participating life insurance contracts, under which the contract holder is entitled to share in the earnings of such contracts via receipt of dividends.  The dividend scale for participating policies is reviewed annually and may be adjusted to reflect recent experience and future expectations.  As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, participating policies comprised less than1% of the face amount of business in force, and dividend expenses were $51million, $56million and $57million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.



Liabilities for the secondary guarantees on UL-type products are calculated by multiplying the benefit ratio by the cumulative assessments recorded from contract inception through the balance sheet date less the cumulative secondary guarantee benefit payments plus interest.  If experience or assumption changes result in a new benefit ratio, the reserves are adjusted to reflect the changes in a manner similar to the unlocking of DAC, VOBA, DFEL and DSI.  The accounting for secondary guarantee benefits impacts, and is impacted by, EGPs used to calculate amortization of DAC, VOBA, DFEL and DSI.



Certain of our variable annuity contracts reported within future contract benefits contain GLB reserves embedded derivatives, a portion of which may be reported in either other assets or other liabilities, and include guaranteed interest and similar contracts, that are carried at fair value on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, which represents approximate exit price including an estimate for our NPR.  Certain of these features have elements of both insurance benefits and embedded derivatives.  Through our hybrid accounting approach, for reserve calculation purposes we assign product cash flows to the embedded derivative or insurance portion of the reserves based on the life-contingent nature of the benefits.  We classify these GLB reserves embedded derivatives items in Level 3 within the hierarchy levels described above in “Fair Value Measurement.”  We report the insurance portion of the reserves in future contract benefits.



The fair value of our indexed annuity contracts is based on their approximate surrender values.




Borrowed FundsLNC’s short-term borrowings are defined as borrowings with contractual or expected maturities of one year or less.  Long-term borrowings have contractual or expected maturities greater than one year.



Contingencies and CommitmentsContingencies arising from environmental remediation costs, regulatory judgments, claims, assessments, guarantees, litigation, recourse reserves, fines, penalties and other sources are recorded when deemed probable and reasonably estimable.



Fee Income



Fee income for investment and interest-sensitive life insurance contracts consists of asset-based fees, percent of premium charges, contract administration charges and surrender charges that are assessed against contract holder account balances.  Investment products consist primarily of individual and group variable and fixed deferred annuities.  Interest-sensitive life insurance products include UL insurance, VUL insurance and other interest-sensitive life insurance policies.  These products include life insurance sold to individuals, corporate-owned life insurance and bank-owned life insurance.



In bifurcating the embedded derivative of our GLB features on our variable annuity products, we attribute to the embedded derivative the portion of total fees collected from the contract holder that relate to the GLB riders (the “attributed fees”), which are not reported within fee income on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  These attributed fees represent the present value of future claims expected to be paid for the GLB at the inception of the contract plus a margin that a theoretical market participant would include for risk/profit and are reported within realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).





Insurance PremiumsOur insurance premiums for traditional life insurance and group insurance products are recognized as revenue when due from the contract holder.  Our traditional life insurance products include those products with fixed and guaranteed premiums and benefits and consist primarily of whole life insurance, limited-payment life insurance, term life insurance and certain annuities with life contingencies.  Our group insurance products consist primarily of term life, disability and dental.

Net Investment IncomeWe earn investment income on the underlying general account investments supporting our fixed products less related expenses.  Dividends and interest income, recorded in net investment income, are recognized when earned.  Amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on investments in debt securities are reflected in net investment income over the contractual terms of the investments in a manner that produces a constant effective yield.For CLOs and MBS, included in the trading and fixed maturity AFS securities portfolios, we recognize income using a constant effective yield based on anticipated prepayments and the estimated economic life of the securities.  When actual prepayments differ significantly from originally anticipated prepayments, the retrospective effective yield is recalculated to reflect actual payments to date and a catch up adjustment is recorded in the current period.  In addition, the new effective yield, which reflects anticipated future payments, is used prospectively.  Any adjustments resulting from changes in effective yield are reflected in net investment income on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).

Realized Gain (Loss)

Realized gain (loss) includes realized gains and losses from the sale of investments, write-downs for other-than-temporary impairments of investments, changes in fair value of equity securities, certain derivative and embedded derivative gains and losses, gains and losses on the sale of subsidiaries and businesses and net gains and losses on reinsurance embedded derivatives and trading securities.  Realized gains and losses on the sale of investments are determined using the specific identification method.  Realized gain (loss) is recognized in net income, net of associated amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL.  Realized gain (loss) is also net of allocations of investment


gains and losses to certain contract holders and certain funds withheld on reinsurance arrangements for which we have a contractual obligation.



Other Revenues

Other revenues consists primarily of fees attributable to broker-dealer services recorded as performance obligations are met, either at the time of sale or over time based on a contractual percentage of customer account values, changes in the market value of our seed capital investments, and proceeds from reinsurance recaptures.  The broker-dealer services primarily relate to our retail sales network and consist of commission revenue for the sale of non-affiliated securities recorded on a trade date basis and advisory fee income.  Advisory fee income is asset-based revenues recorded as earned based on a contractual percentage of customer account values.  Other revenues earned by our Group Protection segment consist of fees from administrative services performed, which are recognized as performance obligations are met over the terms of the underlying agreements.



Interest CreditedWe credit interest to our contract holder account balances based on the contractual terms supporting our products.

Benefits



Benefits for UL and other interest-sensitive life insurance products include benefit claims incurred during the period in excess of contract account balances.  Benefits also include the change in reserves for life insurance products with secondary guarantee benefits, annuity products with guaranteed death and living benefits and certain annuities with life contingencies.  For traditional life, group health and disability income products, benefits are recognized when incurred in a manner consistent with the related premium recognition policies.



Strategic Digitization ExpenseStrategic digitization expense consists primarily of costs related to our enterprise-wide digitization initiative.



Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans

Pursuant to the accounting rules for our obligations to employees and agents under our various pension and other postretirement benefit plans, we are required to make a number of assumptions to estimate related liabilities and expenses.  The mortality assumption is based on actual and anticipated plan experience, determined using acceptable actuarial methods.  We use assumptions for the weighted-average discount rate and expected return on plan assets to estimate pension expense.  The discount rate assumptions are determined using an analysis of current market information and the projected benefit flows associated with these plans.  The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on historical and projected future rates of return on the funds invested in the plan.  The calculation of our accumulated postretirement benefit obligation also uses an assumption of weighted-average annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered benefits, which reflects a health care cost trend rate.



Stock-Based Compensation



In general, we expense the fair value of stock awards included in our incentive compensation plans.  As of the date our stock awards are approved, the fair value of stock options is determined using a Black-Scholes options valuation methodology, and the fair value of other stock awards is based upon the market value of the stock.  The fair value of the awards is expensed over the performance or service period, which generally corresponds to the vesting period, and is recognized as an increase to common stock in stockholders’ equity.  We apply an estimated forfeiture rate to our accrual of compensation cost.  We classify certain stock awards as liabilities.  For these awards, the settlement value is classified as a liability on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and the liability is marked-to-market through net income at the end of each reporting period. Stock-based compensation expense is reflected in commissions and other expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).

Interest and Debt ExpenseInterest expense on our short-term and long-term debt is recognized as due and any associated premiums, discounts and costs are amortized (accreted) over the term of the related borrowing utilizing the effective interest method.  In addition, gains or losses related to certain derivative instruments associated with debt are recognized in interest and debt expense during the period of the change.

Income Taxes

We file a U.S. consolidated income tax return that includes all of our eligible subsidiaries.  Ineligible subsidiaries file separate individual corporate tax returns.  Subsidiaries operating outside of the U.S. are taxed, and income tax expense is recorded, based on applicable foreign statutes.  Deferred income taxes are recognized, based on enacted rates, when assets and liabilities have different values for financial statement and tax reporting purposes.  A valuation allowance is recorded to the extent required.  Considerable judgment and the use of estimates are required in determining whether a valuation allowance is necessary and, if so, the amount of such valuation allowance.  In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we consider many factors, including:  the nature and character of the deferred tax assets and liabilities; taxable income in prior carryback years; future reversals of temporary differences; the length of time carryovers can be utilized; and any tax planning strategies we would employ to avoid a tax benefit from expiring unused.


Foreign Currency TranslationThe balance sheet accounts and income statement items of foreign subsidiaries, reported in functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated at the current and average exchange rates for the year, respectively.  Resulting translation adjustments and other translation adjustments for foreign currency transactions that affect cash flows are reported in AOCI, a component of stockholders’ equity.Earnings Per ShareBasic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed by dividing earnings available to common shareholders by the average common shares outstanding.  Diluted EPS is computed assuming the conversion or exercise of dilutive convertible preferred securities, nonvested stock, stock options, performance share units and warrants outstanding during the year.Our deferred compensation plans allow participants the option to diversify from LNC stock to other investment alternatives.  When calculating our weighted-average dilutive shares, we presume the investment option will be settled in cash and exclude these shares from our calculation, unless the effect of settlement in shares would be more dilutive to our diluted EPS calculation.For any period where a net loss is experienced, shares used in the diluted EPS calculation represent basic shares, as the use of diluted shares would result in a lower loss per share.‎




2.New Accounting Standards



Adoption of New Accounting Standards



The following table provides a description of our adoption of new Accounting Standards Updates (“ASUs”) issued by the FASB and the impact of the adoption on our financial statements.  ASUs not listed below were assessed and determined to be either not applicable or insignificant in presentation or amount.







StandardDescriptionDate of AdoptionEffect on Financial Statements or Other Significant Matters

ASU 2016-02, Leases and all related amendments

This standard establishes a new accounting model for leases.  Lessees will recognize most leases on the balance sheet as a ROU asset and a related lease liability.  The lease liability is measured as the present value of the lease payments over the lease term with the ROU asset measured at the lease liability amount and including adjustments for certain lease incentives and initial direct costs.  Lease expense recognition will continue to differentiate between finance leases and operating leases resulting in a similar pattern of lease expense recognition as under current GAAP.  This ASU permits a modified retrospective adoption approach that includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect upon adoption.  Early adoption is permitted.

January 1, 2019

We adopted this standard and all related amendments, which resulted in the recognition of $207million in ROU assets and $214million in operating lease liabilities reported in other assets and other liabilities, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 1, 2019.  Comparative periods continue to be measured and presented under historical guidance, and only the period of adoption is subject to this ASU.  Also, on transition, we have elected not to reassess:  1) whether expired or existing contracts contain a lease under the new definition of a lease; 2) lease classification for expired or existing leases; and 3) whether previously capitalized initial direct costs would qualify for capitalization under this ASU.  Additionally, there is not a significant difference in our pattern of lease expense recognition under this ASU, and there is no impact on cash flows.  For more information, see Note 1.

ASU 2017-08, Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt SecuritiesThese amendments require an entity to shorten the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium so that the premium is amortized to the earliest call date.  Early adoption is permitted, and the ASU requires adoption under a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative effect adjustment to the beginning balance of retained earnings.January 1, 2019We adopted the provisions of this ASU, which did not result in a change to our existing practices; therefore, no cumulative effect adjustment was recorded.  As such, there was no impact on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.

ASU 2017-12, Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging ActivitiesThese amendments change both the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results.  These amendments retain the threshold of highly effective for hedging relationships, remove the requirement to bifurcate between the portions of the hedging relationship that are effective and ineffective, record hedge item and hedging instrument results in the same financial statement line item, require quantitative assessment initially for all hedging relationships unless the hedging relationship meets the definition of either the shortcut method or critical terms match method and allow the contractual specified index rate to be designated as the hedged risk in a cash flow hedge of interest rate risk of a variable rate financial instrument.  These amendments also eliminate the benchmark interest rate concept for variable rate instruments.  Early adoption is permitted.January 1, 2019We adopted the provisions of this ASU, which did not have an impact on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.  This ASU does result in our modification of certain hedge documentation and effectiveness methods, which we have reflected in applicable disclosures in Note 6.






Future Adoption of New Accounting Standards



The following table provides a description of future adoptions of new accounting standards that may have an impact on our financial statements when adopted:









StandardDescriptionProjected Date of AdoptionEffect on Financial Statements or Other Significant Matters

ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments and related amendments

These amendments adopt a new model in ASC Topic 326 to measure and recognize credit losses for most financial assets.  The ASU requires a financial asset measured at amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected over the life of the asset using an allowance for credit losses. Changes in the allowance are charged to earnings.  The measurement of expected credit losses is based on relevant information about past events, including historical experience, as well as current economic conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the financial asset.  The method used to measure estimated credit losses for fixed maturity AFS securities will be unchanged from current GAAP; however, the amendments require credit losses to be recognized through an allowance rather than as a reduction to the amortized cost of those securities.  The amendments will permit entities to recognize improvements in credit loss estimates on fixed maturity AFS securities by reducing the allowance account immediately through earnings.  The amendments will be adopted through a cumulative effect adjustment to the beginning balance of retained earnings as of the first reporting period in which the amendments are effective.  Early adoption is permitted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods therein.

January 1, 2020

The adoption of this standard and related amendments will result in the recognition of a cumulative effect adjustment that is not expected to be material to our retained earnings, to record allowances for credit losses as of the date of adoption, primarily related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, as well as reinsurance recoverables.

ASU 2019-04, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging and Topic 825, Financial InstrumentsThese amendments clarify the measurement, recognition and presentation of the allowance for credit losses on accrued interest receivable balances; the inclusion of recoveries when estimating the allowance for credit losses; the inclusion of all ASC Topic 944 –Financial Services – Insurancereinsurance recoverables within the scope of ASC 326-20; and provide additional targeted clarifications on the calculation of the allowance for credit losses.‎‎These amendments also make targeted clarifications to ASC Topics 815 and 825.  Early adoption is permitted.January 1, 2020Our adoption of ASU 2016-13 and related amendments is discussed above.  The adoption of the remainder of this guidance will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.

ASU 2019-05, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Targeted Transition ReliefThe amendments provide entities that have certain instruments within the scope of Subtopic 326-20,Financial Instruments – Credit Losses – Measured at Amortized Cost, with an option to irrevocably elect the fair value option in Subtopic 825-10,Financial Instruments – Overall, applied on an instrument-by-instrument basis for eligible instruments, upon adoption of ASC Topic 326.January 1, 2020We will recognize a cumulative effect increase to retained earnings of approximately $14million, after-tax, to elect the fair value option for certain mortgage loans in connection with our adoption of ASC Topic 326.


StandardDescriptionProjected Date of AdoptionEffect on Financial Statements or Other Significant MattersASU 2018-12, Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long-Duration Contracts and related amendmentsThese amendments make changes to the accounting and reporting for long-duration contracts issued by an insurance entity that will significantly change how insurers account for long-duration contracts, including how they measure, recognize and make disclosures about insurance liabilities and DAC.  Under this ASU, insurers will be required to review cash flow assumptions at least annually and update them if necessary.  They also will have to make quarterly updates to the discount rate assumptions they use to measure the liability for future policyholder benefits.  The ASU creates a new category of market risk benefits (i.e., features that protect the contract holder from capital market risk and expose the insurer to that risk) that insurers will have to measure at fair value.  The ASU provides various transition methods by topic that entities may elect upon adoption.  The ASU is currently effective January 1, 2022, and early adoption is permitted.January 1, 2022We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting this ASU on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.



3.  Acquisition

OnMay 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition from Liberty Mutual Insurance Company of100% of the capital stock of Liberty Life, an operator of a group benefits business (the “Liberty Group Business”) and an individual life and individual and group annuity business (the “Liberty Life Business”).  The acquisition expanded the scale and capabilities of the Group Protection business while further diversifying the Company’s sources of earnings.In connection with the acquisition and pursuant to the Master Transaction Agreement (“MTA”), dated January 18, 2018, which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 to this Form 10-K, Liberty Life sold the Liberty Life Business on May 1, 2018, by entering into reinsurance agreements and related ancillary documents (including administrative services agreements and transition services agreements) with Protective Life Insurance Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Protective Life and Annuity Insurance Company (together with Protective Life Insurance Company, “Protective”), providing for the reinsurance and administration of the Liberty Life Business.We recognized $85million of acquisition-related costs, pre-tax, for the year ended December 31, 2018.  These costs were included in commissions and other expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).




In the year following the May 1, 2018 acquisition date, we adjusted assets acquired by $(5) million and liabilities acquired by $23million for an increase in goodwill of $28million.  Under the terms of the MTA, a final balance sheet will be agreed upon at a later date.  The following table presents the adjusted fair values (in millions) of the net assets acquired related to the Liberty Group Business:



AdjustedFair ValueAssetsInvestments$2,493Mortgage loans on real estate658Cash and invested cash107Reinsurance recoverables76Premiums and fees receivable83Accrued investment income24Other intangible assets acquired640Other assets acquired142Separate account assets99Total assets acquired$4,322LiabilitiesFuture contract benefits$2,930Other contract holder funds46Other liabilities acquired140Separate account liabilities99Total liabilities assumed$3,215Net identifiable assets acquired$1,107Goodwill410Net assets acquired$1,517



Financial Information



Since the acquisition date of May 1, 2018, the revenues and net income of the business acquired have been included in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) in the Group Protection segment and were $1.5billion and $36million, respectively, for the period ended December 31, 2018.



The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated results of operations of the Company assume that the acquisition of Liberty Life was completed on January 1, 2017 (in millions):



For the Years EndedDecember 31,20182017Revenue$17,163$16,189Net income1,7072,066



Pro forma adjustments include the revenue and net income of the acquired business for each period as well as amortization of identifiable intangible assets acquired and the fair value adjustment to acquired insurance reserves and investments.  Other pro forma adjustments include the incremental increase to interest expense attributable to financing the acquisition, and the impact of reflecting acquisition and integration costs and investment expenses directly attributable to the business combination in 2017 instead of in 2018.  Pro forma adjustments do not include retrospective adjustments to defer and amortize acquisition costs as would be recorded under our accounting policy.



‎




4.  Variable Interest Entities



Consolidated VIEs



Reinsurance Related Notes



In July 2013, we formed a new limited liability company, Lincoln Financial Limited Liability Company I (“LFLLCI”), and we became the sole equity owner of LFLLCI through our capital contribution.  The activities of LFLLCI relate solely to our captive reinsurance subsidiary, the Lincoln Reinsurance Company of Vermont V (“LRCVV”), and are primarily to acquire, hold and issue notes with LRCVV as well as pay and collect interest on the notes.  LFLLCI holds a surplus note issued by LRCVV that had an outstanding principal balance of $613million as of December 31, 2019.  LFLLCI issued a long-term note to LRCVV that has a principal balance that moves concurrently with any variability in the face amount of the surplus note LFLLCI received from LRCVV.  We concluded that LFLLCI is a VIE and that LNC is the primary beneficiary as we have the power to direct the most significant activities affecting the performance of LFLLCI.



Asset information (dollars in millions) for the consolidated VIEs included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets was as follows:



As of December 31, 2019As of December 31, 2018NumberNumberofNotionalCarryingofNotionalCarryingInstrumentsAmountsValueInstrumentsAmountsValueAssetsTotal return swap1$613$-1$600$-Total assets1$613$-1$600$-



There werenogains or losses for consolidated VIEs recognized on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.



Unconsolidated VIEs



Reinsurance Related Notes



Effective September 30, 2014, we entered into a new transaction with a non-affiliated VIE whose primary activities are to acquire, hold and issue notes and loans, pay and collect interest on the notes and loans, and enter into derivative instruments.  We issued a long-term senior note to the non-affiliated VIE in exchange for a corporate bond AFS security of like principal and duration that was assigned to one of our subsidiaries.  The outstanding principal balance of this long-term senior note was $925million as of December 31, 2019, and it is variable in nature; moving concurrently with any variability in the face amount of the corporate bond AFS security up to a maximum amount of $1.1billion.  We have concluded that we are not the primary beneficiary of the non-affiliated VIE because we do not have power over the activities that most significantly affect its economic performance.  In addition, the terms of the senior note provide us with a set-off right with the corporate bond AFS security we purchased from the VIE; therefore, neither appears on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The VIE has entered into a total return swap with an unaffiliated third party that supports any necessary principal funding of the corporate bond AFS security required by our subsidiaries while the security is outstanding.



Effective October 1, 2017, our captive reinsurance subsidiary, the Lincoln Reinsurance Company of Vermont VI, restructured the $275million, long-term surplus note which was originally issued to a non-affiliated VIE in October 2015 in exchange for two corporate bond AFS securities of like principal and duration.  The activities of the VIE are primarily to acquire, hold and issue notes and loans and to pay and collect interest on the notes and loans.  The outstanding principal balance of the long-term surplus note is variable in nature; moving concurrently with any variability in the face amount of the corporate bond AFS securities.  We have concluded that we are not the primary beneficiary of the non-affiliated VIE because we do not have power over the activities that most significantly affect its economic performance.  As of December 31, 2019, the principal balance of the long-term surplus note waszeroand we donot currently have any exposure to this VIE.



Effective November 1, 2019, we entered into a new transaction with a non-affiliated VIE whose primary activities are to acquire, hold and issue notes, as well as pay and collect interest on the notes.  We issued a long-term senior note to the non-affiliated VIE in exchange for a corporate bond AFS security of like principal and duration that was assigned to one of our subsidiaries.  The outstanding principal balance of this long-term senior note was $352million as of December 31, 2019, and it is variable in nature, moving concurrently with any variability in the face amount of the corporate bond AFS security up to a maximum amount of $500million.  We have concluded that we are not the primary beneficiary of the non-affiliated VIE due to our lack of power over the activities that most significantly affect its economic performance as well as the extent of our obligation to absorb its losses.  In addition, the terms of the senior note provide us with a set-off right with the corporate bond AFS security we purchased from the VIE; therefore, neither appears on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.






Structured Securities



Through our investment activities, we make passive investments in structured securities issued by VIEs for which we are not the manager.  These structured securities include our ABS, RMBS, CMBS and CLOs.  We have not provided financial or other support with respect to these VIEs other than our original investment.  We have determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of these VIEs due to the relative size of our investment in comparison to the principal amount of the structured securities issued by the VIEs and the level of credit subordination that reduces our obligation to absorb losses or right to receive benefits.  Our maximum exposure to loss on these structured securities is limited to the amortized cost for these investments.  We recognize our variable interest in these VIEs at fair value on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  For information about these structured securities, see Note 5.



Limited Partnerships and Limited Liability Companies



We invest in certain LPs and limited liability companies (“LLCs”), including qualified affordable housing projects, that we have concluded are VIEs.  We do not hold any substantive kick-out or participation rights in the LPs and LLCs, and we do not receive any performance fees or decision maker fees from the LPs and LLCs.  Based on our analysis of the LPs and LLCs, we are not the primary beneficiary of the VIEs as we do not have the power to direct the most significant activities of the LPs and LLCs.



The carrying amounts of our investments in the LPs and LLCs are recognized in other investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and were $1.9billion and $1.7billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  Included in these carrying amounts are our investments in qualified affordable housing projects, which were $13million and $20million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  We do not have any contingent commitments to provide additional capital funding to these qualified affordable housing projects.  We receive returns from these qualified affordable housing projects in the form of income tax credits and other tax benefits, which are recognized in federal income tax expense (benefit) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) and were $2million and $1million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.



Our exposure to loss is limited to the capital we invest in the LPs and LLCs, and there have been no indicators of impairment that would require us to recognize an impairment loss related to the LPs and LLCs as of December 31, 2019.



5.  InvestmentsFixed Maturity AFS SecuritiesThe amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, losses and OTTI and fair value of fixed maturity AFS securities (in millions) were as follows:As of December 31, 2019AmortizedGross UnrealizedFairCostGainsLossesOTTI(1)ValueFixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$79,417$9,479$184$(4)$88,716U.S. government bonds38451--435State and municipal bonds4,7781,1137-5,884Foreign government bonds32964--393RMBS3,04219010(19)3,241CMBS1,038451(1)1,083ABS4,8106218(35)4,889Hybrid and redeemable preferred securities4978220-559Total fixed maturity AFS securities$94,295$11,086$240$(59)$105,200


As of December 31, 2018AmortizedGross UnrealizedFairCostGainsLossesOTTI(1)ValueFixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$79,623$2,980$2,263$(8)$80,348U.S. government bonds390292-417State and municipal bonds4,64771618-5,345Foreign government bonds40642--448RMBS3,30811867(14)3,373CMBS811616(3)804ABS2,6624530(19)2,696Hybrid and redeemable preferred securities5824534-593Total fixed maturity AFS securities$92,429$3,981$2,430$(44)$94,024(1)Includes unrealized (gains) and losses on credit-impaired securities related to changes in the fair value of such securities subsequent to the impairment measurement date.



The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity AFS securities by contractual maturities (in millions) as of December 31, 2019, were as follows:



AmortizedFairCostValueDue in one year or less$2,825$2,811Due after one year through five years15,12315,708Due after five years through ten years17,04918,503Due after ten years50,40858,965Subtotal85,40595,987Structured securities (RMBS, CMBS, ABS)8,8909,213Total fixed maturity AFS securities$94,295$105,200



Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or pre-pay obligations.



The fair value and gross unrealized losses, including the portion of OTTI recognized in OCI, of fixed maturity AFS securities (dollars in millions), aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, were as follows:



As of December 31, 2019Less Than or EqualGreater Thanto Twelve MonthsTwelve MonthsTotalGrossGrossGrossUnrealizedUnrealizedUnrealizedFairLosses andFairLosses andFairLosses andValueOTTIValueOTTIValueOTTIFixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$2,935$46$1,406$141$4,341$187State and municipal bonds333718-3517RMBS5361015-55110CMBS4814-521ABS1,7928303102,09518Hybrid and redeemablepreferred securities2911021913120Total fixed maturity AFS securities$5,673$73$1,848$170$7,521$243Total number of fixed maturity AFS securities in an unrealized loss position895


As of December 31, 2018Less Than or EqualGreater Thanto Twelve MonthsTwelve MonthsTotalGrossGrossGrossUnrealizedUnrealizedUnrealizedFairLosses andFairLosses andFairLosses andValueOTTIValueOTTIValueOTTIFixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$32,493$1,530$7,228$735$39,721$2,265U.S. government bonds701231932State and municipal bonds4048961050018RMBS47210863601,33570CMBS4701182555216ABS1,24123246171,48740Hybrid and redeemablepreferred securities9661332822934Total fixed maturity AFS securities$35,246$1,589$8,671$856$43,917$2,445Total number of fixed maturity AFS securities in an unrealized loss position3,414



The fair value, gross unrealized losses, the portion of OTTI recognized in OCI (in millions) and number of fixed maturity AFS securities where the fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by greater than 20% were as follows:





As of December 31, 2019NumberFairGross UnrealizedofValueLossesOTTISecurities(1)Less than six months$15$5$-7Six months or greater, but less than nine months103-4Twelve months or greater13276-31Total$157$84$-42As of December 31, 2018NumberFairGross UnrealizedofValueLossesOTTISecurities(1)Less than six months$395$124$145Six months or greater, but less than nine months9649-11Nine months or greater, but less than twelve months118-2Twelve months or greater14374832Total$645$255$990(1)We may reflect a security in more than one aging category based on various purchase dates.



We regularly review our investment holdings for OTTI.  Our gross unrealized losses, including the portion of OTTI recognized in OCI, on fixed maturity AFS securities decreased by $2.2billion for the year ended December 31, 2019.  As discussed further below, we believe the unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2019, did not represent OTTI as (i) we did not intend to sell these fixed maturity AFS securities; (ii) it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the fixed maturity AFS securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis; and (iii) the estimated future cash flows were equal to or greater than the amortized cost basis of the debt securities.



Based upon this evaluation as of December 31, 2019, management believes we have the ability to generate adequate amounts of cash from our normal operations (e.g., insurance premiums, fee income and investment income) to meet cash requirements with a prudent margin of safety without requiring the sale of our temporarily-impaired securities.



As of December 31, 2019, the unrealized losses associated with our corporate bond securities were attributable primarily to widening credit spreads and rising interest rates since purchase.  We performed a detailed analysis of the financial performance of the underlying issuers and determined that we expected to recover the entire amortized cost for each temporarily-impaired security.



As of December 31, 2019, the unrealized losses associated with our MBS and ABS were attributable primarily to widening credit spreads and rising interest rates since purchase.  We assessed for credit impairment using a cash flow model that incorporates key assumptions


including default rates, severities and prepayment rates.  We estimated losses for a security by forecasting the underlying loans in each transaction.  The forecasted loan performance was used to project cash flows to the various tranches in the structure, as applicable.  Our forecasted cash flows also considered, as applicable, independent industry analyst reports and forecasts and other independent market data.  Based upon our assessment of the expected credit losses of the security given the performance of the underlying collateral compared to our subordination or other credit enhancement, we expected to recover the entire amortized cost of each temporarily-impaired security.



As of December 31, 2019, the unrealized losses associated with our hybrid and redeemable preferred securities were attributable primarily to wider credit spreads caused by illiquidity in the market and subordination within the capital structure, as well as credit risk of underlying issuers.  For our hybrid and redeemable preferred securities, we evaluated the financial performance of the underlying issuers based upon credit performance and investment ratings and determined that we expected to recover the entire amortized cost of each temporarily-impaired security.



Changes in the amount of credit loss of OTTI recognized in net income (loss) where the portion related to other factors was recognized in OCI (in millions) on fixed maturity AFS securities were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Balance as of beginning-of-year$355$378$430Increases attributable to:Credit losses on securities for which anOTTI was not previously recognized13513Credit losses on securities for which anOTTI was previously recognized327Decreases attributable to:Securities sold, paid down or matured(160)(30)(72)Balance as of end-of-year$211$355$378



During 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recorded credit losses on securities for which an OTTI was not previously recognized as we determined the cash flows expected to be collected would not be sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security.  The credit losses we recorded on securities for which an OTTI was not previously recognized were attributable primarily to one or a combination of the following reasons:



Failure of the issuer of the security to make scheduled payments;

Deterioration of creditworthiness of the issuer;

Deterioration of conditions specifically related to the security;

Deterioration of fundamentals of the industry in which the issuer operates; and

Deterioration of the rating of the security by a rating agency.



We recognize the OTTI attributed to the noncredit portion as a separate component in OCI referred to as unrealized OTTI on fixed maturity AFS securities.



Determination of Credit Losses on Corporate Bonds



As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, we reviewed our corporate bond portfolio for potential shortfalls in contractual principal and interest based on numerous subjective and objective inputs.  The factors used to determine the amount of credit loss for each individual security, include, but are not limited to, near-term risk, substantial discrepancy between book and market value, sector or company-specific volatility, negative operating trends and trading levels wider than peers.



Credit ratings express opinions about the credit quality of a security.  Securities rated investment grade, that is those rated BBB- or higher by Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) Rating Services or Baa3 or higher by Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”), are generally considered by the rating agencies and market participants to be low credit risk.  As of December 31, 2019 and 2018,96% of the fair value of our corporate bond portfolio was rated investment grade.  As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the portion of our corporate bond portfolio rated below investment grade had an amortized cost of $3.2billion and a fair value of $3.3billion and $3.0billion, respectively.  Based upon the analysis discussed above, we believed as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, that we would recover the amortized cost of each corporate bond.






Determination of Credit Losses on MBS and ABS



As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, default rates were projected by considering underlying MBS and ABS loan performance and collateral type.  Projected default rates on existing delinquencies vary depending on loan type and severity of delinquency status.  In addition, we estimate the potential contributions of currently performing loans that may become delinquent in the future based on the change in delinquencies and loan liquidations experienced in the recent history.  Finally, we develop a default rate timing curve by aggregating the defaults for all loans in the pool (delinquent loans, foreclosure and real estate owned and new delinquencies from currently performing loans) and the associated loan-level loss severities.



We use certain available loan characteristics such as lien status, loan sizes and occupancy to estimate the loss severity of loans.  Second lien loans are assigned100% severity, if defaulted.  For first lien loans, we assume a minimum of30% severity, with higher severity assumed for investor properties and further adjusted by housing price assumptions.  With the default rate timing curve and loan-level loss severity, we derive the future expected credit losses.



Trading Securities



Trading securities at fair value (in millions) consisted of the following:





As of December 31,20192018Fixed maturity securities:Corporate bonds$2,947$1,639U.S. government bonds4543State and municipal bonds1716Foreign government bonds4423RMBS17079CMBS1637ABS1,238121Hybrid and redeemable preferred securities4922Total trading securities$4,673$1,950



The portion of the market adjustment for trading gains and losses recognized in realized gain (loss) that relate to trading securities still held as of December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, was $228million, $(58) million and $7million, respectively.



Mortgage Loans on Real Estate



The following provides the current and past due composition of our mortgage loans on real estate (in millions):



As of December 31, 2019As of December 31, 2018CommercialResidentialTotalCommercialResidentialTotalCurrent$15,620$659$16,279$13,029$230$13,25930 to 59 days past due32730-9960 to 89 days past due-1010-1190 or more days past due-1616---Valuation allowance-(2)(2)---Unamortized premium (discount)(17)236(17)8(9)Total carrying value$15,606$733$16,339$13,012$248$13,260



As of December 31, 2019, we had38residential mortgage loans that were either delinquent or in foreclosure.  As of December 31, 2018, we hadnoloans that were either delinquent or in foreclosure.



For our commercial mortgage loans, there wasonespecifically identified impaired loan with a carrying value of less than $1million as of December 31, 2019.  There werenospecifically identified impaired commercial mortgage loans as of December 31, 2018.



For our residential mortgage loans, there werefourspecifically identified impaired loans with an aggregate carrying value of $1million as of December 31, 2019.  There werenospecifically identified impaired residential mortgage loans as of December 31, 2018.  The general allowance established on residential mortgage loans was $2million and less than $1million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.



We establish a valuation allowance to provide for the risk of credit losses inherent in our portfolio.  The valuation allowance includes specific valuation allowances for loans that are deemed to be impaired as well as general valuation allowances for pools of loans with


similar risk characteristics where a property risk or market specific risk has not been identified but for which we anticipate a loss has occurred.



The changes in the valuation allowance associated with impaired commercial mortgage loans on real estate (in millions) were as follows:

For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Valuation AllowanceBalance as of beginning-of-year$-$3$2Additions--1Charge-offs, net of recoveries-(3)-Balance as of end-of-year$-$-$3



Additional information related to impaired commercial mortgage loans on real estate (in millions) was as follows:







For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Average carrying value for impaired commercialmortgage loans on real estate$-$5$6Interest income recognized on impaired commercialmortgage loans on real estate-1-Interest income collected on impaired commercialmortgage loans on real estate-1-



As described in Note 1, we use loan-to-value and debt-service coverage ratios as credit quality indicators for our commercial mortgage loans on real estate (dollars in millions) as follows:



As of December 31, 2019As of December 31, 2018Debt-Debt-ServiceServiceCarrying% ofCoverageCarrying% ofCoverageLoan-to-Value RatioValueTotalRatioValueTotalRatioLess than 65%$14,20691.0%2.35$11,71690.1%2.3065% to 74%1,3999.0%1.871,2389.5%1.7675% to 100%10.0%1.09580.4%0.95Total$15,606100.0%$13,012100.0%



As described in Note 1, we use loan performance status as the primary credit quality indicator for our residential mortgage loans on real estate (dollars in millions) as follows:

As of December 31, 2019As of December 31, 2018Carrying% ofCarrying% ofPerformance IndicatorValueTotalValueTotalPerforming$71697.7%$24799.6%Nonperforming172.3%10.4%Total$733100.0%$248100.0%



Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio is geographically diversified with the largest concentrations in California, which accounted for24% and23% of commercial mortgage loans on real estate as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and Texas, which accounted for11% and12% of commercial mortgage loans on real estate as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.



Our residential mortgage loan portfolio is geographically diversified with the largest concentrations in California, which accounted for34% of residential mortgage loans on real estate as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and Florida, which accounted for20% and19% of residential mortgage loans on real estate as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.



Alternative Investments



As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, alternative investments included investments in258and237different partnerships, respectively, and the portfolios represented approximately1% of our total investments.




Net Investment IncomeThe major categories of net investment income (in millions) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) were as follows:For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Fixed maturity AFS securities$4,281$4,209$4,163Equity AFS securities--12Trading securities1918494Equity securities44-Mortgage loans on real estate629496440Real estate112Policy loans129123135Invested cash402611Commercial mortgage loan prepaymentand bond make-whole premiums11979139Alternative investments22222165Consent fees846Other investments30232Investment income5,4545,2715,169Investment expense(231)(186)(179)Net investment income$5,223$5,085$4,990




Realized Gain (Loss)



Details underlying realized gain (loss) (in millions) reported on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Fixed maturity AFS securities:Gross gains$45$38$19Gross losses(73)(80)(44)Gross OTTI(16)(7)(20)Equity AFS securities:Gross gains--6Gain (loss) on other investments(1)(16)(13)(12)Associated amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFELand changes in other contract holder funds(13)(22)(21)Total realized gain (loss) related to certain investments(73)(84)(72)Realized gain (loss) on the mark-to-market on certaininstruments(2)(127)4(11)Indexed annuity and IUL contracts net derivatives results:(3)Gross gain (loss)(80)(51)(22)Associated amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL212(2)Variable annuity net derivatives results:(4)Gross gain (loss)(389)295(71)Associated amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL57(35)8Total realized gain (loss)$(610)$141$(170)



(1)Includes market adjustments on equity securities still held of $(4) million and $(17) million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

(2)Represents changes in the fair values of certain derivative investments (not including those associated with our variable and indexed annuity and IUL contracts net derivative results), reinsurance related embedded derivatives and trading securities.See Notes 1 and 9 for information regarding Modco.

(3)Represents the net difference between the change in fair value of the index options that we hold and the change in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities of our indexed annuity and IUL contracts along with changes in the fair value of embedded derivative liabilities related to index options we may purchase or sell in the future to hedge contract holder index allocations applicable to future reset periods for our indexed annuity products.

(4)Includes the net difference in the change in embedded derivative reserves of our GLB riders and the change in the fair value of the derivative instruments we own to hedge the change in embedded derivative reserves on our GLB riders and the benefit ratio unlocking on our GLB and GDB riders, including the cost of purchasing the hedging instruments.



Details underlying write-downs taken as a result of OTTI that were recognized in net income (loss) and included in realized gain (loss) on fixed maturity AFS securities above and the portion of OTTI recognized in OCI (in millions) were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017OTTI Recognized in Net Income (Loss)Fixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$(14)$(5)$(13)State and municipal bonds--(1)RMBS(1)(1)(2)CMBS--(2)ABS(1)(1)(2)Gross OTTI recognized in net income (loss)(16)(7)(20)Associated amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL1-2Net OTTI recognized in net income (loss)$(15)$(7)$(18)OTTI Recognized in OCIGross OTTI recognized in OCI$16$-$-Change in DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL(1)--Net OTTI recognized in OCI$15$-$-




Payables for Collateral on Investments



The carrying value of the payables for collateral on investments included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and the fair value of the related investments or collateral (in millions) consisted of the following:



As of December 31, 2019As of December 31, 2018CarryingFairCarryingFairValueValueValueValueCollateral payable for derivative investments(1)$1,388$1,388$637$637Securities pledged under securities lending agreements(2)1141108885Securities pledged under repurchase agreements(3)--150185Investments pledged for Federal Home Loan Bank ofIndianapolis (“FHLBI”)(4)3,5805,4803,9305,923Total payables for collateral on investments$5,082$6,978$4,805$6,830



(1)We obtain collateral based upon contractual provisions with our counterparties.  These agreements take into consideration the counterparties’ credit rating as compared to ours, the fair value of the derivative investments and specified thresholds that if exceeded result in the receipt of cash that is typically invested in cash and invested cash.  See Note 6 for additional information.

(2)Our pledged securities under securities lending agreements are included in fixed maturity AFS securities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  We generally obtain collateral in an amount equal to102% and105% of the fair value of the domestic and foreign securities, respectively.  We value collateral daily and obtain additional collateral when deemed appropriate.  The cash received in our securities lending program is typically invested in cash and invested cash or fixed maturity AFS securities.

(3)Our pledged securities under repurchase agreements are included in fixed maturity AFS securities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The collateral requirements are generally80% to95% of the fair value of the securities, and our agreements with third parties contain contractual provisions to allow for additional collateral to be obtained when necessary.  The cash received in our repurchase program is typically invested in fixed maturity AFS securities.  As of December 31, 2019, we are not participating in any open repurchase agreements.

(4)Our pledged investments for FHLBI are included in fixed maturity AFS securities and mortgage loans on real estate on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The collateral requirements are generally105% to115% of the fair value for fixed maturity AFS securities and155% to175% of the fair value for mortgage loans on real estate.  The cash received in these transactions is primarily invested in cash and invested cash or fixed maturity AFS securities.



Increase (decrease) in payables for collateral on investments (in millions) consisted of the following:



For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Collateral payable for derivative investments$751$(128)$(129)Securities pledged under securities lending agreements26(134)6Securities pledged under repurchase agreements(150)(380)(5)Investments pledged for FHLBI(350)1,030(450)Total increase (decrease) in payables for collateral on investments$277$388$(578)



We have elected not to offset our securities lending and repurchase agreements transactions in our financial statements.  The remaining contractual maturities of securities lending and repurchase agreements transactions accounted for as secured borrowings (in millions) were as follows:



As of December 31, 2019Overnight and ContinuousUp to 30 Days30-90‎DaysGreater Than 90 DaysTotalSecurities LendingCorporate bonds$114$-$-$-$114Total gross secured borrowings$114$-$-$-$114


As of December 31, 2018Overnight and ContinuousUp to 30 Days30-90‎DaysGreater Than 90 DaysTotalSecurities LendingCorporate bonds$88$-$-$-$88Repurchase AgreementsCorporate bonds---150150Total gross secured borrowings$88$-$-$150$238

We accept collateral in the form of securities in connection with repurchase agreements.  In instances where we are permitted to sell or re-pledge the securities received, we report the fair value of the collateral received and a related obligation to return the collateral in the financial statements.  In addition, we receive securities in connection with securities borrowing agreements which we are permitted to sell or re-pledge.  As of December 31, 2019, the fair value of all collateral received that we are permitted to sell or re-pledge was $25million.  As of December 31, 2019, we have re-pledged $25million of this collateral to cover initial margin and over-the-counter collateral requirements on certain derivative investments.



Investment Commitments



As of December 31, 2019, our investment commitments were $2.0billion, which included $1.0billion of LPs, $553million of mortgage loans on real estate and $425million of private placement securities.



Concentrations of Financial Instruments



As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, our most significant investments in one issuer were our investments in securities issued by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation with a fair value of $1.3billion and $1.4billion, respectively, or1% of total investments, and our investments in securities issued by the Federal National Mortgage Association with a fair value of $1.0billion and $1.3billion, respectively, or1% of total investments.  These concentrations include fixed maturity AFS, trading and equity securities.



As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, our most significant investments in one industry were our investments in securities in the financial services industry with a fair value of $16.4billion and $14.2billion, respectively, or12% of total investments, and our investments in securities in the consumer non-cyclical industry with a fair value of $16.3billion and $14.5billion, respectively, or12% and13%, respectively, of total investments.  These concentrations include fixed maturity AFS, trading and equity securities.



6.  Derivative Instruments



We maintain an overall risk management strategy that incorporates the use of derivative instruments to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings that are caused by interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange risk, equity market risk, basis risk and credit risk.  We assess these risks by continually identifying and monitoring changes in our exposures that may adversely affect expected future cash flows and by evaluating hedging opportunities.



Derivative activities are monitored by various management committees.  The committees are responsible for overseeing the implementation of various hedging strategies that are developed through the analysis of financial simulation models and other internal and industry sources.  The resulting hedging strategies are incorporated into our overall risk management strategies.



See Note 1 for a detailed discussion of the accounting treatment for derivative instruments.  See Note 20 for additional disclosures related to the fair value of our derivative instruments and Note 4 for derivative instruments related to our consolidated VIEs.



We adopted ASU 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, in 2019. See Note 2 for additional information.



Interest Rate Contracts



We use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy.  These instruments are economic hedges unless otherwise noted and include:



Forward-Starting Interest Rate Swaps



We use forward-starting interest rate swaps designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges to hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations related to the forecasted purchases of certain assets and anticipated issuances of fixed-rate securities.



We also use forward-starting interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate exposure within our life products related to the forecasted purchases of certain assets.




Interest Rate Cap Corridors



We use interest rate cap corridors to provide a level of protection from the effect of rising interest rates for certain life insurance products and annuity contracts.  Interest rate cap corridors involve purchasing an interest rate cap at a specific cap rate and selling an interest rate cap with a higher cap rate.  For each corridor, the amount of quarterly payments, if any, is determined by the rate at which the underlying index rate resets above the original capped rate.  The corridor limits the benefit the purchaser can receive as the related interest rate index rises above the higher capped rate.  There is no additional liability to us other than the purchase price associated with the interest rate cap corridor.



Interest Rate Futures



We use interestrate futures contracts to hedge the liability exposure on certain options in variable annuity products.  These futures contracts require payment between our counterparty and us on a daily basis for changes in the futures index price.



Interest Rate Swap Agreements



We use interest rate swap agreements to hedge the liability exposure on certain options in variable annuity products.



We also use interest rate swap agreements designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges to hedge the interest rate risk of floating-rate bond coupon payments by replicating a fixed-rate bond.



Finally, we use interest rate swap agreements designated and qualifying as fair value hedges to hedge against changes in the fair value of certain fixed-rate long-term debt and fixed maturity securities due to interest rate risks.



Treasury and ReverseTreasury Locks



We use treasury locks designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges to hedge the interest rate exposure related to our issuance of fixed-rate securities or the anticipated future cash flows of floating-rate fixed maturity securities due to changes in interest rates.  In addition, we use reverse treasury locks designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges to hedge the interest rate exposure related to the anticipated purchase of fixed-rate securities or the anticipated future cash flows of floating-rate fixed maturity securities due to changes in interest rates.  These derivatives are primarily structured to hedge interest rate risk inherent in the assumptions used to price certain liabilities.



Foreign Currency Contracts



We use derivative instruments as part of our foreign currency risk management strategy.  These instruments are economic hedges unless otherwise noted and include:



Currency Futures



We use currency futures to hedge foreign exchange risk associated with certain options in variable annuity products.  Currency futures exchange one currency for another at a specified date in the future at a specified exchange rate.



Foreign Currency Swaps



We use foreign currency swaps to hedge foreign exchange risk of investments in fixed maturity securities denominated in foreign currencies.  A foreign currency swap is a contractual agreement to exchange one currency for another at specified dates in the future at a specified exchange rate.



We also use foreign currency swaps designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges to hedge foreign exchange risk of investments in fixed maturity securities denominated in foreign currencies.



Foreign Currency Forwards



We use foreign currency forwards to hedge foreign exchange risk of investments in fixed maturity securities denominated in foreign currencies.  A foreign currency forward is a contractual agreement to exchange one currency for another at specified dates in the future at a specified current exchange rate.



Equity Market Contracts



We use derivative instruments as part of our equity market risk management strategy that are economic hedges and include:



Call Options Based on the S&P 500 and Other Indices



We use call options to hedge the liability exposure on certain options in variable annuity products.






Our indexed annuity and IUL contracts permit the holder to elect an interest rate return or an equity market component, where interest credited to the contracts is linked to the performance of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index (“S&P 500”) or other indices.  Contract holders may elect to rebalance index options at renewal dates. At the end of each indexed term, which can be up to6years, we have the opportunity to re-price the indexed component by establishing participation rates, caps, spreads and specified rates, subject to contractual guarantees. We use call options that are highly correlated to the portfolio allocation decisions of our contract holders, such that we are economically hedged with respect to equity returns for the current reset period.



Consumer Price Index Swaps



We use consumer price index swaps to hedge the liability exposure on certain options in fixed annuity products.  Consumer price index swaps are contracts entered into at no cost and whose payoff is the difference between the consumer price index inflation rate and the fixed-rate determined as of inception.



Equity Futures



We use equity futures contracts to hedge the liability exposure on certain options in variable annuity products.  These futures contracts require payment between our counterparty and us on a daily basis for changes in the futures index price.



Put Options



We use put options to hedge the liability exposure on certain options in variable annuity products.  Put options are contracts that require the seller to pay the buyer at a specified future date the amount, if any, by which a specified equity index is less than the strike rate stated in the agreement, applied to a notional amount.



Total Return Swaps



We use total return swaps to hedge the liability exposure on certain options in variable annuity products.



In addition, we use total return swaps to hedge a portion of the liability related to our deferred compensation plans.  We receive the total return on a portfolio of indexes and pay a floating-rate of interest.



Credit Contracts



We use derivative instruments as part of our credit risk management strategy that are economic hedges and include:



Credit Default Swaps – Buying Protection



We use credit default swaps to hedge the liability exposure on certain options in variable annuity products.



We buy credit default swaps to hedge against a drop in bond prices due to credit concerns of certain bond issuers.  A credit default swap allows us to put the bond back to the counterparty at par upon a default event by the bond issuer.  A default event is defined as bankruptcy, failure to pay, obligation acceleration or restructuring.



Credit Default Swaps – Selling Protection



We use credit default swaps to hedge the liability exposure on certain options in variable annuity products.



We sell credit default swaps to offer credit protection to contract holders and investors.  The credit default swaps hedge the contract holders and investors against a drop in bond prices due to credit concerns of certain bond issuers.  A credit default swap allows the investor to put the bond back to us at par upon a default event by the bond issuer.  A default event is defined as bankruptcy, failure to pay, obligation acceleration or restructuring.






Embedded Derivatives



We have embedded derivatives that include:



GLB Reserves Embedded Derivatives



We use a hedging strategy designed to mitigate the risk and income statement volatility caused by changes in the equity markets, interest rates and volatility associated with GLBs offered in our variable annuity products, including products with GWB and GIB features.  Changes in the value of the hedge contracts due to changes in equity markets, interest rates and implied volatilities hedge the income statement effect of changes in embedded derivative GLB reserves caused by those same factors.We rebalance our hedge positions based upon changes in these factors as needed.  While we actively manage our hedge positions, these hedge positions may not be totally effective in offsetting changes in the embedded derivative reserve due to, among other things, differences in timing between when a market exposure changes and corresponding changes to the hedge positions, extreme swings in the equity markets and interest rates, market volatility, contract holder behavior, divergence between the performance of the underlying funds and the hedging indices, divergence between the actual and expected performance of the hedge instruments and our ability to purchase hedging instruments at prices consistent with our desired risk and return trade-off.



Certain features of these guarantees have elements of both insurance benefits accounted for under the Financial Services – Insurance – Claim Costs and Liabilities for Future Policy Benefits Subtopic of the FASB ASC (“benefit reserves”) and embedded derivatives accounted for under the Derivatives and Hedging and the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topics of the FASB ASC (“embedded derivative reserves”).  We calculate the value of the benefit reserves and the embedded derivative reserves based on the specific characteristics of each GLB feature.



Indexed Annuity and IUL Contracts Embedded Derivatives



Our indexed annuity and IUL contracts permit the holder to elect an interest rate return or an equity market component, where interest credited to the contracts is linked to the performance of the S&P 500 or other indices.  Contract holders may elect to rebalance index options at renewal dates. At the end of each indexed term, which can be up to6years, we have the opportunity to re-price the indexed component by establishing participation rates, caps, spreads and specified rates, subject to contractual guarantees.  We use options that are highly correlated to the portfolio allocation decisions of our contract holders, such that we are economically hedged with respect to equity returns for the current reset period.



Reinsurance Related Embedded Derivatives



We have certain Modco and coinsurance with funds withheld reinsurance agreements with embedded derivatives related to the withheld assets of the related funds.  These derivatives are considered total return swaps with contractual returns that are attributable to various assets and liabilities associated with these reinsurance agreements.






We have derivative instruments with off-balance-sheet risks whose notional or contract amounts exceed the related credit exposure.  Outstanding derivative instruments with off-balance-sheet risks (in millions) were as follows:



As of December 31, 2019As of December 31, 2018NotionalFair ValueNotionalFair ValueAmountsAssetLiabilityAmountsAssetLiabilityQualifying HedgesCash flow hedges:Interest rate contracts(1)$2,387$108$245$2,741$70$9Foreign currency contracts(1)2,874191512,32616739Total cash flow hedges5,2612992965,06723748Fair value hedges:Interest rate contracts(1)1,2611232031,26855137Non-Qualifying HedgesInterest rate contracts(1)112,9211,082219100,628464138Foreign currency contracts(1)2621347--Equity market contracts(1)43,5551,44266430,487676162Credit contracts(1)55-----Embedded derivatives:GLB direct(2)-450--123-GLB ceded(2)-609-72-Reinsurance related(3)--327--3Indexed annuity and IUL contracts(2) (4)-9272,585-9021,305Total derivative instruments$163,315$4,384$4,306$137,497$2,529$1,793(1)Reported in derivative investments and other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.(2)Reported in other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.(3)Reported in reinsurance related embedded derivatives on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.(4)Reported in future contract benefits on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The maturity of the notional amounts of derivative instruments (in millions) was as follows:



Remaining Life as of December 31, 2019Less Than1 - 56 - 1011 - 30Over 301 YearYearsYearsYearsYearsTotalInterest rate contracts(1)$11,341$53,011$20,948$29,556$1,713$116,569Foreign currency contracts(2)2183839611,4731013,136Equity market contracts27,5947,9923,762134,19443,555Credit contracts-55---55Total derivative instrumentswith notional amounts$39,153$61,441$25,671$31,042$6,008$163,315(1)As of December 31, 2019, the latest maturity date for which we were hedging our exposure to the variability in future cash flows for these instruments wasApril 20, 2067.(2)As of December 31, 2019, the latest maturity date for which we were hedging our exposure to the variability in future cash flows for these instruments wasFebruary 26, 2050.

‎


The following amounts(in millions)were recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to cumulative basis adjustments for fair value hedges:





As of December 31, 2019CumulativeFair ValueHedgingAdjustmentAmortizedIncluded inCost of thethe AmortizedHedgedCost of theAssets (Liabilities)Hedged Assets(Liabilities)(Liabilities)Line Items in which the Hedged Items are RecordedFixed maturity AFS securities, at fair value$776$202Long-term debt(1)(1,035)(160)(1)Includes $(118) million of unamortized adjustments from discontinued hedges as ofDecember31, 2019.



The change in our unrealized gain (loss) on derivative instruments within AOCI (in millions) was as follows:

For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Derivative InstrumentsBalance as of beginning-of-year$139$(29)$49Other comprehensive income (loss):Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during the period:Cumulative effect from adoption ofnew accounting standard-(6)-Cash flow hedges:Interest rate contracts(201)1007Foreign currency contracts1084420Change in foreign currency exchange rate adjustment(52)111(137)Change in DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL(4)(13)2Income tax benefit (expense)31(51)38Less:Reclassification adjustment for gains (losses)included in net income (loss):Cash flow hedges:Interest rate contracts(1)344Interest rate contracts(2)(5)(7)(18)Foreign currency contracts(1)352718Foreign currency contracts(3)9-9Associated amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL(1)(2)(1)Income tax benefit (expense)(9)(5)(4)Balance as of end-of-period$(11)$139$(29)(1)The OCI offset is reported within net investment income on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).(2)The OCI offset is reported within interest and debt expense on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).(3)The OCI offset is reported within realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).

‎


The effects of qualifying and non-qualifying hedges (in millions) on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) wereas follows:Gain (Loss) Recognized in IncomeFor the Year Ended December 31, 2019RealizedNetInterestGainInvestmentand Debt(Loss)IncomeExpenseTotal Line Items in which the Effects of Fair Valueor Cash Flow Hedges are Recorded$(610)$5,223$326Qualifying HedgesGain or (loss) on fair value hedging relationships:Interest rate contracts:Hedged items-63(93)Derivatives designated as hedging instruments-(63)93Gain or (loss) on cash flow hedging relationships:Interest rate contracts:Amount of gain or (loss) reclassified from AOCI into income-3(5)Foreign currency contracts:Amount of gain or (loss) reclassified from AOCI into income935-Non-Qualifying HedgesInterest rate contracts984--Foreign currency contracts(1)--Equity market contracts(137)--Embedded derivatives:GLB306--Reinsurance related(324)--Indexed annuity and IUL contracts(742)--


The gains (losses) on derivative instruments (in millions) recorded within income (loss) from continuing operations on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) were as follows:





For the Years EndedDecember 31,20182017Qualifying HedgesCash flow hedges:Interest rate contracts(1)$4$4Interest rate contracts(2)(7)(18)Foreign currency contracts(1)-18Foreign currency contracts(3)279Total cash flow hedges2413Fair value hedges:Interest rate contracts(1)(14)(23)Interest rate contracts(2)1327Interest rate contracts(3)377Total fair value hedges3611Non-Qualifying HedgesInterest rate contracts(3)(150)103Foreign currency contracts(3)5-Equity market contracts(3)444(1,427)Equity market contracts(4)(18)29Credit contracts(3)-1Embedded derivatives:GLB(3)(692)1,055Reinsurance related(3)5410Indexed annuity and IUL contracts(3)81(400)Total derivative instruments$(216)$(605)(1)Reported in net investment income on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).(2)Reported in interest and debt expense on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).(3)Reported in realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).(4)Reported in commissions and other expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).



Gains (losses) recognized as a component of OCI (in millions) on derivative instruments designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges were as follows:









For the Years EndedDecember 31,20182017Offset to net investment income$4$22Offset to realized gain (loss)279Offset to interest and debt expense(7)(18)



As of December 31, 2019, $34million of the deferred net gains (losses) on derivative instruments in AOCI were expected to be reclassified to earnings during the next 12 months.  This reclassification would be due primarily to interest rate variances related to our interest rate swap agreements.



For the years endedDecember 31, 2019and 2018, there werenomaterial reclassifications to earnings due to hedged firm commitments no longer deemed probable or due to hedged forecasted transactions that had not occurred by the end of the originally specified time period.






As of December 31, 2019, information related to our credit default swaps for which we are the seller(dollars in millions)was as follows:





CreditReasonNatureRating ofNumberMaximumforofUnderlyingofFairPotentialCredit Contract TypeMaturityEnteringRecourseObligation(1)InstrumentsValue(2)PayoutBasket credit default swaps12/20/2024(3)(4)BBB+1$1$55



(1)Represents average credit ratings based on the midpoint of the applicable ratings among Moody’s, S&P andFitch Ratings, as scaled to the corresponding S&P ratings.

(2)Broker quotes are used to determine the market value of our credit default swaps.

(3)Credit default swaps were entered into in order to hedge the liability exposure on certain variable annuity products.

(4)Sellers do not have the right to demand indemnification or compensation from third parties in case of a loss (payment) on the contract.



As of December 31, 2018, we hadnoexposure related to credit default swaps for which we are the seller.



Details underlying the associated collateral of our credit default swaps for which we are the seller if credit risk-related contingent features were triggered (in millions) were as follows:

As ofAs ofDecember 31,December 31,20192018Maximum potential payout$55$-Less:  Counterparty thresholds--Maximum collateral potentially required to post$55$-



Certain of our credit default swap agreements contain contractual provisions that allow for the netting of collateral with our counterparties related to all of our collateralized financing transactions that we have outstanding.  If these netting agreements were not in place, we would have been required to post collateral if the market value was less than zero.



Credit Risk



We are exposed to credit losses in the event of non-performance by our counterparties on various derivative contracts and reflect assumptions regarding the credit or NPR.

The NPR is based upon assumptions for each counterparty’s credit spread over the estimated weighted average life of the counterparty exposure, less collateral held.



As of December 31, 2019, the NPR adjustment was

zero

.  The credit risk associated with such agreements is minimized by entering into agreements with financial institutions with long-standing, superior performance records.  Additionally, we maintain a policy of requiring derivative contracts to be governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives Association (“ISDA”) Master Agreement.  We are required to maintain minimum ratings as a matter of routine practice in negotiating ISDA agreements.  Under some ISDA agreements, our insurance subsidiaries have agreed to maintain certain financial strength or claims-paying ratings.  A downgrade below these levels could result in termination of derivative contracts, at which time any amounts payable by us would be dependent on the market value of the underlying derivative contracts.  In certain transactions, we and the counterparty have entered into a credit support annex requiring either party to post collateral when net exposures exceed pre-determined thresholds.  These thresholds vary by counterparty and credit rating.  The amount of such exposure is essentially the net replacement cost or market value less collateral held for such agreements with each counterparty if the net market value is in our favor.  We did

no

t have any exposure as of December 31, 2019 or 2018.




The amounts recognized (in millions) by S&P credit rating of counterparty, for which we had the right to reclaim cash collateral or were obligated to return cash collateral, were as follows:As of December 31, 2019As of December 31, 2018CollateralCollateralCollateralCollateralPosted byPosted byPosted byPosted byS&PCounter-LNCCounter-LNCCreditParty(Held byParty(Held byRating of(Held byCounter-(Held byCounter-CounterpartyLNC)Party)LNC)Party)AA-$441$(167)$33$(3)A+555(339)296(96)A36-106(56)A-355(51)4-BBB+--197-$1,387$(557)$636$(155)Balance Sheet OffsettingInformation related to the effects of offsetting on our Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions) was as follows:As of December 31, 2019EmbeddedDerivativeDerivativeInstrumentsInstrumentsTotalFinancial AssetsGross amount of recognized assets$2,619$1,437$4,056Gross amounts offset(708)-(708)Net amount of assets1,9111,4373,348Gross amounts not offset:Cash collateral(1,387)-(1,387)Non-cash collateral(242)-(242)Net amount$282$1,437$1,719Financial LiabilitiesGross amount of recognized liabilities$1,005$2,921$3,926Gross amounts offset(138)-(138)Net amount of liabilities8672,9213,788Gross amounts not offset:Cash collateral(557)-(557)Non-cash collateral---Net amount$310$2,921$3,231


As of December 31, 2018EmbeddedDerivativeDerivativeInstrumentsInstrumentsTotalFinancial AssetsGross amount of recognized assets$1,330$1,097$2,427Gross amounts offset(223)-(223)Net amount of assets1,1071,0972,204Gross amounts not offset:Cash collateral(636)-(636)Non-cash collateral(58)-(58)Net amount$413$1,097$1,510Financial LiabilitiesGross amount of recognized liabilities$784$1,308$2,092Gross amounts offset(103)-(103)Net amount of liabilities6811,3081,989Gross amounts not offset:Cash collateral(155)-(155)Non-cash collateral(190)-(190)Net amount$336$1,308$1,644




7.  Federal Income Taxes



The federal income tax expense (benefit) on continuing operations (in millions) was as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Current$181$91$210Deferred(148)153(1,159)Federal income tax expense (benefit)$33$244$(949)



A reconciliation of the effective tax rate differences (in millions) was as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Income (loss) before taxes$919$1,885$1,130Federal statutory rate21%21%35%Federal income tax expense (benefit) at federal statutory rate193396396Effect of:Tax-preferred investment income(1)(99)(87)(280)Tax credits(40)(39)(29)Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation(9)(5)(12)Goodwill impairment--316Tax impact associated with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act(2)(17)(19)(1,322)Other items5(2)(18)Federal income tax expense (benefit)$33$244$(949)Effective tax rate4%13%-84%(1)Relates primarily to separate account dividends eligible for the dividends-received deduction.  As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), the recorded tax benefit for the separate account dividends-received deduction was substantially less in 2019 and 2018 as compared to 2017.(2)As a result of the enactment of the Tax Act in 2017, we remeasured our existing deferred tax balances at the prevailing corporate federal income tax rate of21% and recognized a $1.3billion tax benefit.  In 2018, we recognized a $27million net tax benefit from the impact of the reduced federal statutory rate under the Tax Act on our adoption of an Internal Revenue Service pronouncement related to variable annuity contracts.  In 2019, we recognized a $17million net tax benefit from the impact of the reduced corporate tax rate under the Tax Act on our election to revalue policyholder tax reserves.



The federal income tax asset (liability) (in millions) was as follows:





As of December 31,20192018Current$60$(24)Deferred(2,443)(1,158)Total federal income tax asset (liability)$(2,383)$(1,182)






Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities (in millions) were as follows:





As of December 31,20192018Deferred Tax AssetsFuture contract benefits and other contract holder funds$643$649Reinsurance related embedded derivative asset691Compensation and benefit plans190179Intangibles2640Net operating losses216264Other1456Total deferred tax assets$1,158$1,189Deferred Tax LiabilitiesDAC$813$1,339VOBA194305Net unrealized gain on fixed maturity AFS securities2,308338Net unrealized gain on trading securities7227Investment activity109332Other1056Total deferred tax liabilities$3,601$2,347Net deferred tax asset (liability)$(2,443)$(1,158)



As of December 31, 2019, we have $1.0billion of net operating losses to carry forward to future years.  The net operating losses arose in tax year 2018, and under the Tax Act changes, have an unlimited carryforward period.  As a result, management believes that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset associated with the loss carryforwards will be realized.  Inclusive of the tax attribute for the net operating losses, although realization is not assured, management believes that it is more likely than not that we will realize the benefits of all of our deferred tax assets, and, accordingly,novaluation allowance has been recorded.



As ofDecember 31, 2019 and2018,$48million and $16million, respectively,of our unrecognized tax benefits presented below, if recognized, would have affected our federal income tax expense (benefit) and our effective tax rate.  We are not aware of any events for which it is likely that unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease within the next year.A reconciliation of the unrecognized tax benefits (in millions) was as follows:





For the Years EndedDecember 31,20192018Balance as of beginning-of-year$16$11Increases for prior year tax positions32-Increases for current year tax positions-5Balance as of end-of-year$48$16



We recognize interest and penalties accrued, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of tax expense.  For the years endedDecember 31, 2019,2018 and2017,we recognizednointerest and penalty expense (benefit), and there wasnoaccrued interest and penalty expense related to the unrecognized tax benefits as ofDecember 31, 2019 and 2018.



We are subject to examination by U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. income authorities.  We are currently not under examination by the Internal Revenue Service; however, tax years 2016 and forward remain open under the applicable statute of limitations.  We are currently under examination by several state and local taxing jurisdictions; however, we do not expect these examinations will materially impact us.






8.  DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL



Changes in DAC (in millions) were as follows:







For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Balance as of beginning-of-year$9,448$7,887$8,243Business acquired (sold) through reinsurance-(246)-Deferrals1,9021,6001,348Amortization, net of interest:Amortization, excluding unlocking, net of interest(950)(951)(965)Unlocking(489)(115)61Adjustment related to realized (gains) losses54(47)(12)Adjustment related to unrealized (gains) losses(2,613)1,320(788)Balance as of end-of-year$7,352$9,448$7,887



Changes in VOBA (in millions) were as follows:







For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Balance as of beginning-of-year$816$516$891Business acquired (sold) through reinsurance-(11)-Business acquired-30-Deferrals677Amortization:Amortization, excluding unlocking(114)(127)(105)Unlocking140(60)(48)Accretion of interest(1)454852Adjustment related to realized (gains) losses(1)(2)(1)Adjustment related to unrealized (gains) losses(550)415(280)Balance as of end-of-year$342$816$516(1)The interest accrual rates utilized to calculate the accretion of interest ranged from4.2% to6.9%.

Estimated future amortization of VOBA, net of interest (in millions), as of December 31, 2019, was as follows:











2020$72202166202267202365202461



Changes in DSI (in millions) were as follows:











For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Balance as of beginning-of-year$248$238$243Business acquired (sold) through reinsurance-(21)-Deferrals264729Amortization, net of interest:Amortization, excluding unlocking, net of interest(29)(28)(30)Unlocking(3)-(4)Adjustment related to realized (gains) losses2(1)(1)Adjustment related to unrealized (gains) losses(10)131Balance as of end-of-year$234$248$238




Changes in DFEL (in millions) were as follows:For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Balance as of beginning-of-year$2,769$1,445$1,874Deferrals1,095875755Amortization, net of interest:Amortization, excluding unlocking, net of interest(544)(482)(396)Unlocking(426)(53)1Adjustment related to realized (gains) losses-(20)(14)Adjustment related to unrealized (gains) losses(2,244)1,004(775)Balance as of end-of-year$650$2,769$1,445





9.  Reinsurance



The following summarizes reinsurance amounts (in millions) recorded on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss), excluding amounts attributable to the indemnity reinsurance agreements with Protective and Swiss Re Life & Health America, Inc. (“Swiss Re”):

For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Direct insurance premiums and fee income$13,498$12,041$10,269Reinsurance assumed918991Reinsurance ceded(1,579)(1,543)(1,485)Total insurance premiums and fee income$12,010$10,587$8,875Direct insurance benefits$9,574$8,592$6,770Reinsurance recoveries netted against benefits(1,694)(1,806)(1,610)Total benefits$7,880$6,786$5,160



Our insurance companies cede insurance to other companies.  The portion of our life insurance and annuity risks exceeding each of our insurance companies’ retention limit is reinsured with other insurers.  We seek reinsurance coverage to limit our exposure to mortality losses and to enhance our capital management.



As of December 31, 2019, the policy for our reinsurance program was to retain up to $20million on a single insured life.  As the amount we retain varies by policy, we reinsured approximately25% of the mortality risk on newly issued life insurance contracts in 2019.



We focus on obtaining reinsurance from a diverse group of reinsurers, and we monitor concentration as well as financial strength ratings of our reinsurers.  Our amounts recoverable from reinsurers represent receivables from and reserves ceded to reinsurers.  The amounts recoverable from reinsurers were $17.1billion and $17.7billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.



Protective represents our largest reinsurance exposure following the sale of the Liberty Life Business as discussed in Note 3, which resulted in amounts recoverable from Protective of $11.8billion and $12.1billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  Protective has funded trusts, of which the balance in the trusts changes as a result of ongoing reinsurance activity, to support the business ceded, which totaled $14.7billion and $13.7billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.



Our reinsurance operations were acquired by Swiss Re in December 2001 through a series of indemnity reinsurance transactions.  As such, Swiss Re reinsured certain liabilities and obligations under the indemnity reinsurance agreements.  As we are not relieved of our liability to the ceding companies for this business, the liabilities and obligations associated with the reinsured policies remain on our Consolidated Balance Sheets with a corresponding reinsurance receivable from Swiss Re, which totaled $1.3billion and $1.5billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  Swiss Re has funded a trust, with a balance of $2.7billion as of December 31, 2019, to support this business.  In addition to various remedies that we would have in the event of a default by Swiss Re, we continue to hold assets in support of certain of the transferred reserves.  These assets consist of those reported as trading securities and certain mortgage loans.  Our liabilities for funds withheld and embedded derivatives as of December 31, 2019, included $164million and $31million, respectively, related to the business sold to Swiss Re.



Some portions of our annuity business have been reinsured on a Modco basis with other companies.  In a Modco agreement, we as the ceding company retain the reserves, as well as the assets backing those reserves, and the reinsurer shares proportionally in all financial terms of the reinsured policies based on their respective percentage of the risk.  Effective October 1, 2018, we entered into one such Modco agreement with Athene Holding Ltd. (“Athene”) to reinsure fixed and fixed indexed annuity products, which resulted in a deposit asset of $6.6billion and $7.5billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, within other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  We held investments of $6.9billion as of December 31, 2019, in support of reserves associated with the transaction in a Modco investment portfolio.  As of December 31, 2019, the portfolio included trading securities, fixed maturity AFS securities, commercial


mortgage loans, derivative investments, other investments, cash, accrued investment income and equity securities that had carrying values of $3.5billion, $2.3billion, $698million, $130million, $94million, $62million, $57million and $14million, respectively.  In addition, the portfolio was supported by $201million of over-collateralization and a $200million letter of credit as of December 31, 2019.  As described in Note 1, we recorded a deferred gain on business sold through reinsurance related to the transaction with Athene and amortized $30million and $8million of the gain during 2019 and 2018, respectively.In repositioning the Modco investment portfolio, purchases of securities classified as trading during 2019 primarily resulted in negative cash flows from operating activities that were largely offset by sales of securities classified as fixed maturity AFS within investing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

See “Realized Gain (Loss)” in Note 5 for information on reinsurance related embedded derivatives.



10.  Goodwill and Specifically Identifiable Intangible Assets



The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill (in millions) by reportable segment were as follows:





For the Year Ended December 31, 2019GrossAccumulatedGoodwillImpairmentNetas ofas ofAcquisitionGoodwillBeginning-Beginning-Accountingas of End-of-Yearof-YearAdjustmentsImpairmentof-YearAnnuities$1,040$(600)$-$-$440Retirement Plan Services20---20Life Insurance2,188(1,554)--634Group Protection688-(4)-684Total goodwill$3,936$(2,154)$(4)$-$1,778For the Year Ended December 31, 2018GrossAccumulatedGoodwillImpairmentNetas ofas ofAcquisitionGoodwillBeginning-Beginning-Accountingas of End-of-Yearof-YearAdjustmentsImpairmentof-YearAnnuities$1,040$(600)$-$-$440Retirement Plan Services20---20Life Insurance2,188(1,554)--634Group Protection274-414-688Total goodwill$3,522$(2,154)$414$-$1,782



The fair values of our reporting units (Level 3 fair value estimates) are comprised of the value of in-force (i.e., existing) business and the value of new business.  Specifically, new business is representative of cash flows and profitability associated with policies or contracts we expect to issue in the future, reflecting our forecasts of future sales volume and product mix over a10-year period.  To determine the values of in-force and new business, we use a discounted cash flows technique that applies a discount rate reflecting the market expected, weighted-average rate of return adjusted for the risk factors associated with operations to the projected future cash flows for each reporting unit.



As of October 1, 2019 and 2018, we performed our annual quantitative goodwill impairment test for our reporting units, and, as of each such date, the fair value was in excess of each reporting unit’s carrying value for Annuities, Retirement Plan Services, Life Insurance and Group Protection.



As of October 1, 2017, the date of our annual quantitative assessment of goodwill, our Annuities, Retirement Plan Services and Group Protection reporting units had fair values that exceeded the carrying value of each reporting unit.  Our early adoption of ASU 2017-04, “Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment,” resulted in impairment of the Life Insurance reporting unit goodwill of $905million during the fourth quarter of 2017 driven primarily from the impact of the December 22, 2017, enactment of the Tax Act that increased the carrying value of the Life Insurance reporting unit in excess of its fair value.




The gross carrying amounts and accumulated amortization (in millions) for each major specifically identifiable intangible asset class by reportable segment were as follows:As of December 31, 2019As of December 31, 2018GrossGrossCarryingAccumulatedCarryingAccumulatedAmountAmortizationAmountAmortizationRetirement Plan Services:Mutual fund contract rights(1)$5$-$5$-Life Insurance:Sales force1005510051Group Protection:VOCRA576255765VODA31231-Insurance licenses(1)3-3-Total$715$82$715$56(1)No amortization recorded as the intangible asset has indefinite life.Future estimated amortization of specifically identifiable intangible assets (in millions) as of December 31, 2019, was as follows:2020$37202137202237202337202437Thereafter440





11.  Guaranteed Benefit Features

Information on the GDB features outstanding (dollars in millions) was as follows:As of December 31,2019(1)2018(1)Return of Net DepositsTotal account value$101,601$89,783Net amount at risk(2)711,002Average attained age of contract holders65years65yearsMinimum ReturnTotal account value$92$88Net amount at risk(2)1318Average attained age of contract holders77years77yearsGuaranteed minimum return5%5%Anniversary Contract ValueTotal account value$25,763$23,365Net amount at risk(2)3842,007Average attained age of contract holders71years71years(1)Our variable contracts with guarantees may offer more than one type of guarantee in each contract; therefore, the amounts listed are not mutually exclusive.(2)Represents the amount of death benefit in excess of the account balance that is subject to market fluctuations.


The determination of GDB liabilities is based on models that involve a range of scenarios and assumptions, including those regarding expected market rates of return and volatility, contract surrender rates and mortality experience.  The following summarizes the balances of and changes in the liabilities for GDBs (in millions), which were recorded in future contract benefits on our Consolidated Balance Sheets:For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Balance as of beginning-of-year$161$100$110Changes in reserves(24)778Benefits paid(20)(16)(18)Balance as of end-of-year$117$161$100Variable Annuity ContractsAccount balances of variable annuity contracts, including those with guarantees, (in millions) were invested in separate account investment options as follows:As of December 31,20192018Asset TypeDomestic equity$64,093$54,060International equity19,85218,359Fixed income41,40537,942Total$125,350$110,361Percent of total variable annuity separate account values98%99%Secondary Guarantee ProductsFuture contract benefits and other contract holder funds include reserves for our secondary guarantee products sold through our Life Insurance segment.  Reserves on UL and VUL products with secondary guarantees represented37% and35%of total life insurance in-force reserves as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  UL and VUL products with secondary guarantees represented27%,36% and27%of total life insurance sales for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.


12.  Liability for Unpaid Claims



The liability for unpaid claims consists primarily of long-term disability claims and is reported in future contract benefits on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Changes in the liability for unpaid claims (in millions) were as follows:



For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Balance as of beginning-of-year$5,335$2,222$2,242Reinsurance recoverable1435769Net balance as of beginning-of-year5,1922,1652,173Business acquired(1)-2,842-Incurred related to:Current year3,1932,5311,346Prior years:Interest15112069All other incurred(2)(308)(208)(76)Total incurred3,0362,4431,339Paid related to:Current year(1,518)(1,197)(798)Prior years(1,310)(1,061)(549)Total paid(2,828)(2,258)(1,347)Net balance as of end-of-year5,4005,1922,165Reinsurance recoverable15214357Balance as of end-of-year$5,552$5,335$2,222(1)Represents acquired group life and disability reserves, net, as of May 1, 2018.  See Note 3 for additional information.(2)All other incurred is primarily impacted by the level of claim resolutions in the period compared to that which is expected by the reserve assumption.  A negative number implies a favorable result where claim resolutions were more favorable than assumed.  Our claim resolution rate assumption used in determining reserves is our expectation of the resolution rate we will experience over the long-term life of the block of claims.  It will vary from actual experience in any one period, both favorably and unfavorably.

The interest rate assumption used for discounting long-term claim reserves is an important part of the reserving process due to the long benefit period for these claims.  Interest accrued on prior years’ reserves has been calculated on the opening reserve balance less one-half of the prior years’ incurred claim payments at our average reserve discount rate.



Long-term disability benefits may extend for many years, and claim development schedules do not reflect these longer benefit periods.  As a result, we use longer term retrospective runoff studies, experience studies and prospective studies to develop our liability estimates.  Long-term disability reserves are discounted using rates ranging from3.25% to5%.  The discount rates vary by year of claim incurral.


13.  Short-Term and Long-Term Debt



Details underlying short-term and long-term debt (in millions) were as follows:







As of December 31,20192018Short-Term DebtCurrent maturities of long-term debt$300$-Total short-term debt$300$-Long-Term Debt, Excluding Current PortionSenior notes:6.25% notes, due 2020(1)$-$3004.85% notes, due 2021(1)2963004.20% notes, due 2022(1)300300LIBOR +100bps loan, due 2023-2004.00% notes, due 2023(1)500500LIBOR +87.5bps loan, due 2024250-3.35% notes, due 2025(1)3003003.63% notes, due 2026(1)4004003.80% notes, due 2028(1)5005003.05% notes, due 2030(1)500-6.15% notes, due 2036(1)2433486.30% notes, due 2037(1)(2)3753757.00% notes, due 2040(1)(2)5005004.35% notes, due 2048(1)450450Total senior notes4,6144,473Capital securities:LIBOR +236bps, due 2066(3)722722LIBOR +204bps, due 2067(3)491491Total capital securities1,2131,213Unamortized premiums (discounts)(4)(3)Unamortized debt issuance costs(34)(33)Unamortized adjustments from discontinued hedges118123Fair value hedge on interest rate swap agreements16066Total long-term debt$6,067$5,839



(1)We have the option to repurchase the outstanding notes by paying the greater of100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed or the make-whole amount (as defined in each note agreement), plus in each case any accrued and unpaid interest as of the date of redemption.

(2)Categorized as operating debt for leverage ratio calculations as the proceeds were primarily used as a long-term structured solution to reduce the strain on increasing statutory reserves associated with secondary guarantee UL and term policies.

(3)To hedge the variability in rates, we purchased interest rate swaps to lock in a fixed rate of approximately5% over the remaining terms of the capital securities.



Details underlying the recognition of a gain (loss) on the early extinguishment of debt (in millions) reported within interest expense on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) were as follows:



For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Principal balance outstanding prior to payoff(1)$109$287$-Unamortized debt issuance costs and discounts(1)(1)5Amount paid to retire debt(150)(309)-Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt, pre-tax$(42)$(23)$5(1)During the third quarter of 2019, we repurchased $105million of our6.15% senior notes due 2036 and $4million of our4.85% senior notes due 2021.  During the first quarter of 2018, we repurchased $287million of our8.75% senior notes due 2019.






Future principal payments due on long-term debt (in millions) as of December 31, 2019, were as follows:







2020$3002021296202230020235002024250Thereafter4,481Total$6,127



For our long-term debt outstanding, unsecured senior debt, which consists of senior notes, fixed-rate notes and other notes with varying interest rates, ranks highest in priority, followed by capital securities.



Credit Facilities and Letters of Credit



Credit facilities, which allow for borrowing or issuances of letters of credit (“LOCs”), and LOCs (in millions) were as follows:











As of December 31, 2019ExpirationMaximumLOCsDateAvailableIssuedCredit FacilitiesFive-year revolving credit facilityJuly 31, 2024$2,250$346LOC facility(1)August 26, 2031990965LOC facility(1)October 1, 2031982982Total$4,222$2,293(1)Our wholly-owned subsidiaries entered into irrevocable LOC facility agreements with third-party lenders supporting inter-company reinsurance agreements.

On July 31, 2019, we refinanced our existing credit facility with a syndicate of banks.  This facility (the “credit facility”) allows for the issuance of LOCs and borrowing of up to $2.25billion.  The credit facility is unsecured and has a commitment termination date of July 31, 2024.  The LOCs under the credit facility are used primarily to satisfy reserve credit requirements of (i) our domestic insurance companies for which reserve credit is provided by our affiliated reinsurance companies and (ii) certain ceding companies of our legacy reinsurance business.



The credit agreement governing the credit facility contains or includes:



Customary terms and conditions, including covenants restricting our ability to incur liens, merge or consolidate with another entity where we are not the surviving entity and dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;

Financial covenants including maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth (as defined in the credit agreement) equal to the sum of $10.6billion plus50% of the aggregate net proceeds of equity issuances received by us as set forth in the credit agreement; and a debt-to-capital ratio as defined in accordance with the credit facility not to exceed0.35to1.00;

A cap on secured non-operating indebtedness and non-operating indebtedness of our subsidiaries equal to7.5% of total capitalization, as defined in accordance with the credit agreement; and

Customary events of default, subject to certain materiality thresholds and grace periods for certain of those events of default.



Upon an event of default, the credit agreement provides that, among other things, the commitments may be terminated and the loans then outstanding may be declared due and payable.  As of December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all such covenants.



Our LOC facility agreements each contain customary terms and conditions, including early termination fees, covenants restricting the ability of the subsidiaries to incur liens, merge or consolidate with another entity and dispose of all or substantially all of their assets.  Upon an event of early termination, the agreements require the immediate payment of all or a portion of the present value of the future LOC fees that would have otherwise been paid.  Further, the agreements contain customary events of default, subject to certain materiality thresholds and grace periods for certain of those events of default.  The events of default include payment defaults, covenant defaults, material inaccuracies in representations and warranties, bankruptcy and liquidation proceedings and other customary defaults.  Upon an event of default, the agreements provide that, among other things, obligations to issue, amend or increase the amount of any LOC shall be terminated and any obligations shall become immediately due and payable.  As of December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all such covenants.






Shelf Registration



We currently have an effective shelf registration statement, which allows us to issue, in unlimited amounts, securities, including debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and depository shares.



Certain Debt Covenants on Capital Securities



Our $1.2billionin principal amount of capital securities outstanding contain certain covenants that require us to make interest payments in accordance with an alternative coupon satisfaction mechanism (“ACSM”) if we determine that one of the following trigger events exists as of the 30th day prior to an interest payment date (“determination date”):



LNL’s risk-based capital (“RBC”) ratio is less than175% (based on the most recent annual financial statement filed with the State of Indiana); or

(i) The sum of our consolidated net income for the four trailing fiscal quarters ending on the quarter that is two quarters prior to the most recently completed quarter prior to the determination date is zero or negative; and (ii) our consolidated stockholders’ equity (excluding AOCI and any increase in stockholders’ equity resulting from the issuance of preferred stock during a quarter), or “adjusted stockholders’ equity,” as of (x) the most recently completed quarter and (y) the end of the quarter that is two quarters before the most recently completed quarter, has declined by10% or more as compared to the quarter that is 10 fiscal quarters prior to the last completed quarter, or the “benchmark quarter.”



The ACSM would generally require us to use commercially reasonable efforts to satisfy our obligation to pay interest in full on the capital securities with the net proceeds from sales of our common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock with an exercise price greater than the market price.  We would have to utilize the ACSM until the trigger events no longer existed.  Our failure to pay interest pursuant to the ACSM will not result in an event of default with respect to the capital securities nor will a nonpayment of interest unless it lasts for10consecutive years, although such breaches may result in monetary damages to the holders of the capital securities.As of December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all such covenants.



14.  Contingencies and Commitments



Contingencies



Regulatory and Litigation Matters



Regulatory bodies, such as state insurance departments, the SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and other regulatory bodies regularly make inquiries and conduct examinations or investigations concerning our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws, securities laws, laws governing the activities of broker-dealers, registered investment advisers and unclaimed property laws.



LNC is involved in various pending or threatened legal or regulatory proceedings, including purported class actions, arising from the conduct of business both in the ordinary course and otherwise.  In some of the matters, very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought.  Modern pleading practice in the U.S. permits considerable variation in the assertion of monetary damages or other relief.  Jurisdictions may permit claimants not to specify the monetary damages sought or may permit claimants to state only that the amount sought is sufficient to invoke the jurisdiction of the trial court.  In addition, jurisdictions may permit plaintiffs to allege monetary damages in amounts well exceeding verdicts obtained in the jurisdiction for similar matters.  This variability in pleadings, together with the actual experiences of LNC in litigating or resolving through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of time, demonstrates to management that the monetary relief which may be specified in a lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to its merits or disposition value.



Due to the unpredictable nature of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time is normally difficult to ascertain.  Uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.  Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law.



We establish liabilities for litigation and regulatory loss contingencies when information related to the loss contingencies shows both that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  It is possible that some matters could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated as of December 31, 2019.  While the potential future charges could be material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded, based on information currently known by management, management does not believe any such charges are likely to have a material adverse effect on LNC’s financial condition.



For some matters, the Company is able to estimate a reasonably possible range of loss.  For such matters in which a loss is probable, an accrual has been made.  For such matters where a loss is believed to be reasonably possible, but not probable, no accrual has been made.  Accordingly, the estimate contained in this paragraph reflects two types of matters.  For some matters included within this estimate, an accrual has been made, but there is a reasonable possibility that an exposure exists in excess of the amount accrued.  In these cases, the estimate reflects the reasonably possible range of loss in excess of the accrued amount.  For other matters included within this estimation, no accrual has been made because a loss, while potentially estimable, is believed to be reasonably possible but not probable.  In these


cases, the estimate reflects the reasonably possible loss or range of loss.  As of December 31, 2019, we estimate the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses, including amounts in excess of amounts accrued for these matters as of such date, to be up to approximately $90million.  Any estimate is not an indication of expected loss, if any, or of the Company’s maximum possible loss exposure on such matters.



For other matters, we are not currently able to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss.  We are often unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss until developments in such matters have provided sufficient information to support an assessment of the range of possible loss, such as quantification of a damage demand from plaintiffs, discovery from other parties and investigation of factual allegations, rulings by the court on motions or appeals, analysis by experts and the progress of settlement negotiations.  On a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information with respect to litigation contingencies and update our accruals, disclosures and estimates of reasonably possible losses or ranges of loss based on such reviews.



Certain reinsurers have sought rate increases on certain yearly renewable term treaties.  We are disputing the requested rate increases under these treaties.  We have initiated and will initiate arbitration proceedings, as necessary, under these treaties in order to protect our contractual rights.  Additionally, reinsurers may initiate arbitration proceedings against us.  We believe it is unlikely the outcome of these disputes will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  For more information about reinsurance, see Note 9.



Cost of Insurance Litigation



Glover v. Connecticut General Life Insurance Company and The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut, No. 3:16-cv-00827, is a putative class action that was served on LNL on June 8, 2016.  Plaintiff is the owner of a universal life insurance policy who alleges that LNL charged more for non-guaranteed cost of insurance than permitted by the policy.  Plaintiff seeks to represent all universal life and variable universal life policyholders who owned policies containing non-guaranteed cost of insurance provisions that are similar to those of Plaintiff’s policy and seeks damages on behalf of all such policyholders.  On January 11, 2019, the court dismissed Plaintiff’s complaint in its entirety.  In response, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to amend the complaint, which we have opposed.



Hanks v. The Lincoln Life and Annuity Company of New York (“LLANY”) and Voya Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company (“Voya”)

, filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, No. 1:16-cv-6399, is a putative class action that was served on LLANY on August 12, 2016.  Plaintiff owns a universal life policy originally issued by Aetna (now Voya) and alleges that (i) Voya breached the terms of the policy when it increased non-guaranteed cost of insurance rates on Plaintiff’s policy; and (ii) LLANY, as reinsurer and administrator of Plaintiff’s policy, engaged in wrongful conduct related to the cost of insurance increase and was unjustly enriched as a result.  Plaintiff seeks to represent all owners of Aetna life insurance policies that were subject to non-guaranteed cost of insurance rate increases in 2016 and seeks damages on their behalf.

On March 13, 2019, the court issued an order granting plaintiff’s motion for class certification for the breach of contract claim and denying such motion with respect to the unjust enrichment claim against LLANY, and, on September 12, 2019, the court issued an order approving the parties’ joint stipulation of dismissal with respect to the unjust enrichment claim and dismissed LLANY as a defendant in the case.

In light of LLANY’s role as reinsurer and administrator under the 1998 coinsurance agreement with Aetna (now Voya), and of the parties’ rights and obligations thereunder, LLANY continues to be actively engaged in the vigorous defense of this action.



EFG Bank AG, Cayman Branch, et al. v. The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, No. 2:17-cv-02592, is a civil action filed on February 1, 2017.  Plaintiffs own Legend Series universal life insurance policies originally issued by Jefferson-Pilot (now LNL).  Plaintiffs allege that LNL breached the terms of policyholders’ contracts when it increasednon-guaranteedcost of insurance rates beginning in 2016.  We are vigorously defending this matter.



In re: Lincoln National COI Litigation, pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Master File No. 2:16-cv-06605-GJP, is a consolidated litigation matter related to multiple putative class action filings that were consolidated by an order dated March 20, 2017.  In addition to consolidating a number of existing matters, the order also covers any future cases filed in the same district related to the same subject matter.  Plaintiffs own universal life insurance policies originally issued by Jefferson-Pilot (now LNL).  Plaintiffs allege that LNL and LNC breached the terms of policyholders’ contracts by increasing non-guaranteed cost of insurance rates beginning in 2016.  Plaintiffs seek to represent classes of policyowners and seek damages on their behalf.  We are vigorously defending this matter.



In re: Lincoln National 2017 COI Rate Litigation, Master File No. 2:17-cv-04150 is a consolidated litigation matter related to multiple putative class action filings that were consolidated by an order of the court in March 2018.  Plaintiffs own universal life insurance policies originally issued by former Jefferson-Pilot (now LNL).  Plaintiffs allege that LNL and LNC breached the terms of policyholders’ contracts by increasing non-guaranteed cost of insurance rates beginning in 2017.  Plaintiffs seek to represent classes of policyholders and seek damages on their behalf.  We are vigorously defending this matter.



Iwanski v. First Penn-Pacific Life Insurance Company(“FPP”), No. 2:18-cv-01573 filed in the U.S. District Court for the District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania is a putative class action that was filed on April 13, 2018.  Plaintiff alleges that defendant FPP breached the terms of his life insurance policy by deducting non-guaranteed cost of insurance charges in excess of what is permitted by the policies.  Plaintiff seeks to represent all owners of universal life insurance policies issued by FPP containing non-guaranteed cost of insurance provisions that are similar to those of Plaintiff’s policy and seeks damages on their behalf.  Breach of contract is the only cause of action asserted.  We are vigorously defending this matter.






TVPX ARS INC., as Securities Intermediary for Consolidated Wealth Management, LTD. v. The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, No. 2:18-cv-02989, is a putative class action that was filed on July 17, 2018.  Plaintiff alleges that LNL charged more for non-guaranteed cost of insurance than permitted by the policy.  Plaintiff seeks to represent all universal life and variable universal life policyholders who own policies issued by LNL or its predecessors containing non-guaranteed cost of insurance provisions that are similar to those of Plaintiff’s policy and seeks damages on behalf of all such policyholders.  We are vigorously defending this matter.



LSH Co. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as securities intermediary for LSH Co. v. Lincoln National Corporation and The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, No. 2:18-cv-05529, is a civil action filed on December 21, 2018.  Plaintiffs own universal life insurance policies originally issued by Jefferson-Pilot (now LNL).  Plaintiffs allege that LNL breached the terms of policyholders’ contracts when it increased non-guaranteed cost of insurance rates in 2016 and 2017.  We are vigorously defending this matter.



Vida Longevity Fund, LP v. Lincoln Life & Annuity Company of New York, pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, No. 1:19-cv-06004, is a putative class action that was filed on June 27, 2019.  Plaintiff alleges that LLANY charged more for non-guaranteed cost of insurance than was permitted by the policies.  Plaintiff seeks to represent all current and former owners of universal life (including variable universal life) policies who own or owned policies issued by LLANY and its predecessors in interest that were in force at any time on or after June 27, 2013, and which contain non-guaranteed cost of insurance provisions that are similar to those of Plaintiff’s policies.  Plaintiff also seeks to represent a sub-class of such policyholders who own or owned “life insurance policies issued in the State of New York.”  Plaintiff seeks damages on behalf of the policyholder class and sub-class.  We are vigorously defending this matter.



Commitments



Leases



We recognized operating lease ROU assets of $233million and associated lease liabilities of $240million as of December 31, 2019.  We classified the operating lease ROU assets within other assets and the lease liabilities within other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The weighted-average discount rate and remaining lease term were3.2% and6 years, respectively, as of December 31, 2019.  Operating lease expense for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, was $54million, $50million and $43million, respectively, and reported in commissions and other expenses on ourConsolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).



As of December 31, 2019, the net book value of assets recorded as finance leases was $128million, and the associated accumulated amortization was $345million.  These transactions have been classified as other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  These assets will continue to be amortized on a straight-line basis over the assets’ remaining lives.  The weighted-average discount rate and remaining lease term were2.2% and2 years, respectively, as of December 31, 2019.



Finance lease expense (in millions) was as follows:







For the Year EndedDecember 31,2019Amortization of ROU assets(1)$67Interest on lease liabilities(2)13Total$80(1)Amortization of ROU assets is reported in commissions and other expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).(2)Interest on lease liabilities is reported in interest and debt expense on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).


The table below presents cash flow information (in millions) related to leases:For the Year EndedDecember 31,2019Supplemental Cash Flow InformationCash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:Operating cash flows from operating leases$56Financing cash flows from finance leases96Supplemental Non-cash InformationROU assets obtained in exchange for new lease obligations:Operating leases$80Our future minimum lease payments (in millions) under non-cancellable leases as of December 31, 2019, were as follows:OperatingFinanceLeasesLeases2020$49$5620214866202244662023429020242817Thereafter6712Total future minimum lease payments278307Less: Amount representing interest3826Present value of minimum lease payments$240$281As of December 31, 2019, we hadnoleases that had not yet commenced.Vulnerability from ConcentrationsAs of December 31, 2019, we did not have a concentration of:  business transactions with a particular customer or lender; sources of supply of labor or services used in the business; or a market or geographic area in which business is conducted that makes us vulnerable to an event that is at least reasonably possible to occur in the near term and which could cause a severe impact to our financial condition.  For information on our investment and reinsurance concentrations, see Notes 5 and 9, respectively.Other Contingency Matters

State guaranty funds assess insurance companies to cover losses to contract holders of insolvent or rehabilitated companies.  Mandatory assessments may be partially recovered through a reduction in future premium taxes in some states.  We have accrued for expected assessments and the related reductions in future state premium taxes, which net to assessments (recoveries) of $(12) million and $(17) million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.


15.  Shares and Stockholders’ Equity



Common Shares



The changes in our common stock (number of shares) were as follows:









For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Common StockBalance as of beginning-of-year205,862,760218,090,114226,335,105Stock issued for exercise of warrants258,633212,670344,901Stock compensation/issued for benefit plans942,318800,3251,793,234Retirement/cancellation of shares(10,395,179)(13,240,349)(10,383,126)Balance as of end-of-year196,668,532205,862,760218,090,114Common Stock as of End-of-YearBasic basis196,668,532205,862,760218,090,114Diluted basis199,196,043209,034,686221,309,830



Our common stock is without par value.



Average Shares



A reconciliation of the denominator (number of shares) in the calculations of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per common share was as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Weighted-average shares, as used in basic calculation200,608,737215,936,448222,128,687Shares to cover exercise of outstanding warrants58,765568,602761,353Shares to cover non-vested stock973,9011,534,1421,626,908Average stock options outstanding during the year1,507,0491,739,0292,360,372Assumed acquisition of shares with assumed proceedsfrom exercising outstanding warrants(9,594)(81,260)(109,034)Assumed acquisition of shares with assumedproceeds and benefits from exercising stockoptions (at average market price for the year)(1,033,507)(1,074,406)(1,414,857)Shares repurchasable from measured butunrecognized stock option expense(217)(14,600)(53,241)Average deferred compensation shares-944,151920,792Weighted-average shares, as used in diluted calculation202,105,134219,552,106226,220,980



In the event the average market price of LNC common stock exceeds the issue price of stock options and the options have a dilutive effect to our EPS, such options will be shown in the table above.



We have participants in our deferred compensation plans who selected LNC stock as the measure for the investment return attributable to all or a portion of their deferral amounts.  For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the effect of settling this obligation in LNC stock (“equity classification”) was more dilutive than the scenario of settling in cash (“liability classification”).  Therefore, for our EPS calculation for these periods, we added these shares to the denominator and adjusted the numerator to present net income as if the shares had been accounted for under equity classification by removing the mark-to-market adjustment included in net income attributable to these deferred units of LNC stock.  The amount of this adjustment was $18million and $(7) million for the years ended December 31,  2018 and 2017, respectively.



As of December 31, 2019, we hadnooutstanding warrants.  The remaining outstanding warrants issued in 2009, each representing the right to purchaseoneshare of our common stock, expired on July 10, 2019.




AOCI



The following summarizes the components and changes in AOCI (in millions):











For the Years Ended December 31,


Unrealized Gain (Loss) on AFS Securities

Balance as of beginning-of-year$557$3,486$1,784

Cumulative effect from adoption of new accounting standards-674-

Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during the year9,267(6,274)3,032

Change in foreign currency exchange rate adjustment46(107)134

Change in DAC, VOBA, DSI, future contract benefits and other contract holder funds(2,462)1,748(705)

Income tax benefit (expense)(1,457)981(797)

Less:

Reclassification adjustment for gains (losses) included in net income (loss)(28)(42)(39)

Associated amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL(12)(20)(20)

Income tax benefit (expense)81321

Balance as of end-of-year$5,983$557$3,486

Unrealized OTTI on AFS Securities

Balance as of beginning-of-year$33$44$25

(Increases) attributable to:

Cumulative effect from adoption of new accounting standards-9-

Gross OTTI recognized in OCI during the year(16)--

Change in DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL1--

Income tax benefit (expense)3--

Decreases attributable to:

Changes in fair value, sales, maturities or other settlements of AFS securities31(19)34

Change in DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL(1)(6)(5)

Income tax benefit (expense)(6)5(10)

Balance as of end-of-year$45$33$44

Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Derivative Instruments

Balance as of beginning-of-year$139$(29)$49

Cumulative effect from adoption of new accounting standard-(6)-

Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during the year(93)14427

Change in foreign currency exchange rate adjustment(52)111(137)

Change in DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL(4)(13)2

Income tax benefit (expense)31(51)38

Less:

Reclassification adjustment for gains (losses) included in net income (loss)422413

Associated amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL(1)(2)(1)

Income tax benefit (expense)(9)(5)(4)

Balance as of end-of-year$(11)$139$(29)

Foreign Currency Translation Adjustment

Balance as of beginning-of-year$(23)$(14)$(27)

Foreign currency translation adjustment arising during the year6(9)13

Balance as of end-of-year$(17)$(23)$(14)

Funded Status of Employee Benefit Plans

Balance as of beginning-of-year$(299)$(257)$(265)

Cumulative effect from adoption of new accounting standard-(35)-

Adjustment arising during the year(20)(12)18

Income tax benefit (expense)(8)5(10)

Balance as of end-of-year$(327)$(299)$(257)



‎




The following summarizes the reclassifications out of AOCI (in millions) and the associated line item in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss):











For the Years Ended December 31,


Unrealized Gain (Loss) on AFS Securities

Gross reclassification$(28)$(42)$(39)Total realized gain (loss)

Associated amortization of DAC,

VOBA, DSI and DFEL(12)(20)(20)Total realized gain (loss)

Reclassification before incomeIncome (loss) from continuing

tax benefit (expense)(40)(62)(59)operations before taxes

Income tax benefit (expense)81321Federal income tax expense (benefit)

Reclassification, net of income tax$(32)$(49)$(38)Net income (loss)



Unrealized OTTI on AFS Securities

Gross reclassification$4$8$5Total realized gain (loss)

Change in DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL--(1)Total realized gain (loss)

Reclassification before incomeIncome (loss) from continuing

tax benefit (expense)484operations before taxes

Income tax benefit (expense)(1)(2)(1)Federal income tax expense (benefit)

Reclassification, net of income tax$3$6$3Net income (loss)



Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Derivative Instruments

Gross reclassifications:

Interest rate contracts$3$4$4Net investment income

Interest rate contracts(5)(7)(18)Interest and debt expense

Foreign currency contracts352718Net investment income

Foreign currency contracts9-9Total realized gain (loss)

Total gross reclassifications422413

Associated amortization of DAC,

VOBA, DSI and DFEL(1)(2)(1)Commissions and other expenses

Reclassifications before incomeIncome (loss) from continuing

tax benefit (expense)412212operations before taxes

Income tax benefit (expense)(9)(5)(4)Federal income tax expense (benefit)

Reclassifications, net of income tax$32$17$8Net income (loss)





16.  Commissions and Other Expenses

Details underlying commissions and other expenses (in millions) were as follows:For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Commissions$2,549$2,256$1,986General and administrative expenses2,2101,9531,766Expenses associated with reserve financing and unrelated LOCs888487DAC and VOBA deferrals and interest, net of amortization(540)(402)(350)Broker-dealer expenses481465438Specifically identifiable intangible asset amortization2694Taxes, licenses and fees343313245Acquisition and integration costs related to mergers and acquisitions13085-Total$5,287$4,763$4,176





17.  Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans

Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit PlansWe maintain U.S. defined benefit pension plans in which certain U.S. employees and agents are participants, and a U.K. plan we retained after the sale of the Lincoln UK business.  Our defined benefit pension plans are closed to new entrants and existing participants do not accrue any additional benefits.  We comply with the minimum funding requirements in both the U.S. and the U.K.  In accordance with such practice, we were not required to make contributions but elected to contribute $2million and $8million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  We do not expect to be required to make any contributions to these pension plans in 2020.


We sponsor other postretirement benefit plans that provide health care and life insurance to certain retired employees and agents.  Total net periodic cost (recovery) for these plans was $8million, $(2) million and $(3) million during 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  In 2020, we expect the plans to make benefit payments of approximately $110million.



Information (in millions) with respect to these plans was as follows:









As of or For the Years Ended December 31,2019201820192018Other PostretirementPension PlansBenefit PlansFair value of plan assets$1,520$1,356$69$64Projected benefit obligation1,6461,4777874Funded status$(126)$(121)$(9)$(10)Amounts Recognized on theConsolidated Balance SheetsOther assets$12$52$-$-Other liabilities(138)(173)(9)(10)Net amount recognized$(126)$(121)$(9)$(10)Weighted-Average AssumptionsBenefit obligations:Weighted-average discount rate3.14%4.14%3.50%4.50%Net periodic benefit cost:Weighted-average discount rate4.10%3.75%4.50%4.00%Expected return on plan assets6.48%6.46%6.50%6.50%

The weighted average discount rate was determined based on a corporate yield curve as of December 31, 2019, and projected benefit obligation cash flows.  The expected return on plan assets was determined based on historical and expected future returns of the various asset categories, using the plans’ target plan allocation.  We reevaluate these assumptions each plan year.



The following summarizes our fair value measurements of our benefit plans’ assets (in millions) on a recurring basis by asset category:







As of December 31,20192018Fixed maturity securities:Corporate bonds$274$249U.S. government bonds280252Foreign government bonds67216State and municipal bonds2928Common and preferred stock599485Bulk annuity insurance policy165-Cash and invested cash106125Other investments6965Total$1,589$1,420

See “Fair Value Measurement” in Note 1 for discussion on how we categorize our pension plans’ assets into the three-level fair value hierarchy.  See “Financial Instruments Carried at Fair Value” in Note 20 for a summary of our fair value measurement of our pension plans’ assets by the three-level fair value hierarchy.



Defined Contribution Plans



We sponsor tax-qualified defined contribution plans for eligible employees and agents.  We administer these plans in accordance with the plan documents and various limitations under section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.  For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, expenses for these plans were $104million, $93million and $88million, respectively.



Deferred Compensation Plans



We sponsor non-qualified, unfunded, deferred compensation plans for certain current and former employees, agents and non-employee directors.  The results of certain notional investment options within some of the plans are hedged by total return swaps.  Our expenses increase or decrease in direct proportion to the change in market value of the participants’ investment options.  Participants of certain plans are able to select our stock as a notional investment option; however, it is not hedged by the total return swaps and is a primary


source of expense volatility related to these plans.  For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, expenses for these plans were $28million, $4million and $35million, respectively.  For further discussion of total return swaps related to our deferred compensation plans, see Note 6.Information (in millions) with respect to these plans was as follows:As of December 31,20192018Total liabilities(1)$645$547Investments dedicated to fund liabilities(2)202170(1)Reported in other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.(2)Reported in other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.



18.Stock-Based Incentive Compensation Plans

We sponsor stock-based incentive compensation plans for our employees and directors and for the employees and agents of our subsidiaries that provide for the issuance of stock options, performance shares, stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) and restricted stock units (“RSUs”) among other types of awards.  We issue new shares to satisfy option exercises and vested performance shares and RSUs.Total compensation expense (in millions) by award type for our stock-based incentive compensation plans was as follows:For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Stock options$8$5$10Performance shares171513SARs-(1)2RSUs373225Total$62$51$50Recognized tax benefit$13$11$18Total unrecognized compensation expense (in millions) and expected weighted-average life (in years) by award type for our stock-based incentive compensation plans was as follows:For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Weighted-Weighted-Weighted-AverageAverageAverageExpensePeriodExpensePeriodExpensePeriodStock options$90.9$91.1$91.4Performance shares151.3140.9121.2SARs-3.4-2.723.2RSUs421.4501.2321.1Total unrecognized stock-basedincentive compensation expense$66$73$55Stock OptionsThe option price assumptions used for our stock option awards were as follows:For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Weighted-average fair value per option granted$13.23$18.74$18.27Assumptions:Dividend yield2.8%2.1%2.0%Expected volatility26.9%27.2%31.5%Risk-free interest rate2.1-2.5%2.5-2.9%1.7-2.1%Expected life (in years)5.85.85.5




The fair value of options is determined using a Black-Scholes options valuation model with the assumptions disclosed in the table above.  The dividend yield is based on the expected dividend rate during the expected life of the option.  Expected volatility is based on the implied volatility of exchange-traded securities and the historical volatility of the LNC stock price.  The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the grant.  The expected life of the options granted represents the weighted-average period of time from the grant date to the date of exercise, expiration or cancellation based upon historical behavior.



Generally, stock options have a maximum contractual term often yearsand vest ratably over athree yearperiod based solely on a service condition.  Information with respect to our incentive plans involving stock options with service conditions (aggregate intrinsic value shown in millions) was as follows:







Weighted-Weighted-AverageAverageRemainingAggregateExerciseContractualIntrinsicSharesPriceTermValueOutstanding as of December 31, 20182,354,016$53.11Granted – original678,88263.01Exercised (includes shares tendered)(84,271)33.32Forfeited or expired(53,971)71.16Outstanding as of December 31, 20192,894,656$55.676.61$25Vested or expected to vest as of December 31, 2019(1)2,671,151$54.526.47$25Exercisable as of December 31, 20191,865,223$48.945.48$25(1)Includes estimated forfeitures.



The total fair value of stock options with service conditions that vested during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 was $7million, $6million and $6million, respectively.  The total intrinsic value of such options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, was $3million, $11million and $23million, respectively.



We award to certain agents stock options that have a maximum contractual term offive yearsand generally vest ratably over atwo yearperiod depending on the satisfaction of the performance conditions.  Information with respect to our incentive plans involving stock options with performance conditions (aggregate intrinsic value shown in millions) was as follows:





Weighted-Weighted-AverageAverageRemainingAggregateExerciseContractualIntrinsicSharesPriceTermValueOutstanding as of December 31, 2018228,836$59.43Granted – original35,87861.80Exercised (includes shares tendered)(41,898)50.78Forfeited or expired(13,712)65.59Outstanding as of December 31, 2019209,104$61.172.07$1Vested or expected to vest as of December 31, 2019(1)198,345$60.891.96$1Exercisable as of December 31, 2019187,585$60.581.85$1(1)Includes estimated forfeitures.



The total fair value of stock options with performance conditions that vested during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, was $1million, $1million and $2million, respectively.  The total intrinsic value of such options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, was less than $1million, $2million and $12million, respectively.



Performance Shares



LNC performance shares vest, if at all, on the third anniversary of the grant date; depending on the achievement level of performance measures pre-determined by the Compensation Committee for thethree yearperformance period, payout could range fromzeroto200% of the target award.






Information with respect to our performance shares was as follows:





Weighted-AverageGrant-DateSharesFair ValueNonvested as of December 31, 2018546,225$59.46Granted202,48466.89Vested(258,384)31.22Forfeited(19,254)80.53Nonvested as of December 31, 2019471,071$77.29



SARs



Under our incentive compensation plan, we issue SARs to certain planners and advisers who have full-time contracts with us.  The SARs under this plan are rights on our stock that are cash settled and become exercisable in increments of25% over thefour yearperiod following the SARs grant date.  SARs are granted with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our stock at the date of grant and, unless cancelled earlier due to certain terminations of employment, expirefive yearsfrom the date of grant.  Generally, such SARs are transferable only upon death.



We recognize compensation expense for SARs based on the fair value method using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.  Compensation expense and the related liability are recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the SARs.  The SARs liability is marked-to-market through net income, which causes volatility in net income (loss) as a result of changes in the market value of our stock and reported within commissions and other expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  The SARs liability as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, was $1million and $1million, respectively, and reported within other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.



The option price assumptions used for our SARs were as follows:





For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Weighted-average fair value per SAR granted$13.93$19.09$20.06Assumptions:Dividend yield2.4%1.6%1.5%Expected volatility28.3%27.0%34.4%Risk-free interest rate2.5%2.8%2.2%Expected life (in years)5.05.05.0



The assumptions above are the same as those discussed for options above, except the dividend yield is based on the current dividend rate at the date of grant, expected volatility is based on the implied volatility of exchange-traded securities and the expected life represents the contractual term.



Information with respect to our SARs plan (aggregate intrinsic value shown in millions) was as follows:





Weighted-Weighted-AverageAverageRemainingAggregateExerciseContractualIntrinsicSharesPriceTermValueOutstanding as of December 31, 2018130,007$54.88Granted – original23,60461.80Exercised (includes shares tendered)(39,863)48.69Forfeited or expired(9,317)60.75Outstanding as of December 31, 2019104,431$58.172.14$-Vested or expected to vest as of December 31, 2019(1)102,944$58.202.12$-Exercisable as of December 31, 201971,375$55.261.56$-(1)Includes estimated forfeitures.



The payment for SARs exercised was $1million, $1million and $3million during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.


RSUsLNC RSUs generally cliff-vest on the third anniversary of the grant date, based solely on a service condition.  Information with respect to our RSUs was as follows:Weighted-AverageGrant-DateSharesFair ValueOutstanding as of December 31, 20181,692,876$60.02Granted621,13462.88Vested(680,494)38.40Forfeited(82,387)70.51Outstanding as of December 31, 20191,551,129$70.09







19.  Statutory Information and Restrictions



The Company’s domestic life insurance subsidiaries prepare financial statements in accordance with statutory accounting principles (“SAP”) prescribed or permitted by the insurance departments of their states of domicile, which may vary materially from GAAP.



Prescribed SAP includes the Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) as well as state laws, regulations and administrative rules.  Permitted SAP encompasses all accounting practices not so prescribed.  The principal differences between statutory financial statements and financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP are that statutory financial statements do not reflect DAC, some bond portfolios may be carried at amortized cost, assets and liabilities are presented net of reinsurance, contract holder liabilities are generally valued using more conservative assumptions and certain assets are non-admitted.



Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to the applicable laws and regulations of their respective states.  Changes in these laws and regulations could change capital levels or capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries.



Statutory capital and surplus, net gain (loss) from operations, after-tax, net income (loss) and dividends to the LNC holding company amounts (in millions) below consist of all or a combination of the following entities:  LNL, LLANY, LLACB, FPP, Lincoln Reinsurance Company of South Carolina, Lincoln Reinsurance Company of Vermont I, Lincoln Reinsurance Company of Vermont III, Lincoln Reinsurance Company of Vermont IV, Lincoln Reinsurance Company of Vermont V, Lincoln Reinsurance Company of Vermont VI and Lincoln Reinsurance Company of Vermont VII.







As of December 31,20192018U.S. capital and surplus$8,564$8,510For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017U.S. net gain (loss) from operations, after-tax$409$692$1,329U.S. net income (loss)3881,0191,468U.S. dividends to LNC holding company600925974



Comparison of 2019 to 2018



Statutory net income (loss) decreased due primarily to lower dividends from affiliates, unfavorable reserve strain on certain products, and integration costs incurred as part of the acquisition of Liberty Life.  See Note 3 for information regarding the acquisition.



Comparison of 2018 to 2017



Statutory net income (loss) decreased due primarily to lower dividends from affiliates, acquisition and integration costs incurred as part of the acquisition of Liberty Life and unfavorable reserve strain on certain products.






State Prescribed and Permitted Practices



The states of domicile of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries have adopted certain prescribed accounting practices that differ from those found in NAIC SAP.  These prescribed practices are the use of continuous Commissioners’ Annuity Reserve Valuation Method in the calculation of reserves as prescribed by the state of New York, the calculation of reserves on universal life policies based on the Indiana universal life method as prescribed by the state of Indiana for policies issued before January 1, 2006, and the use of a more conservative valuation interest rate on certain annuities prescribed by the states of Indiana and New York.  The Vermont reinsurance subsidiaries also have certain accounting practices permitted by the state of Vermont that differ from those found in NAIC SAP.  One permitted practice involves accounting for the lesser of the face amount of all amounts outstanding under an LOC and the value of the

Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Model Regulation (“XXX”)

additional statutory reserves as an admitted asset and a form of surplus as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.  Another permitted practice involves the acquisition of an LLC note in exchange for a variable value surplus note that is recognized as an admitted asset and a form of surplus as of December 31, 2019.  Lastly, the state of Vermont has permitted a practice to account for certain excess of loss reinsurance treaties with unaffiliated reinsurers as an asset and form of surplus as of December 31, 2019.  These permitted practices are related to structures that continue to be allowed in accordance with the grandfathered structures under the provisions of Actuarial Guideline 48 (“AG48”)



or are compliant under AG48 requirements.



The favorable (unfavorable) effects on statutory surplus compared to NAIC statutory surplus from the use of these prescribed and permitted practices (in millions) were as follows:





As of December 31,20192018State Prescribed PracticesCalculation of reserves using the Indiana universal life method$24$36Conservative valuation rate on certain annuities(49)(55)Vermont Subsidiaries Permitted Practices(1)Lesser of LOC and XXX additional reserve as surplus1,9471,959LLC notes and variable value surplus notes1,6481,634Excess of loss reinsurance treaties419330(1)These permitted practices are related to structures that continue to be allowed in accordance with the grandfathered structures under the provisions of AG48 or are compliant under AG48 requirements.



The NAIC has adopted RBC requirements for life insurance companies to evaluate the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus in relation to investment and insurance risks.  The requirements provide a means of measuring the minimum amount of statutory surplus appropriate for an insurance company to support its overall business operations based on its size and risk profile.  Under RBC requirements, regulatory compliance is determined by the ratio of a company’s total adjusted capital, as defined by the NAIC, to its company action level of RBC (known as the “RBC ratio”), also as defined by the NAIC.  The company action level may be triggered if the RBC ratio is between75% and100%, which would require the insurer to submit a plan to the regulator detailing corrective action it proposes to undertake.  As of December 31, 2019, the consolidated RBC ratio for LNC’s statutory insurance companies was in excess of four times the aforementioned company action level RBC.



Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain insurance department regulatory restrictions as to the transfer of funds and payment of dividends to the holding company.  Under Indiana laws and regulations, our Indiana insurance subsidiaries, including our primary insurance subsidiary, LNL, may pay dividends to LNC without prior approval of the Indiana Insurance Commissioner (the “Commissioner”), only from unassigned surplus and must receive prior approval of the Commissioner to pay a dividend if such dividend, along with all other dividends paid within the preceding 12 consecutive months, would exceed the statutory limitation.  The current statutory limitation is the greater of


% of the insurer’s contract holders’ surplus, as shown on its last annual statement on file with the Commissioner or the insurer’s statutory net gain from operations for the previous 12 months, but in no event to exceed statutory unassigned surplus.  Indiana law gives the Commissioner broad discretion to disapprove requests for dividends in excess of these limits.  LNL’s subsidiaries, LLANY, a New York-domiciled insurance company, and LLACB, a New Hampshire-domiciled company, are bound by similar restrictions, under the laws of New York and New Hampshire, respectively.  Under both New York and New Hampshire law, the applicable statutory limitation on dividends is equal to the lesser of


% of surplus to contract holders as of the immediately preceding calendar year or net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year, not including realized capital gains.  We expect our direct domestic insurance subsidiaries could pay dividends to LNC of approximately $


million in 2020 without prior approval from the respective Commissioner of Insurance.



All payments of principal and interest on surplus notes between LNC and our insurance subsidiaries must be approved by the respective Commissioner of Insurance.






20.Fair Value of Financial Instruments



The carrying values and estimated fair values of our financial instruments (in millions) were as follows:







As of December 31, 2019As of December 31, 2018CarryingFairCarryingFairValueValueValueValueAssetsFixed maturity AFS securities$105,200$105,200$94,024$94,024Trading securities4,6734,6731,9501,950Equity securities1031039999Mortgage loans on real estate16,33916,87213,26013,092Derivative investments(1)1,9111,9111,1071,107Other investments2,9832,9832,2552,255Cash and invested cash2,5632,5632,3452,345Other assets:GLB direct embedded derivatives450450123123GLB ceded embedded derivatives60607272Indexed annuity ceded embedded derivatives927927902902Separate account assets153,566153,566132,833132,833LiabilitiesFuture contract benefits – indexed annuityand IUL contracts embedded derivatives(2,585)(2,585)(1,305)(1,305)Other contract holder funds:Remaining guaranteed interest and similar contracts(1,900)(1,900)(542)(542)Account values of certain investment contracts(38,639)(46,822)(34,535)(36,358)Short-term debt(300)(304)--Long-term debt(6,067)(6,217)(5,839)(5,604)Reinsurance related embedded derivatives(327)(327)(3)(3)Other liabilities:Derivative liabilities(1)(349)(349)(160)(160)GLB ceded embedded derivatives(9)(9)--Benefit Plans’ Assets(2)1,5891,5891,4201,420



(1)We have master netting agreements with each of our derivative counterparties, which allow for the netting of our derivative asset and liability positions by counterparty.

(2)Included in the funded statuses of the benefit plans, which is reported in other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Refer to Note 17 for information regarding our benefit plans.



Valuation Methodologies and Associated Inputs for Financial Instruments Not Carried at Fair Value



The following discussion outlines the methodologies and assumptions used to determine the fair value of our financial instruments not carried at fair value on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Considerable judgment is required to develop these assumptions used to measure fair value.  Accordingly, the estimates shown are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that would be realized in a one-time, current market exchange of all of our financial instruments.



Mortgage Loans on Real Estate



The fair value of mortgage loans on real estate is established using a discounted cash flow method based on credit rating, maturity and future income.  The ratings for mortgages in good standing are based on property type, location, market conditions, occupancy, debt-service coverage, loan-to-value, quality of tenancy, borrower and payment record.  The fair value for impaired mortgage loans is based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, the loan’s market price or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.  The inputs used to measure the fair value of our mortgage loans on real estate are classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy.






Other Investments



The carrying value of our assets classified as other investments approximates fair value.  Other investments includes primarily LPs and other privately held investments that are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and the carrying value is based on our proportional share of the net assets of the LPs.  Other investments also includes FHLB stock carried at cost and periodically evaluated for impairment based on ultimate recovery of par value.  The inputs used to measure the fair value of our LPs, other privately held investments and FHLB stock are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy.  The remaining assets in other investments include cash collateral receivables and securities that are not LPs or other privately held investments. The inputs used to measure the fair value of these assets are classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy.



Separate Account Assets



Separate account assets are primarily carried at fair value.  A portion of our separate account assets includes LPs, which are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.  The carrying value is based on our proportional share of the net assets of the LPs and approximates fair value. The inputs used to measure the fair value of the separate account asset LPs are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy.



Other Contract Holder Funds



Other contract holder funds include remaining guaranteed interest and similar contracts and account values of certain investment contracts.  The fair value for the remaining guaranteed interest and similar contracts is estimated using discounted cash flow calculations as of the balance sheet date.  These calculations are based on interest rates currently offered on similar contracts with maturities that are consistent with those remaining for the contracts being valued.  As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the remaining guaranteed interest and similar contracts carrying value approximated fair value.  The fair value of the account values of certain investment contracts is based on their approximate surrender value as of the balance sheet date.  The inputs used to measure the fair value of our other contract holder funds are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy.



Short-Term and Long-Term Debt



The fair value of short-term and long-term debt is based on quoted market prices.  The inputs used to measure the fair value of our short-term and long-term debt are classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy.



Financial Instruments Carried at Fair Value



We did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis as of December 31, 2019 or 2018, and we noted no changes in our valuation methodologies between these periods.




The following summarizes our financial instruments carried at fair value (in millions) on a recurring basis by the fair value hierarchy levels described above:As of December 31, 2019QuotedPricesin ActiveMarkets forSignificantSignificantIdenticalObservableUnobservableTotalAssetsInputsInputsFair(Level 1)(Level 2)(Level 3)ValueAssetsInvestments:Fixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$-$84,435$4,281$88,716U.S. government bonds42465435State and municipal bonds-5,884-5,884Foreign government bonds-30390393RMBS-3,230113,241CMBS-1,08211,083ABS-4,6212684,889Hybrid and redeemable preferred securities7740478559Trading securities503,9576664,673Equity securities254830103Derivative investments(1)-1,2121,7352,947Cash and invested cash-2,563-2,563Other assets:GLB direct embedded derivatives--450450GLB ceded embedded derivatives--6060Indexed annuity ceded embedded derivatives--927927Separate account assets639152,916-153,555Total assets$1,215$260,661$8,602$270,478LiabilitiesFuture contract benefits – indexed annuityand IUL contracts embedded derivatives$-$-$(2,585)$(2,585)Reinsurance related embedded derivatives-(327)-(327)Other liabilities:Derivative liabilities(1)-(518)(867)(1,385)GLB ceded embedded derivatives--(9)(9)Total liabilities$-$(845)$(3,461)$(4,306)Benefit Plans’ Assets$195$1,394$-$1,589‎


As of December 31, 2018QuotedPricesin ActiveMarkets forSignificantSignificantIdenticalObservableUnobservableTotalAssetsInputsInputsFair(Level 1)(Level 2)(Level 3)ValueAssetsInvestments:Fixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$-$77,079$3,269$80,348U.S. government bonds39918-417State and municipal bonds-5,345-5,345Foreign government bonds-339109448RMBS-3,36673,373CMBS-8022804ABS-2,5621342,696Hybrid and redeemable preferred securities6745175593Trading securities431,840671,950Equity securities16582599Derivative investments(1)-7277051,432Other investments150--150Cash and invested cash-2,345-2,345Other assets:GLB direct embedded derivatives--123123GLB ceded embedded derivatives--7272Indexed annuity ceded embedded derivatives--902902Separate account assets665132,135-132,800Total assets$1,340$227,067$5,490$233,897LiabilitiesFuture contract benefits – indexed annuityand IUL contracts embedded derivatives$-$-$(1,305)$(1,305)Reinsurance related embedded derivatives-(3)-(3)Other liabilities:Derivative liabilities(1)-(314)(171)(485)Total liabilities$-$(317)$(1,476)$(1,793)Benefit Plans’ Assets$158$1,262$-$1,420(1)Derivative investment assets and liabilities are presented within the fair value hierarchy on a gross basis by derivative type and not on a master netting basis by counterparty.


The following summarizes changes to our financial instruments carried at fair value (in millions) and classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  This summary excludes any effect of amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL.  The gains and losses below may include changes in fair value due in part to observable inputs that are a component of the valuation methodology.For the Year Ended December 31, 2019GainsIssuances,TransfersItems(Losses)Sales,Into orIncludedinMaturities,OutBeginninginOCISettlements,ofEndingFairNetandCalls,Level 3,FairValueIncomeOther(1)NetNet(3)ValueInvestments:(5)Fixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$3,269$3$180$878$(49)$4,281U.S. government bonds----55Foreign government bonds109-6(25)-90RMBS7--21(17)11CMBS21-5(7)1ABS134-1619(486)268Hybrid and redeemablepreferred securities75-3--78Trading securities6717-850(268)666Equity securities25(12)-17-30Derivative investments53410163161-868Other assets:(6)GLB direct embedded derivatives123327---450GLB ceded embedded derivatives72(12)---60Indexed annuity ceded embedded derivatives902158-(133)-927Future contract benefits – indexed annuityand IUL contracts embedded derivatives(6)(1,305)(900)-(380)-(2,585)Other liabilities – GLB ceded embeddedderivatives(6)-(9)---(9)Total, net$4,014$(417)$353$2,013$(822)$5,141‎


For the Year Ended December 31, 2018GainsIssuances,TransfersItems(Losses)Sales,Into orIncludedinMaturities,OutBeginninginOCISettlements,ofEndingFairNetandCalls,Level 3,FairValueIncomeOther(1)Net(2)Net(3)(4)ValueInvestments:(5)Fixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$3,091$10$(199)$429$(62)$3,269U.S. government bonds5--(5)--Foreign government bonds110-(1)--109RMBS12--7(12)7CMBS6--35(39)2ABS118-(1)223(206)134Hybrid and redeemablepreferred securities76-(1)--75Equity AFS securities162---(162)-Trading securities49(5)-30(7)67Equity securities-(1)--2625Derivative investments30170(69)403-534Other assets:(6)GLB direct embedded derivatives903(780)---123GLB ceded embedded derivatives5121---72Indexed annuity ceded embedded derivatives11(117)-1,008-902Future contract benefits – indexed annuityand IUL contracts embedded derivatives(6)(1,418)198-(85)-(1,305)Other liabilities – GLB ceded embeddedderivatives(6)(67)67----Total, net$3,139$(437)$(271)$2,045$(462)$4,014‎






For the Year Ended December 31, 2017GainsIssuances,TransfersItems(Losses)Sales,Into orIncludedinMaturities,OutBeginninginOCISettlements,ofEndingFairNetandCalls,Level 3,FairValueIncomeOther(1)NetNet(3)ValueInvestments:(5)Fixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$2,405$19$198$99$370$3,091U.S. government bonds----55Foreign government bonds111-(1)--110RMBS3--20(11)12CMBS7-154(56)6ABS101-(1)124(106)118State and municipal bonds-(1)--1-Hybrid and redeemablepreferred securities76-15(1)(14)76Equity AFS securities1771(2)(13)(1)162Trading securities6538(26)(1)49Derivative investments(93)(27)12921-30Other assets:(6)GLB direct embedded derivatives-903---903GLB ceded embedded derivatives203(152)---51Indexed annuity ceded embedded derivatives---11-11Future contract benefits – indexed annuityand IUL contracts embedded derivatives(6)(1,139)(400)-121-(1,418)Other liabilities:(6)GLB direct embedded derivatives(371)371----GLB ceded embedded derivatives-(67)---(67)Total, net$1,545$650$347$410$187$3,139



(1)The changes in fair value of the interest rate swaps are offset by an adjustment to derivative investments (see Note 6).

(2)Issuances, sales, maturities, settlements, calls, net, includes financial instruments acquired in the Liberty Life transaction as follows:  corporate bonds of $67million andABS of$17million.

(3)Transfers into or out of Level 3 for fixed maturity AFS and trading securities are reported at amortized cost as of the beginning-of-year.  For fixed maturity AFS and trading securities, the difference between beginning-of-year amortized cost and beginning-of-year fair value was included in OCI and earnings, respectively, in the prior years.

(4)Transfers into or out of Level 3 for FHLB stock between equity securities and other investments are reported at cost on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

(5)Amortization and accretion of premiums and discounts are included in net investment income on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).  Gains (losses) from sales, maturities, settlements and calls and OTTI are included in realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).

(6)Gains (losses) from sales, maturities, settlements and calls are included in realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).




The following provides the components of the items included in issuances, sales, maturities, settlements and calls, net, excluding any effect of amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL and changes in future contract benefits, (in millions) as reported above:For the Year Ended December 31, 2019IssuancesSalesMaturitiesSettlementsCallsTotalInvestments:Fixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$1,170$(28)$(78)$(156)$(30)$878Foreign government bonds--(25)--(25)RMBS21----21CMBS7--(2)-5ABS646(8)-(19)-619Trading securities872--(22)-850Equity securities50(33)---17Derivative investments555(63)(331)--161Other assets – indexed annuity cededembedded derivatives56--(189)-(133)Future contract benefits – indexed annuityand IUL contracts embedded derivatives(591)--211-(380)Total, net$2,786$(132)$(434)$(177)$(30)$2,013For the Year Ended December 31, 2018IssuancesSalesMaturitiesSettlementsCallsTotalInvestments:Fixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$947$(161)$(3)$(277)$(77)$429U.S. government bonds-(5)---(5)RMBS7----7CMBS39--(4)-35ABS240(17)---223Trading securities54(24)---30Equity securities1(1)----Derivative investments365464(426)--403Other assets – indexed annuity cededembedded derivatives1,030--(22)-1,008Future contract benefits – indexed annuityand IUL contracts embedded derivatives(284)--199-(85)Total, net$2,399$256$(429)$(104)$(77)$2,045‎


For the Year Ended December 31, 2017IssuancesSalesMaturitiesSettlementsCallsTotalInvestments:Fixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$747$(200)$(98)$(206)$(144)$99RMBS20----20CMBS55--(1)-54ABS124----124Hybrid and redeemable preferredsecurities---(1)-(1)Equity AFS securities18(31)---(13)Trading securities2(27)-(1)-(26)Derivative investments197234(410)--21Other assets – indexed annuity cededembedded derivatives11----11Future contract benefits – indexed annuityand IUL contracts embedded derivatives(71)--192-121Total, net$1,103$(24)$(508)$(17)$(144)$410

The following summarizes changes in unrealized gains (losses) included in net income, excluding any effect of amortization of DAC, VOBA, DSI and DFEL and changes in future contract benefits, related to financial instruments carried at fair value classified within Level 3 that we still held (in millions):



For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017GLB$1,015$(75)$1,904Derivative investments16890(266)Embedded derivatives:Indexed annuity and IUL contracts(97)(38)(14)Total, net(1)$1,086$(23)$1,628(1)Included in realized gain (loss) on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).



The following provides the components of the transfers into and out of Level 3 (in millions) as reported above:

For the Year Ended December 31, 2019TransfersTransfersIntoOut ofLevel 3Level 3TotalInvestments:Fixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$173$(222)$(49)U.S. government bonds5-5RMBS-(17)(17)CMBS-(7)(7)ABS9(495)(486)Trading securities5(273)(268)Total, net$192$(1,014)$(822)‎


For the Year Ended December 31, 2018TransfersTransfersIntoOut ofLevel 3Level 3TotalInvestments:Fixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$78$(140)$(62)RMBS-(12)(12)CMBS1(40)(39)ABS-(206)(206)Equity AFS securities-(162)(162)Trading securities-(7)(7)Equity securities26-26Total, net$105$(567)$(462)For the Year Ended December 31, 2017TransfersTransfersIntoOut ofLevel 3Level 3TotalInvestments:Fixed maturity AFS securities:Corporate bonds$458$(88)$370U.S. government bonds5-5RMBS-(11)(11)CMBS3(59)(56)ABS46(152)(106)State and municipal bonds2(1)1Hybrid and redeemable preferred securities-(14)(14)Equity AFS securities-(1)(1)Trading securities4(5)(1)Total, net$518$(331)$187Transfers into and out of Level 3 are generally the result of observable market information on a security no longer being available or becoming available to our pricing vendors.  For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 transfers in and out of Level 3 were attributable primarily to the securities’ observable market information no longer being available or becoming available.  In 2018, transfers into or out of Level 3 also included FHLB stock between equity securities and other investments at cost on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.‎


The following summarizes the fair value (in millions), valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs of the Level 3 fair value measurements as of December 31, 2019:



FairValuationSignificantAssumption orValueTechniqueUnobservable InputsInput RangesAssetsInvestments:Fixed maturity AFS and tradingsecurities:Corporate bonds$3,006Discounted cash flowLiquidity/duration adjustment(1)0.1%-6.4%Foreign government bonds52Discounted cash flowLiquidity/duration adjustment(1)2.1%-2.5%ABS23Discounted cash flowLiquidity/duration adjustment(1)3.0%-3.0%Hybrid and redeemablepreferred securities4Discounted cash flowLiquidity/duration adjustment(1)1.4%-1.4%Equity securities21Discounted cash flowLiquidity/duration adjustment(1)4.5%-5.2%Other assets:GLB direct and cededembedded derivatives510Discounted cash flowLong-term lapse rate(2)1%-30%Utilization of guaranteed withdrawals(3)85%-100%Claims utilization factor(4)60%-100%Premiums utilization factor(4)80%-115%NPR(5)0.01%-0.27%Mortality rate(6)(8)Volatility(7)1%-28%Indexed annuity cededembedded derivatives927Discounted cash flowLapse rate(2)1%-9%Mortality rate(6)(8)LiabilitiesFuture contract benefits – indexedannuity and IUL contractsembedded derivatives$(2,585)Discounted cash flowLapse rate(2)1%-9%Mortality rate(6)(8)Other liabilities – GLB directembedded derivatives(9)Discounted cash flowLong-term lapse rate(2)1%-30%Utilization of guaranteed withdrawals(3)85%-100%Claims utilization factor(4)60%-100%Premiums utilization factor(4)80%-115%NPR(5)0.01%-0.27%Mortality rate(6)(8)Volatility(7)1%-28%

(1)The liquidity/duration adjustment input represents an estimated market participant composite of adjustments attributable to liquidity premiums, expected durations, structures and credit quality that would be applied to the market observable information of an investment.

(2)The lapse rate input represents the estimated probability of a contract surrendering during a year, and thereby forgoing any future benefits.  The range for indexed annuity and IUL contracts represents the lapse rates during the surrender charge period.

(3)The utilization of guaranteed withdrawals input represents the estimated percentage of contract holders that utilize the guaranteed withdrawal feature.

(4)The utilization factors are applied to the present value of claims or premiums, as appropriate, in the GLB reserve calculation to estimate the impact of inefficient withdrawal behavior, including taking less than or more than the maximum guaranteed withdrawal.

(5)The NPR input represents the estimated additional credit spread that market participants would apply to the market observable discount rate when pricing a contract.

(6)The mortality rate input represents the estimated probability of when an individual belonging to a particular group, categorized according to age or some other factor such as gender, will die.

(7)The volatility input represents overall volatilities assumed for the underlying variable annuity funds, which include a mixture of equity and fixed-income assets.  Fair value of the variable annuity GLB embedded derivatives would increase if higher volatilities were used for valuation.

(8)The mortality rate is based on a combination of company and industry experience, adjusted for improvement factors.






From the table above, we have excluded Level 3 fair value measurements obtained from independent, third-party pricing sources.  We do not develop the significant inputs used to measure the fair value of these assets and liabilities, and the information regarding the significant inputs is not readily available to us.  Independent broker-quoted fair values are non-binding quotes developed by market makers or broker-dealers obtained from third-party sources recognized as market participants.  The fair value of a broker-quoted asset or liability is based solely on the receipt of an updated quote from a single market maker or a broker-dealer recognized as a market participant as we do not adjust broker quotes when used as the fair value measurement for an asset or liability.  Significant increases or decreases in any of the quotes received from a third-party broker-dealer may result in a significantly higher or lower fair value measurement.



Changes in any of the significant inputs presented in the table above may result in a significant change in the fair value measurement of the asset or liability as follows:



Investments– An increase in the liquidity/duration adjustment input would result in a decrease in the fair value measurement.

Indexed annuity and IUL contracts embedded derivatives– For direct embedded derivatives, an increase in the lapse rate or mortality rate inputs would result in a decrease in the fair value measurement.

GLB embedded derivatives– Assuming our GLB direct embedded derivatives are in a liability position:  an increase in our lapse rate, NPR or mortality rate inputs would result in a decrease in the fair value measurement; and an increase in the utilization of guaranteed withdrawal or volatility inputs would result in an increase in the fair value measurement.



For each category discussed above, the unobservable inputs are not inter-related; therefore, a directional change in one input will not affect the other inputs.



As part of our ongoing valuation process, we assess the reasonableness of our valuation techniques or models and make adjustments as necessary.  For more information, see“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” above.



21.  Segment Information



We provide products and services and report results through our Annuities, Retirement Plan Services, Life Insurance and Group Protection segments.  As discussed in Note 3, we completed the acquisition of Liberty Life during the second quarter of 2018.  Related results are included within the Group Protection segment.  We also have Other Operations, which includes the financial data for operations that are not directly related to the business segments.  Our reporting segments reflect the manner by which our chief operating decision makers view and manage the business.  The following is a brief description of these segments and Other Operations.



The Annuities segment provides tax-deferred investment growth and lifetime income opportunities for its clients by offering fixed (including indexed) and variable annuities.



The Retirement Plan Services segment provides employer-sponsored defined benefit and individual retirement accounts, as well as individual and group variable annuities, group fixed annuities and mutual-fund based programs in the retirement plan marketplace.



The Life Insurance segment focuses in the creation and protection of wealth through life insurance products, including term insurance, a linked-benefit product (which is a UL policy linked with riders that provide for long-term care costs), IUL and both single and survivorship versions of UL and VUL, including corporate-owned UL and VUL insurance and bank-owned UL and VUL insurance products.



The Group Protection segment offers group non-medical insurance products, including short and long-disability, absence management services, term life, dental, vision and accident and critical illness benefits and services to the employer marketplace through various forms of employee-paid and employer-paid plans.



Other Operations includes investments related to the excess capital in our insurance subsidiaries; benefit plan net liability; the unamortized deferred gain on indemnity reinsurance related to the sale of reinsurance;the results of certain disability income business; our run-off institutionalpension business, the majority of which was sold on a group annuity basis; debt costs; strategic digitization expense; and other corporate investments.



Segment operating revenues and income (loss) from operations are internal measures used by our management and Board of Directors to evaluate and assess the results of our segments.  Income (loss) from operations is GAAP net income excluding the after-tax effects of the following items, as applicable:



Realized gains and losses associated with the following (“excluded realized gain (loss)”):

Sales or disposals and impairments of securities;

Changes in the fair value of derivatives, embedded derivatives within certain reinsurance arrangements and trading securities (“gain (loss) on the mark-to-market on certain instruments”);

Changes in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge our GDB riders within our variable annuities;

Changes in the fair value of the embedded derivatives of our GLB riders reflected within variable annuity net derivative results accounted for at fair value;




Changes in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge our GLB riders reflected within variable annuity net derivative results;

Changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities related to index options we may purchase or sell in the future to hedge contract holder index allocations applicable to future reset periods for our indexed annuity products accounted for at fair value (“indexed annuity forward-starting option”); and

Changes in the fair value of equity securities;

Changes in reserves resulting from benefit ratio unlocking on our GDB and GLB riders (“benefit ratio unlocking”);

Income (loss) from reserve changes, net of related amortization, on business sold through reinsurance;

Gains (losses) on early extinguishment of debt;

Losses from the impairment of intangible assets;

Income (loss) from discontinued operations;

Acquisition and integration costs related to mergers and acquisitions; and

Income (loss) from the initial adoption of new accounting standards, regulations, and policy changes including the net impact from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.



Operating revenues represent GAAP revenues excluding the pre-tax effects of the following items, as applicable:



Excluded realized gain (loss);

Revenue adjustments from the initial adoption of new accounting standards;

Amortization of DFEL arising from changes in GDB and GLB benefit ratio unlocking; and

Amortization of deferred gains arising from reserve changes on business sold through reinsurance.



We use our prevailing corporate federal income tax rates of21% and35%, where applicable, while taking into account any permanent differences for events recognized differently in our financial statements and federal income tax returns when reconciling our segment measures of performance to the GAAP measures presented in our consolidated results of operations.  Operating revenues and income (loss) from operations do not replace revenues and net income as the GAAP measures of our consolidated results of operations.



The tables below reconcile our segment measures of performance to the GAAP measures presented in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) (in millions):



For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017RevenuesOperating revenues:Annuities$4,600$4,383$4,378Retirement Plan Services1,2001,1781,165Life Insurance7,4386,9226,558Group Protection4,5883,7572,201Other Operations220235287Excluded realized gain (loss), pre-tax(794)(46)(336)Amortization of deferred gain arising from reserve changeson business sold through reinsurance, pre-tax--1Amortization of DFEL associated with benefit ratio unlocking, pre-tax6(5)3Total revenues$17,258$16,424$14,257








For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Net Income (Loss)Income (loss) from operations:Annuities$954$1,102$1,074Retirement Plan Services172171149Life Insurance259645536Group Protection238187103Other Operations(268)(225)(108)Excluded realized gain (loss), after-tax(627)(37)(218)Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt, after-tax(33)(18)(3)Benefit ratio unlocking, after-tax277(136)129Net impact from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act17191,322Impairment of intangibles, after-tax--(905)Acquisition and integration costs related to mergers and acquisitions, after-tax(103)(67)-Net income (loss)$886$1,641$2,079



Other segment information (in millions) was as follows:



For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Net Investment IncomeAnnuities$1,140$1,005$1,038Retirement Plan Services924899899Life Insurance2,6582,6972,643Group Protection307260168Other Operations194224242Total net investment income$5,223$5,085$4,990



For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Amortization of DAC and VOBA, Net of InterestAnnuities$408$410$401Retirement Plan Services262827Life Insurance779711469Group Protection1119279Total amortization of DAC and VOBA, net of interest$1,324$1,241$976







For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Federal Income Tax Expense (Benefit)Annuities$139$183$199Retirement Plan Services232955Life Insurance47147244Group Protection635055Other Operations(92)(77)(130)Excluded realized gain (loss)(167)(9)(118)Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt(9)(5)(2)Benefit ratio unlocking74(36)70Net impact from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act(17)(19)(1,322)Acquisition and integration costs related tomergers and acquisitions(28)(19)-Total federal income tax expense (benefit)$33$244$(949)








As of December 31,20192018AssetsAnnuities$167,443$145,458Retirement Plan Services40,18435,736Life Insurance92,56181,533Group Protection9,4678,495Other Operations25,10626,925Total assets$334,761$298,14722.  Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow DataThe following summarizes our supplemental cash flow data (in millions):For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Interest paid$281$281$248Income taxes paid (received)26090170Significant non-cash investing and financing transactions:Reduction of other investments in connection withthe expiration of a repurchase agreement(150)--Investments received in financing transactions-263-23.  Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)The unaudited quarterly results of operations (in millions, except per share data) were as follows:For the Three Months EndedMarch 31,June 30,September 30,December 31,2019Total revenues$3,965$4,310$4,638$4,344Total expenses3,6973,8894,8883,863Net income (loss)252363(161)431Earnings (loss) per common share – basic:Net income (loss)1.231.80(0.81)2.18Earnings (loss) per common share – diluted:Net income (loss)1.221.79(0.83)2.152018Total revenues$3,609$4,020$4,264$4,531Total expenses3,1743,5693,7324,064Net income (loss)367385490399Earnings (loss) per common share – basic:Net income (loss)1.681.762.271.89Earnings (loss) per common share – diluted:Net income (loss)1.641.702.241.80‎




Item 9.Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure



None.



Item 9A.Controls and Procedures



(a)Conclusions Regarding Disclosure Controls and Procedures



We maintain disclosure controls and procedures, which are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  As of the end of the period required by this report, we, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act).  Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to material information relating to us and our consolidated subsidiaries required to be disclosed in our periodic reports under the Exchange Act.



(b)Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting



Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is included on page102of “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and is incorporated herein by reference.



A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met.  Further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected.  Projections of any evaluation of controls’ effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks.  Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.



(c)Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting



There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as that term is defined in rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2019, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.



Item 9B.Other Information



On and effective February 20, 2020, the Company’s Board of Directors (the "Board"), upon the recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board, approved an amendment to the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (the "Bylaws"), to modify the language in Article II, Section 1 of the Bylaws to decrease the number of authorized board members from eleven to ten.  The foregoing is a summary of the amendment to the Bylaws and is qualified by the Amended and Restated Bylaws effective February 20, 2020, a copy of which is included as Exhibit 3.2 to this Form 10-K and is incorporated into this Item 9B by reference.





PART III



Item 10.Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance



Information for this item relating to officers of LNC is incorporated by reference to “Part I – Information About our Executive Officers.”  Information for this item relating to directors of LNC is incorporated by reference to the sections captioned “GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY – Our Corporate Governance Guidelines,” “GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY – Director Nomination Process,” “GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY – Board Committees – Current Committee Membership and Meetings Held During 2019,” “GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY – Board Committees – Audit Committee,” “AGENDA ITEM 1 – Election of Directors” and “GENERAL INFORMATION – Shareholder Proposals” of LNC’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting scheduled for June 11, 2020.



We have adopted a code of ethics, which we refer to as our “Code of Conduct,” that applies, among others, to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller and other persons performing similar functions.  The Code of Conduct is posted on our website, www.lfg.com.  LNC will provide to any person without charge, upon request, a copy of such code.  Requests for the Code of Conduct should be directed to:  Corporate Secretary, Lincoln National Corporation, 150 N. Radnor Chester Road, Suite A305, Radnor, PA 19087.  We intend to disclose any amendment to or waiver from the provisions of our Code of Conduct that applies to our directors and executive officers on our website, www.lfg.com.



‎




Item 11.ExecutiveCompensation



Information for this item is incorporated by reference to the sections captioned “COMPENSATION OF OUTSIDE DIRECTORS,” “COMPENSATION DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS,” “EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION TABLES” and “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION” of LNC’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting scheduled for June 11, 2020.



Item 12.SecurityOwnership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters



Information for this item is incorporated by reference to the sections captioned “SECURITY OWNERSHIP” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” of LNC’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting scheduled for June 11, 2020.



Item 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence



Information for this item is incorporated by reference to the sections captioned “RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS” and “GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY – Director Independence” of LNC’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting scheduled for June 11, 2020.



Item 14.Principal Accounting Fees and Services



Information for this item is incorporated by reference to the sections captioned “AGENDA ITEM 2 – RATIFICATION OF APPOINTMENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM” of LNC’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting scheduled for June 11, 2020.





PART IV



Item 15.Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules



(a)  (1)Financial Statements



The following Consolidated Financial Statements of Lincoln National Corporation are included in Part II – Item 8:



Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting



Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm



Consolidated Balance Sheets – December 31, 2019 and 2018



Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) – Years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017



Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity – Years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows – Years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



(a)  (2)Financial Statement Schedules



The Financial Statement Schedules are listed in the Index to Financial Statement Schedules on page FS-1, which is incorporated herein by reference.



(a)  (3)Listing of Exhibits



The Exhibits are listed in the Index to Exhibits beginning on page189, which is incorporated herein by reference.



(c)The Financial Statement Schedules for Lincoln National Corporation begin on page FS-2, which are incorporated herein by reference.








INDEX TO EXHIBITS











2.1Master Transaction Agreement, dated as of January 18, 2018, by and among The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, for the limited purposes set forth therein, LNC, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, Liberty Mutual Fire Insurance Company, for the limited purposes set forth therein, Liberty Mutual Group Inc., Protective Life Insurance Company and for the limited purposes set forth therein, Protective Life Corporation, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on January 22, 2018.



3.1Restated Articles of Incorporation of LNC are incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on August 14, 2017.



3.2Amended and Restated Bylaws of LNC (effective February 20, 2020) are filed herewith.



4.1Indenture of LNC, dated as of September 15, 1994, between LNC and The Bank of New York, as trustee, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to LNC’s Registration Statement on Form S-3/A (File No. 33-55379) filed with the SEC on September 15, 1994.



4.2First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2006, to Indenture dated as of September 15, 1994, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2006.



4.3Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of May 1, 1996, between LNC and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company and The First National Bank of Chicago) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(j) to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2001.



4.4Third Supplemental Junior Subordinated Indenture dated May 17, 2006, to Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of May 1, 1996, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on May 17, 2006.



4.5Fourth Supplemental Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2006, to Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated May 1, 1996, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2006.



4.6Fifth Supplemental Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of March 13, 2007, to Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated May 1, 1996, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on March 13, 2007.



4.7Senior Indenture, dated as of March 10, 2009, between LNC and the Bank of New York Mellon, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to LNC’s Form S-3ASR (File No. 333-157822) filed with the SEC on March 10, 2009.



4.8Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of March 10, 2009, between LNC and the Bank of New York Mellon, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to LNC’s Form S-3ASR (File No. 333-157822) filed with the SEC on March 10, 2009.



4.9Form of 7.00% Capital Securities due 2066 of LNC is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on May 17, 2006.



4.10Form of 6.15% Senior Notes due April 6, 2036 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on April 7, 2006.



4.11Form of 6.05% Capital Securities due 2067 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on March 13, 2007.



4.12Form of 6.30% Senior Notes due 2037 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on October 9, 2007.



4.13Form of 6.25% Senior Notes due 2020 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on December 11, 2009.





4.14Form of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2040 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on June 18, 2010.4.15Form of 4.85% Senior Notes due 2021 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on June 24, 2011.


4.16Form of 4.20% Senior Notes due 2022 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on March 29, 2012.



4.17Form of 4.00% Senior Notes due 2023 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on August 16, 2013.



4.18Form of 3.350% Senior Notes due 2025is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on March 10, 2015.



4.19Form of 3.625% Senior Notes due 2026 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on December 12, 2016.



4.20Form of 4.00% Senior Notes due 2023 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File no. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on February 12, 2018.



4.21Form of 3.800% Senior Notes due 2028 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on February 12, 2018.



4.22Form of 4.350% Senior Notes due 2048 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on February 12, 2018.



4.23Form of 3.050% Senior Notes due 2030 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on August 19, 2019.



4.24Description of Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act is filed herewith.



10.1LNC 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan (effective May 22, 2014) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on May 28, 2014.*



10.2LNC 2009 Amended and Restated Incentive Compensation Plan (as amended and restated on May 14, 2009) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to LNC’s Proxy Statement (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on April 9, 2009.*



10.3LNC Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 5 to LNC’s Proxy Statement (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on April 4, 2007.*



10.4Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for the LNC Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on May 10, 2007.*



10.52019Non-Employee Director Fees are incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2018.*



10.6Amended and Restated LNC Supplemental Retirement Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2007.*



10.7The Severance Plan for Officers of LNC (Amended and Restated effective as of February 27, 2019) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to LNC’s Form 10-Q (File No. 1-6028) for the quarter ended March 31, 2019.*



10.8Amendment No 1. to the Severance Plan for Officers of LNC, effective January 1, 2020, is filed herewith.*



10.9The LNC Outside Directors’ Value Sharing Plan, last amended March 8, 2001, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2001.*



10.10LNC Deferred Compensation and Supplemental/Excess Retirement Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2020, is filed herewith.*



10.11LNC 1993 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as last amended May 10, 2001, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g), to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2001.*





10.12Amendment No. 2 to the LNC 1993 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors (effective February 1, 2006) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on January 13, 2006.*10.13LNC Executives’ Severance Benefit Plan (effective August 7, 2008) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to LNC’s Form 10-Q (File No. 1-6028) for the quarter ended June 30, 2008.*10.14Amendment No. 1 to the LNC Executives’ Severance Benefit Plan (effective November 9, 2011) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2011.*


10.15Amended and Restated LNC Excess Retirement Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2007.*



10.16LNC Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended and restated November 5, 2008, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



10.17Form of Indemnification between LNC and each director is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to LNC’s Form 10-Q (File No. 1-6028) for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.*



10.18Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement is incorporated by Reference to Exhibit 10.35 to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2012.*



10.19Amendment #1 to the Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreements, effective August 13, 2014, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2014.*



10.20Amendment #2 to the Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreements, effective August 13, 2014, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2014.*



10.21Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for 2015 under the LNC 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated by Reference to Exhibit 10.1 to LNC’s Form 10-Q (File No. 1-6028) for the quarter ended March 31, 2015.*



10.22Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement under the LNC 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated by Reference to Exhibit 10.2 to LNC’s Form 10-Q (File No. 1-6028) for the quarter ended March 31, 2015.*



10.23Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for Senior Management Committee (Other than CEO) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to LNC’s Form 10-Q (File No. 1-6028) for the quarter ended March 31, 2016.*



10.24Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement for Senior Management Committee (Other than CEO) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to LNC’s Form 10-Q (File No. 1-6028) for the quarter ended March 31, 2017.*



10.25Form of Performance Cycle Agreement for Senior Management Committee (Other than CEO) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to LNC’s Form 10-Q (File No. 1-6028) for the quarter ended March 31, 2016.*



10.26LNC Domestic Relocation Policy Home Sale Assistance Plan, effective as of September 6, 2007, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2009.*



10.27Transition and Separation Letter, dated December 2, 2018, between LNC and Kirkland L. Hicks is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2018.*



10.28Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement by and among LNC, The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, Lincoln National Reinsurance Company (Barbados) Limited and Swiss Re Life & Health America Inc. dated July 27, 2001 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on August 1, 2001. Omitted schedules and exhibits listed in the Agreement will be furnished to the SEC upon request.

10.29Indemnity Reinsurance Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1998, between Connecticut General Life Insurance Company and Lincoln Life & Annuity Company of New York is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.67 to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2008.**



10.30Coinsurance Agreement, dated as of October 1, 1998, AETNA Life Insurance and Annuity Company and Lincoln Life & Annuity Company of New York is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.68 to LNC’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-6028) for the year ended December 31, 2008.**



10.31Credit Agreement, dated as of July 31, 2019, among LNC, as an Account Party and Guarantor, the Subsidiary Account Parties, as additional Account Parties, Bank of America, N.A. as administrative agent, and the other lenders named therein, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to LNC’s Form 8-K (File No. 1-6028) filed with the SEC on July 31, 2019.

21Subsidiaries List.



23Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.







32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.32.2Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


101.INSXBRL Instance Document – the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.101.SCHXBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.101.CALXBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.101.LABXBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.101.PREXBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.101.DEFXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.104Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101).*  This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.** Schedules to the agreement have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. LNC will furnish supplementally a copy of the schedule to the SEC, upon request.


SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, LNC has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATIONDated:  February 20, 2020By:/s/ Randal J. FreitagRandal J. FreitagExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 20, 2020.SignatureTitle/s/ Dennis R. GlassPresident, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorDennis R. Glass(Principal Executive Officer)/s/ Randal J. FreitagExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerRandal J. Freitag(Principal Financial Officer)/s/ Christine A. JanofskySenior Vice President and Chief Accounting OfficerChristine A. Janofsky(Principal Accounting Officer)/s/ Deirdre P. ConnellyDirectorDeirdre P. Connelly/s/ William H. CunninghamDirectorWilliam H. Cunningham/s/ George W. Henderson, IIIDirectorGeorge W. Henderson, III/s/ Eric G. JohnsonDirectorEric G. Johnson/s/ Gary C. KellyDirectorGary C. Kelly/s/ M. Leanne LachmanDirectorM. Leanne Lachman/s/ Michael F. MeeDirectorMichael F. Mee/s/ Patrick S. PittardDirectorPatrick S. Pittard/s/ Lynn M. UtterDirectorLynn M. Utter


Index to Financial Statement SchedulesI– Summary of Investments – Other than Investments in Related PartiesFS-2II– Condensed Financial Information of RegistrantFS-3III– Supplementary Insurance InformationFS-6IV– ReinsuranceFS-8All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related instructions, are inapplicable, or the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements, and therefore omitted.  See “Part II – Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” on page41for more detail on items contained within these schedules.‎

FS-1

LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATIONSCHEDULE I – CONSOLIDATED SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS – OTHER THANINVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES(in millions)Column AColumn BColumn CColumn DAs of December 31, 2019FairCarryingType of InvestmentCostValueValueFixed Maturity Available-For-Sale Securities(1)Bonds:U.S. government bonds$384$435$435Foreign government bonds329393393State and municipal bonds4,7785,8845,884Public utilities13,53315,37415,374All other corporate bonds65,88473,34273,342Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities8,8909,2139,213Hybrid and redeemable preferred securities497559559Total fixed maturity available-for-sale securities94,295105,200105,200Equity SecuritiesCommon stocks:Public utilities544Banks, trusts and insurance companies353535Industrial, miscellaneous and all other352626Non-redeemable preferred securities483838Total equity securities123103103Trading securities4,3304,6734,673Mortgage loans on real estate16,33916,87216,339Real estate11N/A11Policy loans2,477N/A2,477Derivative investments(2)7551,9111,911Other investments2,9832,9832,983Total investments$121,313$133,697(1)Investments deemed to have declines in value that are other-than-temporary are written down or reserved for to reduce the carrying value to their estimated realizable value.(2)Derivative investment assets were offset by $349million in derivative liabilities reflected in other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.‎

FS-2

LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATIONSCHEDULE II – CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANTBALANCE SHEETS(Parent Company Only) (in millions, except share data)As of December 31,20192018ASSETSInvestments in subsidiaries(1)$24,029$18,251Derivative investments-92Other investments38290Cash and invested cash577420Loans and accrued interest to subsidiaries(1)2,4462,376Other assets2859Total assets$27,462$21,288LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITYLiabilitiesCommon dividends payable$79$76Derivative investments liability110-Short-term debt300-Long-term debt6,0675,839Loans from subsidiaries(1)844553Payables for collateral on investments621Other liabilities367449Total liabilities7,7736,938Contingencies and CommitmentsStockholders’ EquityPreferred stock –10,000,000shares authorized--Common stock –800,000,000shares authorized5,1625,392Retained earnings8,8548,551Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)5,673407Total stockholders’ equity19,68914,350Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity$27,462$21,288(1)Eliminated in consolidation.‎

FS-3

LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATIONSCHEDULE II – CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued)STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)(Parent Company Only) (in millions)For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017RevenuesDividends from subsidiaries(1)$830$1,025$1,069Interest from subsidiaries(1)158148133Net investment income1172Realized gain (loss)23(3)Total revenues1,0011,1831,201ExpensesOperating and administrative expenses511840Interest – subsidiaries(1)483421Interest – other311288247Total expenses410340308Income (loss) before federal income taxes, equity in income (loss) ofsubsidiaries, less dividends591843893Federal income tax expense (benefit)(52)(42)(20)Income (loss) before equity in income (loss) of subsidiaries, less dividends643885913Equity in income (loss) of subsidiaries, less dividends2437561,166Net income (loss)8861,6412,079Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:Unrealized investment gains (losses)5,288(3,449)1,643Foreign currency translation adjustment6(9)13Funded status of employee benefit plans(28)(7)8Total other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax5,266(3,465)1,664Comprehensive income (loss)$6,152$(1,824)$3,743(1)Eliminated in consolidation.‎

FS-4



LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

SCHEDULE II – CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued)

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Parent Company Only) (in millions)



For the Years Ended December 31,201920182017Cash Flows from Operating ActivitiesNet income (loss)$886$1,641$2,079Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by (used in)operating activities:Equity in (income) loss of subsidiaries greater than distributions(1)(243)(756)(1,166)Realized (gain) loss(2)(3)3Change in federal income tax accruals2415107Other106(27)20Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities7718701,043Cash Flows from Investing ActivitiesCapital contribution to subsidiaries(1)(50)(502)(60)Net change in collateral on investments, derivatives and related settlements(279)89(42)Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities(329)(413)(102)Cash Flows from Financing ActivitiesPayment of long-term debt, including current maturities(308)(537)-Issuance of long-term debt, net of issuance costs7441,094-Payment related to early extinguishment of debt(42)(23)-Increase (decrease) in loans from subsidiaries, net(1)26452(230)Increase (decrease) in loans to subsidiaries, net(1)(70)(48)239Common stock issued for benefit plans(20)(6)46Repurchase of common stock(550)(900)(725)Dividends paid to common stockholders(303)(289)(262)Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities(285)(657)(932)Net increase (decrease) in cash, invested cash and restricted cash157(200)9Cash, invested cash and restricted cash as of beginning-of-year420620611Cash, invested cash and restricted cash as of end-of-year$577$420$620

(1)Eliminated in consolidation.

‎

FS-5

LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATIONSCHEDULE III – CONDENSED SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION(in millions)Column AColumn BColumn CColumn DColumn EColumn FOtherFutureContractDAC andContractUnearnedHolderInsuranceSegmentVOBABenefitsPremiums(1)FundsPremiumsAs of or For the Year Ended December 31, 2019Annuities$3,790$3,862$-$29,493$502Retirement Plan Services1769-20,553-Life Insurance3,51916,249-39,941885Group Protection2095,601-1944,113Other Operations-10,699-7,83713Total$7,694$36,420$-$98,018$5,513As of or For the Year Ended December 31, 2018Annuities$3,660$3,509$-$23,493$390Retirement Plan Services2438-19,761-Life Insurance6,15113,139-40,997817Group Protection2105,396-1973,383Other Operations-12,596-6,78511Total$10,264$34,648$-$91,233$4,601As of or For the Year Ended December 31, 2017Annuities$3,583$1,943$-$21,713$475Retirement Plan Services1944-18,719-Life Insurance4,44612,658-39,459773Group Protection1802,262-1611,998Other Operations-6,020-15710Total$8,403$22,887$-$80,209$3,256(1)Unearned premiums are included in Column C, future contract benefits.‎

FS-6

LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATIONSCHEDULE III – CONDENSED SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION (Continued)(in millions)Column AColumn GColumn HColumn IColumn JColumn KBenefitsAmortizationNetandof DACOtherInvestmentInterestandOperatingPremiumsSegmentIncomeCreditedVOBAExpensesWrittenAs of or For the Year Ended December 31, 2019Annuities$1,140$1,248$452$1,463$-Retirement Plan Services92458726392-Life Insurance2,6585,616779737-Group Protection3073,0411111,134-Other Operations194168-626-Total$5,223$10,660$1,368$4,352$-As of or For the Year Ended December 31, 2018Annuities$1,005$1,465$373$1,428$-Retirement Plan Services89955728393-Life Insurance2,6974,759711660-Group Protection2602,46092967-Other Operations224162-507-Total$5,085$9,403$1,204$3,955$-As of or For the Year Ended December 31, 2017Annuities$1,038$1,084$430$1,397$-Retirement Plan Services89953827396-Life Insurance2,6434,593468721-Group Protection1681,35379611-Other Operations242182-343-Total$4,990$7,750$1,004$3,468$-‎

FS-7

LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATIONSCHEDULE IV – CONSOLIDATED REINSURANCE(in millions)Column AColumn BColumn CColumn DColumn EColumn FCededAssumedPercentagetofromof AmountGrossOtherOtherNetAssumedDescriptionAmountCompaniesCompaniesAmountto NetAs of or For the Year Ended December 31, 2019Individual life insurance in-force(1)$1,524,977$628,654$7,611$903,9340.8%Premiums:Life insurance and annuities(2)10,7251,545829,2620.9%Accident and health insurance2,7733492,7480.3%Total premiums$13,498$1,579$91$12,010As of or For the Year Ended December 31, 2018Individual life insurance in-force(1)$1,420,500$667,900$8,700$761,3001.1%Premiums:Life insurance and annuities(2)9,7421,509818,3141.0%Accident and health insurance2,2993482,2730.4%Total premiums$12,041$1,543$89$10,587As of or For the Year Ended December 31, 2017Individual life insurance in-force(1)$1,075,600$286,600$9,500$798,5001.2%Premiums:Life insurance and annuities(2)8,9491,465807,5641.1%Accident and health insurance1,32020111,3110.8%Total premiums$10,269$1,485$91$8,875(1)Includes Group Protection segment and Other Operations in-force amounts.(2)Includes insurance fees on universal life and other interest-sensitive products.

FS-8

