10-K


c67980_10-k.htm

Title of each class

Name of each exchange

on which registered

Common
 Stock, $.0005 par value per share

New
 York Stock Exchange

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this
chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large
accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated
 filer

o

Smaller reporting company

o

(Do
 not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes

o

No

þ

As
of June 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock
held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $3,584,707,867 based on the
closing sale price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.

The number of shares
outstanding of the registrant’s common stock was 93,368,900 as of January 31, 2012.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Document

Parts Into Which Incorporated

Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held

June 7, 2012 (Proxy
 Statement)

Part
 III

GARTNER, INC.

2011 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K



P

ART I

I

TEM 1. BUSINESS.

GENERAL

Gartner, Inc. (“Gartner”) (NYSE: IT) is the world’s leading information
technology research and advisory company. We deliver the technology-related
insight necessary for our clients to make the right decisions, every day. From
CIOs and senior IT leaders in corporations and government agencies, to business
leaders in high-tech and telecom enterprises and professional services firms,
to supply chain professionals and technology investors, we are the valuable
partner to clients in over 12,400 distinct organizations. We work with every
client to research, analyze and interpret the business of IT within the context
of their individual role. Founded in 1979, Gartner is headquartered in
Stamford, Connecticut, U.S.A., and as of December 31, 2011, we had 4,975
associates, including 1,295 research analysts and consultants, and clients in
85 countries.

The foundation for all Gartner products and services is our independent
research on IT and supply chain issues. The findings from this research are
delivered through our three business segments — Research, Consulting and
Events:

For more information regarding Gartner and our products and services,
visit

www.gartner.com.

References to “the Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” are to Gartner, Inc.
and its consolidated subsidiaries.

MARKET OVERVIEW

Information technology is critical to supporting increased
productivity, service improvement and revenue in every organization around the
world, from business enterprises of every size, to governments and government
agencies, as well as other organizations. IT and the supply chain are viewed
today as strategic components of growth and operating performance. Given the
strategic and critical nature of technology decision-making and spending,
business enterprises, governments and their agencies, and other organizations
turn to outside experts for guidance in procurement, implementation and
operations advice in order to maximize the value of their IT investments.

As the costs of IT solutions continue to rise, IT executives and
professionals have realized the importance of making well-informed decisions
and increasingly seek to maximize their returns on IT capital investments. As a
result, any IT investment decision in an enterprise is subject to increased
financial scrutiny, especially in the current challenging economic climate. In
addition, today’s IT marketplace is dynamic and complex. Technology providers
continually introduce new products with a wide variety of standards and
features that are prone to shorter life cycles. Users of technology — a group
that encompasses nearly all organizations — must keep abreast of new
developments in technology to ensure that their IT systems are reliable,
efficient and meet both their current and future needs.

OUR SOLUTION

We provide high-quality, independent and objective research and
fact-based analysis on the IT industry. Through our robust product portfolio,
our global research team provides thought leadership and technology insights
that enable CIOs, supply chain professionals, executives and other technology
practitioners the information and advice they need to make the right decisions,
every day.


We employ a diversified business model that utilizes and leverages the
breadth and depth of our intellectual capital. The foundation of our business
model is our ability to create and distribute our proprietary research content
as broadly as possible via published reports and briefings, consulting and
advisory services, and our events, including Gartner Symposium/ITxpo.

With a base of 814 research analysts, we create timely and relevant
technology-related research. In addition, we have 481 experienced consultants
who combine our objective, independent research with a practical, business
perspective focused on the IT industry. Our events are the largest of their
kind, gathering highly qualified audiences of CIOs, other senior business
executives and IT professionals, supply chain leaders, and purchasers and
providers of technology and supply chain products and services.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

Our diversified business model provides multiple entry points and
synergies that facilitate increased client spending on our research, consulting
services and events. A critical part of our long-term strategy is to increase
business volume with our most valuable clients, identifying relationships with
the greatest sales potential and expanding those relationships by offering
strategically relevant research and advice. We also seek to extend the Gartner
brand name to develop new client relationships, augment our sales capacity, and
expand into new markets around the world. In addition, we seek to increase our
revenue and operating cash flow through more effective pricing of our products
and services. These initiatives have created additional revenue streams through
more effective packaging, campaigning and cross-selling of our products and
services.

Our principal products and services are delivered via our Research,
Consulting and Events segments:


COMPETITION

We believe that the principal factors that differentiate us from our
competitors are the following:


Notwithstanding these differentiating factors, we face competition from
a significant number of independent providers of information products and
services. We compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information
providers, including electronic and print media companies. These indirect
competitors could choose to compete directly with us in the future. In addition,
we face competition from free sources of information that are available to our
clients through the Internet. Limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in
which we do business. As a result, new competitors may emerge and existing
competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. However,
we believe the breadth and depth of our research assets position us well versus
our competition. Increased competition may result in loss of market share,
diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased
sales and marketing expenditures.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Our success has resulted in part from proprietary methodologies,
software, reusable knowledge capital and other intellectual property rights. We
rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality,
non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual
property rights. We have policies related to confidentiality, ownership and the
use and protection of Gartner’s intellectual property, and we also enter into
agreements with our employees as appropriate that protect our intellectual
property, and we enforce these agreements if necessary.

We recognize the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace
and vigorously identify, create and protect it. Additionally, we actively
monitor and enforce contract compliance by our end users.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2011, we had 4,975 employees, an increase of 12%
compared to December 31, 2010 as we continue to invest for future growth. We
have 924 employees located at our headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut and a
nearby office in Trumbull; 2,000 employees located elsewhere in the United
States; and 2,051 employees located outside of the United States. Our employees
may be subject to collective bargaining agreements at a company or industry
level in those foreign countries where this is part of the local labor law or
practice. We have experienced no work stoppages and consider our relations with
our employees to be favorable.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our Internet address is

www.gartner.com

and the investor relations section of our website is located at

www.investor.gartner.com

.

We
make available free of charge, on or through the investor relations section of
our website, printable copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to,
the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).

Also available at

www.investor.gartner.com

,
under the “Corporate Governance” link, are printable and current copies of our
(i) CEO & CFO Code of Ethics which applies to our Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, controller and other financial managers, (ii) Code of
Conduct, which applies to all Gartner officers, directors and employees, (iii)
Board Principles and Practices, the corporate governance principles that have
been adopted by our Board and (iv) charters for each of the Board’s standing
committees: Audit, Compensation and Governance/Nominating.

I

TEM 1A. RISK
FACTORS

We operate in a highly competitive and
rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties,
some of which are beyond our control. In addition, we and our clients are
affected by global economic conditions. The following sections discuss many, but
not all, of the risks and uncertainties that may affect our future performance,
but is not intended to be all-inclusive. Any of the risks described below could have a material adverse impact
on our

business,
prospects, results of operations, financial condition,


and cash flows, and could

therefore have a negative effect on the
trading price of our common stock.

Additionally
risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may

also harm us and negatively affect your investment.

Risks related to our business

Our operating results could be negatively
impacted by global economic

conditions.

Our business is impacted by general economic
conditions, both domestic and abroad. The global credit crisis and economic
recession that began in 2008 contributed to significant slowdowns and
uncertainty in global trade and economic activity, which continue through
today. In addition, difficulties related to the refinancing of sovereign debt,
especially in Europe, could negatively and materially affect demand for our
products and services. Such difficulties could include the ability to maintain
client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, achieve
contract value and consulting backlog growth, attract attendees and exhibitors
to our events or obtain new clients. Such developments could negatively impact
our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.

We face significant competition and our
failure to compete successfully could

materially adversely affect our results of operations
and financial condition.

We face direct competition from a
significant number of independent providers of information products and
services, including information available on the Internet free of charge. We
also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information
providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may
have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we
do. These indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in
the future. In addition, limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in
which we do business. As a result, additional new competitors may emerge and
existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services.
Additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a
variety of sources.

There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete
against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in
loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced
pricing and increased marketing expenditures. Furthermore, we may not be
successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and
analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to
offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or
price.

We may not be able to maintain our existing
products and services.

We operate in a rapidly
evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high
quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. Any failure to
continue to provide credible and reliable information that is useful to our
clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating
results. Further, if our predictions prove to be wrong or are not substantiated
by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products
and services may decline. In addition, we must continue to improve our methods
for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner. Failure to
increase and improve our electronic delivery capabilities could adversely
affect our future business and operating results.

We may not be able to enhance and develop our
existing products and services,

or introduce the new products and services that are
needed to remain

competitive.

The
market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs
for information and analysis on the IT industry as a whole. The development of
new products is a complex and time-consuming process. Nonetheless, to maintain
our competitive position, we must continue to enhance and improve our products
and services, develop or acquire new products and services, deliver all
products and services in a timely manner, and appropriately position and price
new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of
producing them. Any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new
products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial position. Additionally, significant delays
in new product or services releases or significant problems in creating new
products or services could adversely affect our business, results of operations
and financial position.

We depend on renewals of subscription-based
services and sales of new

subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue,
and our

failure to renew at
historical rates or generate new sales of such services

could lead to a decrease in our revenues.

A
large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our
subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such
products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. These products
and services constituted 69% and 67% of our revenues for 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Generating new sales of our subscription-based products and
services, both to new and existing clients, is often a time consuming process.
If we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors,
our revenues will be adversely affected.

Our research subscription agreements are generally for twelve months.
Our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors,
including the following:

•

delivering
 high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients;


•

understanding
 and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and

•

delivering
 products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand
 competition.

Additionally, as we continue to adjust our products and service
offerings to meet our clients’ continuing needs, we may shift the type and
pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. While our
research client retention rate was 82% at December 31, 2011 and 83% at December
31, 2010, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate
of client renewals.

We depend on non-recurring consulting
engagements and our failure to secure new

engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues.

Consulting segment revenues constituted 21% of our total revenues
for 2011 and 23% for 2010. These consulting engagements typically are
project-based and non-recurring. Our ability to replace consulting engagements
is subject to numerous factors, including the following:

Any material decline in our ability to replace consulting arrangements
could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition.

The profitability and success of our
conferences, symposia and events could be

adversely affected by external factors beyond our
control.

The market for desirable dates and locations for
conferences, symposia and events is highly competitive. If we cannot secure
desirable dates and locations for our conferences, symposia and events their
profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of
operations may be adversely affected. In addition, because our events are
scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these
events can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor
strikes, transportation shutdowns and travel restrictions, economic slowdowns,
terrorist attacks, weather, natural disasters and other world events impacting
the global economy, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the
success of the event and as the global economy recovers, our ability to procure
space for our events and keep associated costs down could become more
challenging.

Our sales to governments are subject to
appropriations and may be terminated.

We derive
significant revenues from contracts with the U.S. government and its respective
agencies, numerous state and local governments and their respective agencies,
and foreign governments and their agencies. At December 31, 2011 and 2010,
approximately $225.0 million and $210.0 million, respectively, of our Research
contract value and Consulting backlog was attributable to governments. We
believe substantially all of the amount attributable to governments at December
31, 2011 will be filled in 2012. Our U.S. government contracts are subject to
the approval of appropriations by the U.S. Congress to fund the agencies
contracting for our services, and our contracts at the state and local levels
are subject to various government authorizations and funding approvals and
mechanisms. In general, most if not all of these contracts may be terminated at
any time without cause (“termination for convenience”). Additionally, many
state governments, their agencies, and municipalities across the United States
are under severe financial strain and are considering significant budget cuts.
Should appropriations for the governments and agencies that contract with us be
curtailed, or should government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may
experience a significant loss of segment and consolidated revenues.

We may not be able to attract and retain
qualified personnel which could

jeopardize the quality of our products and services.

Our
success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research
analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. We face competition for
the limited pool of these qualified professionals from, among others,
technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial
services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have
a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. Some of the
personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that
could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. Any failure to retain key
personnel or hire and train additional qualified personnel as required to
support the evolving needs of clients or growth in our business, could
adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as future
business and operating results.

We may not be able to maintain the equity in
our brand name.

We believe that our “Gartner” brand,
including our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain
clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as
competition increases. We may expand our marketing activities to promote and
strengthen the Gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire
additional marketing and public relations personnel, expend additional sums to
protect the brand and otherwise increase


expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. If we fail to
effectively promote and maintain the Gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses
in doing so, our future business and operating results could be adversely
impacted.

Our international operations expose us to a
variety of operational risks which

could negatively impact our future revenue and
growth.

We have clients in 85 countries and a substantial amount of
our revenues are earned outside of the U.S.

Our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in
international business activities, including general political and economic
conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and
other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations,
changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and
regulations, differences between U.S. and foreign tax rates and laws, and the
difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and
protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions.
Furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international
locations. If any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we
may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely
basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to
continue to do business with us or our new agent.

Our international operations expose us to
volatility in foreign currency

exchange rates.

Revenues earned outside
the U.S. are typically transacted in local currencies, which may fluctuate
significantly against the dollar. While we may use forward exchange contracts
to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and
results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign
currency fluctuations.

Natural disasters or geo-political events may
disrupt our business.

A major weather event, terrorist
attack, earthquake, flood, volcanic activity, or other catastrophic disaster
could significantly disrupt our operations. Such events could cause delays in
initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to
our clients, disrupt other critical client-facing and business processes, or
dislocate our critical internal functions. Our corporate headquarters is
located approximately 30 miles from New York City, which was the site of a
major terrorist attack in 2001, and we have an operations center located in Ft.
Myers, Florida, a hurricane-prone area. We also operate in numerous
international locations, and we have offices in a number of major cities across
the globe. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose
a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries and regions, which
may negatively impact our sales and increase our operating costs. Additionally,
these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget decisions of
our clients. Such events could significantly harm our ability to conduct normal
business operations and negatively impact our financial condition and/or
operating results.

Internet and critical internal computer system failures, cyber-attacks,
or compromises of our systems or security could damage our reputation and harm
our business.

A significant portion of our business is
conducted over the Internet and we rely heavily on computer systems. A
cyber-attack, widespread Internet failure, or disruption of our critical
information technology systems through viruses or otherwise could cause delays
in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services
to our clients, disrupt other critical client-facing or business processes, or
dislocate our critical internal functions. Such events could significantly harm
our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our
financial condition and/or operating results.

We take steps generally acknowledged as standard for the industry to
secure our management information systems, including our computer systems,
intranet, proprietary websites, email and other telecommunications and data
networks, and we carefully scrutinize the security of outsourced website and
service providers prior to retaining their services. However, the security
measures implemented by us or by our outside service providers may not be
effective and our systems (and those of our outside service providers) may be
vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential
sources and events, including unauthorized access or security breaches,
cyber-attacks, computer viruses, power loss, or other disruptive events. Our
reputation, brand, financial condition and/or operating results could be
adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or other
technology-related catastrophe, our operations are disrupted or shutdown; our
confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; we incur costs or
are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee, or
other confidential information; we are required to dedicate significant
resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we
otherwise incur significant litigation or other costs as a result of these
occurrences.

We may experience outages and disruptions of
our online services if we fail to

maintain an adequate operations infrastructure.

Our
increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more
computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial
amounts to maintain data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology
and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites.
However, any inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality
of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our
reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and
advertisers, harming our operating results and financial condition.


Our outstanding debt obligation could impact
our financial condition or future

operating results.

We have a credit
agreement that provides for a five-year, $200.0 million term loan and a $400.0
million revolving credit facility. The credit arrangement contains an expansion
feature by which the term loan and revolving facility may be increased, at our
option and under certain conditions, by up to an additional $150.0 million in
the aggregate which may or may not be available to us depending upon prevailing
credit market conditions.

The affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the credit
arrangement could limit our future financial flexibility. Additionally, a
failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all
amounts outstanding under the arrangement, which would materially impact our
financial condition unless accommodations could be negotiated with our lenders.
No assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so in this
current financial climate, or that any accommodations that we were able to
negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those presently contained in the
credit arrangement. The associated debt service costs of this credit
arrangement could impair our future operating results. The outstanding debt may
limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could
restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to
competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial
investments of additional capital.

We may require additional cash resources
which may not be available on

favorable terms or at all.

We believe that
our existing cash balances, projected cash flow from operations, and the
borrowing capacity we have under our revolving credit facility will be
sufficient to fund our plans for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future.

However, we may require additional cash resources due to changed
business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase
program, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities
requiring substantial investments of additional capital. If our existing
financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek
additional borrowings. Prevailing credit market conditions may negatively
affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be
available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the
incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service
obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants
that would further restrict our operations.

If we are unable to enforce and protect our
intellectual property rights our

competitive position may be harmed.

We
rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality,
non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual
property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property
rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other
information that we regard as proprietary. Our intellectual property rights may
not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant
protection for us. The laws of certain countries, particularly in emerging
markets, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws
of the United States. Accordingly, we may not be able to protect our
intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which
could adversely affect our competitive position. Our employees are subject to
non-compete agreements. When the non-competition period expires, former
employees may compete against us. If a former employee chooses to compete
against us prior to the expiration of the non-competition period, we seek to
enforce these non-compete provisions but there is no assurance that we will be
successful in our efforts. Additionally, there can be no assurance that another
party will not assert that we have infringed its intellectual property rights.

We have grown, and may continue to grow,
through acquisitions and strategic

investments, which could involve substantial risks.

We
have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments
in, businesses that offer complementary products and services. The risks
involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying
more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests
of our current stockholders or decreased working capital, increased
indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and
unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company,
the inability to integrate the business of the acquired company, the time to
train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business,
the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of
management from our business. The realization of any of these risks could
adversely affect our business. Additionally, we face competition in identifying
acquisition targets and consummating acquisitions.

We face risks related to litigation.

We
are, and may in the future be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as
employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business
torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade
secrets. Given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation
(including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information
we publish. Regardless of the merits, responding to any such claim could be
time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into
settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or
available on reasonable terms. If a successful claim is made against us and we
fail to settle the claim on reasonable terms, our business, results of
operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected.


We face risks related to taxation.

We
operate in numerous domestic and foreign taxing jurisdictions and our level of
operations and profitability in each jurisdiction may have an impact upon the
amount of income taxes that we recognize in any given year. In addition, our
tax filings for various tax years are subject to audit by the tax authorities
in jurisdictions where we conduct business, and in the ordinary course of
business, we may be under audit by one or more tax authorities from time to
time. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes, and
resolution of these matters involves uncertainties and there are no assurances
that the ultimate resolution will not exceed the amounts we have recorded.
Additionally, the results of an audit could have a material effect on our
financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or
periods for which that determination is made.

The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has completed its examination of
the federal income tax return of the Company for the tax year ended December
31, 2007. In December 2010, the Company received a report of the audit
findings. The Company disagrees with certain of the proposed adjustments and is
disputing this matter through applicable IRS and judicial procedures, as
appropriate. In addition, in the second quarter of 2011 the IRS commenced an
audit of the Company’s 2008 and 2009 tax years. The Company continues to comply
with all information requests and no material adjustments of the Company’s tax
positions have been proposed at this time for the 2008 and 2009 tax years.
Although the final resolution of these audits is uncertain and there are no
assurances that the ultimate resolution will not exceed the amounts recorded,
the Company believes that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not
have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, cash
flows, or results of operations.

Our corporate compliance program cannot
guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.

We
operate in a number of countries, and as a result we are required to comply
with numerous, and in many cases, changing international and U.S. federal,
state and local laws and regulations. As a result, we have developed and
instituted a corporate compliance program which includes the creation of appropriate
policies defining employee behavior that mandate adherence to laws, employee
training, annual affirmations, monitoring and enforcement. However, if any employee fails
to comply with, or intentionally disregards, any of these laws or regulations,
a range of liabilities could result for the employee and for the Company,
including, but not limited to, significant penalties and fines, sanctions
and/or litigation, and the expenses associated with defending and resolving any
of the foregoing, any of which could have a material impact on our business.

Risks related to our Common Stock

Our operating results may fluctuate from
period to period and may not meet the

expectations of securities analysts or investors or
guidance we have given,

which may
cause the price of our Common Stock to decline.

Our quarterly and
annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many
factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, the
extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and
other events, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and
international business, currency fluctuations, changes in market demand for our
products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and
marketing of new products and services, and competition in the industry. An
inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our
forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. The potential
fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons
of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable
indication of future operating results. Furthermore, our operating results may
not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future or
guidance we have given. If this occurs, the price of our stock would likely
decline.

Our stock price may be impacted by factors
outside of our control and you may

not be able to resell shares of our Common Stock at
or above the price you

paid.

The
trading prices of our Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuations
in response to, among other factors, developments in the industries in which we
do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, changes in
the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities
analysts’ recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative
to securities analysts’ expectations for any quarterly period. These factors
may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock.

Future sales of our Common Stock in the
public market could lower our stock

price.

Sales of a substantial number of
shares of Common Stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the
threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our
Common Stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise
additional capital by selling stock. Furthermore, we have various equity
incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation
rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards
which have the effect of adding shares of Common Stock into the public market.

As of December 31, 2011, the aggregate number of shares of our Common
Stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants and awards under these plans was
approximately 6.8 million shares (approximately 2.3 million of which have
vested). In addition, approximately 6.5 million shares may be issued in
connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. Shares of
Common Stock issued


under these plans are freely transferable without further registration
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), except for
any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the
Securities Act). We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Common
Stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our
Common Stock will have on the market price of our Common Stock.

Interests of certain of our significant
stockholders may conflict with yours

. To our
knowledge, as of the date of this report and based upon SEC filings, six
institutional investors each presently hold over 5% of our Common Stock. While
no stockholder or institutional investor individually holds a majority of our
outstanding shares, these significant stockholders may be able, either
individually or acting together, to exercise significant influence over matters
requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment
of our certificate of incorporation, adoption or amendment of equity plans and
approval of significant transactions such as mergers, acquisitions,
consolidations and sales or purchases of assets. In addition, in the event of a
proposed acquisition of the Company by a third party, this concentration of
ownership may delay or prevent a change of control in us. Accordingly, the
interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or
the interests of other stockholders, or otherwise be in the best interests of
us or all stockholders.

Our anti-takeover protections may discourage
or prevent a change of control,

even if a change in control would be beneficial to
our stockholders.

Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation
and bylaws and Delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire
control of us in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors. These
provisions include:

These provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or
change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the
market price of their Common Stock.

I

TEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.

There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the
SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our
periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.

I

TEM 2.
PROPERTIES.

We lease 23 domestic and 44 international offices and we have a
significant presence in Stamford, Connecticut, Ft. Myers, Florida and Egham,
the United Kingdom. The Company does not currently own any properties.

Our corporate headquarters is located in approximately 213,000 square
feet of leased office space in three buildings located in Stamford. This
facility also accommodates research and analysis, marketing, sales, client
support, production, corporate services, and administration. In 2010, the
Company entered into an amended and restated lease agreement for the Stamford
headquarters facility that provides for a term of fifteen years. The amended
lease also grants the Company three options to renew the lease at fair market
value for five years each, an option to purchase the facility at fair market
value, and $25.0 million to be provided by the landlord to renovate the three
buildings and the parking areas comprising the facility. The renovation work
commenced in 2011 and is expected to be completed in late 2012.

Our Ft. Myers operations were located in 62,400 square feet of leased
office space until early 2012, at which time we completely moved our operations
to a new, expanded facility nearby consisting of approximately 120,000 square
feet of leased office space located in one building for which the lease will
expire in 2026. Our Egham location has approximately 72,000 square feet of
leased office space in two buildings for which the leases expire in 2020 and
2025, respectively. Our other domestic and international locations support our
research, consulting, domestic and international sales efforts, and other
functions.

We continue to constantly assess our space needs as our business
changes. We believe that our existing facilities and the expanded space in Ft.
Myers will be adequate for our current and foreseeable needs. Should additional
space be necessary, we believe that it will be available.


I

TEM 3. LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS.

We are involved in various legal and administrative proceedings and
litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. The outcome of these
individual matters is not predictable at this time. However, we believe that
the ultimate resolution of these matters, after considering amounts already
accrued and insurance coverage, will not have a material adverse effect on our
financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in future periods.

P

ART II

I

TEM 5. MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.

Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol IT. As of January 31, 2012, there were 2,281 holders of record of our
Common Stock. Our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held on June 7,
2012 at the Company’s corporate headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut. We did
not submit any matter to a vote of our stockholders during the fourth quarter
of 2011.

The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices for our
Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange for the periods
indicated:

DIVIDEND POLICY

We currently do not pay cash dividends on our Common Stock. In
addition, our 2010 Credit Agreement contains a negative covenant which may
limit our ability to pay dividends.

SECURITIES AUTHORIZED FOR ISSUANCE UNDER
EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS

The equity compensation plan information set forth in Part III, Item 12
of this Form 10-K is hereby incorporated by reference into this Part II, Item
5.

SHARE REPURCHASES

The Company has a $500.0 million share repurchase program, of which
$293.5 million remained available as of December 31, 2011. Repurchases may be
made from time-to-time through open market purchases, private transactions,
tender offers or other transactions. The amount and timing of repurchases will
be subject to the availability of stock, prevailing market conditions, the
trading price of the stock, the Company’s financial performance and other
conditions. Repurchases may also be made from time-to-time in connection with
the settlement of the Company’s shared-based compensation awards. Repurchases
will be funded from cash flow from operations or borrowings.

The following table provides detail related to repurchases of our
Common Stock in the three months ended December 31, 2011 pursuant to our share
repurchase program and pursuant to the settlement of share-based compensation
awards:


(1)

Includes 1,648,434 shares the Company repurchased directly from
 ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L.P. pursuant to a stock purchase agreement
 entered into in December 2011 at a price of $35.20 per share. The total cost
 of the repurchase was $58.0 million.

(2)

For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company repurchased
 5,890,238 shares for a total cost of $212.0 million.

I

TEM 6. SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA

The fiscal years presented below are for the respective twelve-month
period from January 1 through December 31. Data for all years was derived or
compiled from our audited consolidated financial statements included herein or
from submissions of our Form 10-K in prior years. The selected consolidated
financial data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial
statements and related notes contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The following
items impact the comparability and presentation of our consolidated data:


•

In 2008 we sold our Vision Events business, which had been part of
 our Events segment. Accordingly, the results of operations of this business
 and the related gain on sale were reported as a discontinued operation. The
 statements of operations and per share data for 2007 in the table have been
 restated to present the results of this business as a discontinued operation
 to achieve comparability.

•

In 2007 we recorded $9.1 million of pre-tax charges for the
 settlement of litigation and for severance.

I

TEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS.

The purpose of the following Management’s Discussion and Analysis
(“MD&A”) is to help facilitate the understanding of significant factors
influencing the operating results, financial condition and cash flows of
Gartner, Inc. Additionally, the MD&A also conveys our expectations of the
potential impact of known trends, events or uncertainties that may impact future
results. You should read this discussion in conjunction with our consolidated
financial statements and related notes included in this report. Historical
results and percentage relationships are not necessarily indicative of
operating results for future periods. References to “the Company,” “we,” “our,”
and “us” are to Gartner, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

The following item impacts the presentation and discussion of results
in this MD&A section:

In December 2009 we acquired AMR Research, Inc. (“AMR Research”) and
Burton Group, Inc. (“Burton Group”) (see Note 2 — Acquisitions in the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements). The operating results of these
businesses were included in our consolidated results beginning on their
respective dates of acquisition. The results of these businesses were not
material to our consolidated or segment results for 2009.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K
contains certain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are any
statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements
regarding our expectations, beliefs, hopes, intentions or strategies regarding
the future. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the
use of words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “should,” “could,” “believe,”
“plan,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” or other
words of similar meaning.

Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that
could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in, or
implied by, the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a
difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part 1, Item 1A,
Risk Factors. Readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which reflect management’s opinion only as of the date on which
they were made. Except as required by law, we disclaim any obligation to review
or update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances
as they occur. Readers should review carefully any risk factors described in
other reports we filed with the SEC.

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

Gartner, Inc. is the world’s leading information technology research
and advisory company that helps executives use technology to build, guide and
grow their enterprises. We offer independent and objective research and
analysis on the information technology, computer hardware, software,
communications and related technology industries. We provide comprehensive
coverage of the IT industry to thousands of client organizations across the
globe. Our client base consists primarily of CIOs and other senior IT and
executives from a wide variety of business enterprises, government agencies and
the investment community.

We have three business segments: Research, Consulting and Events.

•

Research

provides objective insight on critical
 and timely technology and supply chain initiatives for CIOs, other IT
 professionals, supply chain leaders, technology companies and the investment
 community through reports, briefings, proprietary tools, access to our
 analysts, peer networking services, and membership programs that enable our
 clients to make better decisions about their IT and supply chain investments.

•

Consulting

provides
 customized solutions to unique client needs through on-site,
 day-to-day support, as well as proprietary tools for measuring and improving
 IT performance with a focus on cost, performance, efficiency, and quality.


•

Events

provide
 IT, supply chain, and business professionals the opportunity to attend various
 symposia, conferences and exhibitions
 to learn, contribute and network with their peers. From our flagship
 event Symposium/ITxpo, to Summits focused on specific technologies and
 industries, to experimental workshop-style Seminars, our events distill the
 latest Gartner research into applicable insight and advice.

BUSINESS MEASUREMENTS

We believe the
following business measurements are important performance indicators for our
business segments:

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
POSITION

We have executed a consistent growth strategy since 2005 to drive
double-digit annual revenue and earnings growth. The fundamentals of our
strategy include a focus on creating extraordinary research content, deliver
innovative and highly differentiated product offerings, build a strong sales
capability, provide world class client service with a focus on client
engagement and retention, and continuously improve our operational
effectiveness.

We had total revenues of $1,468.6 million in 2011, an increase of 14%
over 2010 while diluted earnings per share increased by $.43 per share, to
$1.39. Revenues increased across all of our geographic regions and in all three
of our business segments. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, 2011 total
revenues increased 11% over 2010.


Research revenues rose 17% year-over-year, to $1,012.1 million in 2011,
which is the first time our Research segment revenues have exceeded one billion
dollars. The contribution margin increased 2 points in 2011, to 67%. At
December 31, 2011, Research contract value was $1,115.8 million, the highest in
the Company’s history, and an increase of 14% over December 31, 2010. Client
retention was 82% and wallet retention was 99% at December 31, 2011. Consulting
revenues increased 2% over 2010, while the gross contribution margin was 37%.
Consultant utilization was 65% for 2011, and we had 481 billable consultants at
December 31, 2011 compared to 473 at year-end 2010. Events revenues increased
22% compared to 2010. We held 60 events in 2011, four more than the prior year,
while attendance at our events increased 15%, to 42,748. The segment
contribution margin was 45% for 2011. For a more detailed discussion of our
segment results, see Segment Results below.

Gartner generated almost $256.0 million of cash from operating
activities in 2011, an increase of 24% over 2010. Excluding the $9.0 million in
landlord reimbursements we received in 2011 related to the renovation of our
Stamford headquarters facility, which is recorded as an operating cash flow
benefit, our operating cash flow increased 20% year-over-year. We continued to
focus on maximizing shareholder value in 2011, and we repurchased 5.9 million
of our common shares outstanding, which was approximately 6% of the total
common shares outstanding at the beginning of 2011.

We believe that we have adequate liquidity to meet our currently
anticipated needs. In addition to our strong operating cash flow, we refinanced
our debt in late 2010 to take advantage of favorable financing conditions and
to obtain greater financial flexibility and liquidity through a larger
revolving credit facility. The credit arrangement provides for a five-year,
$200.0 million term loan and a $400.0 million revolving credit facility. As of
December 31, 2011, we had $142.7 million of cash and cash equivalents, and we
had almost $377.0 million of available borrowing capacity under the revolving
credit facility.

FLUCTUATIONS IN QUARTERLY RESULTS

Our quarterly and annual revenue, operating income, and cash flow
fluctuate as a result of many factors, including: the timing of our
SymposiumITxpo series, which are normally held during the fourth calendar
quarter, as well as other events; the amount of new business generated; the mix
between domestic and international business; changes in market demand for our
products and services; changes in foreign currency rates; the timing of the
development, introduction and marketing of our new products and services;
competition in the industry; general economic conditions; and other factors.
The potential fluctuations in our operating income could cause period-to-period
comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and could provide an
unreliable indication of future operating results and cash flows.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements requires the application of
appropriate accounting policies and the use of estimates. Our significant
accounting policies are described in Note 1 in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements. Management considers the policies discussed below to be
critical to an understanding of our financial statements because their
application requires complex and subjective management judgments and estimates.
Specific risks for these critical accounting policies are described below.

The preparation of our financial statements also requires us to make
estimates and assumptions about future events. We develop our estimates using
both current and historical experience, as well as other factors, including the
general economic environment and actions we may take in the future. We adjust
such estimates when facts and circumstances dictate. However, our estimates may
involve significant uncertainties and judgments and cannot be determined with
precision. In addition, these estimates are based on our best judgment at a
point in time and as such these estimates may ultimately differ from actual
results. On-going changes in our estimates could be material and would be
reflected in the Company’s financial statements in future periods.

Our critical
accounting policies are as follows:

Revenue recognition

— Revenue is recognized in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements (“SAB 101”), and SEC Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Revenue Recognition (“SAB 104”). Revenue is only
recognized once all required criteria for revenue recognition have been met.
Revenue by significant source is accounted for as follows:

•

Research revenues are derived from subscription contracts for
 research products and are deferred and recognized ratably over the applicable
 contract term. Fees from research reprints are recognized when the reprint is
 shipped.

•

Consulting revenues are principally generated from fixed fee and time
 and material engagements. Revenues from fixed fee contracts are recognized on
 a proportional performance basis. Revenues from time and materials
 engagements are recognized as work is delivered and/or services are provided.
 Revenues related to contract optimization contracts are contingent in nature
 and are only recognized upon satisfaction of all conditions related to their
 payment.


•

Events revenues are deferred and recognized upon the completion of
 the related symposium, conference or exhibition.

The majority of research contracts are billable upon signing, absent
special terms granted on a limited basis from time to time. All research
contracts are non-cancelable and non-refundable, except for government
contracts that may have cancellation or fiscal funding clauses. It is our policy
to record the entire amount of the contract that is billable as a fee
receivable at the time the contract is signed with a corresponding amount as
deferred revenue, since the contract represents a legally enforceable claim.

Uncollectible fees receivable

— We maintain an allowance for losses which is composed of a bad debt allowance
and a sales reserve. Provisions are charged against earnings, either as a
reduction in revenues or an increase to expense. The measurement of likely and
probable losses and the allowance for losses is based on historical loss
experience, aging of outstanding receivables, an assessment of current economic
conditions and the financial health of specific clients. This evaluation is
inherently judgmental and requires estimates. These valuation reserves are
periodically re-evaluated and adjusted as more information about the ultimate
collectibility of fees receivable becomes available. Circumstances that could
cause our valuation reserves to increase include changes in our clients’
liquidity and credit quality, other factors negatively impacting our clients’
ability to pay their obligations as they come due, and the effectiveness of our
collection efforts.

The following table provides our total fees receivable and the related
allowance for losses (in thousands):

Goodwill and other intangible assets

— The Company evaluates recorded goodwill in accordance with Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic
350, which requires goodwill to be assessed for impairment at least annually
and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may not be recoverable. In addition, an impairment evaluation of our
amortizable intangible assets may also be performed on a periodic basis should
events or circumstances indicate potential impairment. If we determine that the
fair value of a reporting unit or an intangible asset is less than its related
carrying amount, we must recognize an impairment charge against earnings. Among
the factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review are
the following:

Since 2002, the U.S. GAAP goodwill impairment rules required a
quantitative approach in which the fair values of our reporting units was
determined based on estimates of future business results and market and
economic conditions in developing long-term forecasts. In September 2011, the
FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-08,

Intangibles-Goodwill
and Other

–

Testing Goodwill for Impairment

(“ASU No.
2011-08”). ASU No. 2011-08 optionally permits an evaluation of goodwill based
on a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a
reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. As a result of
the issuance of ASU No. 2011-08, the required annual goodwill impairment test
may now be either quantitative or qualitative in nature, or both. The annual determination
of the estimated fair value of reporting unit goodwill, whether quantitative or
qualitative, contains judgments and assumptions regarding future trends and
events. As a result, both the precision and reliability of the resulting
estimates are subject to uncertainty.

In 2010, we completed the required annual goodwill impairment test
utilizing the quantitative approach and concluded that the fair values of each
of the Company’s reporting units substantially exceeded their respective
carrying values. In 2011, we early adopted ASU No. 2011-08 and evaluated
reporting unit goodwill utilizing a qualitative assessment. Based on this
assessment, the Company believes the fair value of goodwill for each of the
Company’s reporting units continue to substantially exceed their respective
carrying


values and thus concluded that it was not necessary to conduct the
two-step goodwill impairment test (see Note 1 — Business and Significant
Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional discussion).

Accounting for income taxes

— As we prepare our consolidated financial statements, we estimate our income
taxes in each of the jurisdictions where we operate. This process involves
estimating our current tax expense together with assessing temporary
differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting
purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities,
which are included within our consolidated balance sheets. We record a valuation
allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets when future realization is in
question. We consider the availability of loss carryforwards, existing deferred
tax liabilities, future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax
planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance. In the
event we determine that we are able to realize our deferred tax assets in the
future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment is made to reduce
the valuation allowance and increase income in the period such determination is
made. Likewise, if we determine that we will not be able to realize all or part
of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the valuation
allowance is charged against income in the period such determination is made.

Accounting for stock-based compensation

— The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with FASB ASC
Topics 505 and 718, as interpreted by SEC Staff Accounting Bulletins No. 107
(“SAB No. 107”) and No. 110 (“SAB No. 110”). The Company recognizes stock-based
compensation expense, which is based on the fair value of the award on the date
of grant, over the related service period, net of estimated forfeitures (see
Note 8 — Stock-Based Compensation in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements).

Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair
value of stock compensation awards requires the input of certain complex and
subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the stock compensation
award and the Company’s Common Stock price volatility. In addition, determining
the appropriate amount of associated periodic expense requires management to
estimate the rate of employee forfeitures and the likelihood of achievement of
certain performance targets. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value
of stock compensation awards and the associated periodic expense represent
management’s best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties
and the application of judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company
deems it necessary in the future to modify the assumptions it made or to use
different assumptions, or if the quantity and nature of the Company’s
stock-based compensation awards changes, then the amount of expense may need to
be adjusted and future stock compensation expense could be materially different
from what has been recorded in the current period.

Restructuring and other accruals

— We may record accruals for severance costs, costs associated with excess
facilities that we have leased, contract terminations, asset impairments, and
other costs as a result of on-going actions we undertake to streamline our
organization, reposition certain businesses and reduce ongoing costs. Estimates
of costs to be incurred to complete these actions, such as future lease
payments, sublease income, the fair value of assets, and severance and related
benefits, are based on assumptions at the time the actions are initiated. These
accruals may need to be adjusted to the extent actual costs differ from such
estimates. In addition, these actions may be revised due to changes in business
conditions that we did not foresee at the time such plans were approved.

We also record accruals during the year for our various employee cash
incentive programs. Amounts accrued at the end of each reporting period are
based on our estimates and may require adjustment as the ultimate amount paid
for these incentives are sometimes not known with certainty until after year
end.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Consolidated Results

The following tables summarize the changes in selected line items in
our Consolidated Statements of Operation for the three years ended December 31,
2011 (dollars in thousands):

For the twelve
months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:

For the twelve
months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:

(1)

In December 2009 we acquired AMR Research and Burton Group. The
 operating results of these businesses have been included in our consolidated
 results of operations beginning on their respective dates of acquisition. The
 results of these businesses were not material to the Company’s 2009
 consolidated operating results.

2011 VERSUS

TOTAL REVENUES for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 increased
$180.1 million, or 14%, compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2010.
Total revenues increased 11% excluding the impact of foreign currency. Revenues
increased across all of our geographic regions and in all three of our business
segments on a reported basis.

An overview of
our results by geographic region follows:

•

Revenues from sales to United States and Canadian clients increased
 12%, to $861.5 million in 2011 from $765.8 million in 2010.


•

Revenues from sales to clients in Europe, the Middle East and Africa
 increased to $437.2 million in 2011 from $380.8 million in 2010, a 15%
 increase.

•

Revenues from sales to clients in our Other International region
 increased 20%, to $169.9 million in 2011 from $141.9 million in 2010.

An overview of
our results by segment follows:

Please refer to the section of this MD&A below entitled “Segment
Results” for a further discussion of revenues and results by segment.

COST OF SERVICES AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (“COS”) expense increased 10%
in 2011, or $56.5 million, to $608.8 million compared to $552.2 million in
2010. Approximately half of the increase was due to higher payroll and related
benefits costs resulting from our investment in additional headcount and merit
salary increases. The rest of the increase was primarily due to the negative
impact of foreign currency translation, as well as incremental expenses and
additional investment in the Events business. Cost of services and product
development as a percentage of revenues improved by 2 points year-over-year,
primarily driven by higher research revenues and the operating leverage
inherent in our Research business.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE (“SG&A”) expense increased by
$70.5 million in 2011, or 13%, to $613.7 million from $543.2 million in 2010.
The increase was primarily due to higher payroll and to a lesser extent, the
negative impact of foreign currency translation. Excluding the unfavorable
impact of foreign exchange, SG&A expense increased 11% year-over-year. The
higher payroll costs resulted from additional investment in headcount, as well
as higher sales commissions and merit salary increases. The increased headcount
was primarily due to our investment in additional quota-bearing sales
associates, which increased 21% compared to December 31, 2010.

DEPRECIATION expense increased slightly year-over-year. Capital
spending increased to $42.0 million in 2011 from $21.7 million in 2010. The
$42.0 million of capital expenditures in 2011 included $9.5 million of
expenditures related to the renovation of our Stamford headquarters facility,
of which $9.0 million was reimbursed by our landlord in 2011 and $0.5 million
will be reimbursed in 2012 (see Note 1 — Business and Significant Accounting
Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information).

AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES decreased 38% year-over-year due to certain
intangibles becoming fully amortized in 2010.

ACQUISITION AND INTEGRATION CHARGES was
zero in 2011 and $7.9 million in 2010. These charges related to the
acquisitions of AMR Research and Burton Group in December 2009 and included
legal, consulting, severance, and other costs.

OPERATING INCOME increased $64.8 million year-over-year, or 43%, to
$214.1 million in 2011 from $149.3 million in 2010. Operating income as a
percentage of revenues improved by 3 points year-over-year, to 15% in 2011
compared to 12% in 2010, primarily due to a significantly higher segment
contribution from the Research business and to a lesser extent, lower
intangible amortization and acquisition and integration charges.

Please refer to the section of this MD&A entitled “Segment Results”
below for a further discussion of revenues and results by segment.

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET was $10.0 million in 2011 compared to $15.6
million in 2010, a 36% decline. The $15.6 million of interest expense in 2010
included $3.7 million of incremental expense related to the refinancing of our
debt (See Note 5 — Debt in the


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Excluding the $3.7
million incremental charge, Interest expense, net declined approximately 15%
year-over-year, primarily due to a lower average amount of debt outstanding,
which declined to $220.0 million in 2011 from $326.0 million in 2010.

OTHER (EXPENSE) INCOME, NET was $(1.9) million in 2011, which primarily
consisted of net foreign currency exchange losses, and $0.4 million in 2010,
which consisted of a $2.4 million gain from an insurance recovery related to a
prior period loss, offset by net foreign currency exchange losses.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES was $65.3 million in 2011 compared to $37.8
million in 2010 and the effective tax rate was 32.3% for 2011 compared to 28.2%
for 2010. The lower effective tax rate in 2010 was primarily attributable to
the release of valuation allowances relating to certain net operating losses.

NET INCOME was $136.9 million in 2011 and $96.3 million in 2010, an
increase of $40.6 million, or 42%, primarily due to a substantially higher
operating income, which was partially offset by higher income tax charges.
Basic earnings per share increased 42% year-over-year while diluted earnings
per share increased 45% due to the higher net income.

2010 VERSUS

TOTAL REVENUES for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 increased
$148.7 million, or 13%, compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2009.
Revenues increased across all of our geographic regions and in all three of our
business segments. Total revenues were also up 13% excluding the impact of
foreign currency, which had an immaterial impact year-over-year.

An overview of
our results by geographic region follows:

An overview of
our results by segment follows:

Please refer to the section of this MD&A below entitled “Segment
Results” for a further discussion of revenues and results by segment.

COST OF SERVICES AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT increased 11% in 2010, or
$53.9 million, to $552.2 million compared to $498.4 million in 2009. The impact
of foreign currency on the year-over-year increase was not significant. We
recognized $36.8 million in higher payroll, commissions, and related personnel
costs in 2010, primarily due to the impact of the increased headcount from the
AMR Research and Burton Group businesses. We had $12.0 million in higher
conference and travel costs in 2010, due to the additional events we held and
increased attendees, as well as a general increase in travel activity from the
depressed 2009 levels, when the Company had strict travel restrictions in place
due to the economic downturn. We also had $2.2 million in higher equity
compensation expense due to a higher level of achievement on performance-based
stock units.


Cost of services and product development as a percentage of sales was
43% in 2010 and 44% in 2009, a 1 point improvement, primarily driven by the
substantial increase in our fourth quarter 2010 revenues, which increased 16%
over the fourth quarter of 2009, and was substantially greater than the
increase in the quarterly cost of services.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE (“SG&A”) expense increased by
$66.2 million in 2010, or 14%, to $543.2 million from $477.0 million in 2009.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, SG&A expense
increased 13% year-over-year. We had $47.0 million of higher sales commissions,
payroll and benefits, and other personnel charges in 2010, which included the
additional headcount costs attributable to the AMR Research and Burton Group
businesses. We also had $4.3 million of additional stock-based compensation
expense due to the higher level of achievement on performance-based stock units
and higher travel charges of $7.1 million, primarily due to additional sales
headcount and the loosening of travel restrictions. The unfavorable impact of
foreign currency added $3.1 million of additional expense.

DEPRECIATION expense decreased slightly year-over-year. Capital
spending increased to $21.7 million in 2010 from $15.1 million in 2009, a 43%
increase. The Company had reduced its capital expenditures in 2009 due to the
economic downturn.

AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES was $10.5 million in 2010 compared to $1.6
million in 2009. The increase was due to the amortization of the intangibles
acquired from AMR Research and Burton Group.

ACQUISITION AND INTEGRATION CHARGES was
$7.9 million in 2010 and $2.9 million in 2009. These charges related to the
acquisitions of AMR Research and Burton Group and included legal, consulting,
severance, and other costs.

OPERATING INCOME increased 11% year-over-year, to $149.3 million in
2010 from $134.5 million in 2009. The increase was due to the significantly
higher gross contribution from our three business segments in 2010, which
increased 15% year-over-year, to $742.3 million in 2010 from $642.9 million in
2009. The increased gross contribution was partially offset by higher charges
in 2010 for SG&A as well as higher intangible amortization and acquisition
and integration charges related to our acquisitions. Operating income as a
percentage of revenues was 12% for both 2010 and 2009.

Please refer to the section of this MD&A entitled “Segment Results”
below for a further discussion of revenues and results by segment.

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET was $15.6 million in 2010 and $16.0 million in
2009, a 3% decline. The 2010 period includes $3.7 million of incremental
expense related to the refinancing of our debt in December 2010 (See Note 5 —
Debt in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Excluding the $3.7
million incremental charge, Interest expense, net would have declined
approximately 26% year-over-year, due to lower average debt outstanding and a
lower weighted-average rate.

OTHER (EXPENSE) INCOME, NET was $0.4 million in 2010, which consisted
of a $2.4 million gain for an insurance recovery related to a prior period loss
offset by net foreign currency exchange losses. The $(2.9) expense in 2009
primarily consisted of net foreign currency exchange losses.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES was $37.8 million in 2010 compared to $32.6
million in 2009 and the effective tax rate was 28.2% for both periods.
Year-over-year increases in the rate attributable to a higher financial
statement cost of repatriation and higher net reserve increases were
substantially offset by reductions in the rate year-over-year attributable to
larger releases of valuation allowances.

NET INCOME was $96.3 million in 2010 and $83.0 million in 2009, an
increase of $13.3 million, or 16%, primarily due to a $14.8 million
year-over-year increase in operating income. We also had a $0.4 million gain
from other income (expense) activity in 2010 compared to a loss of $(2.9) million
in 2009, as well as slightly lower interest expense in 2010. These increases
were partially offset by higher income tax charges in 2010. Basic earnings per
share increased 15% year-over-year while diluted earnings per share increased
13% year-over-year. The increased earnings per share were due to the higher net
income in 2010, which was slightly reduced by higher weighted-average shares
outstanding in 2010.

SEGMENT RESULTS

We evaluate reportable segment performance and allocate resources based
on gross contribution margin. Gross contribution is defined as operating income
excluding certain Cost of services and product development charges, SG&A,
Depreciation, Acquisition and


integration charges, and Amortization of intangibles. Gross
contribution margin is defined as gross contribution as a percentage of
revenues.

The following
sections present the results of our three segments:

Research

(1)

The operating results of AMR Research and Burton Group are included
 beginning on their respective dates of acquisition in December 2009. The
 operating results of these businesses were not material to the Research
 segment in 2009. The 2009 business measurements exclude these acquisitions.

(2)

Dollars in
 thousands.

2011 VERSUS

Research segment revenues increased 17% in 2011 compared to 2010 and
reached the one billion dollar level for the first time. Research revenues
increased across all of our regions, products, and client types. Excluding the
favorable effect of foreign currency translation, Research segment revenues
increased 14%. The segment gross contribution margin increased by 2 points, to 67%,
as higher segment revenues and the operating leverage in this business resulted
in a higher segment contribution. Contribution margin improved in spite of an
8% increase in headcount to deliver on revenue growth and new clients.

Research contract value increased 14% in 2011, to $1,115.8 million,
which is the highest reported contract value in the Company’s history. Foreign
currency translation had an immaterial impact year-over-year on contract value.
We had double-digit contract value growth in most of our Research product
lines, client sizes, and industry groups, with the number of research client
organizations we serve up 20% since 2009. We attribute the increase in contract
value to our extraordinary research content, our continuing focus on sales effectiveness,
and the expansion in the number of our quota-bearing sales associates. Both
client retention and wallet retention remained strong at 82% and 99%,
respectively.

2010 VERSUS 2009

Research revenues increased 15% in 2010, but excluding the favorable
effect of foreign currency translation, revenues increased 14%. Approximately
39% of the $112.5 million revenue increase was attributable to the AMR Research
and Burton Group businesses. The segment gross contribution margin was flat at
65%, despite additional headcount expenses from the AMR Research and Burton
Group businesses. Research contract value was $977.7 million at December 31,
2010, an increase of 25% compared to December 31, 2009. Excluding the favorable
impact of foreign currency translation, research contract value increased 20%
over 2009. The AMR Research and Burton Group businesses contributed
approximately 30% of the increase in contract value. Client retention and
wallet retention improved 5 points and 11 points, respectively.


Consulting

(1)

The operating results of AMR Research and Burton Group are included
 beginning on their respective dates of acquisition in December 2009. The
 operating results of these businesses were not material to the Consulting
 segment in 2009. The 2009 business measurements exclude these acquisitions.

(2)

Dollars in
 thousands.

2011 VERSUS

Consulting revenues increased 2% year-over-year, primarily due to
higher revenues in core consulting. Excluding the favorable impact of foreign
currency translation, revenues were down slightly. The gross contribution
margin declined by 3 points, due to lower utilization in core consulting and
higher payroll and benefit costs resulting from merit salary increases and the
full year impact in 2011 from the additional headcount we added in the fourth
quarter of 2010. Backlog was down slightly year-over-year, to $100.6 million at
December 31, 2011.

2010 VERSUS 2009

Consulting revenues increased 5% in 2010, but excluding the unfavorable
impact of foreign currency translation, revenues increased 6%. The AMR Research
and Burton Group businesses added approximately 35% of the revenue increase.
The gross contribution margin improved by 1 point, primarily due to additional
revenues in our contract optimization and SAS businesses, which have higher
margins than core consulting. Consulting billable headcount was 473 at December
31, 2010, an increase of 7% from year-end 2009, with the majority of the
additional headcount added in the fourth quarter of 2010. Backlog increased 11%
year-over-year with increases across all of our geographic regions.

Events

(1)

The operating results of AMR Research and Burton Group are included
 beginning on their respective dates of acquisition in December 2009. The
 operating results of these businesses were not material to the Events segment
 in 2009. The 2009 business measurements exclude these acquisitions.

(2)

Dollars in
 thousands.

2011 VERSUS

Events revenues increased 22% year-over-year, or $27.1 million.
Excluding the favorable impact of foreign currency translation, revenues
increased 21% year-over-year. We held 60 events in 2011, which consisted of 53
ongoing events and 7 new event launches, compared to 56 events in 2010. We
discontinued 3 events in 2011 that had been held in prior years.


The additional revenue we earned in 2011 was attributable
    to significantly higher revenue at our ongoing events, with double-digit
    increases in the number of attendees and exhibitors. Average revenue per
    attendee rose 2% and average revenue per exhibitor increased 5%. Events revenue
    was strong in the fourth quarter of 2011, rising to $76.4 million, an increase
    of 22% over the fourth quarter of 2010 and the highest reported fourth quarter
    revenue in Gartner history. For full year 2011, gross contribution margin
    decreased 1 point, primarily due to incremental expenses and additional investment
    in the business to strengthen the portfolio and provide a foundation for
    future growth.

2010 VERSUS 2009

Events revenues increased $20.9 million in 2010, or 21%, compared to
2009, with little impact from foreign currency translation. We held 2
additional events in 2010, for a total of 56 events, which consisted of 48
ongoing events and 8 new event launches. We discontinued 6 events that had been
held in prior years. We had a 22% increase in attendees and a 24% increase in
exhibitors, while average revenue increased 12% for attendees but was down
slightly for exhibitors. Revenues increased $21.1 million and $5.2 million from
our ongoing and new events, respectively, which was partially offset by a $5.4
million revenue loss from discontinued events.

The gross contribution margin increased 5 points, primarily due to
higher contribution from our ongoing events, reflecting the strength in
attendee volume and average revenue per attendee as well as higher exhibitor
volume.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We finance our operations primarily through cash generated from our
on-going operating activities. For 2011, we had operating cash flow of $255.6
million, which was the highest in the Company’s history and an increase of 24%
over 2010. As of December 31, 2011, we had $142.7 million of cash and cash equivalents
and $376.8 million of available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit
facility. We believe that we have adequate liquidity to meet our currently
anticipated needs.

Our cash and cash equivalents are held in numerous locations throughout
the world. At December 31, 2011, $123.0 million of our cash was held outside
the U.S., and approximately one-third of this amount represented unremitted
earnings of non-U.S subsidiaries. Under U.S. GAAP accounting rules, no
provision for U.S. federal and local taxes is required for these unremitted
overseas earnings if the Company intends to reinvest such funds overseas. Our
current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate these undistributed
earnings to fund our U.S. operations or otherwise satisfy our U.S. liquidity
needs, and we intend to reinvest these earnings in our non-U.S. operations,
except in instances in which the repatriation of these earnings would result in
minimal additional tax. As a result, no provision for U.S. federal and state
income taxes has been recorded for these unremitted earnings. However, should
we decide to repatriate some or all of these unremitted earnings, we may be
required to accrue for U.S. taxes as a result, and these charges could be
material and would be recorded in future periods.

Changes in cash and cash equivalents

The following tables summarize the changes in cash and cash equivalents
for the three years ending December 31, 2011 (in thousands):


2011 VERSUS

Operating

Operating cash flow increased by 24%, or $50.1 million, in 2011
compared to 2010. The increase was primarily due to $40.6 million in higher net
income and approximately $15.0 million in lower cash payments for acquisition
costs, severance, and other costs. We also received $9.0 million in landlord
cash reimbursements for capital expenditures on the renovation of our Stamford
headquarters facility. These increased cash flows were partially offset by
higher cash bonus and commission payments we paid in 2011 due to our stronger financial
performance. Excluding the $9.0 million in landlord reimbursements we received
in 2011 related to the renovation of our Stamford headquarters facility, our
operating cash flow increased 20% year-over-year.

Investing

We used $8.1 million of additional cash in our investing activities in
2011 compared to 2010, due to higher capital expenditures. Capital expenditures
were $42.0 million in 2011 compared to $21.7 million in 2010. We also made
$12.2 million in payments related to the acquisition of Burton Group in early
2010, which we acquired in December 2009.

The $42.0 million of capital expenditures in the 2011 period included
$9.5 million we paid for the renovation of our Stamford headquarters facility,
which is fully reimbursable by the landlord. The Company received reimbursement
of $9.0 million of this amount in 2011, which is recorded as an operating cash
flow benefit. The Company will receive the remaining $0.5 million landlord
reimbursement in 2012, which will also be recorded as an operating cash flow
benefit when received.

Financing

We used an additional $15.0 million of cash in our financing activities
in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to additional share repurchases. During
2011, we used $212.0 million for share repurchases, compared to $99.8 million
in 2010. The increase in cash used for share repurchases in 2011 was
substantially offset by lower debt repayments in 2011 compared to 2010. On a
net basis, we repaid $99.8 million of our debt in 2010 and we paid $4.8 million
in fees related to our refinancing, compared to $20.1 million of debt
repayments in 2011.

2010 VERSUS

Operating

Operating cash flow increased by $43.6 million, or 27%, when comparing
2010 to 2009, primarily due to the $13.3 million year-over-year increase in net
income, a $9.0 million decrease in cash payments for income taxes, and a $12.1
million decrease in payments for severance, interest payments on our debt, and
excess facilities. We also received $2.4 million in cash in 2010 from an
insurance recovery, and approximately $19.8 million of improvements in our
working capital accounts, which included improved cash collection on our
receivables. Partially offsetting these increases were $8.0 million in
acquisition and integration payments made in 2010 related to the acquisitions
of AMR Research and Burton Group and $5.0 million more in 2010 bonus payments.

Investing

Cash used in our investing activities declined by $85.8 million in 2010
due to the acquisitions of AMR Research and Burton Group in 2009. We paid $104.5
million in cash for these acquisitions in December 2009 and an additional $12.2
million in January 2010. We used $21.7 million of cash in 2010 for capital
expenditures compared to $15.1 million in the 2009 period, an increase of $6.6
million, or 43%.

Financing

Cash used in our financing activities was $97.8 million higher in 2010
compared to 2009, with a total of $171.6 million used in 2010 compared to $73.8
million used in 2009. The additional cash used was due to higher debt
repayments and additional share repurchases in 2010.

On a net basis, we repaid $108.8 million of debt in 2010 compared to
$87.3 million in the prior year, an increase in cash used of $21.6 million. We
used $99.8 million of cash for share repurchases in 2010 compared to $3.7
million in 2009, an increase in cash used of $96.1 million. We also paid $4.8
million in cash in 2010 for fees related to our debt refinancing. Partially
offsetting these higher uses of cash was an additional $24.7 million in cash
realized from option exercises and excess tax benefits as a higher average
stock price in 2010 resulted in a significantly increased number of option
exercises.


OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS

At December 31, 2011, we had $200.0 million outstanding under our 2010
Credit Agreement which provides for a five-year, $200.0 million term loan and a
$400.0 million revolving credit facility. The 2010 Credit Agreement contains an
expansion feature by which the term loan and revolving credit facility may be
increased, at the Company’s option and under certain conditions, by up to an
additional $150.0 million in the aggregate. The term loan will be repaid in 19
consecutive quarterly installments which commenced in March 2011, with the
final payment due in December 2015, and may be prepaid at any time without
penalty or premium at the Company’s option. The revolving credit facility may
be used for loans, and up to $40.0 million may be used for letters of credit.
The revolving loans may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed until December
2015, at which time all amounts borrowed must be repaid. See Note 5 — Debt in
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
regarding the 2010 Credit Agreement.

Cash Commitments

The following
table presents our contractual cash commitments due after December 31, 2011 (in
thousands):


QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA

The following
tables present our quarterly operating results for the two year period ended
December 31, 2011:

(1)

The
 aggregate of the four quarters’ basic and diluted earnings per common share
 may not equal the reported full calendar year amounts due to the effects of
 share repurchases, dilutive equity compensation, and rounding.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

Accounting guidance issued by the various standard setting and
governmental authorities that have not yet become effective with respect to our
Consolidated Financial Statements are described below, together with our
assessment of the potential impact they may have on our Consolidated Financial
Statements:

Comprehensive Income.

In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting
Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-05,

Comprehensive Income (Topic 220-10): Presentation of Comprehensive Income

.
The new guidance eliminates the current option to report other comprehensive
income and its components in the statement of stockholders’ equity. Instead,
the new rule will require an entity to present net income and other
comprehensive income in one continuous statement, referred to as the statement
of comprehensive income, or in two separate, but consecutive statements. While
the new guidance changes the presentation of comprehensive income, there are no
changes to the components that are recognized in net income or other
comprehensive income under current accounting guidance. This new guidance is
effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after
December 15, 2011. The Company will adopt this new rule in the quarter
ending March 31, 2012. While the adoption of this new guidance will change the
presentation of comprehensive income, it is not expected to have an impact on
the Company’s results of operations, cash flows, or financial position.

Fair Value Measurements.

In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04,

Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value
Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs.

ASU
No. 2011-04 establishes a number of new requirements for fair value
measurements. These include: (1) a prohibition on grouping financial
instruments for purposes of determining fair value, except when an entity
manages market and credit risks on the basis of the entity’s net exposure to
the group; (2) an extension of the prohibition against the use of a blockage
factor to all fair value measurements (that prohibition currently applies only
to financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets); and (3) a
requirement that for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements, entities
disclose quantitative information about unobservable inputs, a description of
the valuation process used and qualitative details about the sensitivity of the
measurements. In addition, for items not carried at fair value but for which
fair value is disclosed, entities will be required to disclose the level within
the fair value hierarchy that applies to the fair value measurement disclosed.
This ASU is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December
15, 2011. The Company will adopt this new rule in the quarter ending March 31,
2012. The adoption of this ASU may result in additional fair value disclosures
but is not expected to have an impact on the Company’s results of operations,
cash flows, or financial position.

I

TEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

INTEREST RATE RISK

We have exposure to changes in interest rates arising from borrowings
under our 2010 Credit Agreement. At December 31, 2011, we had $180.0 million
outstanding under the term loan and $20.0 million outstanding under the
revolver. Borrowings under this facility are floating rate, which may be either
prime-based or Eurodollar-based. The rate paid for these borrowings includes a
base floating rate plus a margin between 0.50% and 1.25% on prime borrowings
and between 1.50% and 2.25% on Eurodollar-based borrowings.


We have an interest rate swap contract which effectively converts the
floating base rate on the first $200.0 million of our borrowings to a 2.26%
fixed rate. The Company only hedges the base interest rate risk on the first
$200.0 million of its outstanding borrowings. Accordingly, we are exposed to
interest rate risk on borrowings in excess of $200.0 million. A 25 basis point
increase or decrease in interest rates would change pre-tax annual interest
expense on the additional revolver borrowing capacity under the 2010 Credit
Agreement (not including the expansion feature) by approximately $0.9 million.

FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK

We have customers in numerous countries, and 46% and 44% of our
revenues for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively,
were derived from sales outside of the U.S. As a result, we conduct business in
numerous currencies other than the U.S dollar. Among the major foreign
currencies in which we conduct business are the Euro, the British Pound, the
Japanese Yen, the Australian dollar, and the Canadian dollar. Our foreign
currency exposure results in both translation risk and transaction risk:

TRANSLATION RISK

We are exposed to foreign currency translation risk since the
functional currencies of our foreign operations are generally denominated in
the local currency. Translation risk arises since the assets and liabilities
that we report for our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at
the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates, and these exchange
rates fluctuate over time. These foreign currency translation adjustments are
deferred and are recorded as a component of stockholders’ equity and do not
impact our operating results.

A measure of the potential impact of foreign currency translation on
our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets can be determined through a sensitivity
analysis of our cash and cash equivalents. At December 31, 2011, we had $142.7
million of cash and cash equivalents, a substantial portion of which was
denominated in foreign currencies. If the foreign exchange rates of the major
currencies in which we operate changed in comparison to the U.S. dollar by 10%,
the amount of cash and cash equivalents we would have reported on December 31,
2011 would have increased or decreased by approximately $9.0 million.

Because our foreign subsidiaries generally operate in a local
functional currency that differs from the U.S. dollar, revenues and expenses in
these foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses
in U.S. dollars as the U.S. dollar continuously weakens or strengthens against
these other currencies. Therefore, changes in exchange rates may affect our
consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in U.S. dollars) from foreign
operations. Historically, this impact on our consolidated earnings has not been
material since foreign currency movements in the major currencies in which we
operate tend to impact our revenues and expenses fairly equally.

TRANSACTION RISK

We also have foreign exchange transaction risk since we typically enter
into transactions in the normal course of business that are denominated in
foreign currencies that differ from the local functional currency in which the
foreign subsidiary operates.

We typically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to
offset the effects of foreign currency transaction risk. These contracts are
normally short term in duration and unrealized and realized gains and losses
are recognized in current period earnings. At December 31, 2011, we had 60
outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with a total notional amount of
$99.6 million and an immaterial net unrealized gain. All of these contracts
matured by the end of January 2012.

CREDIT RISK

Financial instruments that
potentially subject the Company to concentration of credit risk consist
primarily of short-term, highly liquid investments classified as cash
equivalents, accounts receivable, and interest rate swap contracts. The
majority of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents and its interest rate swap
contracts are with large investment grade commercial banks that are
participants in the Company’s 2010 Credit Agreement. Accounts receivable
balances deemed to be collectible from customers have limited concentration of
credit risk due to our diverse customer base and geographic dispersion.

I

TEM 8. FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

Our
consolidated financial statements for 2011, 2010, and 2009, together with the
reports of KPMG LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, are
included herein in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


I

TEM 9. CHANGES IN
AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND

FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

I

TEM 9A. CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES

DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Management conducted an evaluation, as of December 31, 2011, of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures, (as such term is defined in Rules 13a- 15(e) and 15d- 15(e) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”)) under the supervision
and with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial
officer. Based upon that evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief
financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures
are effective in alerting them in a timely manner to material Company
information required to be disclosed by us in reports filed or submitted under
the Act.

MANAGEMENT’S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL
CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

Gartner management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Gartner’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. In addition, projections of
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions and that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, management used
the criteria set forth in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
Management’s assessment was reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of
Directors.

Based on its assessment of internal control over financial reporting,
management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, Gartner’s internal
control over financial reporting was effective.

The effectiveness of management’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in Part IV, Item 15.

CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING

There were no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting
during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that have materially affected, or
are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over
financial reporting.

I

TEM 9B. OTHER
INFORMATION

Not applicable.

P

ART III

I

TEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item will be
set forth under the captions “Proposal One: Election of Directors,” “Executive
Officers,” “Corporate Governance,” “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance” and “Miscellaneous — Available Information” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC no later than April 30,
2012. If


the Proxy Statement is not filed with the SEC by April 30, 2012, such
information will be included in an amendment to this Annual Report filed by
April 30, 2012. See also Item 1. Business — Available Information.

I

TEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item is
incorporated by reference from the information set forth under the caption
“Executive Compensation” in the Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the
SEC no later than April 30, 2012. If the Proxy Statement is not filed with the
SEC by April 30, 2012, such information will be included in an amendment to
this Annual Report filed by April 30, 2012.

I

TEM 12. SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND

RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item will be
set forth under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management” in the Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC by April
30, 2012. If the Proxy Statement is not filed with the SEC by April 30, 2012,
such information will be included in an amendment to this Annual Report filed
by April 30, 2012.

I

TEM 13. CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR

INDEPENDENCE.

The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item will be
set forth under the captions “Transactions With Related Persons” and “Corporate
Governance — Director Independence” in the Company’s Proxy Statement to be
filed with the SEC by April 30, 2012. If the Proxy Statement is not filed with
the SEC by April 30, 2012, such information will be included in an amendment to
this Annual Report filed by April 30, 2012.

I

TEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES.

The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item will be
set forth under the caption “Principal Accountant Fees and Services” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC no later than April 30,
2012. If the Proxy Statement is not filed with the SEC by April 30, 2012, such
information will be included in an amendment to this Annual Report filed by
April 30, 2012.

P

ART IV

I

TEM 15. EXHIBITS
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.

(a) 1. and 2. Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

The reports of our independent registered public accounting firm and
consolidated financial statements listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial
Statements herein are filed as part of this report.

All financial statement schedules not listed in the Index have been
omitted because the information required is not applicable or is shown in the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.



INDEX TO CONSOL

IDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

GARTNER, INC.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

All financial
statement schedules have been omitted because the information required is not
applicable or is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes
thereto.


R

ep

ort of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Gartner, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Gartner, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity
(deficit) and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2011. These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Gartner,
Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria
established in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 23, 2012 expressed an
unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting.

(KPMG LLP
LOGO)

/s/ KPMG LLP

New York, New
York

February 23, 2012


R

e

port of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Gartner, Inc.:

We have audited Gartner, Inc. and subsidiaries’ (the Company) internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria
established in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011,
based on criteria established in

Internal
Control — Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance
sheets of Gartner, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and
the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity
(deficit) and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2011, and our report dated February 23, 2012
expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.

(KPMG LLP
LOGO)

/s/ KPMG LLP

New York, New
York

February 23, 2012


GARTNER, INC.

C

ON

SOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.


GARTNER, INC.

C

ONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATI

ONS

(IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.


GARTNER, INC.

C

ONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLD

ERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT) AND
COMPREHENSIVE

INCOME

(IN THOUSANDS)

See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.


GARTNER, INC.

C

ONSOLIDATE

D STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(IN THOUSANDS)

See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.


GARTNER, INC.

N

OTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEME

NTS

1 — BUSINESS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Business.

Gartner, Inc. (“Gartner” or the “Company”) is a global information
technology research and advisory company founded in 1979 with its headquarters
in Stamford, Connecticut. Gartner delivers its principal products and services
through three business segments: Research, Consulting, and Events. When used in
these notes, the terms “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to Gartner, Inc.
and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Basis of presentation.

The
accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America
(“U.S. GAAP”), as defined in the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 270 for financial information
and with the applicable instructions of U.S. Securities & Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) Regulation S-X. The fiscal year of Gartner represents the twelve-month period from January 1 through December
31. All references to 2011, 2010, and 2009 refer to the fiscal year unless
otherwise indicated.

Principles of consolidation.

The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated.

Use of estimates.

The preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements
requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events.
These estimates and the underlying assumptions affect the amounts of assets and
liabilities reported, disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities, and
reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Such estimates include the valuation
of accounts receivable, goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived
assets, as well as tax accruals and other liabilities. In addition, estimates
are used in revenue recognition, income tax expense, performance-based
compensation charges, depreciation and amortization, and the allowance for
losses. Management believes its use of estimates in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements to be reasonable.

Management
continuously evaluates and revises its estimates using historical experience
and other factors, including the general economic environment and actions it
may take in the future. Management adjusts these estimates when facts and
circumstances dictate. However, these estimates may involve significant
uncertainties and judgments and cannot be determined with precision. In
addition, these estimates are based on our best judgment at a point in time. As
a result, differences between our estimates and actual results could be
material and would be reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements
in future periods.

Revenues.

Revenue is recognized in accordance with U.S. GAAP and SEC Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 101,

Revenue
Recognition

in Financial Statements (“SAB 101”), and SEC Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 104,

Revenue
Recognition

(“SAB 104”). Revenues are only recognized once all
required criteria for recognition have been met. The Consolidated Statement of
Operations presents revenues net of any sales or value-added taxes that we
collect from customers and remit to government authorities.

The
Company’s revenues by significant source are as follows:

Research
revenues are derived from annual subscription contracts for research products.
These revenues are deferred and recognized ratably over the applicable contract
term. The Company typically enters into annually renewable subscription
contracts for research products. Reprint fees are recognized when the reprint
is shipped.

The
majority of research contracts are billable upon signing, absent special terms
granted on a limited basis from time to time. Research contracts are
non-cancelable and non-refundable, except for government contracts that may
have cancellation or fiscal funding clauses, which have not produced material
cancellations to date. It is our policy to record the entire amount of the
contract that is billable as a fee receivable at the time the contract is
signed with a corresponding amount as deferred revenue, since the contract
represents a legally enforceable claim.

Consulting
revenues, primarily derived from consulting, measurement and strategic advisory
services (paid one-day analyst engagements), are principally generated from
fixed fee or time and materials engagements. Revenues from fixed fee
engagements are recognized on a proportional performance basis, while revenues
from time and material engagements are recognized as work is delivered and/or
services are provided. Revenues related to contract optimization engagements are
contingent in nature and are only recognized upon satisfaction of all
conditions related to their payment. Unbilled fees receivable associated with
consulting engagements were $29.2 million at December 31, 2011 and $29.4
million at December 31, 2010.


Events
revenues are deferred and recognized upon the completion of the related
symposium, conference or exhibition. In addition, the Company defers certain
costs directly related to events and expenses these costs in the period during
which the related symposium, conference or exhibition occurs. The Company
policy is to defer only those costs, primarily prepaid site and production
services costs, which are incremental and are directly attributable to a
specific event. Other costs of organizing and producing our events, primarily
Company personnel and non-event specific expenses, are expensed in the period
incurred. At the end of each fiscal quarter, the Company assesses on an
event-by-event basis whether expected direct costs of producing a scheduled
event will exceed expected revenues. If such costs are expected to exceed
revenues, the Company records the expected loss in the period determined.

Allowance for losses.

The Company maintains an allowance for losses
which is composed of a bad debt allowance and a sales reserve. Provisions are
charged against earnings, either as a reduction in revenues or as an increase
to expense. The amount of the allowance for losses is based on historical loss
experience, aging of outstanding receivables, an assessment of current economic
conditions and the financial health of specific clients.

Cost of services and product development (“COS”).

COS expense includes the direct costs
incurred in the creation and delivery of our products and services.

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”).

SG&A expense includes direct and indirect
selling costs, general and administrative costs, and charges against earnings
related to uncollectible accounts.

Commission expense.

The Company records commission obligations
upon the signing of customer contracts and amortizes the deferred obligation as
commission expense over the estimated period in which the related revenues are
earned. Commission expense is included in SG&A in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations.

Stock-based compensation expense.

The Company accounts for stock-based
compensation in accordance with FASB ASC Topics 505 and 718, as interpreted by
SEC Staff Accounting Bulletins No. 107 (“SAB No. 107”) and No. 110 (“SAB No.
110”). Stock-based compensation cost is based on the fair value of the award on
the date of grant, which is expensed over the related service period, net of
estimated forfeitures. The service period is the period over which the employee
performs the related services, which is normally the same as the vesting
period. During 2011, 2010, and 2009, the Company recognized $32.9 million,
$32.6 million, and $26.1 million, respectively, of stock-based compensation
expense (see Note 8 — Stock-Based Compensation), which is recorded in both COS
and SG&A in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Income tax expense.

The provision for income taxes is the sum of
the amount of income tax paid or payable for the year as determined by applying
the provisions of enacted tax laws to taxable income for that year and the net
changes during the year in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are recognized based on differences between the book and
tax basis of assets and liabilities using presently enacted tax rates. We
credit additional paid-in capital for realized tax benefits arising from stock
transactions with employees. The tax benefit on a nonqualified stock option is
equal to the tax effect of the difference between the market price of Common
Stock on the date of exercise and the exercise price.

Cash and cash equivalents.

Includes cash and all highly liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less, which are
considered cash equivalents. The carrying value of cash equivalents
approximates fair value due to their short-term maturity. Investments with
maturities of more than three months are classified as marketable securities.
Interest earned on investments is classified in Interest income in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Property, equipment and leasehold improvements.

The Company leases all of its facilities and
certain equipment. These leases are all classified as operating leases in
accordance with FASB ASC Topic 840. The cost of these operating leases,
including any contractual rent increases, rent concessions, and landlord
incentives, are recognized ratably over the life of the related lease
agreement. Lease expense was $26.2 million, $23.5 million, and $22.5 million in
2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

Equipment,
leasehold improvements, and other fixed assets owned by the Company are
recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation. Except for leasehold
improvements, these fixed assets are depreciated using the straight-line method
over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Leasehold improvements are
amortized using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated
useful lives of the improvements or the remaining term of the related leases.
The Company had total depreciation expense of $25.5 million, $25.3 million, and
$25.4 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.


Property,
equipment and leasehold improvements, less accumulated depreciation and
amortization, consist of the following (in thousands):

The Company capitalizes certain eligible costs incurred to develop
internal use software in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350. At December 31,
2011 and 2010, net capitalized development costs for internal use software were
$13.6 million and $14.3 million, respectively. Amortization of capitalized
internal software development costs, which is classified in Depreciation in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations, totaled $7.8 million, $7.9 million, and
$8.3 million during 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

The Company’s corporate headquarters is located in approximately
213,000 square feet of leased office space in three buildings in Stamford,
Connecticut. The Stamford facility accommodates research and analysis,
marketing, sales, client support, production, corporate services, executive
offices, and administration. In 2010 the Company entered into a new 15 year
lease agreement for this facility which provides for a reduced rental until
completion of certain renovation work. In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 840,
the Company accounted for the new Stamford lease as an operating lease
arrangement. The total minimum payments the Company will be obligated to pay
under this lease, including contractual escalation clauses and reduced rents
during the renovation period, will be expensed on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.

Under the terms of the new Stamford lease, the landlord has provided a
$25.0 million tenant improvement allowance to be used to renovate the three
buildings and the parking areas comprising the facility. The renovation work
began in 2011 and is expected to be completed in late 2012. The $25.0 million
contractual amount due from the landlord was recorded as a tenant improvement
allowance in Other assets and as deferred rent in Other Liabilities on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. As the renovation work progresses and payments are
received from the landlord, the tenant improvement receivable will be relieved
and leasehold improvement assets will be recorded in Property, equipment, and
leasehold improvements. The leasehold improvement assets will then be amortized
to Depreciation expense over their useful lives, beginning when the assets are
placed in service. The amount recorded as deferred rent will be amortized as a
reduction to rent expense (SG&A) on a straight-line basis over the term of
the lease.

As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $22.5 million of remaining
unamortized deferred rent resulting from the tenant improvement allowance, of
which $1.5 million is recorded in Accounts payable and accrued liabilities and
$21.0 million is recorded in Other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated
Balance Sheets. The Company paid $9.5 million in renovation costs for this
project in 2011, of which $9.0 million was reimbursed in 2011 and $0.5 will be
reimbursed in 2012. The Company expects to utilize the entire remaining $15.5
million improvement allowance in 2012.

Intangible assets.

Intangible
assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their expected useful
lives. Intangible assets subject to amortization include the following (in
thousands):


Intangible assets are
being amortized against earnings over the following periods:

Aggregate
amortization expense on intangible assets was $6.5 million, $10.5 million, and
$1.6 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The estimated future
amortization expense by year from purchased intangibles is as follows (in
thousands):

Goodwill.

Goodwill
represents the excess of the purchase price of acquired businesses over the
estimated fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible net assets
acquired. The evaluation of the recoverability of goodwill is performed in
accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, which requires an annual assessment of
potential goodwill impairment at the reporting unit level and whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
recoverable. The Company has three reporting units: Research, Consulting, and
Events. Since 2002, when the current goodwill impairment rules were first
adopted, goodwill must be tested annually for impairment under a two-step
impairment test. Under the two-step test, if a reporting unit’s carrying amount
exceeds its estimated fair value, goodwill impairment is recognized to the
extent that the reporting unit’s carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the
implied fair value of the goodwill. The Company uses discounted cash flows,
market multiples, and other valuation techniques to measure the estimated fair
value of a reporting unit. .

In September 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”)
No. 2011-08,

Intangibles-Goodwill and Other

–

Testing Goodwill for Impairment

(“ASU
No. 2011-08”). ASU No. 2011-08 permits an entity to make a qualitative
assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit’s fair
value is less than its carrying amount rather than automatically applying the
two-step goodwill impairment test. If the entity’s qualitative assessment does
not allow it to reach this conclusion, then it is necessary to perform the
two-step goodwill impairment test to determine the amount, if any, of impaired
goodwill. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. The
objective of ASU No. 2011-08 is to both simplify and reduce the on-going cost
of goodwill impairment testing for both private and public companies.

The Company conducted the annually required two-step goodwill
impairment test in 2010 in the quarter ended September 30 and concluded that
the fair values of each of the Company’s reporting units substantially exceeded
their respective carrying values. In 2011, the Company made the decision to
early adopt ASU No. 2011-08 and conduct a qualitative assessment of reporting
unit fair value as of September 30, based in part on the demonstrated
historical trend of the fair values of the Company’s reporting units
substantially exceeding their carrying values. Among the factors included in
the Company’s qualitative assessment were general economic conditions and the
competitive environment; actual and expected segment financial performance;
forward-looking business measurements; and external market assessments. Based
on the results of the qualitative assessment, the Company believes the fair
value of goodwill of each of the Company’s reporting units continue to
substantially exceed their respective carrying values and concluded that it was
not necessary to conduct the two-step goodwill impairment test. As a result,
the adoption of ASU No. 2011-08 did not impact the Company’s results of
operations, financial position, or cash flows.

The following table presents changes to the carrying amount of goodwill
by reporting unit during the two year period ended December 31, 2011 (in
thousands):

(1)

The
Company has not recorded goodwill impairment losses since its adoption of the
two-step goodwill impairment rules in 2002. Accordingly, the Company
considers the recorded amount of goodwill as of December 31, 2009 to be the
gross amount of goodwill.


Impairment of long-lived assets and
intangible assets.

The Company reviews long-lived
assets and intangible assets other than goodwill for impairment whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the respective
asset may not be recoverable. Such evaluation may be based on a number of
factors including current and projected operating results and cash flows,
changes in management’s strategic direction as well as external economic and
market factors.

The Company’s policy regarding long-lived assets and intangible assets
other than goodwill is to evaluate the recoverability of these assets by
determining whether the balance can be recovered through undiscounted future
operating cash flows. Should events or circumstances indicate that the carrying
value might not be recoverable based on undiscounted future operating cash
flows, an impairment loss would be recognized. The amount of impairment, if
any, is measured based on the difference between projected discounted future
operating cash flows using a discount rate reflecting the Company’s average
cost of funds and the carrying value of the asset.

Pension obligations.

The
Company has defined-benefit pension plans in three of its international
locations (see Note 13 — Employee Benefits). Benefits earned under these plans
are generally based on years of service and level of employee compensation. The
Company accounts for defined benefit plans in accordance with the requirements
of FASB ASC Topic 715. The Company determines the periodic pension expense and
related liabilities for these plans through actuarial assumptions and
valuations. The Company recognized $2.7 million, $2.4 million, and $2.2 million
of expense for these plans in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The Company
classifies pension expense in SG&A in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.

Foreign currency exposure.

All
assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars
at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Income and expense items
are translated at average exchange rates for the year. The resulting
translation adjustments are recorded as foreign currency translation
adjustments, a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income, net within
the Stockholders’ equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Currency transaction gains or losses arising from transactions
denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of a subsidiary
are included in results of operations in Other income (expense), net within the
Consolidated Statements of Operations. Net currency transaction (losses) were
$(1.3) million, $(4.8) million, and $(3.6) million in 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively. The Company enters into foreign currency forward exchange
contracts to mitigate the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates on these transactions. These contracts generally have a short
duration and are recorded at fair value with unrealized and realized gains and
losses also recorded in Other income (expense), net. The net (loss) gain from
these contracts was $(1.2) million, $2.8 million, and $0.7 million in 2011,
2010, and 2009, respectively.

Fair value disclosures.

The
Company’s fair value disclosures are included in Note 12 — Fair Value
Disclosures.

Concentrations of credit risk.

Assets
that may subject the Company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily
of short-term, highly liquid investments classified as cash equivalents,
accounts receivable, interest rate swaps, and a pension reinsurance asset. The
majority of the Company’s cash equivalent investments and its interest rate
swap contract are with investment grade commercial banks that are participants
in the Company’s 2010 Credit Agreement. Accounts receivable balances deemed to
be collectible from customers have limited concentration of credit risk due to
our diverse customer base and geographic dispersion. The Company’s pension
reinsurance asset (see Note 13 — Employee Benefits) is maintained with a large
international insurance company that was rated investment grade as of December
31, 2011.

Stock repurchase programs.

The
Company records the cost to repurchase its own shares to treasury stock. During
2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded $212.0 million, $99.8 million, and
$3.7 million, respectively, of stock repurchases (see Note 7 — Stockholders’
Equity). Shares repurchased by the Company are added to treasury shares and are
not retired.

Recent accounting developments.

The
following disclosures highlight new and significant accounting rules that the
Company has adopted or will adopt in future periods:

Accounting Standards Adopted

On September 30, 2011, the Company early adopted FASB ASU No. 2011-08,

Intangibles-Goodwill and Other

–

Testing Goodwill for Impairment

(“ASU No.
2011-08”) (see discussion in

Goodwill

above).
The adoption of ASU No. 2011-08 did not impact the Company’s results of
operations, financial position, or cash flows.


Accounting
Standards to be adopted in Future Accounting Periods

Final
accounting rules issued by the FASB that have not yet become effective and may
impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements or related disclosures
in future periods are described below:

Comprehensive
Income. In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued
Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-05,

Comprehensive Income (Topic 220-10): Presentation of Comprehensive
Income

. The new guidance eliminates the current option to report
other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of stockholders’
equity. Instead, the new rule will require an entity to present net income and
other comprehensive income in one continuous statement, referred to as the
statement of comprehensive income, or in two separate, but consecutive
statements. While the new guidance changes the presentation of comprehensive
income, there are no changes to the components that are recognized in net
income or other comprehensive income under
current accounting guidance. This new guidance is effective for fiscal years
and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company will
adopt this new rule in the quarter ending March 31, 2012.

Fair
Value Measurements

.

In May 2011,
the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04,

Fair Value
Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement
and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs.

ASU No. 2011-04
establishes a number of new requirements for fair value measurements. These
include: (1) a prohibition on grouping financial instruments for purposes of
determining fair value, except when an entity manages market and credit risks
on the basis of the entity’s net exposure to the group; (2) an extension of the
prohibition against the use of a blockage factor to all fair value measurements
(that prohibition currently applies only to financial instruments with quoted
prices in active markets); and (3) a requirement that for recurring Level 3
fair value measurements, entities disclose quantitative information about
unobservable inputs, a description of the valuation process used and
qualitative details about the sensitivity of the measurements. In addition, for
items not carried at fair value but for which fair value is disclosed, entities
will be required to disclose the level within the fair value hierarchy that
applies to the fair value measurement disclosed. This ASU is effective for
interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company will
adopt this new rule in the quarter ending March 31, 2012.

2 — ACQUISITIONS

In
December 2009 the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of AMR
Research and Burton Group for total net cash of $116.7 million, of which $12.2
million was paid in 2010 and $104.5 million was paid in 2009. The Company’s
consolidated results include the operating results of these businesses
beginning on their respective acquisition dates. The Company recorded an aggregate of $7.9
million of acquisition and integration expenses related to these acquisitions
during 2010 and $2.9 million in 2009. Included in these charges are legal fees
and consultant fees in connection with the acquisition and integration, as well
as severance costs related to redundant headcount.

3 — OTHER ASSETS

Other
assets consist of the following (in thousands):

(1)

Includes
 contractual amounts receivable related to the renovation of the Company’s
 Stamford headquarters facility (see

Property,
 equipment and leasehold improvements

in Note 1 — Business and
 Significant Accounting Policies for additional description).


4 — ACCOUNTS PAYABLE, ACCRUED, AND OTHER LIABILITIES

Accounts payable and accrued
liabilities consist of the following (in thousands):

Other liabilities consist
 of the following (in thousands):

(1)

Represents unamortized deferred rent resulting
from the $25.0 million tenant improvement allowance on the Company’s Stamford
headquarters facility (see

Property, equipment and leasehold improvements

in
Note 1 — Business and Significant Accounting Policies for additional
description).

5 — DEBT

Credit Agreement

In
December 2010 the Company entered into a new credit arrangement that provides
for a five-year, $200.0 million term loan and a $400.0 million revolving credit
facility (the “2010 Credit Agreement”). The Company terminated its prior credit
arrangement when it entered into the 2010 Credit Agreement and paid down the
remaining amounts outstanding. The 2010 Credit Agreement contains an expansion
feature by which the term loan and revolving credit facility may be increased,
at the Company’s option and under certain conditions, by up to an additional
$150.0 million in the aggregate. The term loan will be repaid in 19 consecutive
quarterly installments which commenced on March 31, 2011, plus a final payment
due on December 22, 2015, and may be prepaid at any time without penalty or
premium at the Company’s option. The revolving credit facility may be used for
loans, and up to $40.0 million may be used for letters of credit. The revolving
loans may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed until December 22, 2015, at which
time all amounts borrowed must be repaid.

Amounts
borrowed under the 2010 Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate equal to, at
the Company’s option, either (i) the greatest of: the administrative agent’s
prime rate; the average rate on overnight federal funds plus 1/2 of 1%; and the
eurodollar rate (adjusted for statutory reserves) plus 1%, in each case plus a
margin equal to between 0.50% and 1.25% depending on the Company’s leverage
ratio as of the end of the four consecutive fiscal quarters most recently
ended, or (ii) the eurodollar rate (adjusted for statutory reserves) plus a
margin equal to between 1.50% and 2.25%, depending on the Company’s leverage
ratio as of the end of the four consecutive fiscal quarters most recently
ended.

The
2010 Credit Agreement contains certain customary restrictive loan covenants,
including, among others, financial covenants requiring a maximum leverage
ratio, a minimum interest expense coverage ratio, and covenants limiting the
Company’s ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, make acquisitions, be
acquired, dispose of assets, pay dividends, repurchase stock, make capital
expenditures, make investments and enter into certain transactions with
affiliates. The Company was in full compliance with these covenants as of
December 31, 2011.


The
following table provides information regarding the Company’s borrowings:

In
December 2010, the Company recorded certain incremental pre-tax charges due to
the termination of the prior credit arrangement. The majority of these charges
would have been recognized as expenses in 2011, but accounting rules required
their accelerated recognition
in 2010. These accelerated pre-tax charges included $3.3 million for deferred
losses on interest rate swap contracts that had been recorded in Other
Comprehensive Income (OCI) since the swaps had previously been designated as
accounting hedges, and $0.4 million for the write-off of a portion of
capitalized debt issuance costs related to the previous debt. In accordance
with FASB ASC Topic 815, the deferral of the unrealized losses on the swaps
recorded in OCI was no longer permitted since the forecasted interest payments
related to the previous debt would not occur. Both the capitalized debt
issuance write-off and the interest rate swap charge were classified in
Interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year
ended December 31, 2010.

Interest Rate Swap Hedge

The
Company entered into a $200.0 million notional fixed-for-floating interest rate
swap contract in December 2010 which it designated as a hedge of the forecasted
interest payments on the Company’s variable rate borrowings. Under the swap
terms, the Company pays a base fixed rate of 2.26% and in return receives a
Eurodollar base rate.

The
Company accounts for the interest rate swap as a cash flow hedge in accordance
with FASB ASC Topic 815. Since the swap is hedging forecasted interest
payments, changes in the fair value of the swap are recorded in OCI as long as
the swap continues to be a highly effective hedge of the designated interest
rate risk. Any ineffective portion of change in the fair value of the hedge is
recorded in earnings. At December 31, 2011, there was no ineffective portion of
the hedge. The interest rate swap had a negative fair value to the Company of
$9.9 million at December 31, 2011, which is classified in OCI, net of tax
effect.

Letters of Credit

The Company had $4.7 million of letters of credit
and related guarantees outstanding at year-end 2011. The Company issues these
instruments in the ordinary course of business to facilitate transactions with
customers and others.

6 — COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Contractual Lease Commitments.

The Company leases various facilities,
furniture, and computer equipment under operating lease arrangements expiring
between 2012 and 2027. The future minimum annual cash payments under
non-cancelable operating lease agreements at December 31, 2011, are as follows
(in thousands):


Legal Matters.

We are involved in various
legal and administrative proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary
course of business. The outcome of these individual matters is not predictable
at this time. However, we believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters,
after considering amounts already accrued and insurance coverage, will not have
a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or
cash flows in future periods.

Indemnifications.

The Company has various agreements that may obligate us to indemnify
the other party with respect to certain matters. Generally, these
indemnification clauses are included in contracts arising in the normal course
of business under which we customarily agree to hold the other party harmless
against losses arising from a breach of representations related to such matters
as title to assets sold and licensed or certain intellectual property rights.
It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under
these indemnification agreements due to the conditional nature of the Company’s
obligations and the unique facts
of each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under these
agreements have not been material. As of December 31, 2011, we did not have any
indemnification agreements that would require material payments.

7 — STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Common stock.

Holders of Gartner’s Common Stock, par value $.0005 per share (“Common
Stock”) are entitled to one vote per share on all matters to be voted by
stockholders. The Company does not currently pay cash dividends on its Common
Stock. Also, our credit arrangement contains a negative covenant which may
limit our ability to pay dividends.

The
following table summarizes transactions relating to Common Stock for the three
years’ ending December 31, 2011:

(1)

Includes
 2,148,434 shares the Company repurchased directly from ValueAct Capital
 Master Fund, L.P. (“ValueAct”) in two separate transactions during 2011. The
 total cost of the shares repurchased directly from ValueAct was $75.2
 million.

Share repurchase program.

The Company has a $500.0 million share
repurchase program, of which $293.5 million remained available for share
repurchases as of December 31, 2011. Repurchases
may be made from time-to-time through open market purchases, private
transactions, tender offers or other transactions. The amount and timing of
repurchases will be subject to the availability of stock, prevailing market
conditions, the trading price of the stock, the Company’s financial performance
and other conditions. Repurchases may also be made from time-to-time in
connection with the settlement of the Company’s shared-based compensation
awards. Repurchases may be funded from cash flow from operations or
borrowings.

The
Company paid cash of $212.0 million, $99.8 million, and $3.7 million, in 2011,
2010, and 2009, respectively, for common stock repurchases. The $212.0 million
paid for share repurchases in 2011 includes the cost of the shares repurchased
directly from ValueAct.


8 — STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

The
Company grants stock-based compensation awards as an incentive for employees
and directors to contribute to the Company’s long-term success. The Company
currently awards stock-settled stock appreciation rights, service- and
performance-based restricted stock units, and common stock equivalents. At
December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately 6.5 million shares of Common
Stock available for awards of stock-based compensation under its 2003 Long-Term
Incentive Plan.

The
Company accounts for stock-based compensation awards in accordance with FASB
ASC Topics 505 and 718, as interpreted by SEC Staff Accounting Bulletins No.
107 (“SAB No. 107”) and No. 110 (“SAB No. 110”). Stock-based compensation
expense is based on the fair value of the award on the date of grant, which is
then recognized over the related service period, net of estimated forfeitures.
The service period is the period over which the related service is performed, which
is generally the same as the vesting period. Currently the Company issues
treasury shares upon the exercise, release or settlement of stock-based
compensation awards.

Determining
the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based
compensation awards requires the input of certain complex and subjective
assumptions, including the expected life of the stock-based compensation awards
and the Common Stock
price volatility. In addition, determining the appropriate amount of associated
periodic expense requires management to estimate the amount of employee
forfeitures and the likelihood of the achievement of certain performance
targets. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock-based
compensation awards and the associated periodic expense represent management’s
best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the
application of judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company deems
it necessary in the future to modify the assumptions it made or to use
different assumptions, or if the quantity and nature of the Company’s
stock-based compensation awards changes, then the amount of expense may need to
be adjusted and future stock-based compensation expense could be materially
different from what has been recorded in the current period.

The
Company recognized the following amounts of stock-based compensation expense
(in millions) for the years ended December 31:

(1)

Includes charges of $3.1
 million in both 2011 and 2010 and $1.9 million in 2009 for awards to
 retirement-eligible employees.

Stock-based
compensation (in millions) was recognized as follows in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31:

As
of December 31, 2011, the Company had $42.3 million of total unrecognized
stock-based compensation cost, which is expected to be recognized as
stock-based compensation expense over the remaining weighted-average service
period of approximately 2.1 years.

Stock-Based
Compensation Awards

The
following disclosures provide information regarding the Company’s stock-based
compensation awards, all of which are classified as equity awards in accordance
with FASB ASC Topic 505:

Stock Appreciation Rights

Stock-settled
stock appreciation rights (SARs) are settled in common shares and permit the
holder to participate in the appreciation of the Common Stock. SARs are
settled in shares of Common Stock by the employee once the applicable vesting
criteria have been met. SARs vest ratably over a four-year service period and
expire seven years from the grant date. The fair value of SARs awards is
recognized as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over four years.
At the present time, SARs are awarded only to the Company’s executive officers.


When SARs are exercised, the number of shares of Common Stock issued is
calculated as follows: (1) the total proceeds from the SARs exercise
(calculated as the closing price of the Common Stock on the date of exercise
less the exercise price of the SARs, multiplied by the number of SARs
exercised) is divided by (2) the closing price of the Common Stock on the
exercise date. The Company withholds a portion of the shares of Common Stock
issued upon exercise to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding requirements.
SARs recipients do not have any stockholder rights until after actual shares of
Common Stock are issued in respect of the award, which is subject to the prior
satisfaction of the vesting and other criteria relating to such grants.

The following table summarizes changes in SARs outstanding for the year
ended December 31, 2011:

na=not
 applicable

(1)

At December
 31, 2011, 1.4 million of the SARs were unvested. The Company expects that
 substantially all of these unvested awards will vest in future periods.

(2)

At December
 31, 2011, SARs outstanding had an intrinsic value of $36.8 million. SARs
 vested and exercisable had an intrinsic value of $18.3 million.

The fair value
of the SARs was determined on the grant date using the Black-Scholes-Merton
valuation model with the following weighted-average assumptions for the years
ended December 31:

Restricted Stock Units

Restricted stock units (RSUs) give the awardee the right to receive
shares of Common Stock when the vesting conditions are met and the restrictions
lapse, and each RSU that vests entitles the awardee to one common share. RSU
awardees do not have any stockholder


rights until after the common shares are released. The fair value of
RSUs is determined on the date of grant based on the closing price of the
Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on that date.
Service-based RSUs vest ratably over four years and are expensed on a
straight-line basis over four years. Performance-based RSUs are subject to both
performance and service conditions, vest ratably over four years, and are
expensed on an accelerated basis. Presently performance-based RSUs are awarded
only to executive officers.

The following table summarizes the changes in RSUs outstanding during
the year ended December 31, 2011:

Common Stock Equivalents

Common stock equivalents (CSEs) are convertible into Common Stock and
each CSE entitles the holder to one common share. Members of our Board of
Directors receive directors’ fees payable in CSEs unless they opt to receive up
to 50% of the fees in cash. Generally, the CSEs have no defined term and are
converted into common shares when service as a director terminates unless the
director has elected an accelerated release. The fair value of the CSEs is
determined on the date of grant based on the closing price of the Common Stock
as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on that date. CSEs vest immediately
and as a result are recorded as expense on the date of grant.

The following table summarizes the changes in CSEs outstanding for the
year ended December 31, 2011:

Stock Options

Historically,
the Company granted stock options to employees that allowed them to purchase
shares of Common Stock at a certain price. The Company has not made any stock
option grants since 2006. All outstanding options are fully vested and there is
no


remaining
unamortized cost. The Company received $16.6 million, $20.7 million, and $12.2
million in cash from stock option exercises in 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively.

The following
table summarizes the changes in stock options outstanding during the year ended
December 31, 2011:

na=not applicable

Employee
 Stock Purchase Plan

The Company has an employee stock purchase plan (the “ESP Plan”) under
which eligible employees are permitted to purchase Common Stock through payroll
deductions, which may not exceed 10% of an employee’s compensation (or $23,750
in any calendar year), at a price equal to 95% of the closing price of the Common
Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange at the end of each offering
period. At December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately 1.4 million shares
available for purchase under the ESP Plan. The ESP Plan is considered
non-compensatory under FASB ASC Topic 718, and as a result the Company does not
record stock-based compensation expense for employee share purchases. The
Company received $3.4 million, $2.8 million, and $2.7 million in cash from
share purchases under the ESP Plan during 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

9 — COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed by dividing net income by
the weighted average number of shares of Common Stock outstanding for the
period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution of securities that could
share in earnings. When the impact of common share equivalents is antidilutive,
they are excluded from the calculation.

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of the basic and
diluted earnings per share computations (in thousands, except per share
amounts) for the years ended December 31:

(1)

During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company repurchased 5.9 million, 3.9
 million, and 0.3 million shares of its Common Stock, respectively.

The following table presents the number of common share equivalents
that were not included in the computation of diluted EPS in the table above
because the effect would have been antidilutive. During periods with net
income, these common share equivalents were antidilutive because their exercise
price was greater than the average market value of a share of Common Stock
during the period.


10 — INCOME TAXES

Following is a summary of the components of income before income taxes
for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):

The expense for income taxes on the above income consists of the
following components (in thousands):

Current and
long-term deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprised of the following
(in thousands):

Current net deferred tax assets and current net deferred tax
liabilities were $31.4 million and $0.6 million as of December 31, 2011 and
$28.4 million and $0.4 million as of December 31, 2010, respectively, and are
included in Prepaid expenses and other current assets and Accounts payable and
accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Long-term net deferred
tax assets and long-term net deferred tax liabilities were $22.8 million and
zero as of December 31, 2011 and $21.2 million and zero as of December 31,
2010, respectively, and are included in Other assets and Other liabilities in
the Consolidated Balance Sheets. It is more likely than not that the results of
future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to realize the deferred
tax assets.

The valuation allowances of
$1.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and $2.6 million as of December 31, 2010
relate primarily to non-U.S. net operating losses and domestic capital loss
carryforwards that more likely than not will expire unutilized. The net
decrease in


the valuation allowance of $0.7 million in 2011
relates primarily to the release of valuation allowances on federal and state
capital loss carryovers.

The Company has established a full valuation allowance against domestic
realized and unrealized capital losses, as the future utilization of these
losses is uncertain. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had U.S. federal
capital loss carryforwards of $0.8 million, all of which will expire in 2012.
The Company also had $0.8 million in state and local capital loss carryforwards
that expire over a similar period of time.

As of December 31, 2011, the Company had state and
local tax net operating loss carryforwards of $139.9 million, of which $5.0
million expire within one to five years, $114.2 million expire within six to
fifteen years, and $20.7 million expire within sixteen to twenty years. In
addition, the Company had non-U.S. net operating loss carryforwards of $27.3
million, of which $2.6 million expire over the next 20 years and $24.7 million
that can be carried forward indefinitely. As of December 31, 2011 the Company
also had foreign tax credit carryforwards of $10.0 million, the majority of
which expire in 2018.

The differences between the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate and
the Company’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes for the years
ended December 31 follow:

As of December 31, 2011 and December 31 2010, the
Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $18.3 million and $15.8 million,
respectively. The increase is primarily attributable to uncertainties
surrounding the utilization of certain tax attributes. It is reasonably possible
that the gross unrecognized tax benefits will be decreased by $2.9 million
within the next 12 months due primarily to anticipated settlements of audits and
the expiration of certain statutes of limitation. The benefits in question
relate primarily to the utilization of certain tax attributes.

The Company classifies uncertain tax positions not
expected to be settled within one year as long term liabilities. As of December
31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had Other Liabilities of $15.4
million and $15.7 million, respectively, related to long term uncertain tax
positions.

The Company records accrued interest and penalties
related to unrecognized tax benefits in its income tax provision. As of December
31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had $4.8 million and $3.8 million of
accrued interest and penalties, respectively, related to unrecognized tax
benefits. These amounts are in addition to the gross unrecognized tax benefits
noted above. The total amount of interest and penalties recognized in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations for years ending December 31, 2011 and
2010 was $1.5 million and $1.0 million, respectively.

The following is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, for the years
ending December 31 (in thousands):


In 2011, the Company repatriated
approximately $32.6 million from its foreign subsidiaries. The cash cost of the
repatriation was offset with the utilization of foreign tax credits and capital
loss carryovers.

The number of years with open statutes of
limitation varies depending on the tax jurisdiction. Generally, the Company’s
statutes are open for tax years ended December 31, 2007 and forward. Major
taxing jurisdictions include the U.S. (federal and state), the United Kingdom,
France, Germany, Australia, Italy, Canada, Japan, the Netherlands, and
Ireland.

The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) completed its examination of the
federal income tax return of the Company for the tax year ended December 31,
2007. In December 2010, the Company received a report of the audit findings.
The Company disagrees with certain of the proposed adjustments and is disputing
this matter through applicable IRS and judicial procedures, as appropriate. In
addition, in the second quarter of 2011 the IRS commenced an audit of the
Company’s 2008 and 2009 tax years. The Company continues to comply with all
information requests and no material adjustments of the Company’s tax positions
have been proposed at this time for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. Although the
final resolution of these audits is uncertain and there are no assurances that
the ultimate resolution will not exceed the amounts recorded, the Company
believes that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a
material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, cash flows, or
results of operations.

Earnings of a non-U.S. subsidiary or affiliate are
subject to U.S. taxation when repatriated. The Company intends to reinvest
earnings outside the U.S. except in instances where repatriating such earnings
would result in minimal additional tax. The Company currently has no plan to
remit earnings which will result in a material additional tax cost. Accordingly,
the Company has not recognized U.S. tax expense on non-U.S. earnings. At
December 31, 2011, the accumulated undistributed earnings of non-U.S.
subsidiaries approximated $41.3 million and were indefinitely invested. An
estimate of the U.S. income tax liability that would be payable if such earnings
were not indefinitely reinvested is $9.7 million.

11 — DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING

The
Company enters into a limited number of derivative contracts to offset the
potentially negative economic effects of interest rate and foreign exchange
movements. The Company accounts for its outstanding derivative contracts in
accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815, which requires all derivatives, to include
derivatives designated as accounting hedges, to be recorded on the balance
sheet at fair value.

The
following tables provide information regarding the Company’s outstanding
derivatives contracts as of, and for, the years ended (in thousands, except for
number of outstanding contracts):

December 31, 2011

(1)

The
 Company designates and accounts for this swap as a cash flow hedge of the
 forecasted interest payments on borrowings. As a result, changes in fair
 value of this swap are deferred and are recorded in OCI, net of tax effect.
 The Company entered into this swap in December 2010 (see Note 5 — Debt).


At
December 31, 2011 the Company’s derivative counterparties were all large
investment grade financial institutions. The Company did not have any
collateral arrangements with its derivative counterparties, and none of the
derivative contracts contained credit-risk related contingent features.

The
following table provides information regarding derivative gains and losses that
have been recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years
ended December 31 (in thousands):

(1)

Consists of interest
 expense from interest rate swap contracts.

(2)

Consists of realized and
 unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts.

12 — FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES

The
Company’s financial instruments include cash equivalents, fees receivable from
customers, accounts payable, and accruals which are normally short-term in
nature. The Company believes the carrying amounts of these financial
instruments reasonably approximates their fair value due to their short-term
nature. The Company’s financial instruments also includes borrowings
outstanding under its 2010 Credit Agreement, and at December 31, 2011, the
Company had $200.0 million of floating rate debt outstanding under this
arrangement, which is carried at amortized cost. The Company believes the
carrying amount of the outstanding borrowings reasonably approximates fair
value since the rate of interest on the borrowings reflect current market rates
of interest for similar instruments with comparable maturities.

FASB
ASC Topic 820 provides a framework for the measurement of fair value and a
valuation hierarchy based upon the transparency of inputs used in the valuation
of assets and liabilities. Classification within the hierarchy is based upon
the lowest level of input that is significant to the resulting fair value
measurement. The valuation hierarchy contains three levels. Level 1
measurements consist of quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities. Level 2 measurements include significant other observable inputs
such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets;
identical assets or liabilities in inactive markets; observable inputs such as
interest rates and yield curves; and other market-corroborated inputs. Level 3
measurements include significant unobservable inputs, such as
internally-created valuation models. The Company does not currently utilize
Level 3 valuation inputs to remeasure any of its assets or liabilities.
However, level 3 inputs may be used by the Company in its required annual
impairment review of goodwill. Information regarding the periodic assessment of
the Company’s goodwill is included in Note 1 — Business and Significant
Accounting Policies.


The Company has a limited number of assets and
liabilities recorded in its Consolidated Balance Sheets that are remeasured to
fair value on a recurring basis, which are presented in the following table (in
thousands):

13 — EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

Savings and investment plan.

The Company has a savings and investment plan
covering substantially all domestic employees. Company contributions are based
upon the level of employee contributions, up to a maximum of 4% of the
employee’s eligible salary, subject to an annual maximum. For 2011, the maximum
match was $6,600. In addition, the Company may also contribute at least 1% of
an employee’s base compensation, subject to an IRS annual limitation of $2,450
for 2011. Amounts expensed in connection with the plan totaled $15.9 million,
$14.6 million, and $13.0 million, in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

Deferred compensation plan.

The Company has a supplemental deferred
compensation plan for the benefit of certain highly compensated officers,
managers and other key employees, which is structured as a rabbi trust. The
plan’s investment assets are classified in Other assets on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets at fair value. The value of these assets was $25.1 million and
$24.1 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively (see Note 12 — Fair
Value Disclosures for a description regarding the determination of fair value
for these assets). The corresponding deferred compensation liability of $28.1
million and $26.9 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, is
carried at fair value, and is adjusted with a corresponding charge or credit to
compensation cost to reflect the fair value of the amount owed to the employees
which is classified in Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Total compensation expense recognized for the plan was $0.3 million in 2011,
zero in 2010, and $0.1 million in 2009.

Defined benefit pension plans.

The Company has defined-benefit pension plans
in several of its non-U.S. locations. Benefits earned under these plans are
based on years of service and level of employee compensation. The Company
accounts for defined benefit plans in accordance with the requirements of FASB
ASC Topics 715 and 960.


The
following are the components of net periodic pension expense for the years
ended December 31 (in thousands):

(1)

Pension expense is
 classified in SG&A in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

The
following are the assumptions used in the computation of net periodic pension
expense for the years ended December 31:

Discount
rates are typically determined by utilizing the yields on long-term corporate
or government bonds in the relevant country with a duration consistent with the
expected term of the underlying pension obligations.

The
following table provides information related to changes in the projected
benefit obligation for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):

The following table provides information regarding
the plan projected benefit obligation and other amounts recorded in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31 (in thousands):

(1)

Consists of the assets of a non-U.S. plan for
which the Company adopted the accounting provisions of FASB ASC Topics 715 and
960 on December 31, 2010. These assets are considered assets of the plan for
accounting purposes and are thus not recorded on the Company’s Consolidated
Balance Sheets. The assets are maintained with a third-party insurance company
and are invested in a diversified portfolio of equities, bonds, and other
investments. The assets are primarily valued based on Level 1 and Level 2 inputs
under the fair value hierarchy in FASB ASC Topic 820, and the Company considers
the overall portfolio of these assets to be of medium investment risk. The
projected long-term rate of return on these plan assets was 4.1% as of December
31, 2011. For the year-ended December 31, 2011, the Company contributed $0.6
million to this plan, the actual return on plan assets was $(0.1) million, and
benefits paid to participants was $0.1 million.


(2)

The funded status — shortfall represents the
amount of the projected benefit obligation that the Company has not funded. This
amount is recorded as a liability in Other Liabilities on the Company’s
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company expects to contribute approximately
$0.6 million to these plans in 2012.

(3)

Consists
 of a reinsurance asset arrangement with a large international insurance
 company that was rated investment grade as of December 31, 2011. The purpose
 of the reinsurance asset arrangement is to fund the benefit payments under
 one of the Company’s foreign defined benefit pension plans. However, the
 reinsurance asset is not legally segregated or restricted for purposes of
 meeting the pension obligation and as a result is not acknowledged as a
 pension plan asset under U.S. GAAP. As a result, the reinsurance asset is
 carried on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets at its cash surrender
 value, which the Company believes reasonably approximates its fair value.

(4)

The
 balance recorded in Stockholders’ Equity, net of tax represents the plan’s
 net unrealized actuarial gain which will be amortized against net periodic
 pension cost, thereby reducing the amount of the charge, over approximately
 15 years. Amortization of the unrealized gain at December 31, 2011 is
 projected to reduce the Company’s net periodic pension cost in 2012 by
 approximately $0.2 million.

14 — SEGMENT INFORMATION

The
Company manages its business through three reportable segments: Research,
Consulting and Events. Research consists primarily of subscription-based
research products, access to research inquiry, peer networking services, and
membership programs. Consulting consists primarily of consulting, measurement
engagements, and strategic advisory services. Events consists of various
symposia, conferences and exhibitions.

The
Company evaluates reportable segment performance and allocates resources based
on gross contribution margin. Gross contribution, as presented in the table
below, is defined as operating income excluding certain COS and SG&A
expenses, depreciation, acquisition and integration charges, and amortization
of intangibles. Certain bonus and fringe benefit costs included in consolidated
COS are not allocated to segment expense. The accounting policies used by the
reportable segments are the same as those used by the Company. There are no
intersegment revenues.

The
Company earns revenue from clients in many countries. Other than the United
States, there is no individual country in which revenues from external clients
represent 10% or more of the Company’s consolidated revenues. Additionally, no
single client accounted for 10% or more of total revenue and the loss of a
single client, in management’s opinion, would not have a material adverse
effect on revenues. The Company does not identify or allocate assets, including
capital expenditures, by reportable segment. Accordingly, assets are not being
reported by segment because the information is not available by segment and is
not reviewed in the evaluation of performance or making decisions in the
allocation of resources.

The
following tables present operating information about the Company’s reportable
segments for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):


The
Company’s revenues are generated primarily through direct sales to clients by
domestic and international sales forces and a network of independent
international sales agents. Most of the Company’s products and services are
provided on an integrated worldwide basis, and because of this integrated
delivery, it is not practical to precisely separate our revenues by geographic
location. Accordingly, the separation set forth in the table below is based upon
internal allocations, which involve certain management estimates and judgments.
Revenues in the table are reported based on where the sale is fulfilled; “Other
International” revenues are those attributable to all areas located outside of
the United States, Canada, and Europe, Middle East, Africa.

Summarized
information by geographic location as of and for the years ended December 31
follows (in thousands):

(1)

Excludes goodwill and
 other intangible assets.

15 — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

The
Company maintains an allowance for losses which is composed of a bad debt
allowance and a revenue reserve. Provisions are charged against earnings either
as an increase to expense or a reduction in revenues. The following table
summarizes activity in the Company’s allowance for the years ended December
31(in thousands):


S

IGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Registrant has caused this Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, duly authorized, in Stamford, Connecticut, on February 23,
2012.

POWER OF ATTORNEY

Each person whose signature appears below appoints Eugene A. Hall and
Christopher J. Lafond and each of them, acting individually, as his or her
attorney-in-fact, each with full power of substitution, for him or her in all
capacities, to sign all amendments to this Report on Form 10-K, and to file the
same, with appropriate exhibits and other related documents, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Each of the undersigned, ratifies and
confirms his or her signatures as they may be signed by his or her
attorney-in-fact to any amendments to this Report. Pursuant to the requirements
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated:

62