Item 1. Business.

General

We are one of the world’s largest snack companies with global net revenues of $29.6 billion and earnings from continuing operations of $7.3 billion in
2015. We manufacture and market delicious snack food and beverage products for consumers in 165 countries around the world. Our portfolio includes seven billion dollar brands—Nabisco,Oreo and LUbiscuits;Cadbury, Cadbury
Dairy MilkandMilkachocolates; andTridentgum, as well as 51 brands that each generated annual revenues of $100 million or more in 2015.

We
are proud members of the NASDAQ 100 and Standard & Poor’s 500. Our Common Stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “MDLZ.” We have been incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia since 2000.






We have been recognized for our ongoing economic, environmental and social contributions and this year were listed again on
the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (“DJSI”) – World and North American Indices. The DJSI selects the top 10% of global companies and top 20% of North American companies based on an extensive review of financial and sustainability
programs within each industry. We also participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project Climate and Water forums and continue to disclose and work to reduce our carbon and water footprints. We are committed to continue this and other related work in the
areas of sustainable resources and agriculture, mindful snacking, community partnerships and safety of our products and people.

Strategy

We intend to leverage our core strengths, including our advantaged geographic footprint, market leadership positions and portfolio of iconic brands and innovation
platforms, to achieve two primary goals: deliver top-tier financial performance and be a great place to work. Top-tier financial performance aims to achieve sustainable top- and bottom-line growth, driven by our transformation agenda, which includes
focusing our portfolio, reducing costs and investing for growth. We plan to achieve these goals by executing five long-term strategies:



•Unleash the Power of Our People.We believe that our two primary goals of delivering top-tier financial performance and being a great place to work are interdependent and that one is not fully achievable without
the other. Being a great place to work enables us to recruit, retain and unleash the talents of great people. We remain focused on evolving our ways of working, our standards of leadership and the development opportunities available to our
colleagues.



•Transform Snacking. Driving growth is at the forefront of our long-term business strategies. By meeting the needs of consumers through innovation of our portfolio of products, we expect to grow and maintain our
Power Brands and market-leading positions.

Our global Power Brands continue to be a significant competitive advantage. Our Power
Brands include global brands such asOreo, LUandbelVitabiscuits;Milka,Cadbury Dairy Milk and Lactachocolate;Hallscandy;Tridentgum; andTangpowdered beverages. Our brands enable us to
fulfill consumer needs with a full range of snacking choices. Along with leveraging our global innovation platforms, we offer a full range of snacking choices that address the different needs of our consumers and quickly adapt successful products
from one market to others. For example, in early 2015 we acquired Enjoy Life Foods, which creates allergen-free and better for you snacks such asPlentilsgluten-free chips andEnjoy Lifenut-free chocolate and seed & fruit
products. We are developing plans to expand this business within and outside of the North America region.

In 2015, we also transformed our business
portfolio following the deconsolidation of our coffee businesses. On July 2, 2015, we combined our global coffee business with D.E Master Blenders 1753 B.V. (“DEMB”) to form Jacobs Douwe Egberts (“JDE”), a new coffee venture
in which we maintain a noncontrolling interest. Following the transactions, our snacks net revenues from biscuits, chocolate, gum and candy were approximately 85% of our 2015 net revenues excluding coffee net revenues. We will continue to have a
significant stake in the coffee category, but holding our interest in the coffee venture as an investment will allow us to focus to a greater degree on our snacks portfolio and make operating and sales decisions that will help us to grow the snacks
business.

To strengthen how we support and leverage our snacks portfolio, we created a Chief Growth Officer role in 2014 to focus on top-line
revenue growth opportunities. Beginning in January 2016, we also have a new Chief Commercial Officer. The Chief Commercial Officer is responsible for the execution of the Company’s commercial plan with oversight over the global sales function
and delivery of growth plans by the five regions. This structure will focus us further on pursuing and executing on opportunities through which we can drive the most attractive returns.



•Revolutionize Selling.As part of our focus on growth around the world and particularly in emerging markets, we continue to invest heavily in our routes to market and sales capabilities across key markets, and we
have made significant improvements in our marketing effectiveness and spending. In 2015, we acquired an 80% interest in a biscuit operation in Vietnam that expanded our routes to market in the Asia Pacific region. In recent years, we have also
invested in expanding our brand presence across digital media and have placed increased focus on e-commerce. Effective spending on advertising and marketing fuels our brands and strengthens our growth strategies for the business.






•Drive Efficiency to Fuel Growth.We manage our business through a virtuous cycle. To drive sales and earnings growth, we focus first on delivering high quality products that meet consumer needs. We expand our
margins through leveraging lean and simple cost management programs within our integrated supply chain and through overhead discipline. We reinvest a portion of these savings to pursue additional targeted growth opportunities within our portfolio.



•Protect the Well-being of Our Planet.We are committed to growing our business while protecting our planet and its people. We strive to enhance the well-being of the people who enjoy and make our products and to
nurture communities where we live, work and grow the ingredients that go into our products. To accomplish these objectives, we focus on delivering safe, high-quality foods and maintaining a safe work environment for our employees. We work to protect
resources, focusing on where we can have the greatest impact. We also make food that fits the way people eat today and provides balanced snacking choices.

Our “Call For Well-Being” initiative focuses on four areas that we believe will have the greatest impact: sustainability, mindful snacking,
safety and community partnerships. In each of these areas, we set clear goals and metrics. In 2015, we announced our “Sustainability 2020” goals, including reducing absolute carbon dioxide emissions; reducing deforestation within our
agricultural supply chain; focusing water-reduction efforts in high-priority locations; reducing packaging material; and reducing total manufacturing waste.

Reportable Segments

Our operations and management structure are organized
into five reportable operating segments:

•Latin America

•Asia Pacific

•Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EEMEA”)

•Europe

•North America

We manage our operations by region to leverage regional operating scale, manage different and changing
business environments more effectively and pursue growth opportunities as they arise in our key markets. Our regional management teams have responsibility for the business, product categories and financial results in the regions.

Historically, we have recorded income from equity method investments within our operating income as these investments operated as extensions of our base business.
Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, to align with the accounting for our deconsolidated coffee business and related investment in JDE, we began to record the earnings from our equity method investments in after-tax equity method investment
earnings outside of segment operating income. For the six months ended December 31, 2015, after-tax equity method investment net earnings were less than $1 million on a combined basis. Earnings from equity method investments through July 2,
2015 recorded within segment operating income were $49 million in Asia Pacific, $3 million in EEMEA and $4 million in North America. For the year ended December 31, 2014 these earnings were $98 million in Asia Pacific, $6 million in EEMEA and
$9 million in North America. For the year ended December 31, 2013 these earnings were $99 million in Asia Pacific, $7 million in EEMEA and $1 million in North America. See Note 1,Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Principles
of Consolidation, for additional information.

In 2015, we also began to report stock-based compensation for our corporate employees, which was previously
reported within our North America region, within general corporate expenses. We reclassified $32 million of corporate stock-based compensation expense out of the North America segment in 2015.

Our segment net revenues for each of the last three years were:



For the Years Ended December 31,201520142013(in millions)Net revenues:Latin America$4,988$5,153$5,382Asia Pacific4,3604,6054,952EEMEA2,7863,6383,915Europe10,52813,91214,059North America6,9746,9366,991$29,636$34,244$35,299






Currency, the deconsolidation of our global coffee business and other items significantly affect the comparability of our
consolidated and segment operating results from year to year. Please seeManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsfor a review of our operating results.

Our brands span five product categories:

•Biscuits (including cookies, crackers and salted snacks)

•Chocolate

•Gum & candy

•Beverages (including coffee through July 2, 2015 and powdered beverages)

•Cheese & grocery

During 2015, our segments contributed to our net revenues in these product categories as
follows:



Percentage of 2015 Net Revenues by Product CategoryGum &Cheese &SegmentBiscuitsChocolateCandyBeverages(1)GroceryTotalLatin America5.4%2.8%3.7%2.6%2.3%16.8%Asia Pacific4.3%4.9%2.4%1.4%1.8%14.8%EEMEA1.8%3.1%1.8%1.8%0.9%9.4%Europe8.2%15.6%2.6%5.2%3.9%35.5%North America18.8%0.8%3.9%––23.5%38.5%27.2%14.4%11.0%8.9%100.0%



(1)On July 2, 2015, as part of the JDE coffee transactions, we deconsolidated our global coffee businesses primarily from our Europe, EEMEA and Asia Pacific segment beverage categories. Our 2015 net revenues reflect
our coffee business through July 2, 2015. Refer to Note 2,Divestitures and Acquisitions – Coffee Business Transactions, for more information.

Within our product categories, the classes of products that contributed 10% or more to consolidated net revenues were:



For the Years Ended December 31,20152014(1)2013(1)Biscuits - Cookies and crackers34%30%29%Chocolate - Tablets, bars and other27%28%27%Beverages - Coffee6%11%11%



(1)During 2014, we realigned some of our products across product categories and as such, we reclassified the product category net revenues on a basis consistent with the 2015 presentation.

We use segment operating income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. We believe it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze
segment performance and trends. For a definition and reconciliation of segment operating income to consolidated pre-tax earnings as well as other information on our segments, see Note 17,Segment Reporting.

Our segment operating income for each of the last three years was:



For the Years Ended December 31,201520142013(in millions)Segment operating income:Latin America$485$475$570Asia Pacific268385512EEMEA194327379Europe1,2771,7701,699North America1,105922889$3,329$3,879$4,049






During the last three fiscal years, our segments contributed to segment operating income as reflected below.



For the Years Ended December 31,201520142013Segment operating income:Latin America14.6%12.3%14.1%Asia Pacific8.0%9.9%12.6%EEMEA5.8%8.4%9.4%Europe38.4%45.6%42.0%North America33.2%23.8%21.9%100.0%100.0%100.0%

Significant Divestitures and Acquisitions

For information on our significant divestitures and acquisitions, please refer to Note 2,Divestitures and Acquisitions,and specifically, in connection with our
global coffee business deconsolidation, see our discussion underCoffee Business Transactions.

Customers

No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues from continuing operations in 2015. Our five largest customers accounted for 17% and our ten largest
customers accounted for 24% of net revenues from continuing operations in 2015.

Seasonality

Demand for our products is generally balanced over the first three quarters of the year and increases in the fourth quarter primarily because of holidays and other
seasonal events.

Competition

We face competition in all aspects of our
business. Competitors include large multi-national as well as numerous local and regional companies. Some competitors have different profit objectives than we do and therefore approach pricing and promotional decisions differently. We compete based
on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, service, product innovation, taste, convenience, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences, effectiveness of sales and marketing, routes to market and distribution networks,
promotional activity and price. Improving our market position or introducing a new product requires substantial research, development, advertising and promotional expenditures. We believe these investments lead to better products for the consumer
and support our growth and market position.

Distribution and Marketing

Across our segments, we generally sell our products to supermarket chains, wholesalers, supercenters, club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, convenience stores,
gasoline stations, drug stores, value stores and other retail food outlets. We distribute our products through direct store delivery, company-owned and satellite warehouses, distribution centers and other facilities. We also use the services of
independent sales offices and agents in some of our international locations.

We also sell our products on a growing number of e-commerce platforms as consumer
consumption patterns change (reflecting greater consumer time compression and technology use) and retail increasingly expands online. Within our digital and social marketing, we also create opportunities for consumers to easily find and buy our
products online. We have built relationships with several retailers to develop customized programs that fit their and our formats and provide consumers additional personalized offerings from our snacks portfolio.

We conduct marketing efforts through three principal sets of activities: (i) consumer marketing and advertising including on-air, print, outdoor, digital and
social media and other product promotions; (ii) consumer sales incentives such as coupons and rebates; and (iii) trade promotions to support price features, displays and other merchandising of our products by our customers.






Raw Materials and Packaging

We
purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including cocoa, dairy, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners and nuts. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of packaging materials to
package our products and natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. We regularly monitor worldwide supply, cost and currency trends related to these commodities so we can cost-effectively secure ingredients, packaging and
energy sources required for production.

A number of external factors such as weather conditions, commodity market conditions, currency fluctuations and
governmental agricultural programs affect the cost and availability of raw materials and agricultural materials used in our products. We use hedging techniques to limit the impact of fluctuations in the cost of our principal raw materials. However,
we cannot fully hedge against changes in commodity costs, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs.

While the
costs of our principal raw materials fluctuate, we believe there will continue to be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they will generally remain available from numerous sources. For additional information on our commodity
costs, refer to theCommodity Trendssection withinManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Intellectual Property

Our intellectual property rights (including
trademarks, patents, copyrights, registered designs, proprietary trade secrets, technology and know-how) are material to our business.

We own numerous trademarks
and patents in many countries around the world. Depending on the country, trademarks remain valid for as long as they are in use or their registration status is maintained. Trademark registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms.
We also have patents for a number of current and potential products. Our patents cover inventions ranging from basic packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. Our issued patents extend for
varying periods according to the date of patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to
country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. While our patent portfolio is material to our business, the
loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business.

From time to time, we grant third parties licenses to use
one or more of our trademarks in connection with the manufacture, sale or distribution of third party products. Similarly, we sell some products under brands we license from third parties. In our agreement with Kraft Foods Group, Inc.
(“Kraft Foods Group”; which is now part of The Kraft Heinz Company), we each granted the other party various licenses to use certain of our and their respective intellectual property rights in named jurisdictions following the spin-off of
our North American grocery business.

Research and Development

We
pursue four objectives in research and development: product safety and quality, growth through new products, superior consumer satisfaction and reduced costs. Our innovation efforts focus on anticipating consumer demands and adapting quickly to
changing market trends. Wellness products and healthy snacking are a significant focus of our current research and development initiatives. These initiatives aim to accelerate our growth and margins by addressing consumer needs and market trends and
leveraging our global innovation platforms, Power Brands and breakthrough technologies.

At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 2,450 scientists and
engineers, of which approximately 1,900 are primarily focused on research and development and the remainder are primarily focused on quality assurance and regulatory affairs. Our major technology centers are located in: East Hanover, New Jersey;
Whippany, New Jersey; Bournville, United Kingdom; Curitiba, Brazil; Paris, France; Melbourne, Australia; Mexico City, Mexico; Munich, Germany; Reading, United Kingdom; Thane, India; and Suzhou, China. Our research and development expense was $409
million in 2015, $455 million in 2014 and $471 million in 2013. Our total research and development expense was lower in 2015 primarily due to the deconsolidation of our global coffee business, currency and cost optimization initiatives.






Regulation

Our food products
and ingredients are subject to local, national and multi-national regulations related to labeling, packaging, pricing, marketing and advertising, privacy and related areas. In addition, various jurisdictions regulate our operations by licensing and
inspecting our manufacturing plants and facilities, enforcing standards for selected food products, grading food products, and regulating trade practices related to the sale and pricing of our food products. Many of the food commodities we use in
our operations are subject to government agricultural policy and intervention. These policies have substantial effects on prices and supplies and are subject to periodic governmental and administrative review.

Examples of laws and regulations that affect our business include selective food taxes, nutritional labeling requirements and marketing restrictions in markets such as
Europe and Latin America; Russian sanctions on the sourcing of raw materials from the European Union and potential labeling disclosure requirements for genetically modified ingredients in the United States. We will continue to monitor developments
in laws and regulations. At this time, we do not expect the cost of complying with new laws and regulations will be material. Also refer to Note 1,Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Currency Translation and Highly Inflationary
Accounting, for additional information on government regulations and currency-related impacts on our operations in Argentina, Russia and other countries.

Environmental Regulation

Throughout the countries in which we do business,
we are subject to local, national and multi-national environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. We have programs across our business units designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements. In
the United States, the laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”). CERCLA imposes
joint and several liability on each potentially responsible party. As of December 31, 2015, we had resolved the one active proceeding in the United States under a state equivalent of CERCLA related to our current operations. As of
December 31, 2015, we accrued an immaterial amount for the remaining payments related to this resolution. Based on information currently available, we believe that our compliance with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material
effect on our financial results.

Employees

We employed approximately
99,000 people worldwide at December 31, 2015 and approximately 104,000 at December 31, 2014. Approximately 5,000 employees transferred to JDE in connection with the global coffee business transactions, and we also added approximately 6,000
employees due to acquisitions in 2015. Employees represented by labor unions or workers’ councils represent approximately 65% of our 87,000 employees outside the United States and approximately 30% of our 12,000 U.S. employees. Our business
units are subject to various local, national and multi-national laws and regulations relating to their relationships with their employees. In accordance with European Union requirements, we also have established a European Workers Council composed
of management and elected members of our workforce. We believe we generally have good relationships with our employees and their representative organizations.

Foreign Operations

We generated 78.7% of our 2015 net revenues, 82.1% of
our 2014 net revenues and 83.1% of our 2013 net revenues from continuing operations outside the United States. We sell our products to consumers in 165 countries. At December 31, 2015, we had operations in more than 80 countries and made our
products at 156 manufacturing and processing facilities in 57 countries. Refer to Note 17,Segment Reporting,for additional information on our U.S. and non-U.S. operations. Refer to Item 2,Properties, for more information on our
manufacturing and other facilities. Also, for a discussion of risks related to our operations outside the United States, see “Risk Factors” in Item 1A.






Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following are our executive officers as of February 19, 2016:



NameAgeTitleIrene B. Rosenfeld62Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerBrian T. Gladden50Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerGustavo H. Abelenda55Executive Vice President and President, Latin AmericaMaurizio Brusadelli47Executive Vice President and President, Asia PacificMark A. Clouse47Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial OfficerTimothy P. Cofer47Executive Vice President and Chief Growth OfficerRoberto de Oliveira Marques50Executive Vice President and President, North AmericaRobin S. Hargrove50Executive Vice President, Research, Development and QualityLawrence MacDougall59Executive Vice President and President, EEMEAKaren J. May57Executive Vice President, Human ResourcesDaniel P. Myers60Executive Vice President, Integrated Supply ChainGerhard W. Pleuhs59Executive Vice President and General CounselHubert Weber53Executive Vice President and President, Europe

Ms. Rosenfeldbecame Chief Executive Officer and Director in June 2006 and became Chairman of the Board in March 2007.
Prior to that, she served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Frito-Lay, a division of PepsiCo, Inc., a food and beverage company, from September 2004 to June 2006. Ms. Rosenfeld was employed continuously by
Mondelēz International and its predecessor, General Foods Corporation, in various capacities from 1981 until 2003, including President of Kraft Foods North America and President of Operations, Technology, Information Systems and Kraft
Foods, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico.

Mr. Gladdenbecame Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in December 2014. He joined
Mondelēz International in October 2014. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Dell Inc., a provider of technology products and services, from June 2008 until February 2014, and as President and
Chief Executive Officer of SABIC Innovative Plastics, a manufacturer of industrial plastics, from August 2007 to May 2008. Mr. Gladden spent 19 years at the General Electric Company, a multinational conglomerate, in a variety of key leadership
positions, including Vice President and General Manager, Resin Business and Chief Financial Officer, GE Plastics.

Mr. Abelendabecame Executive Vice
President and President, Latin America in January 2013. Prior to that, he served as Group Vice President and President, Latin America from August 2003 to December 2012, Vice President and Managing Director, Brazil from October 2000 to August 2003,
Food Vice President, Mercosur Area from April 1998 to October 2000 and General Manager, Brazilian Beverages and Sugar Confectionery Business from February 1997 to April 1998. Mr. Abelenda joined Mondelēz International in 1984.

Mr. Brusadellibecame Executive Vice President and President, Asia Pacific in January 2016. He previously served as President Biscuits Business, South East
Asia, Japan and Sales Asia Pacific from September 2015 to December 2015, President Markets and Sales Asia Pacific from September 2014 to September 2015, President United Kingdom and Ireland from September 2012 to August 2014 and President
Gum & Candy Europe from December 2010 until August 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Brusadelli held various positions of increasing responsibility around the world. Mr. Brusadelli joined Mondelēz International in 1993.

Mr. Clousebecame Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer in January 2016. He previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Growth
Officer from July 2014 until December 2015 and Executive Vice President and President, North America from October 2012 to March 2015. He was President of the Snacks and Confectionery business in North America from June 2011 to October 2012, Senior
Vice President of the Biscuits Global Category Team from October 2010 to June 2011, Managing Director of Kraft Foods Brazil from January 2008 to September 2010 and President of Kraft Foods Greater China from January 2006 to January 2008. Prior to
that, Mr. Clouse held various positions of increasing responsibility around the world. Before joining Mondelēz International in 1996, Mr. Clouse served in the United States Army for seven years, obtaining the rank of Captain.






Mr. Coferbecame Executive Vice President and Chief Growth Officer in January 2016. Prior to that, he served as
Executive Vice President and President, Asia Pacific and EEMEA from September 2013 until December 2015, Executive Vice President and President, Europe from August 2011 until September 2013, Senior Vice President, Global Chocolate Category from June
2010 to August 2011, Senior Vice President, Strategy and Integration from January 2010 to June 2010, President of Pizza from January 2008 to January 2010, Senior Vice President and General Manager of Oscar Mayer from January 2007 to January 2008 and
Vice President and General Manager of EU Chocolate from June 2003 to January 2007. Mr. Cofer joined Mondelēz International in 1992.

Mr. de
Oliveira Marquesbecame Executive Vice President and President, North America in March 2015. Prior to joining Mondelēz International, Mr. de Oliveira Marques worked at Johnson & Johnson, a global manufacturer of human health
and well-being related products, for 27 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently as Company Group Chairman, Consumer North America from January 2011 to February 2015 and as Company Group Chairman, Consumer Health Care, Global Design
Unit from April 2007 to December 2010.

Mr. Hargrovebecame Executive Vice President, Research, Development & Quality in April 2015. Prior to
that, he served as Senior Vice President, Research, Development & Quality for Mondelēz Europe from January 2013 to March 2015. Before joining Mondelēz International, Mr. Hargrove worked at PepsiCo, Inc., a global food and
beverage company, for 19 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently as Senior Vice President, Research and Development, Europe from December 2006 to December 2012.

Mr. MacDougallbecame Executive Vice President and President, EEMEA in July 2014. Prior to that, he served as President, EEMEA from November 2012 to July
2014 and as President, Middle East and Africa from March 2010 to October 2012. Prior to its acquisition by Mondelēz International, Mr. MacDougall was continuously employed by Cadbury Pty Ltd, a confectionery company, for 28 years in
various leadership positions, most recently serving as President, Middle East and Africa from February 2007 to February 2010.

Ms. Maybecame Executive
Vice President, Human Resources in October 2005. Prior to that, she was Corporate Vice President, Human Resources for Baxter International Inc., a healthcare company, from February 2001 to September 2005.

Mr. Myersbecame Executive Vice President, Integrated Supply Chain in September 2011. Prior to that, he worked for Procter & Gamble, a consumer
products company, for 33 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as Vice President, Product Supply for P&G’s Global Hair Care business from September 2007 to August 2011.

Mr. Pleuhsbecame Executive Vice President and General Counsel in April 2012. In this role, Mr. Pleuhs oversees the legal, compliance, security,
corporate and governance affairs functions within Mondelēz International. Previously, Mr. Pleuhs served as Senior Vice President & Deputy General Counsel, Business Units from November 2007 to March 2012 and Senior Vice President
and Deputy General Counsel, International for Kraft Foods Global, Inc. from July 2004 to November 2007. Before joining Mondelēz International in 1990, Mr. Pleuhs held a number of senior positions within the German Law Department of Jacobs
Kaffee Deutschland GmbH, an international beverage and confectionery company, prior to and after its acquisition by Altria Group, the former parent company of Mondelēz International. Mr. Pleuhs has a law degree from the University of Kiel,
Germany and is licensed to practice law in Germany.

Mr. Weberbecame Executive Vice President and President Europe in September 2013. Prior to that, he
served as President of the European and Global Coffee category from September 2010 until September 2013, President of the DACH region (Germany, Austria and Switzerland) from February 2009 to August 2010, Managing Director, Spain from August 2007 to
January 2009, Vice President of Global Tassimo Venture Team from July 2004 to July 2007 and Senior Director, International Sales, Kraft Foods International from January 2000 to June 2004. Mr. Weber joined Mondelēz International in
1988.






Ethics and Governance

We
adopted the Mondelēz International Code of Conduct, which qualifies as a code of ethics under Item 406 of Regulation S-K. The code applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial
officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions. Our code of ethics is available free of charge on our web site atwww.mondelezinternational.comand will be provided free of charge to any
shareholder submitting a written request to: Corporate Secretary, Mondelēz International, Inc., Three Parkway North, Deerfield, IL 60015. We will disclose any waiver we grant to an executive officer or director under our code of ethics, or
certain amendments to the code of ethics, on our web site atwww.mondelezinternational.com.

In addition, we adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines,
charters for each of the Board’s four standing committees and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Non-Employee Directors. All of these materials are available on our web site atwww.mondelezinternational.comand will be provided
free of charge to any shareholder requesting a copy by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Mondelēz International, Inc., Three Parkway North, Deerfield, IL 60015.

Available Information

Our Internet address iswww.mondelezinternational.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You can
access our filings with the SEC by visitingwww.mondelezinternational.com. The information on our web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with
the SEC.

