Item 1. Business.

General

Mondelēz International is one of the world’s largest snack companies with global net
revenues of $35.0 billion and earnings from continuing operations of $1.6 billion in 2012. Beginning on October 1, 2012, following the spin-off of our North American grocery operations to our shareholders (the “Spin-Off”),
Mondelēz International is a “new” company in name and strategy, yet we carry forward the values of our legacy organization and the heritage of our iconic brands.

Our vision is toCreate Delicious Moments of Joy. We support this vision by manufacturing and marketing delicious food and beverage products for consumers in approximately 165 countries around the world.

We are aGlobal Snacks Powerhouse. We hold leading market shares in every category and every region of the world in which we compete. We hold
the No. 1 position globally in biscuits, chocolate, candy and powdered beverages as well as the No. 2 position in gum and coffee. Our portfolio includes nine brands with annual revenues exceeding $1 billion each includingOreo,NabiscoandLUbiscuits;Milka, Cadbury Dairy MilkandCadburychocolates;Tridentgum;Jacobscoffee; andTangpowdered beverage. In addition, our portfolio of snack foods and refreshments includes
52 brands which each generated annual revenues of more than $100 million in 2012.

Upon completing the Spin-Off of Kraft Foods Group, Inc., we changed
our name from Kraft Foods Inc. to Mondelēz International, Inc. Our name reflects our vision to create a moredelicious worldin which to live. Following the Spin-Off, on October 2, 2012, our shares began to trade on The NASDAQ
Global Select Market under the new symbol “MDLZ.” We remain incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia since 2000 and we continue to be a proud member of the Standard & Poor’s 500 and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
(For more information on theSpin-Off of Kraft Foods Group, seeSignificant Divestitures and Acquisitionsbelow and Note 2,Divestitures and Acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements.)







Strategy

As a
Global Snacks Powerhouse, we intend to leverage our core strengths, including market leadership positions across our categories and a significant presence in every geography, to achieve two primary goals: deliver top-tier financial performance and
be a great place to work. We plan to achieve these goals by executing five strategies:



•Unleash the Power of Our People.We recognize the importance of our people living out our shared vision and delivering on our shared goals with joy,
commitment and unquestioned integrity. With our employees, we are creating collaborative, creative, learning communities to share good ideas and execute plans more efficiently and effectively.

•Transform Snacking. Our globalPower Brandsare the heart of our competitive advantage. They enable us to fulfill consumers’ needs with a full
range of snacking choices that fuel the body, treat the spirit and boost the mind. By skewing resources to these brands, we expect to drive substantial growth. In addition, our global innovation platforms, such as those that help consumers
“sustain energy” or “satisfy hunger,” allow us to quickly adapt successful products from one market to many others. By meeting the needs of consumers and continually innovating our existing portfolio of products, we expect to
grow and maintain our market-leading positions.

•Revolutionize Selling.Following our acquisitions of theLUbiscuit business in 2007 and Cadbury Limited in 2010, we significantly expanded our
routes to market around the globe, particularly in emerging markets. We plan to expand and further develop best-in-class sales and distribution capabilities across our key markets in both developing and developed markets.

•Drive Efficiency to Fuel Growth.We drive growth by managing our business through a virtuous cycle to deliver great quality at advantaged costs. To drive
sales and earnings growth, we focus on ourPower BrandsandPriority Markets, we work to expand margins through overhead discipline and by leveraging lean and simple cost management programs within our integrated supply chain. We then
reinvest savings to pursue additional targeted growth opportunities within our portfolio.

•Protect the Well-being of Our Planet.We are committed to growing our business while protecting our planet and its people. To accomplish this, we deliver
safe, high-quality foods and ensure a safe work environment for our employees. We also create foods that fit the way people eat today and provide balanced snacking choices by inventing new solutions and improving our nutritional profile. We protect
our resources, focusing on where we can have the greatest impact. We empower farming communities to deliver innovative solutions throughout our ingredient supply chain. We drive resource efficiency and design sustainability into our operations to
minimize the toll we have on the planet.

Reportable Segments

We manage our global business and report operating results through three geographic units: Developing Markets, Europe and North America. In connection with the divestiture of Kraft Foods Group, we divested and no
longer report on the following segments within our results from continuing operations: U.S. Beverages, U.S. Cheese, U.S. Convenient Meals and U.S. Grocery. Our remaining businesses within North America are predominantly snacks businesses. Our
segment results in this Annual Report on Form 10-K reflect these changes for all periods presented.

Beginning in 2013, our segment structure will
change. In December 2012, we announced a reorganization of our business and reporting structure following the Spin-Off. Effective January 1, 2013, our operations, management and segments will be reorganized into five operating segments: Asia
Pacific; Eastern Europe, Middle East & Africa (“EEMEA”); Europe; Latin America and North America. Accordingly, we will begin to report on our new segment structure during the first quarter of 2013 and reflect the change for all
the historical periods we present.

We use segment operating income to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources. We believe this measure
is most relevant to investors in order to analyze segment results and trends. As further discussed in Note 16,Segment Reporting,to the consolidated financial statements, segment operating income excludes unrealized gains and losses on
hedging activities (which are a component of cost of sales), certain components of our U.S. pension plan cost (which are a component of cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses), gains / (losses) on divestitures,
acquisition-related costs (which are a component of selling, general and administrative expenses), general corporate expenses (which are a component of selling, general and administrative expenses) and amortization of intangibles.







During the last three fiscal years, our segments contributed to segment operating income as reflected below.
See Note 16,Segment Reporting,for additional information, including total assets and net revenues by segment.



For the Years Ended December 31,201220112010Developing Markets45.4%46.9%44.4%Europe35.4%32.9%32.3%North America19.2%20.2%23.3%Total Segment Operating Income100.0%100.0%100.0%

Our brands span five consumer sectors:



•Biscuits (including cookies, crackers and salted snacks)

•Chocolate

•Gum & Candy

•Beverages

•Cheese & Grocery

During 2012, our
reportable segments participated in these five consumer sectors as follows:



Percentage of 2012 Net Revenues by Consumer SectorGum &Cheese &SegmentBiscuitsChocolateCandyBeveragesGroceryTotalDeveloping Markets10.0%12.8%8.8%8.2%4.8%44.6%Europe6.9%12.9%2.8%8.5%4.5%35.6%North America14.9%1.0%3.7%–0.2%19.8%Consumer Sector Percentage Total31.8%26.7%15.3%16.7%9.5%100.0%

Within the consumer sectors, the classes of products which contributed 10% or more to consolidated net revenues for the years
ended December 31, were:



For the Years Ended December 31,201220112010Biscuits (cookies and crackers)27%26%26%Chocolate27%27%26%Gum & Candy15%16%16%Coffee11%12%11%

Significant Divestitures and Acquisitions

Spin-Off of Kraft Foods Group:

On October 1, 2012 (the “Distribution Date”), we completed the
spin-off of our North American grocery business, Kraft Foods Group, Inc. (“Kraft Foods Group”), to our shareholders (the “Spin-Off”). Along with our other food and beverage categories, we also retained our global snacks business
(the “Global Snacks Business”). On October 1, 2012, each of our shareholders of record as of the close of business on September 19, 2012 (“the Record Date”) received one share of Kraft Foods Group common stock for every
three shares of our Common Stock held as of the Record Date. The distribution was structured to be tax free to our U.S. shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

Kraft Foods Group is now an independent public company and following the Spin-Off, we do not beneficially own any shares of Kraft Foods Group common stock.

The divested Kraft Foods Group business is presented as a discontinued operation on the consolidated statements of earnings for all periods presented. The Kraft Foods Group balance sheet, other comprehensive
earnings and cash flows are included within our consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statements of equity, comprehensive earnings and cash flows through October 1, 2012.







Income Taxes

Stock Plans

Our results from continuing operations include one-time Spin-Off transaction, transition and financing and
related costs (“Spin-Off Costs”) we have incurred to date. We recorded Spin-Off Costs of $1,053 million, or $0.39 per diluted share in 2012 and $46 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, in 2011. We expect to incur Spin-Off Costs of
approximately $100 million in 2013 related primarily to human resource, customer service and logistics and information systems and processes as well as legal costs associated with revising intellectual property and other long-term agreements.

Refer to Note 2,Divestitures and Acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements, for additional information on theSpin-Off of Kraft
Foods Group.

Cadbury Acquisition:

In 2010,
we acquired all the outstanding shares of Cadbury Limited (“Cadbury”) in an acquisition valued at $18,547 million, or $17,503 million net of cash and cash equivalents. In 2010, we incurred acquisition-related transaction costs of $218
million (recorded in selling, general and administrative expense) and acquisition-related financing fees of $96 million (recorded in interest and other expenses, net).

As a condition of the acquisition, the EU Commission required that we divest certain Cadbury confectionery operations in Poland and Romania. The divestitures were completed in the third quarter of 2010 and
generated $342 million of sale proceeds. The impact of these divestitures was reflected as adjustments within the Cadbury final purchase accounting.

During 2010, Cadbury contributed net revenues of $9,143 million and net earnings of $530 million from February 2, 2010 through December 31, 2010. See
Note 2,Divestitures and Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on the Cadbury acquisition.

Customers

As a percentage of our net revenues from
continuing operations, our five largest customers accounted for 15.6% of net revenues in 2012 compared with 15.5% in 2011 and 15.1% in 2010. Also, our ten largest customers accounted for 24.1% of net revenues in 2012 compared with 22.7% in 2011 and
23.2% in 2010. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues from continuing operations.

Seasonality

Demand for some of our products may be influenced by holidays, changes in seasons or other annual events. However, overall sales of our products are generally
evenly balanced throughout the year due to the offsetting nature of demands for our products within our diversified product portfolio.

Competition

We face competition in all aspects of our business. Competitors include large national and international companies and numerous local and regional
companies. Some competitors have different profit objectives and some international competitors are less susceptible to currency exchange rates. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, service,
marketing, advertising and price. Moreover, improving our market position or introducing a new product requires substantial research, development, advertising and promotional expenditures.







Distribution and Marketing

Across our segments, our products are generally sold to supermarket chains, wholesalers, supercenters, club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, convenience stores, gasoline stations, drug stores, value stores
and other retail food outlets. We distribute our products through direct store delivery, company-owned and satellite warehouses, distribution centers and other facilities. We also use the services of independent sales offices and agents in some of
our international locations.

Our marketing efforts are conducted through three principal sets of activities: (i) consumer marketing in on-air,
print, outdoor, digital and social media; (ii) consumer incentives such as coupons and contests; and (iii) trade promotions to support price features, displays and other merchandising of our products by our customers.

Raw Materials and Packaging

We purchase large quantities
of commodities, including sugar and other sweeteners, coffee, cocoa, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils and dairy. In addition, we use significant quantities of packaging materials to package our products and natural gas, fuels and
electricity for our factories and warehouses. We regularly monitor worldwide supply and cost trends of these commodities so we can cost-effectively secure ingredients and packaging required for production.

Significant cost items in biscuit, chocolate, gum & candy and many powdered beverage products are sugar and cocoa. We purchase sugar and cocoa on world
markets, and the prices of these commodities are affected by the quality and availability of supply and changes in foreign currencies. Significant cost items in our biscuit products are grains (wheat, corn and soybean oil). Grain costs have
experienced volatility and have increased significantly in recent years due largely to burgeoning global demand for food, livestock feed and biofuels such as ethanol and biodiesel and other factors such as weather. The most significant cost item in
coffee products is green coffee beans which we purchase on world markets as well as from local grower cooperatives. Green coffee bean prices are affected by the quality and availability of supply, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation
to certain other currencies and consumer demand for coffee products. Significant cost items in packaging include cardboards, resins and plastics and our energy costs include natural gas, electricity and diesel fuel. We purchase these packaging and
energy commodities on world markets and within the countries we operate, and the prices are affected by supply and changes in foreign currencies.

During 2012, our aggregate commodity costs increased primarily as a result of increased packaging, energy, grains and oil costs. We expect the price volatility and
a slightly higher cost environment to continue over the remainder of 2013. We have addressed higher commodity costs primarily through higher pricing, lower manufacturing costs due to our end-to-end cost management program and overhead cost control.
We expect to continue to use these measures to address further commodity cost increases.

External factors such as weather conditions, commodity market
conditions, currency fluctuations and the effects of governmental agricultural programs affect the prices for raw materials and agricultural materials used in our products. We use hedging techniques to limit the impact of price fluctuations in our
principal raw materials. However, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and these strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. While the prices of our principal raw materials can be expected to
fluctuate, we believe there will continue to be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they will generally remain available from numerous sources.

Intellectual Property

Our intellectual property rights (including trademarks, patents, copyright, registered
designs, proprietary trade secrets, technology and know-how) are material to our business.

We own numerous trademarks and patents in countries around
the world. Depending upon the country, trademarks remain valid for as long as they are in use or their registration status is maintained. Trademark registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. We have patents for a number
of current and potential products. Our patents cover inventions ranging from basic packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. Our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the
date of patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of
patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. While our patent portfolio is material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of
related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business.

From time to time, we grant third parties licenses to use one or more of our
trademarks in connection with the manufacture, sale or distribution of third party products. Similarly, we sell some products under brands we license from third parties. In our agreement with the Kraft Foods Group, we each granted the
other party various licenses to use certain of our and their respective intellectual property rights in named jurisdictions following the Spin-Off.







Research and Development

We pursue four objectives in research and development: product safety and quality; growth through new products; superior consumer satisfaction; and reduced costs. At December 31, 2012, we had approximately
2,700 food scientists, chemists and engineers working primarily in 12 key technology centers: East Hanover, New Jersey; Whippany, New Jersey; Banbury, United Kingdom; Bournville, United Kingdom; Curitiba, Brazil; Eysins, Switzerland; Paris, France;
Melbourne, Australia; Mexico City, Mexico; Munich, Germany; Reading, United Kingdom; and Suzhou, China. Many of our technology centers are equipped with pilot plants and state-of-the-art instruments. Our research and development expense was $462
million in 2012, $511 million in 2011 and $404 million in 2010.

Regulation

Our food products and packaging materials are subject to local, national and multi-national regulations comprising labeling, packaging, food content, pricing, marketing and advertising, privacy and related areas.
In addition, various jurisdictions regulate our operations by licensing our manufacturing plants, enforcing standards for selected food products, grading food products, inspecting manufacturing plants and warehouses, regulating trade practices
related to the sale of and imposing their own labeling requirements on our food products. Many of the food commodities we use in our operations are subject to governmental agricultural programs. These programs have substantial effects on prices and
supplies and are subject to periodic governmental and administrative review.

Throughout the countries in which we do business, regulators are
continually adopting new laws and implementing new regulations that affect our business and operations, such as the European Commission’s EU Health Claim Regulation, effective December 14, 2012, that limits the number of health claims that
may be made by food companies about their products and a major reform of the EU legal framework related to the protection of personal data, and in the U.S., the Food Safety Modernization Act, that provides additional food safety authority to the
FDA. We will continue to monitor developments of those new laws and regulations. At this time, we do not expect the cost of complying with these new laws and implementing these new regulations will be material.

Environmental Regulation

Throughout the countries in which
we do business, we are subject to local, national and multi-national environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. We have programs across our business units designed to meet applicable environmental compliance
requirements.

In the United States, the laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”). CERCLA imposes joint and severable liability on each potentially responsible party. As of December 31, 2012, our subsidiaries were involved in one
active proceeding in the U.S. under a state equivalent of CERCLA related to our current operations. As of December 31, 2011, our subsidiaries were involved in 68 active actions. Except for the one active proceeding we retained, all the remaining
active actions relate to and were retained by the divested Kraft Foods Group business.

As of December 31, 2012, we accrued an immaterial amount
for environmental remediation. Based on information currently available, we believe that the ultimate resolution of existing environmental remediation actions and our compliance in general with environmental laws and regulations will not have a
material effect on our financial results.







Employees

At
December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 110,000 people worldwide. Our business units are subject to various local, national and multi-national laws and regulations relating to their relationships with their employees. In accordance with
European Union requirements, we also have established a European Workers Council composed of management and elected members of our workforce. Employees represented by labor unions or workers’ councils represent 37.7% of our 96,000 employees
outside the U.S. and 23.1% of our 14,000 U.S. employees. Most of these workers are represented under contracts which expire at various times throughout the next several years. We believe we have good relationships with employees and their
representative organizations.

Foreign Operations

We sell our products to consumers in approximately 165 countries. At December 31, 2012, we had operations in more than 80 countries and made our products at
171 manufacturing and processing facilities in 56 countries. We generated 82.9% of our 2012 net revenues, 83.7% of our 2011 net revenues and 82.6% of our 2010 net revenues from continuing operations outside the U.S. Refer to Note 16,Segment
Reporting,for additional information on our foreign operations. Also, for a discussion of risks attendant to our foreign operations, see “Risk Factors” in Item 1A.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following are our executive officers as of February 25, 2013:



NameAgeTitleIrene B. Rosenfeld59Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerDavid A. Brearton52Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerGustavo H. Abelenda52Executive Vice President and President, Latin AmericaTracey Belcourt46Executive Vice President, StrategyMark Clouse44Executive Vice President and President, North AmericaTimothy P. Cofer44Executive Vice President and President, EuropeKaren J. May54Executive Vice President, Global Human ResourcesDaniel P. Myers57Executive Vice President, Integrated Supply ChainPradeep Pant59Executive Vice President and President, Asia Pacific and EEMEAGerhard W. Pleuhs56Executive Vice President and General CounselJean E. Spence55Executive Vice President, Research, Development and QualityMary Beth West50Executive Vice President and Chief Category and Marketing Officer

Ms. Rosenfeldwas appointed Chief Executive Officer and Director of Kraft Foods Inc., the predecessor to
Mondelēz International, in June 2006 and became Chairman of the Board in March 2007. Prior to that, she served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Frito-Lay, a division of PepsiCo, Inc., a food and beverage company, from September
2004 to June 2006. Previous to that, Ms. Rosenfeld was employed continuously by Kraft Foods Inc., and its predecessor, General Foods Corporation, in various capacities from 1981 until 2003, including President of Kraft Foods North America and
President of Operations, Technology, Information Systems and Kraft Foods, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico.

Mr. Breartonwas appointed
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Kraft Foods Inc., the predecessor to Mondelēz International, in May 2011. Prior to that, at Kraft Foods Inc., he served as Executive Vice President, Operations and Business Services from
January 2008 to May 2011, Executive Vice President, Global Business Services and Strategy from April 2006 to December 2007 and Senior Vice President of Business Process Simplification and Corporate Controller from February 2005 to April 2006. He
previously served as Senior Vice President, Finance for Kraft Foods International. Mr. Brearton joined Kraft Foods Inc. in 1984. Mr. Brearton also serves on the Board of Directors of Feeding America, a non-for-profit organization.

Mr. Abelendawas appointed Executive Vice President and President, Latin America effective January 1, 2013. Prior to that, he served
as Group Vice President and President, Latin America from August 2003 to December 2012 and Vice President and Managing Director, Brazil, from October 2000 to August 2003. Mr. Abelenda joined Kraft Foods Inc. in 1984.







Ms. Belcourtwas appointed Executive Vice President, Strategy effective October 2, 2012. She joined
Kraft Foods Inc., the predecessor to Mondelēz International, in September 2012. Prior to that, she was a partner of Bain & Company, a management consulting firm, since 1999, where she specialized in the design and implementation of
growth strategies to improve business performance across a variety of consumer industries. Prior to Bain, Ms. Belcourt was an assistant professor of economics at Concordia University in Montreal from 1994 to 1999. She also served as an economic
consultant to the U.S. Agency for International Development in Africa in 1999 during her professorship.

Mr. Clousewas appointed
Executive Vice President and President, North America effective October 2, 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Clouse held various positions around the world during his 16 years with Kraft Foods Inc., the predecessor to Mondelēz International.
He served as President of Kraft Foods Inc. Snacks and Confectionery business in North America from June 2011 to October 2012 and Senior Vice President of the Biscuits Global Category Team from October 2010 to June 2011. He was Managing Director of
Kraft Foods Brazil from 2008 to 2010 and President of Kraft Foods Greater China from 2006 to 2008. Before joining Kraft Foods Inc. in 1996, Mr. Clouse served in the United States Army for seven years, obtaining the rank of Captain.

Mr. Coferis Executive Vice President and President, Europe, a position he held with Kraft Foods Inc., the predecessor to Mondelēz International,
since August 2011. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President Global Chocolate Category from June 2010 to August 2011, Senior Vice President Strategy and Integration from January 2010 to June 2010, President Kraft Pizza Company from January
2008 to January 2010, and Senior Vice President and General Manager of Oscar Mayer from January 2007 to January 2008. He served as General Manager of EU Chocolate from June 2003 to January 2007. Mr. Cofer joined Kraft Foods Inc. in 1992.

Ms. Maywas appointed Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources of Kraft Foods Inc., the predecessor to Mondelēz International,
in October 2005. Prior to that, she was Corporate Vice President, Human Resources, for Baxter International Inc., a healthcare company, since February 2001. Ms. May also serves on the Board of Directors of MB Financial Inc., a financial
services provider.

Mr. Myersis Executive Vice President, Integrated Supply Chain, a position he has held since he joined Kraft Foods Inc.,
the predecessor to Mondelēz International, in September 2011. Prior to that, he worked for Procter & Gamble, a consumer products company, for 33 years, in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as Vice President,
Product Supply for P&G’s Global Hair Care business from September 2007 to August 2011. Mr. Myers also serves on the Advisory Board of the University of Tennessee’s Supply Chain Institute.

Mr. Pantwas appointed Executive Vice President and President, Asia Pacific and EEMEA effective January 1, 2013. Prior to that, he served as
President, Asia Pacific from January 2008 to December 2012. Before joining Kraft Foods Inc., the predecessor to Mondelēz International, he served as Regional Managing Director for Asia, Africa and the Middle East of Fonterra Brands, a dairy
company, from January 2006 to December 2007 and as a member of the of Fonterra Leadership Team from January 2007 to December 2007. Mr. Pant spent 20 years with Gillette, a consumer products company, holding various positions throughout Asia
Pacific including Greater China, Australia, Korea, Japan and India.

Mr. Pleuhswas appointed Executive Vice President and General
Counsel of Kraft Foods Inc., the predecessor to Mondelēz International, effective April 1, 2012. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President & Deputy General Counsel, Business Units from November 2007 to March 2012 and Senior Vice
President and Deputy General Counsel, International for Kraft Foods Global, Inc., from July 2004 to November 2007. Before joining Kraft Foods Inc. in 1990, Mr. Pleuhs held a number of senior positions within the German Law Department of Jacobs
Kaffee Deutschland GmbH, an international beverage and confectionery company, prior to and after its acquisition by Altria Group, the former parent company of Kraft Foods Inc.

Ms. Spencewas appointed Executive Vice President, Research, Development and Quality of Kraft Foods Inc., the predecessor to Mondelēz International, in January 2004. Prior to that, Ms. Spence
served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development for Kraft Foods North America from August 2003 to January 2004 and Senior Vice President of Worldwide Quality, Scientific Affairs and Compliance for Kraft Foods North America from November
2001 to August 2003. She joined Kraft Foods Inc. in 1981. Ms. Spence also serves as a Trustee of Clarkson University and on the Supervisory Board of GEA Group AG.

Ms. Westwas appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Category and Marketing Officer of Kraft Foods Inc., the predecessor to Mondelēz International, effective August 1, 2010. Previously,
she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer from October 2007 to July 2010 and as Group Vice President for Kraft Foods and President of the North America Beverages Sector from 2005 to October 2007. Ms. West joined Kraft
Foods Inc. in 1986. Ms. West also serves on the Board of Directors of J.C. Penney Company, Inc. and is a member of the Executive Leadership Council.







Ethics and Governance

We adopted the Mondelēz International Code of Conduct, which qualifies as a code of ethics under Item 406 of Regulation S-K. The code applies to all of our employees, including our principal
executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions. Our code of ethics is available free of charge on our Web site atwww.mondelezinternational.comand will be
provided free of charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to: Corporate Secretary, Mondelēz International, Inc., Three Parkway North, Deerfield, IL 60015. We will disclose any waiver we grant to our principal executive officer,
principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller under our code of ethics, or certain amendments to the code of ethics, on our Web site atwww.mondelezinternational.com.

In addition, we adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, charters for each of the Board’s three standing committees and the Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics for Non-Employee Directors. All of these materials are available on our Web site atwww.mondelezinternational.comand will be provided free of charge to any shareholder requesting a copy by writing to: Corporate Secretary,
Mondelēz International, Inc., Three Parkway North, Deerfield, IL 60015.

Available Information

Our Internet address iswww.mondelezinternational.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or
furnish them to, the SEC. You can access our filings with the SEC by visitingwww.mondelezinternational.com. The information on our Web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into
any other filings we make with the SEC.

You can also read, access and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Mondelēz International, that are electronically filed with the SEC.

