Item 1.  Business.

General

Kraft Foods is the world’s second largest
food company with revenues of $49.2 billion and earnings from continuing operations before income taxes of $3.6 billion in 2010. Kraft Foods was incorporated in 2000 in the Commonwealth of Virginia. We have approximately 127,000 employees worldwide,
and we manufacture and market packaged food products, including biscuits, confectionery, beverages, cheese, convenient meals and various packaged grocery products. We sell our products to consumers in approximately 170 countries. At
December 31, 2010, we had operations in more than 75 countries and made our products at 223 manufacturing and processing facilities worldwide. At December 31, 2010, we had net assets of $35.9 billion and gross assets of $95.3 billion. We
are a member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, Standard & Poor’s 500, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the Ethibel Sustainability Index.

At December 31, 2010, our portfolio included eleven brands with annual revenues exceeding $1 billion each:Oreo,NabiscoandLUbiscuits;MilkaandCadburychocolates;Tridentgum;JacobsandMaxwell Housecoffees;Philadelphiacream cheeses;Kraftcheeses, dinners and dressings; andOscar Mayermeats. Our portfolio included approximately 70 brands which each generate
annual revenues of more than $100 million.

Because Kraft Foods Inc. is a holding company, our principal source of funds is from our subsidiaries. Our
wholly owned subsidiaries currently are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their common stock.

Reportable Segments

We manage and report operating results
through three geographic units: Kraft Foods North America, Kraft Foods Europe and Kraft Foods Developing Markets. We manage the operations of Kraft Foods North America and Kraft






Foods Europe by product category, and we manage the operations of Kraft Foods Developing Markets by location. Our reportable segments are U.S. Beverages, U.S. Cheese, U.S. Convenient Meals,
U.S. Grocery, U.S. Snacks, Canada & North America Foodservice, Kraft Foods Europe and Kraft Foods Developing Markets. The results of operations from our Cadbury Limited (formerly, Cadbury plc) (“Cadbury”) acquisition are reflected
within our U.S. Snacks, Canada & N.A. Foodservice, Kraft Foods Europe and Kraft Foods Developing Markets segments.

Note 16,Segment
Reporting, to our consolidated financial statements includes a breakout of net revenues, segment operating income, total assets, depreciation expense and capital expenditures by reportable segment, as well as a breakout of net revenues,
long-lived assets and total assets by geographic region. Management uses segment operating income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. We believe it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze segment
performance and trends. Segment operating income excludes unrealized gains and losses on hedging activities (which are a component of cost of sales), certain components of our U.S. pension plan cost (which is a component of cost of sales and
selling, general and administrative expenses), general corporate expenses (which are a component of selling, general and administrative expenses) and amortization of intangibles.

The relative percentages of total segment operating income attributable to each reportable segment were:



ConvenientConvenientConvenientConvenientConvenientConvenientConvenient

For the Years Ended December 31,


(2009 & 2008 revised)



Kraft Foods North America:

U.S. Beverages8.4%9.3%9.3%

U.S. Cheese8.9%12.2%13.7%

U.S. Convenient Meals4.0%4.3%3.1%

U.S. Grocery17.3%21.0%24.6%

U.S. Snacks12.6%13.2%15.5%

Canada & N.A. Foodservice8.7%8.5%9.6%

Kraft Foods Europe16.6%14.4%4.4%

Kraft Foods Developing Markets23.5%17.1%19.8%



Total Kraft Segment Operating Income100.0%100.0%100.0%



Our brands span six consumer sectors:

•Biscuits -primarily cookies, crackers and salted snacks•Confectionery -primarily chocolate, gum and candy•Beverages -primarily coffee, packaged juice drinks and powdered
beverages•Cheese -primarily natural, processed and cream
cheeses•Grocery -primarily spoonable and pourable dressings,
condiments and desserts•Convenient Meals -primarily processed meats,
packaged dinners and lunch combinationsThe following table shows each reportable
segment’s participation in these six core consumer sectors.

Percentage of 2010 Net Revenues by Consumer
Sector(1)

SegmentBiscuits(2)Confect-ionery(2)BeveragesCheeseGroceryConvenientMealsTotal



Kraft Foods North America:

U.S. Beverages--36.5%---6.5%

U.S. Cheese---50.6%--7.2%

U.S. Convenient Meals-----63.2%6.4%

U.S. Grocery-1.0%--54.0%22.1%6.9%

U.S. Snacks44.5%7.8%-0.9%1.8%-12.2%

Canada & N.A. Foodservice7.9%4.4%6.0%21.5%21.4%7.3%9.5%



Total Kraft Foods NorthAmerica52.4%13.2%42.5%73.0%77.2%92.6%48.7%



Kraft Foods Europe21.5%38.2%28.7%14.0%8.3%4.9%23.6%

Kraft Foods Developing Markets26.1%48.6%28.8%13.0%14.5%2.5%27.7%



Total Kraft Foods100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%



Consumer Sector Percentageof Total Kraft Foods21.9%27.8%17.9%14.2%8.1%10.1%100.0%








(1)Percentages were calculated based upon dollars rounded to millions.

(2)We previously reported Biscuits and Confectionery combined as Snacks. With the Cadbury acquisition, the Biscuits and Confectionery sectors have been broken out
separately. The Biscuits sector primarily includes Cookies, Crackers and Salted Snacks. The Confectionery sector primarily includes Chocolate, Gum and Candy.

Our U.S. subsidiaries export coffee products, refreshment beverage products, grocery products, cheese, biscuits and processed meats. In 2010, these U.S. exports amounted to $563 million.

Products or similar products contributing 10% or more to Kraft Foods’ consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, were:



201020092008(2009 & 2008 revised)Biscuits (cookies and crackers)19%23%23%Cheese14%18%18%Coffee11%13%14%Chocolate17%11%11%Gum & Candy10%--

Our major brands within each reportable segment and consumer sector at December 31, 2010 were:





Kraft Foods North America:

U.S. Beverages

Beverages:Maxwell House, Starbucks(under license),Gevalia, General Foods International, YubanandSeattle’s Best(under license) coffees;Tassimohot beverage
system;Capri Sun(under license) andKool-Aidpackaged juice drinks;Kool-Aid, Crystal LightandCountry Timepowdered beverages; andTazo(under license) teas.

U.S. Cheese

Cheese:KraftandCracker Barrelnatural cheeses;Philadelphiacream cheese;Kraftgrated cheeses;Polly-OandAthenoscheese;VelveetaandCheez Whizprocessed cheeses;KraftandDeli Deluxeprocessed cheese slices; andBreakstone’sandKnudsencottage cheese and sour cream.

U.S. Convenient Meals

Convenient Meals:Oscar MayerandLouis Richcold cuts, hot dogs and bacon;Lunchableslunch combinations;Bocasoy-based meat alternatives;Deli Creationscomplete
sandwiches; andClaussenpickles.

U.S. Grocery

Grocery:Jell-Odry packaged desserts;Cool Whipwhipped topping;Jell-Orefrigerated gelatin and pudding snacks;Jet-Puffedmarshmallows;KraftandMiracle
Whipspoonable dressings;KraftandGood Seasonssalad dressings;A.1.steak sauce;KraftandBull’s-Eyebarbecue sauces;Grey Pouponpremium mustards;Shake N’ Bakecoatings; andBaker’schocolate and baking ingredients.

Convenient Meals:KraftandKraft Deluxemacaroni and cheese dinners;Stove Topstuffing mix;Taco Bell Home Originals(under license) meal kits; andVelveetashells
and cheese dinners.

U.S. Snacks

Biscuits:Oreo, Chips Ahoy!, Newtons, Nilla, Nutter ButterandSnackWell’scookies;Ritz, Premium, Triscuit, Wheat Thins, Cheese Nips, Flavor Originals, Honey Maidgrahams, Teddy Grahamscrackers,Nabisco100 Calorie Packs;Plantersnuts and trail mixes;Handi-Snackstwo-compartment snacks; andBack to Naturegranola, cookies, crackers, nuts and fruit & nut
mixes.

Confectionery:Toblerone, Trident, Halls, Stride, Dentyne, Sour Patch Kids, Swedish Fish, Maynards, Bubbas, Chiclets, Milkabars, andClorets.



Canada & N.A. FoodserviceCanada & N.A Foodservice products span all Kraft Foods North America segments and sectors. Canadian brand offerings includeNabobcoffee,Kraftpeanut butter andPeek
Freansbiscuits, as well as a range of products bearing brand names similar to those marketed in the U.S. The N.A. Foodservice business sells primarily branded products includingMaxwell Housecoffee,Oreocookies,A.1.steak sauce, and a broad array ofKraftsauces, dressings and cheeses.








Kraft Foods Europe:

Biscuits:Oreo, Digestive, Tuc, Mini-Star, Mikado(under license),Ourson, Petit Déjeuner, Cracotte, Belin, Heudebert, Grany, Petit Écolier, Saiwa, Oro, Fonzies, Start,
PrinceandBelvitabiscuits.

Confectionery:Milka, Marabou, Cote D’or, Toblerone, Freia, Suchard, Lacta, Pavlides,Mirabell chocolate confectionery products, Terry’s, Daim / Dime, Twist, Cadbury Dairy Milk, Roses, Creme
Egg, Twirl, Flake, Crunchie, Heroes / Favourites, Wispa, Mini Eggs, Green and Black’s, Buttons, Milk Tray, Poulain, Giant Buttons, Double Decker, Moro / Boost, Timeout, Trident, Hollywood, Stimorol, Halls, Bassetts, Maynards, Trebor, Carambar,
Poulain, La Pie Qui Chante, V6, TNCC, Eclairs, Malabar, Bubbas.

Beverages:Jacobs, Gevalia, Carte Noire, Jacques Vabre, Kaffee HAG, Grand’ Mère, Kenco, Saimaza, Maxwell House, Onko, Splendid, Starbucks (under license)andKarat coffees;
Tassimo hot beverage system; Tang powdered beverages;andSuchard Express, O’BoyandKaba chocolate drinks.

Cheese:Dairylea, Sottilette, OsellaandEl Caseríocheeses; andPhiladelphiacream cheese.

Grocery:Kraftpourable and spoonable salad dressings;Miracel Whipspoonable dressings; andMirácolisauces.

Convenient Meals:Lunchableslunch combinations;Mirácolipasta dinners and sauces; andSimmenthalcanned meats.

Kraft Foods Developing Markets:

Biscuits:Oreo, Chips Ahoy!, Ritz, Club Social, Express, Kraker Bran, Honey Bran, Aveny Bran, Marbu, Variedad, Pacific, Belvita, Cerealitas, Lucky,Trakinas, Tuc, Mikado(under
license), Ourson, Petit Déjeuner, Cracotte, Bolshevik, Prichuda, Jubilee, Major, Merendina, Jacob’s, Chipsmore, Twisties, Biskuat / Tiger, Milk Biscuit, Hi Calcium Soda, Pépito, GyoriandPIM’sbiscuits; andEstrella,Kar,LuxandPlantersnuts and salted snacks.

Confectionery:Milka,Toblerone,Lacta,Côte d’Or,Recaldent, Terrabusi,Kent, Kan, Alpen Gold,Korona,Poiana, Svoge, Vozdushny,Figaro, Prince Polo / Siesta, Sport/Smash/Jazz/Moreni, Cadbury Dairy Milk, Picnic, 5 Star, Heroes / Favourites, Flake, Fundraising, Crunchie, Perk, Old Gold, Freddo, Cherry Ripe, Moro / Boost, Roses, Trident, Halls, Clorets, Bubbas, Dirol,
Chiclets, Eclairs, Beldent, Dentyne, Recaldent, Xylicrystal, Falim, TNCC, tom Tom, Pascall, Chappies, First, Stride, Mentos, Stimorol

Cheese:Kraft, VelveetaandEdenprocessed cheeses;Philadelphiacream cheese;Kraftnatural cheese; andCheez Whizprocessed cheese spread.

Grocery:Royaldry packaged desserts;Kraftspoonable and pourable salad dressings;Miracle Whipspoonable dressings;Jell-Odessert toppings;Kraftpeanut butter;
andVegemiteyeast spread.

Convenient Meals:Kraftmacaroni and cheese dinners.

Significant
Acquisitions and Divestitures

Cadbury Acquisition:

On January 19, 2010, we announced the terms of our final offer for each outstanding ordinary share of Cadbury, including each ordinary share represented by an American Depositary Share (“Cadbury
ADS”), and the Cadbury Board of Directors recommended that Cadbury shareholders accept the terms of the final offer. On February 2, 2010, all of the conditions to the offer were satisfied or validly waived, the initial offer period expired
and a subsequent offer period immediately began. At that point, we had received acceptances of 71.73% of the outstanding Cadbury ordinary shares, including those represented by Cadbury ADSs (“Cadbury Shares”). As of June 1,
2010, we owned 100% of all outstanding Cadbury Shares. We believe the combination of Kraft Foods and Cadbury will create a global snacks powerhouse and an unrivaled portfolio of brands people love.

Under the terms of our final offer and the subsequent offer, we agreed to pay Cadbury shareholders 500 pence in cash and 0.1874 shares of Kraft Foods Common Stock
per Cadbury ordinary share validly tendered and 2,000 pence in cash and 0.7496 shares of Kraft Foods Common Stock per Cadbury ADS validly tendered. This valued Cadbury at $18.5 billion, or approximately £11.6 billion (based on the average
price of $28.36 for a share of Kraft Foods Common Stock on February 2, 2010 and an exchange rate of $1.595 per £1.00).






On February 2, 2010, we acquired 71.73% of Cadbury Shares for $13.1 billion and the value attributed to
noncontrolling interests was $5.4 billion. From February 2, 2010 through June 1, 2010, we acquired the remaining 28.27% of Cadbury Shares for $5.4 billion. We had a $38 million gain on noncontrolling interest acquired and recorded it
within additional paid in capital.

Pizza Divestiture:

On March 1, 2010, we completed the sale of the assets of our North American frozen pizza business (“Frozen Pizza”) to Nestlé USA, Inc. (“Nestlé”) for $3.7 billion. Our Frozen
Pizza business was a component of our U.S. Convenient Meals and Canada & N. A. Foodservice segments. The sale included theDiGiorno,TombstoneandJack’sbrands in the U.S., theDelissiobrand in Canada and
theCalifornia Pizza Kitchentrademark license. It also included two Wisconsin manufacturing facilities (Medford and Little Chute) and the leases for the pizza depots and delivery trucks. Approximately 3,600 of our employees transferred with
the business to Nestlé. As a result of the divestiture, we recorded a gain on discontinued operations of $1,596 million, or $0.92 per diluted share, in 2010.

Post Cereals Split-off:

On August 4, 2008, we completed the split-off of thePostcereals business
into Ralcorp Holdings, Inc., after an exchange with our shareholders. Accordingly, thePostcereals business prior period results were reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated statement of earnings. The exchange was expected
to be tax-free to participating shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

In this split-off transaction, approximately 46 million shares
of Kraft Foods Common Stock were tendered for $1,644 million. Our shareholders had the option to exchange some or all of their shares of Kraft Foods Common Stock and receive shares of common stock of Cable Holdco, Inc. (“Cable Holdco”).
Cable Holdco was our wholly owned subsidiary that owned certain assets and liabilities of thePostcereals business. In exchange for the contribution of thePostcereals business, Cable Holdco issued approximately $665 million in debt
securities, issued shares of its common stock and assumed a $300 million credit facility. Upon closing, we used the cash equivalent net proceeds, approximately $960 million, to repay debt. As a result of the split-off, we recorded a gain on
discontinued operations of $926 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, in 2008.

See Note 2,Acquisitions and Divestitures, to our consolidated
financial statements for additional information on these transactions.

Customers

Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 26% of our net revenues in 2010 compared with 27% in 2009 and 2008. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 35% of our net revenues in 2010
compared with 36% in 2009 and 2008. One of our customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for approximately 14% of our net revenues in 2010 compared with 16% in 2009 and 2008.

Seasonality

Demand for some of our products may be influenced by holidays, changes in seasons or other annual
events. However, overall sales of our products are generally evenly balanced throughout the year due to the offsetting nature of demands for our diversified product portfolio.

Competition

We face competition in all aspects of our business. Competitors include large national and
international companies and numerous local and regional companies. Some competitors have different profit objectives and some international competitors are less susceptible to currency exchange rates. We also compete with generic products and
retailer brands, wholesalers and cooperatives. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, service, marketing, advertising and price. Moreover, improving our market position or introducing a new product
requires substantial advertising and promotional expenditures.

Distribution and Marketing

Our products are generally sold to supermarket chains, wholesalers, supercenters, club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, convenience stores, gasoline
stations, drug stores, value stores and other retail food






outlets. In general, the retail trade for food products is consolidating. We distribute our products through distribution centers, satellite warehouses, company-operated and public cold-storage
facilities, depots and other facilities. We currently distribute most products in North America through a combination of direct store delivery and warehouse delivery. Outside of North America, our products are distributed through warehouse delivery
and through the services of independent sales offices and agents.

Our marketing efforts are conducted through three principal sets of activities:
(i) consumer marketing in on-air, print, outdoor and digital media; (ii) consumer incentives such as coupons and contests; and (iii) trade promotions to support price features, displays and other merchandising of our products by our
customers.

Raw Materials and Packaging

We
purchase large quantities of commodities, including dairy, coffee, cocoa, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, nuts, meat products, and sugar and other sweeteners. In addition, we use significant quantities of plastic, glass and
cardboard to package our products, and natural gas for our factories and warehouses. We continuously monitor worldwide supply and cost trends of these commodities so we can act quickly to obtain ingredients and packaging needed for production.

Significant cost items in chocolate confectionery products are cocoa and sugar. We purchase cocoa and sugar on world markets, and their prices are
affected by the quality and availability of supply and changes in the value of the pound sterling and the U.S. dollar relative to certain other currencies. Cocoa bean, cocoa butter and sugar costs on average were higher in 2010 than in 2009. We
purchase our dairy raw material requirements, including milk and cheese, from independent third parties such as agricultural cooperatives and independent processors. The prices for milk and other dairy products are substantially influenced by market
supply and demand, as well as by government programs. Dairy commodity costs on average were higher in 2010 than in 2009. The most significant cost item in coffee products is green coffee beans, which we purchase on world markets. Green coffee bean
prices are affected by the quality and availability of supply, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to certain other currencies and consumer demand for coffee products. Green coffee bean costs on average were higher in 2010 than in
2009. Significant cost items in our biscuit and grocery products are grains (wheat, corn and soybean oil). Grain costs have experienced significant volatility as a result of burgeoning global demand for food, livestock feed and biofuels such as
ethanol and biodiesel. Grain costs on average decreased from 2009 to 2010.

During 2010, our aggregate commodity costs increased primarily as a result
of higher cocoa, sugar, dairy, coffee and meat costs, partially offset by lower grain costs. For 2010, our commodity costs were approximately $1.0 billion higher than 2009, following a decrease of approximately $150 million in 2009 compared to
2008. Overall, we expect commodity costs to continue to be volatile and to further increase in 2011.

The prices paid for raw materials and agricultural
materials used in our products generally reflect external factors such as weather conditions, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations and the effects of governmental agricultural programs. Although the prices of the principal raw
materials can be expected to fluctuate as a result of these factors, we believe there will be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they are generally available from numerous sources. We use hedging techniques to limit the impact
of price fluctuations in our principal raw materials. However, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and these strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs.

Intellectual Property

We consider our trademarks, in the
aggregate, to be material to our business. We protect our trademarks by registration or otherwise in the U.S. and in other markets where we sell our products. Trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as
the mark is used and in other countries for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. From time to time, we grant third parties licenses to use one or more of our trademarks in particular
locations. Similarly, we sell some products under brands we license from third parties, including at December 31, 2010:



•Starbuckscoffee andSeattle’s Bestcoffee for sale in U.S. and European grocery stores and other distribution channels;

•StarbucksandSeattle’s Bestcoffee T-Discs for use in ourTassimohot beverage system;

•Capri Sunpackaged juice drinks for sale in the U.S. and Canada; and

•Taco Bell Home OriginalsMexican style food products for sale in U.S. grocery stores.






Additionally, we own numerous patents worldwide. While our patent portfolio is material to our
business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business. We have either been issued patents or have patent applications pending that relate to a number of
current and potential products, including products licensed to others. Patents, issued or applied for, cover inventions ranging from basic packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. Our
issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can
vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. We consider that in the aggregate our patent
applications, patents and licenses under patents owned by third parties are of material importance to our operations.

We also have proprietary trade
secrets, technology, know-how processes and related intellectual property rights that are not registered.

Research and Development

We pursue four objectives in research and development: product safety and quality; growth through new products; superior consumer satisfaction; and
reduced costs. We have approximately 3,300 food scientists, chemists and engineers working primarily in 15 key technology centers: East Hanover, New Jersey; Glenview, Illinois; Madison, Wisconsin; Tarrytown, New York; Whippany, New Jersey; Banbury,
United Kingdom; Bournville, United Kingdom; Curitiba, Brazil; Eysins, Switzerland; Paris, France; Melbourne, Australia; Mexico City, Mexico; Munich, Germany; Reading, United Kingdom; and Suzhou, China. These technology centers are equipped with
pilot plants and state-of-the-art instruments. Research and development expense was $583 million in 2010, $466 million in 2009, and $487 million in 2008.

Regulation

Our U.S. food products and packaging materials
are primarily regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) or, for products containing meat and poultry, the U.S. Food Safety and Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. These agencies enact
and enforce regulations relating to the manufacturing, distribution and labeling of food products. We supported the recently enacted law that provides additional food safety authority to the FDA. We do not expect the cost of complying with that
law, and implementing regulations expected over the next two to three years, to be material.

In addition, various states regulate our U.S.
operations by licensing plants, enforcing federal and state standards for selected food products, grading food products, inspecting plants and warehouses, regulating trade practices related to the sale of dairy products and imposing their
own labeling requirements on food products.

Many of the food commodities we use in our U.S. operations are subject to governmental
agricultural programs. These programs have substantial effects on prices and supplies and are subject to periodic U.S. Congressional and administrative review.

All of our non-U.S. based operations are subject to local and national regulations, some of which are similar to those applicable to our U.S. operations. For example, in the European
Union, we must comply with requirements that apply to labeling, packaging, food content, pricing, marketing and advertising and related areas.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to various laws
and regulations in and outside of the U.S. relating to the protection of the environment. We accrue for environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. The accruals are
adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change. Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from third parties are recorded as assets when recovery of those costs is deemed probable.






In the U.S., the laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act and Superfund (the environmental program established in the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation, and Recovery Act to address abandoned hazardous waste sites), which imposes joint and severable liability on each potentially
responsible party. At December 31, 2010, our subsidiaries were involved in 74 active actions in the U.S. under Superfund legislation (and other similar actions and legislation) related to current operations and certain former or divested
operations for which we retain liability.

Outside the U.S., we are subject to applicable multi-national, national and local environmental laws and
regulations in the countries in which we do business. Outside the U.S., we have specific programs across our business units designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements.

As of December 31, 2010, we had accrued an insignificant amount for environmental remediation. Based on information currently available, we believe that the ultimate resolution of existing environmental
remediation actions and our compliance in general with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on our financial results. However, we cannot quantify with certainty the potential impact of future compliance efforts and
environmental remedial actions.

Employees

At
December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 127,000 people worldwide. Labor unions represent approximately 27% of our 37,000 U.S. employees. Most of the unionized workers at our U.S. locations are represented under contracts with the Bakery,
Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union; the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union; and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. These contracts expire at various times throughout the next several
years. Outside the U.S., labor unions or workers’ councils represent approximately 55% of our 90,000 employees. Our business units are subject to various laws and regulations relating to their relationships with their employees. These laws and
regulations are specific to the location of each business unit. In addition, in accordance with European Union requirements, we have established a European Works Council composed of management and elected members of our workforce. We believe that
our relationships with employees and their representative organizations are good.

Foreign Operations

We sell our products to consumers in approximately 170 countries. At December 31, 2010, we had operations in more than 75 countries and made our products at
223 manufacturing and processing facilities worldwide. We generated approximately 57% of our 2010 net revenues, 49% of our 2009 net revenues and 50% of our 2008 net revenues outside the U.S.

Refer to Note 16.Segment Reportingfor additional information on our foreign operations.

For a discussion of
risks attendant to our foreign operations, see “Risk Factors” in Item 1A.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following are our executive officers as of February 28, 2011:



NameAgeTitleIrene B. Rosenfeld57Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerDavid A. Brearton50Executive Vice President, Operations and Business ServicesMichael A. Clarke46Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods EuropeMarc S. Firestone51Executive Vice President, Corporate and Legal Affairs and General CounselSanjay Khosla59Executive Vice President and President, Developing MarketsKaren J. May52Executive Vice President, Global Human ResourcesTimothy R. McLevish55Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerSam B. Rovit53Executive Vice President, StrategyJean E. Spence53Executive Vice President, Research, Development and QualityW. Anthony Vernon55Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods North AmericaMary Beth West48Executive Vice President and Chief Category and Marketing Officer






Ms. Rosenfeldwas appointed Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of Kraft Foods
in June 2006 and Chairman of the Board in March 2007. Prior to that, she had been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Frito-Lay, a division of PepsiCo, Inc., a food and beverage company, from September 2004 to June 2006. Previously,
Ms. Rosenfeld was employed continuously by Kraft Foods, and its predecessor, General Foods Corporation, in various capacities from 1981 until 2003, including President of Kraft Foods North America and, before that, President of Operations,
Technology, Information Systems of Kraft Foods Canada, Mexico, and Puerto Rico. She is also a Trustee of Cornell University.

Mr. Breartonwas appointed as Executive Vice President, Operations and Business Services effective January 1, 2008. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, Global Business Services and Strategy from April 2006 to December 2007 and as
Senior Vice President of Business Process Simplification and as Corporate Controller from February 2005 to April 2006. He previously served as a Senior Vice President, Finance for Kraft Foods International. Mr. Brearton joined Kraft Foods in
1984. Mr. Brearton also serves on the Board of Directors of Feeding America.

Mr. Clarkejoined Kraft Foods as President, Kraft Foods
Europe on January 2, 2009 and was appointed Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods Europe on January 27, 2009. Prior to joining Kraft Foods, Mr. Clarke spent 12 years with The Coca-Cola Company, a beverage company, most
recently serving as President of the Northwest Europe and Nordics businesses from August 2005 to December 2008 and as President of the South Pacific and Korea businesses from March 2000 to July 2005. Mr. Clarke also serves on the Advisory Board
of the Inspire Foundation.

Mr. Firestonewas appointed as Executive Vice President, Corporate and Legal Affairs and General Counsel in
October 2006. He previously served as Kraft Foods’ Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from November 2003 to October 2006. Prior to joining Kraft Foods in 2003, Mr. Firestone served as Senior Vice President
and General Counsel of Philip Morris International, a tobacco company. Mr. Firestone also serves on the Board of Directors of Unilife Corporation.

Mr. Khoslawas appointed as Executive Vice President and President, Developing Markets effective August 1, 2010. Prior to that, he served as
Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods International from January 2007 to July 2010. Before joining Kraft Foods, he served as the Managing Director of Fonterra Brands, a dairy company, from 2004 to 2006. Previously, Mr. Khosla
spent 27 years with Unilever, a consumer products company, in India, London and Europe. Mr. Khosla also serves on the Boards of Directors of Best Buy Co., Inc. and NIIT Ltd. and is a trustee of the Goodman Theater Company in Chicago.

Ms. Maywas appointed as Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources in October 2005. Prior to that, she had been Corporate Vice
President, Human Resources for Baxter International Inc., a healthcare company, since February 2001. Ms. May also serves on the Board of Directors of MB Financial Inc.

Mr. McLevishwas appointed as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in October 2007. Prior to that, he had been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Ingersoll-Rand Company
Limited, an industrial company, since June 2002. Mr. McLevish also serves on the Board of Directors of Kennametal Inc.

Mr. Rovitwas
appointed Executive Vice President, Strategy effective February 1, 2011. Prior to joining Kraft Foods, he served as a Director of Bain & Co., a management consulting firm, from January 2008 to January 2011 and from 1988 to June 2005.
Mr. Rovit served as President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Swift & Company, a meat processing company, from June 2005 to July 2007. Mr. Rovit also serves on the Boards of Directors of MRC, Inc. and J. W. Saxe Memorial
Fund.

Ms. Spencewas appointed as Executive Vice President, Research, Development and Quality in January 2004. Prior to that,
Ms. Spence served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development, Kraft Foods North America from August 2003 to January 2004 and Senior Vice President of Worldwide Quality, Scientific Affairs and Compliance for Kraft Foods North America
from November 2001 to August 2003. She joined Kraft Foods in 1981. Ms. Spence also serves on the Board of Directors of International Life Sciences Institute.

Mr. Vernonjoined Kraft Foods as Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods North America in August 2009. Prior to that, he was the Healthcare Industry Partner of Ripplewood Holdings Inc.,
a private equity firm, since






2006. Mr. Vernon spent 23 years with Johnson & Johnson, a pharmaceutical company, in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as Company Group Chairman of DePuy
Inc., an orthopedics company and subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, from 2004 to 2005. Mr. Vernon also serves on the Board of Directors of Medivation, Inc.

Ms. Westwas appointed as Executive Vice President and Chief Category and Marketing Officer effective August 1, 2010. Previously, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer
from October 2007 to July 2010, and as Group Vice President for Kraft Foods and President of the North America Beverages Sector from 2005 to October 2007. Ms. West joined Kraft Foods in 1986. Ms. West also serves on the Board of Directors
of J.C. Penney Co., Inc. and is a member of the Executive Leadership Council.

We adopted the Kraft Foods Code of Conduct, which qualifies as a code of
ethics under Item 406 of Regulation S-K. The code applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar
functions. Our code of ethics is available free of charge on our Web site atwww.kraftfoodscompany.comand will be provided free of charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to: Corporate Secretary, Kraft Foods Inc., Three
Lakes Drive, Northfield, IL 60093. We will disclose any waiver we grant to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller under our code of ethics, or certain amendments to the code of
ethics, on our Web site atwww.kraftfoodscompany.com.

In addition, we adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, charters for each of the
Board’s five standing committees and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors. All of these materials are available on our Web site atwww.kraftfoodscompany.comand will be provided free of charge to any shareholder
requesting a copy by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Kraft Foods Inc., Three Lakes Drive, Northfield, IL 60093.

Available Information

Our Internet address iswww.kraftfoodscompany.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or
furnish them to, the SEC. You can access our filings with the SEC by visitingwww.kraftfoodscompany.com. The information on our Web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any
other filings we make with the SEC.

You can also read and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the
SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Kraft Foods, that are electronically filed with the SEC.

