Item 1.  Business.

General

Kraft Foods is the world’s second largest food company, with revenues of $40.4 billion and earnings from continuing operations before income taxes of $4.3
billion in 2009. Kraft Foods was incorporated in 2000 in the Commonwealth of Virginia. We have approximately 97,000 employees worldwide, and we manufacture and market packaged food products, including snacks, beverages, cheese, convenient meals and
various packaged grocery products. We sell our products to consumers in approximately 160 countries. At December 31, 2009, we had operations in more than 70 countries and made our products at 159 manufacturing and processing facilities
worldwide. At December 31, 2009, we had net assets of $25.9 billion and gross assets of $66.7 billion. We are a member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, Standard & Poor’s 500, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the Ethibel
Sustainability Index.

At December 31, 2009, our portfolio included nine brands with annual revenues exceeding $1 billion each:Kraftcheeses, dinners and dressings;Oscar Mayermeats;Philadelphiacream cheese;Maxwell HouseandJacobscoffee;Nabiscocookies and crackers and itsOreocookie brand;Milkachocolates; andLUbiscuits. Our portfolio included approximately 50 brands which each generate annual revenues of more than $100 million.

Prior to June 13, 2001,
Kraft Foods was a wholly owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc. (“Altria”). On June 13, 2001, we completed an initial public offering of 280,000,000 shares of our Common Stock. In the first quarter of 2007, Altria spun off its
remaining interest (89.0%) in Kraft Foods on a pro rata basis to Altria stockholders in a tax-free transaction. Effective as of the close of business on March 30, 2007, all Kraft Foods shares owned by Altria were distributed to
Altria’s stockholders, and our separation from Altria was completed.

Because Kraft Foods Inc. is a holding company, our principal source of funds
is from our subsidiaries. Our wholly owned subsidiaries currently are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their common stock.

Reportable Segments

We manage and report operating results
through three geographic units: Kraft Foods North America, Kraft Foods Europe and Kraft Foods Developing Markets. We manage the operations of Kraft Foods North America and Kraft Foods Europe by product category, and we manage the operations of Kraft
Foods Developing Markets by location. Our reportable segments are U.S. Beverages, U.S. Cheese, U.S. Convenient Meals, U.S. Grocery, U.S. Snacks, Canada & North America Foodservice, Kraft Foods Europe (formerly known as European Union)
and Kraft Foods Developing Markets.

In January 2009, we began implementing changes to our operating structure based on ourOrganizing For Growthinitiative and the Kraft Foods Europe Reorganization. In line with our strategies, we are reorganizing our European operations to function on a pan-European centralized category management and value chain model, and we changed how we work in Europe
in two key ways:



•We transitioned our European Biscuit, Chocolate, Coffee and Cheese categories to fully integrated business units, further strengthening our focus on these core
categories. To ensure decisions are made faster and closer to our customers and consumers, each category is fully accountable for its financial results, including marketing, manufacturing and R&D. Category leadership, based in Zurich,
Switzerland, reports to the Kraft Foods Europe President. These business units now comprise the Kraft Foods Europe segment.

•We aligned the reporting of our Central Europe operations into our Kraft Foods Developing Markets segment to help build critical scale in these countries. We
operate a country-led model in these markets.

Note 16,Segment Reporting, to our consolidated financial statements includes a
breakout of net revenues, segment operating income, total assets, depreciation expense and capital expenditures by reportable segment, as well as a breakout of net revenues, long-lived assets and total assets by geographic region. Management uses
segment






operating income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. We believe it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze segment performance and trends. Segment
operating income excludes unrealized gains and losses on hedging activities (which are a component of cost of sales), certain components of our U.S. pension plan cost (which is a component of cost of sales and marketing, administration and research
costs), general corporate expenses (which are a component of marketing, administration and research costs) and amortization of intangibles.

The
relative percentages of total segment operating income attributable to each reportable segment were:





For the Years Ended December 31,


Kraft Foods North America:

U.S. Beverages8.8%8.7%7.9%

U.S. Cheese11.5%12.9%11.1%

U.S. Convenient Meals8.8%7.7%7.3%

U.S. Grocery19.7%23.1%23.4%

U.S. Snacks12.5%14.6%16.4%

Canada & N.A. Foodservice9.1%10.2%10.1%

Kraft Foods Europe(1)13.5%4.2%10.4%

Kraft Foods Developing Markets16.1%18.6%13.4%



Total Kraft Segment OperatingIncome100.0%100.0%100.0%



(1)    This segment was formerly known as European Union.

Our brands span five consumer sectors:•Snacks -primarily biscuits (cookies and crackers), salted snacks and chocolate confectionery;•Beverages- primarily coffee, packaged juice drinks and powdered beverages;•Cheese- primarily natural, processed and cream cheeses;•Grocery- primarily spoonable and pourable dressings, condiments and desserts; and•Convenient Meals- primarily processed meats, frozen pizza, packaged dinners
and lunch combinations.The following table shows each reportable segment’s
participation in these five core consumer sectors.



Percentage of 2009 Net Revenues by Consumer Sector(1)

SegmentSnacksBeveragesCheeseGroceryConvenientMealsTotal



Kraft Foods North America:

U.S. Beverages-38.0%---7.6%

U.S. Cheese--53.1%--8.9%

U.S. Convenient Meals----69.7%11.1%

U.S. Grocery0.9%--55.1%16.6%8.6%

U.S. Snacks32.0%-0.9%2.1%-12.3%

Canada & N.A. Foodservice6.5%6.1%19.3%19.8%7.8%10.1%



Total Kraft Foods NorthAmerica39.4%44.1%73.3%77.0%94.1%58.6%



Kraft Foods Europe31.8%29.8%14.3%9.1%4.1%21.7%

Kraft Foods Developing Markets28.8%26.1%12.4%13.9%1.8%19.7%



Total Kraft Foods100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%



Consumer Sector Percentageof Total Kraft Foods37.2%19.9%16.8%10.1%16.0%100.0%



(1)    Percentages were calculated based upon dollars rounded to millions.

Our U.S. subsidiaries export
coffee products, refreshment beverage products, grocery products, cheese, biscuits and processed meats. In 2009, these U.S. exports amounted to $522 million.






Products or similar products contributing 10% or more to Kraft Foods’ consolidated net revenues for the years
ended December 31, were:



200920082007Biscuits (cookies and crackers)23%22%16%Cheese17%18%19%Coffee13%13%14%Confectionery11%12%12%

Our major brands within each reportable segment and consumer sector at December 31, 2009 were:





Kraft Foods North America:

U.S. Beverages

Beverages:Maxwell House, Starbucks(under license),Gevalia, General Foods International, YubanandSeattle’s Best(under license) coffees;Tassimohot beverage
system;Capri Sun(under license) andKool-Aidpackaged juice drinks;Kool-Aid, Crystal LightandCountry Timepowdered beverages; andTazo(under license) teas.

U.S. Cheese

Cheese:KraftandCracker Barrelnatural cheeses;Philadelphiacream cheese;Kraftgrated cheeses;Polly-OandAthenoscheese;VelveetaandCheez Whizprocessed cheeses;KraftandDeli Deluxeprocessed cheese slices; andBreakstone’sandKnudsencottage cheese and sour cream.

U.S. Convenient Meals

Convenient Meals:Oscar MayerandLouis Richcold cuts, hot dogs and bacon;Lunchableslunch combinations;DiGiorno, Tombstone, Jack’sandCalifornia Pizza Kitchen(under license) frozen pizzas;Bocasoy-based meat alternatives;Deli Creationscomplete sandwiches; andClaussenpickles.

U.S. Grocery

Grocery:Jell-Odry packaged desserts;Cool Whipwhipped topping;Jell-Orefrigerated gelatin and pudding snacks;Jet-Puffedmarshmallows;KraftandMiracle
Whipspoonable dressings;KraftandGood Seasonssalad dressings;A.1.steak sauce;KraftandBull’s-Eyebarbecue sauces;Grey Pouponpremium mustards;Shake N’ Bakecoatings; andBaker’schocolate and baking ingredients.

Convenient Meals:KraftandKraft Deluxemacaroni and cheese dinners;Stove Topstuffing mix;Taco Bell Home Originals(under license) meal kits; andVelveetashells
and cheese dinners.

U.S. Snacks

Snacks:Oreo, Chips Ahoy!, Newtons, Nilla, Nutter ButterandSnackWell’scookies;Ritz, Premium, Triscuit, Wheat Thins, Cheese Nips, Flavor Originals, Honey Maidgrahams, Teddy GrahamsandKraftmacaroni and cheese crackers;Nabisco100 Calorie Packs;Plantersnuts and trail mixes;Handi-Snackstwo-compartment snacks; andBack to Naturegranola, cookies,
crackers, nuts and fruit & nut mixes.

Cheese:Easy Cheesecheese spread.



Canada & N.A. FoodserviceCanada and foodservice products span all Kraft Foods North America segments and sectors. Canadian brand offerings includeDelissiopizza,Nabobcoffee,Kraftpeanut
butter andPeek Freansbiscuits, as well as a range of products bearing brand names similar to those marketed in the U.S. The N.A. Foodservice business sells primarily branded products includingMaxwell Housecoffee,Oreocookies,A.1.steak sauce, and a broad array ofKraftsauces, dressings and cheeses.








Kraft Foods Europe:

Snacks:Milka, Suchard, Côte d’Or, Marabou, Toblerone, Freia, Terry’s, Daim / Dime, Lacta, Pavlides, Twist, MerendaandMirabellchocolate confectionery
products; andOreo, Digestive, Tuc, Mini-Star, Mikado(under license),Ourson, Petit Déjeuner, Cracotte, Belin, Heudebert, Grany, Petit Écolier, Saiwa, Oro, Fonzies, Start, PrinceandBelvitabiscuits.

Beverages:Jacobs, Gevalia, Carte Noire, Jacques Vabre, Kaffee HAG, Grand’ Mère, Kenco, Saimaza, Maxwell House, Onko, Splendid, Starbucks(under license) andKaratcoffees;Tassimohot beverage system;Tangpowdered beverages; andSuchard Express, O’BoyandKabachocolate drinks.

Cheese:Dairylea, Sottilette, OsellaandEl Caseríocheeses; andPhiladelphiacream cheese.

Grocery:Kraftpourable and spoonable salad dressings;Miracel Whipspoonable dressings; andMirácolisauces.

Convenient Meals:Lunchableslunch combinations;Mirácolipasta dinners and sauces; andSimmenthalcanned meats.

Kraft Foods Developing Markets:

Snacks:Milka,Toblerone,Lacta,Côte d’Or,Shot,Terrabusi,Suchard,Alpen Gold,Karuna,Korona,Poiana,Svoge,Ukraina,Vozdushny,Chudny Vecher,Terry’s, Figaro, Prince Polo / Siesta, Piros, MogyorosandGallitochocolate confectionery products;Oreo, Chips Ahoy!, Ritz, Club Social, Express, Kraker
Bran, Honey Bran, Aveny Bran, Marbu, Variedad, Pacific, Belvita, Cerealitas, Lucky,Trakinas, Tuc, Mikado(under license), Ourson, Petit Déjeuner, Cracotte, Bolshevik, Prichuda, Jubilee, Major, Merendina, Jacob’s,
Chipsmore, Twisties, Biskuat / Tiger, Milk Biscuit, Hi Calcium Soda, Pépito, GyoriandPIM’sbiscuits; andEstrella,Kar,LuxandPlantersnuts and salted snacks.

Beverages:Maxwell House,Maxim,Carte Noire,Nova BrasiliaandJacobscoffee; andTang,Clight,Kool-Aid,Verao,Frisco,Q-Refres-Ko,RoyalandFreshpowdered beverages.

Cheese:Kraft, VelveetaandEdenprocessed cheeses;Philadelphiacream cheese;Kraftnatural cheese; andCheez Whizprocessed cheese spread.

Grocery:Royaldry packaged desserts;Kraftspoonable and pourable salad dressings;Miracle Whipspoonable dressings;Jell-Odessert toppings;Kraftpeanut
butter; andVegemiteyeast spread.

Convenient Meals:Kraft macaroni and cheese dinners.

Significant Acquisitions and
Divestitures

Cadbury Acquisition:

On
January 19, 2010, we announced the terms of our final offer for each outstanding ordinary share of Cadbury plc (“Cadbury”), including each ordinary share represented by an American Depositary Share (“Cadbury ADS”), and the
Cadbury board of directors recommended that Cadbury shareholders accept the terms of the final offer. Under the terms of the offer, we agreed to pay Cadbury shareholders 500 pence in cash and 0.1874 shares of Kraft Foods Common Stock per Cadbury
ordinary share validly tendered and 2,000 pence in cash and 0.7496 shares of Kraft Foods Common Stock per Cadbury ADS validly tendered. This valued each Cadbury ordinary share at 840 pence and each Cadbury ADS at £33.60 (based on the closing
price of $29.58 for a share of Kraft Foods Common Stock on January 15, 2010 and an exchange rate of $1.63 per £1.00) and valued the entire issued share capital of Cadbury at £11.9 billion (approximately $19.4 billion) on
January 15, 2010, the last trading day before the publication of our final offer. The combination of Kraft Foods and Cadbury will create a global powerhouse in snacks, confectionery and quick meals with a rich portfolio of iconic brands.

On February 2, 2010, all of the conditions to the offer were satisfied or validly waived, the initial offer period expired and a subsequent offer
period immediately began. At that point, we had received acceptances of 71.73% of the outstanding Cadbury ordinary shares, including those represented by Cadbury ADSs. The subsequent offer period remains open until further notice and at
least 14 days of notice will be given if Kraft Foods decides to close the offer. As of February 15, 2010, we had received acceptances of 1,262,356,520 shares representing 91.02% of the outstanding Cadbury ordinary shares, including those
represented by Cadbury ADSs. As we have received






acceptances of over 90% of Cadbury shares, we are in the process of acquiring the remaining Cadbury ordinary shares that are not tendered in the offer, including those represented by Cadbury
ADSs, through a compulsory acquisition procedure under the United Kingdom Companies Act of 2006, as amended. Additionally, as a condition of the EU Commission’s approval of the Cadbury acquisition, we are required to divest confectionary
operations in Poland and Romania. As part of our acquisition of Cadbury, we expensed approximately $40 million in transaction related fees in 2009 as we incurred them, and we also incurred $40 million in financing fees in 2009 related to the
acquisition.

Pizza Divestiture:

On
January 4, 2010, we entered into an agreement to sell the assets of our North American frozen pizza business (“Frozen Pizza”) to Nestlé USA, Inc. (“Nestlé”) for total consideration of $3.7 billion. Our Frozen
Pizza business is a component of our U.S. Convenient Meals and Canada & N.A. Foodservice segments. The sale, which is subject to customary conditions, including regulatory clearances, includes theDiGiorno,TombstoneandJack’sbrands in the U.S., theDelissiobrand in Canada and theCalifornia Pizza Kitchentrademark license. It also includes two Wisconsin manufacturing facilities (Medford and Little Chute) and the leases for the pizza
depots and delivery trucks. It is estimated that approximately 3,400 of our employees will transfer with the business to Nestlé. We anticipate that the transaction will close in the first quarter of 2010.

Post Cereals Split-off:

On August 4, 2008, we completed
the split-off of thePostcereals business into Ralcorp Holdings, Inc., after an exchange with our shareholders. Accordingly, thePostcereals business prior period results were reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated
statement of earnings. The exchange was expected to be tax-free to participating shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

In this split-off
transaction, approximately 46.1 million shares of Kraft Foods Common Stock were tendered for $1,644 million. Our shareholders had the option to exchange some or all of their shares of Kraft Foods Common Stock and receive shares of common stock
of Cable Holdco, Inc. (“Cable Holdco”). Cable Holdco was our wholly owned subsidiary that owned certain assets and liabilities of thePostcereals business. In exchange for the contribution of thePostcereals business, Cable
Holdco issued approximately $665 million in debt securities, issued shares of its common stock and assumed a $300 million credit facility. Upon closing, we used the cash equivalent net proceeds, approximately $960 million, to repay debt. As a result
of the split-off, we recorded a gain on discontinued operations of $926 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, in 2008.

LU Biscuit Acquisition:

On November 30, 2007, we acquired the Groupe Danone S.A. globalLUbiscuit business (“LUBiscuit”) for€5.1 billion (approximately $7.6 billion) in cash. The acquisition included 32 manufacturing facilities and approximately 14,000 employees.LUBiscuit reports results from operations on a one month lag; accordingly, there was no effect on our 2007 operating results. On a proforma basis,LUBiscuit would have contributed net revenues of $2.8 billion during 2007, andLUBiscuit’s contribution to net earnings would have been insignificant to Kraft Foods.

See Note 2,Acquisitions and Divestitures,
to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on these transactions.

Customers

Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 27% of our net revenues in 2009 compared with 27% in 2008 and 29% in 2007. Our ten largest customers accounted
for approximately 36% of our net revenues in 2009 compared with 36% in 2008 and 40% in 2007. One of our customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for approximately 16% of our net revenues in 2009 compared with 16% in 2008 and 15% in 2007.

Seasonality

Demand for some of our products
may be influenced by holidays, changes in seasons or other annual events. However, overall sales of our products are generally evenly balanced throughout the year due to the offsetting nature of demands for our diversified product portfolio.






Competition

We face competition in all aspects of our business. Competitors include large national and international companies and numerous local and regional companies. Some competitors have different profit objectives and some international
competitors are less susceptible to currency exchange rates. We also compete with generic products and retailer brands, wholesalers and cooperatives. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, service,
marketing, advertising and price. Moreover, improving our market position or introducing a new product requires substantial advertising and promotional expenditures.

Distribution and Marketing

Our products are generally sold to supermarket chains, wholesalers, supercenters,
club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, convenience stores, gasoline stations, drug stores, value stores and other retail food outlets. In general, the retail trade for food products is consolidating. Food products are distributed through
distribution centers, satellite warehouses, company-operated and public cold-storage facilities, depots and other facilities. We currently distribute most products in North America through a combination of direct store delivery and warehouse
delivery. Outside of North America, our products are distributed through warehouse delivery and through the services of independent sales offices and agents.

Our marketing efforts are conducted through three principal sets of activities: (i) consumer marketing in broadcast, print, outdoor and on-line media; (ii) consumer incentives such as coupons and contests; and (iii) trade
promotions to support price features, displays and other merchandising of our products by our customers.

Raw Materials and Packaging

We are a major purchaser of dairy, coffee, cocoa, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, nuts, meat products, and sugar and other sweeteners. We also
use significant quantities of plastic, glass and cardboard to package our products, and natural gas for our factories and warehouses. We continuously monitor worldwide supply and cost trends of these commodities so we can act quickly to obtain
ingredients and packaging needed for production.

We purchase our dairy raw material requirements, including milk and cheese, from independent third
parties such as agricultural cooperatives and independent processors. The prices for milk and other dairy product purchases are substantially influenced by market supply and demand, as well as by government programs. Dairy commodity costs on average
were lower in 2009 than in 2008. Significant cost items in our biscuit and grocery products are grains (wheat, corn and soybean oil). Grain costs have experienced significant volatility as a result of burgeoning global demand for food, livestock
feed and biofuels such as ethanol and biodiesel. Grain costs on average were relatively flat from 2008 to 2009. The most significant cost item in coffee products is green coffee beans, which are purchased on world markets. Green coffee bean prices
are affected by the quality and availability of supply, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to certain other currencies and consumer demand for coffee products. Green coffee bean costs on average were lower in 2009 than in 2008. A
significant cost item in chocolate confectionery products is cocoa, which is purchased on world markets, and the price of which is affected by the quality and availability of supply and changes in the value of the British pound and the U.S. dollar
relative to certain other currencies. Cocoa bean and cocoa butter costs on average were higher in 2009 than in 2008.

During 2009, our aggregate
commodity costs decreased primarily as a result of lower dairy costs. For 2009, our commodity costs were approximately $150 million lower than 2008, following an increase of approximately $2.0 billion in 2008 compared to 2007. Overall, we
expect commodity costs to continue to be volatile in 2010.

The prices paid for raw materials and agricultural materials used in our products generally
reflect external factors such as weather conditions, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations and the effects of governmental agricultural programs. Although the prices of the principal raw materials can be expected to fluctuate as a
result of these factors, we believe there will be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they are generally available from numerous sources. We use hedging techniques to limit the impact of price fluctuations in our principal raw
materials. However, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and these strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs.






Intellectual Property

We consider our trademarks, in the aggregate, to be material to our business. We protect our trademarks by registration or otherwise in the U.S. and in other markets where we sell our products. Trademark protection
continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and in other countries for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. From time to time, we grant third parties licenses to use one or
more of our trademarks in particular locations. Similarly, we sell some of our products under brands we license from third parties, including at December 31, 2009:



•Starbuckscoffee,Seattle’s Bestcoffee andTazoteas for sale in U.S. grocery stores and other distribution channels;

•StarbucksandSeattle’s Bestcoffee T-Discs andTazoteas T-Discs for use in ourTassimohot beverage system;

•Capri Sunpackaged juice drinks for sale in the U.S. and Canada;

•Taco Bell Home OriginalsMexican style food products for sale in U.S. grocery stores; and

•California Pizza Kitchenfrozen pizzas for sale in U.S. grocery stores.

Additionally, we own numerous patents worldwide. While our patent portfolio is material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not
have a material adverse effect on our business. We have either been issued patents or have patent applications pending that relate to a number of current and potential products, including products licensed to others. Patents, issued or applied
for, cover inventions ranging from basic packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. Our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of patent application filing or grant
and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined
by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. We consider that in the aggregate our patent applications, patents and licenses under patents owned by third parties are of material importance to
our operations.

We also have proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes and related intellectual property rights that are not
registered.

Research and Development

We pursue
four objectives in research and development: product safety and quality; growth through new products; superior consumer satisfaction; and reduced costs. We have approximately 2,300 food scientists, chemists and engineers working primarily in six key
technology centers: East Hanover, New Jersey; Glenview, Illinois; Tarrytown, New York; Banbury, United Kingdom; Paris, France; and Munich, Germany. These technology centers are equipped with pilot plants and state-of-the-art instruments. Research
and development expense was $477 million in 2009, $498 million in 2008 and $442 million in 2007.

Regulation

Our U.S. food products and packaging materials are primarily regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or, for products containing meat and
poultry, the U.S. Food Safety and Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. These agencies enact and enforce regulations relating to the manufacturing, distribution and labeling of food products.

In addition, various states regulate our U.S. operations by licensing plants, enforcing federal and state standards for selected food products, grading food
products, inspecting plants and warehouses, regulating trade practices related to the sale of dairy products and imposing their own labeling requirements on food products.

Many of the food commodities we use in our U.S. operations are subject to governmental agricultural programs. These programs have substantial effects on prices and supplies and are subject to
periodic U.S. Congressional and administrative review.






All of our non-U.S. based operations are subject to local and national regulations, some of which are
similar to those applicable to our U.S. operations. For example, in the European Union, we must comply with requirements that apply to labeling, packaging, food content, pricing, marketing and advertising and related areas.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to
various federal, state and local laws in the U.S. and laws and regulations outside of the U.S. relating to the protection of the environment. We accrue for environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when amounts are probable and
can be reasonably estimated. The accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change. Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from third parties are recorded as assets when recovery of those costs is deemed probable. In
the U.S., the laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act 1990, the Clean Water Act 1972, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act 1976 and Superfund (the environmental program established to address abandoned hazardous waste sites), which
imposes joint and severable liability on each responsible party. At December 31, 2009, our subsidiaries were involved in 71 active actions in the U.S. under Superfund legislation (and other similar actions) related to current operations
and certain former or divested operations for which we retain liability.

Outside the U.S., we are subject to applicable multi-national, national and
local environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business. Outside the U.S., we have specific programs across our business units designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements.

Based on information currently available, we believe that the ultimate resolution of existing environmental remediation actions and our compliance in general with
environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on our financial results. However, we cannot quantify with certainty the potential impact of future compliance efforts and environmental remediation actions.

Employees

At December 31, 2009, we employed
approximately 97,000 people worldwide. Labor unions represent approximately 26% of our 40,000 U.S. employees. Most of the unionized workers at our U.S. locations are represented under contracts with the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and
Grain Millers International Union; the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union; and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. These contracts expire at various times throughout the next several years. Outside the U.S., labor unions
or workers’ councils represent approximately 60% of our 57,000 employees. Our business units are subject to various laws and regulations relating to their relationships with their employees. These laws and regulations are specific to the
location of each business unit. In addition, in accordance with European Union requirements, we have established a European Works Council composed of management and elected members of our workforce. We believe that our relationships with employees
and their representative organizations are good.

In 2008, we completed our five-year restructuring program. As part of the program, we announced the
elimination of approximately 18,600 positions. As of December 31, 2009, we had eliminated approximately 17,300 of those positions.

Executive
Officers of the Registrant

The following were our executive officers on February 25, 2010:



NameAgeTitleIrene B. Rosenfeld56Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerDavid A. Brearton49Executive Vice President, Operations and Business ServicesMichael A. Clarke45Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods EuropeMarc S. Firestone50Executive Vice President, Corporate and Legal Affairs and General CounselSanjay Khosla58Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods InternationalKaren J. May51Executive Vice President, Global Human ResourcesTimothy R. McLevish54Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMichael Osanloo43Executive Vice President, StrategyJean E. Spence52Executive Vice President, Research, Development and QualityW. Anthony Vernon54Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods North AmericaMary Beth West47Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer






Ms. Rosenfeldwas appointed Chief Executive Officer of Kraft Foods in June 2006 and Chairman of the
Board in March 2007. Prior to that, she had been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Frito-Lay, a division of PepsiCo, Inc., a food and beverage company, from September 2004 to June 2006. Previously, Ms. Rosenfeld was employed continuously
by Kraft Foods, and its predecessor, General Foods Corporation, in various capacities from 1981 until 2003, including President of Kraft Foods North America. She is also a Trustee of Cornell University.

Mr. Breartonwas appointed as Executive Vice President, Operations and Business Services effective January 1, 2008. Prior to that, he served as
Executive Vice President, Global Business Services and Strategy, as Senior Vice President of Business Process Simplification and as Corporate Controller for Kraft Foods. He previously served as a Senior Vice President, Finance for Kraft Foods
International. Mr. Brearton first joined Kraft Foods in 1984. Mr. Brearton is also on the Board of Directors of Feeding America.

Mr. Clarkejoined Kraft Foods as President, Kraft Foods Europe on January 2, 2009 and was appointed Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods Europe on January 27, 2009. Prior to joining Kraft Foods,
Mr. Clarke spent 12 years with The Coca-Cola Company, a beverage company, most recently serving as President of the Northwest Europe and Nordics businesses from August 2005 to December 2008 and as President of the South Pacific and Korea
businesses from March 2000 to July 2005. Mr. Clarke is also on the Advisory Board of the Inspire Foundation.

Mr. Firestonewas
appointed as Executive Vice President, Corporate and Legal Affairs and General Counsel in January 2006. He previously served as Kraft Foods’ Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Prior to joining Kraft Foods in
2003, Mr. Firestone served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Philip Morris International, a tobacco company.

Mr. Khoslawas appointed as Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods International in January 2007. Before joining Kraft Foods, he served as the Managing Director of the consumer and foodservice business for the New Zealand-based Fonterra
Co-operative Group, a dairy company. Previously, Mr. Khosla spent 27 years with Unilever, a consumer products company, in India, London and Europe. Mr. Khosla also serves on the boards of Best Buy Co., Inc. and NIIT Ltd. and is a trustee
of the Goodman Theater Company in Chicago.

Ms. Maywas appointed as Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources in October 2005. Prior
to joining Kraft Foods, she had been Corporate Vice President, Human Resources for Baxter International Inc., a healthcare company, since February 2001. Ms. May also serves on the Board of Directors of MB Financial Inc.

Mr. McLevishwas appointed as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in October 2007. Prior to that, he had been the Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer at Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited, an industrial company, since June 2002. Mr. McLevish also serves on the Board of Directors of Kennametal Inc.

Mr. Osanloowas appointed as Executive Vice President, Strategy in April 2008.Prior to joining Kraft Foods, Mr. Osanloo served as Senior Vice President, Marketing at Harrah’s
Entertainment, a provider of branded casino entertainment, from July 2005 until March 2008. Previously, Mr. Osanloo was a partner in the retail and consumer products practice at Bain & Company, a management consulting firm, from August
1996 until June 2005.

Ms. Spencewas appointed as Executive Vice President, Research, Development and Quality in January 2004. Prior to her
current position, Ms. Spence served as the Senior Vice President, Research and Development, Kraft Foods North America. She joined Kraft Foods in 1981. Ms. Spence also serves on the Board of Directors of International Life Sciences
Institute.

Mr. Vernonjoined Kraft Foods as Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods North America in August 2009. Prior to
that, he was the Healthcare Industry Partner of Ripplewood Holdings Inc., a private equity firm, since 2006. Mr. Vernon spent 23 years with Johnson & Johnson, a pharmaceutical company, in a variety of leadership positions, most
recently serving as Company Group Chairman of DePuy Inc., an orthopedics company and subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, from 2004 to 2005. Mr. Vernon also serves on the Board of Directors of Medivation, Inc.

Ms. Westwas appointed as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer in October 2007. Previously, she served as a Group Vice President for Kraft
Foods and President of the North America Beverages Sector. Ms. West






joined Kraft Foods in 1986. Ms. West also serves on the Board of Directors of J.C. Penney Co., Inc. and is a member of the Executive Leadership Council.

Mr. Searer, 56,served as Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods North America from September 2006 until August 2009. Previously,
Mr. Searer served as the Group Vice President and President, North America Convenient Meals Sector. Mr. Searer joined Kraft Foods in 1981. Mr. Searer also serves on the Board of Directors of Bush Brothers & Company.
Mr. Searer retired from Kraft Foods in September 2009.

We adopted The Kraft Foods Code of Conduct for Compliance and Integrity, which qualifies as
a code of ethics under Item 406 of Regulation S-K. The code applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar
functions. Our code of ethics is available free of charge on our website atwww.kraftfoodscompany.comand will be provided free of charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to: Corporate Secretary, Kraft Foods Inc., Three
Lakes Drive, Northfield, IL 60093. We will disclose any waiver we grant to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller under our code of ethics, or certain amendments to the code of
ethics, on our website atwww.kraftfoodscompany.com.

In addition, we adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, charters for each of the
Board’s five standing committees and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors. All of these materials are available on our website atwww.kraftfoodscompany.comand will be provided free of charge to any shareholder
requesting a copy by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Kraft Foods Inc., Three Lakes Drive, Northfield, IL 60093. Certain of these materials may also be found in our proxy statement relating to our 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

Available Information

Our Internet address iswww.kraftfoodscompany.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. You can access our filings with the SEC by visitingwww.kraftfoodscompany.com.
The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC.

You can also read and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Call the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers,
including Kraft Foods, that file electronically with the SEC.

