Item 1.  Business.

General

Kraft Foods is the world’s second largest food company with revenues of $54.4 billion and earnings from continuing operations before income
taxes of $4.8 billion in 2011. Kraft Foods was incorporated in 2000 in the Commonwealth of Virginia. We have approximately 126,000 employees worldwide, and we manufacture and market packaged food products, including biscuits, confectionery,
beverages, cheese, convenient meals and various packaged grocery products. We sell our products to consumers in approximately 170 countries. At December 31, 2011, we had operations in more than 80 countries and made our products at 220
manufacturing and processing facilities worldwide. At December 31, 2011, we had net assets of $35.3 billion and gross assets of $93.8 billion. We are a member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, Standard & Poor’s 500, the Dow
Jones Sustainability Index and the Ethibel Sustainability Index.

At December 31, 2011, our portfolio included twelve brands with annual revenues
exceeding $1 billion each:Oreo,NabiscoandLUbiscuits;MilkaandCadburychocolates;Tridentgum;JacobsandMaxwell Housecoffees;Philadelphiacream cheeses;Kraftcheeses,
dinners and dressings;Oscar Mayermeats; andTangpowdered beverage. Our portfolio included approximately 80 brands which each generate annual revenues of more than $100 million.

Because Kraft Foods Inc. is a holding company, our principal source of funds is from our subsidiaries. Our wholly owned subsidiaries currently are not limited by
long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their Common Stock.

Reportable
Segments

We manage and report operating results through three geographic units: Kraft Foods North America, Kraft Foods Europe and Kraft Foods
Developing Markets. We manage the operations of Kraft Foods North America and Kraft Foods Europe by product category, and we manage the operations of Kraft Foods Developing Markets by location. Our reportable segments are U.S. Beverages, U.S.
Cheese, U.S. Convenient Meals, U.S. Grocery, U.S. Snacks, Canada & North America Foodservice, Kraft Foods Europe and Kraft Foods Developing Markets.

As further discussed in Note 16,Segment Reporting,to the consolidated financial statements, we use segment operating income to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources. We believe this
measure is most relevant to investors in order to analyze segment results and trends. Segment operating income excludes unrealized gains and losses on hedging activities (which are a component of cost of sales), certain components of our U.S.
pension plan cost (which is a component of cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses), general corporate expenses (which are a component of selling, general and administrative expenses) and amortization of intangibles.






During the last three fiscal years, our reportable segments contributed to total segment operating income as
reflected below. See Note 16,Segment Reporting,for total assets and net revenues by segment.



00,000,00000,000,00000,000,000For the Years Ended December 31,201120102009Kraft Foods North America:U.S. Beverages5.9%8.4%9.3%U.S. Cheese8.3%8.9%12.2%U.S. Convenient Meals4.2%4.0%4.3%U.S. Grocery16.3%17.3%21.0%U.S. Snacks11.1%12.6%13.2%Canada & N.A. Foodservice8.9%8.7%8.5%Kraft Foods Europe18.4%16.6%14.4%Kraft Foods Developing Markets26.9%23.5%17.1%Total Segment Operating Income100.0%100.0%100.0%

Our brands span six consumer sectors:



•Biscuits– primarily cookies, crackers and salted snacks

•Confectionery –primarily chocolate, gum and candy

•Beverages– primarily coffee, packaged juice drinks and powdered beverages

•Cheese– primarily natural, processed and cream cheeses

•Grocery– primarily spoonable and pourable dressings, condiments and desserts

•Convenient Meals– primarily processed meats and lunch combinations

During 2011, our reportable segments participated in these six consumer sectors as follows:



Percentage of 2011 Net Revenues by Consumer Sector(1)Confec-ConvenientSegmentBiscuitstioneryBeveragesCheeseGroceryMealsTotalKraft Foods North America:U.S. Beverages––31.1%–––5.5%U.S. Cheese–––49.4%––7.0%U.S. Convenient Meals–––––62.8%6.1%U.S. Grocery–1.0%––52.9%22.5%6.6%U.S. Snacks42.8%6.9%–0.8%1.1%–11.6%Canada & N.A.Foodservice7.5%4.5%6.1%21.6%22.0%7.2%9.5%Total Kraft FoodsNorth America50.3%12.4%37.2%71.8%76.0%92.5%46.3%Kraft Foods Europe21.7%37.4%32.6%15.3%8.7%5.1%24.6%Kraft Foods DevelopingMarkets28.0%50.2%30.2%12.9%15.3%2.4%29.1%Total Kraft Foods100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%Consumer Sector Percentageof Total Kraft Foods22.1%28.5%17.8%14.2%7.7%9.7%100.0%



(1)Percentages were calculated based on U.S. dollars rounded to millions.






Products which contributed 10% or more to consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, were:



00,000,00000,000,00000,000,000201120102009Biscuits (cookies and crackers)19%19%23%Chocolate18%17%11%Cheese14%14%18%Coffee11%11%13%Gum & Candy10%10%–

Our major brands within each reportable segment and consumer sector at December 31, 2011 were:





Kraft Foods North America:

U.S. Beverages

Beverages:Maxwell House, Gevalia, Maxwell House InternationalandYubancoffees;Tassimohot beverage system;Capri Sun(under license) andKool-Aidpackaged juice
drinks;Kool-Aid, Crystal Light, TangandCountry Timepowdered beverages; andMiOliquid concentrate.

U.S. Cheese

Cheese:KraftandCracker Barrelnatural cheeses;Philadelphiacream cheese;Kraftgrated cheeses;Polly-OandAthenoscheese;VelveetaandCheez Whizprocessed cheeses;KraftandDeli Deluxeprocessed cheese slices; andBreakstone’sandKnudsencottage cheese and sour cream.

U.S. Convenient Meals

Convenient Meals:Oscar Mayercold cuts, hot dogs and bacon;Lunchableslunch combinations;Bocasoy-based meat alternatives; andClaussenpickles.

U.S. Grocery

Grocery:Jell-Odry packaged desserts;Cool Whipwhipped topping;Jell-Orefrigerated gelatin and pudding snacks;Jet-Puffedmarshmallows;KraftandMiracle
Whipspoonable dressings;KraftandGood Seasonssalad dressings;A.1.steak sauce;KraftandBull’s-Eyebarbecue sauces;Grey Pouponpremium mustards;Planterspeanut butter;Shake
N’ Bakecoatings; andBaker’schocolate and baking ingredients.

Convenient Meals:KraftandKraft Deluxemacaroni and cheese dinners;Stove Topstuffing mix;Taco Bell Home Originals(under license) meal kits; andVelveetashells
and cheese dinners.

U.S. Snacks

Biscuits:Oreo, Chips Ahoy!, Newtons, Nilla, Nutter Butter, LUandSnackWell’scookies;Ritz, Premium, Triscuit, Wheat Thins, Cheese Nips, Flavor Originals, Honey Maidgrahams, Teddy Grahamscrackers,Nabisco100 Calorie Packs;Plantersnuts and trail mixes;Handi-Snackstwo-compartment snacks; andBack to Naturegranola, cookies, crackers, nuts and fruit & nut
mixes.

Confectionery:Toblerone, Trident, Halls, Stride, Dentyne, Sour Patch Kids, Swedish Fish, Maynards, Bubbas, Chiclets, Milkabars, andClorets.



Canada & N.A. FoodserviceCanada & N.A Foodservice products span all Kraft Foods North America segments and sectors. Canadian brand offerings includeNabobcoffee,Kraftpeanut butter andPeek
Freansbiscuits, as well as a range of products bearing brand names similar to those marketed in the U.S. The N.A. Foodservice business sells primarily branded products includingMaxwell Housecoffee,Oreocookies,A.1.steak sauce, and a broad array ofKraftsauces, dressings and cheeses.

Kraft Foods Europe:

Biscuits:Oreo, Digestive, Tuc, Mikado(under license),Ourson, Petit Déjeuner, Cracotte, Belin, Heudebert, Grany, Petit Écolier, Oro, Fonzies, Prince/Principe, Belvita, LU,
Pepito, Vitalinea(under license), Milka, Cote d’Or, Chips Ahoy!, Liga, Ritz, Fontaneda, Cipster, PiM’s, Granola, Napolitain, Paille D’Or,andPelletierbiscuits.








Confectionery:Milka, Marabou, Cote D’Or, Toblerone, Freia, Suchard, Lacta, Pavlides, Mirabell, Terry’s, Daim / Dime, Twist, Cadbury Dairy Milk, Roses, Creme Egg, Twirl, Flake, Crunchie,
Heroes / Favourites, Wispa, Mini Eggs, Green and Black’s, Buttons, Milk Tray, Double Decker, Moro / Boost, Timeout, Trident, Hollywood, Stimorol, Halls, Bassetts, Maynards, Trebor, Carambar, Poulain, La Pie Qui Chante, V6, TNCC, Cadbury
Eclairs, Malabar, Bubbas, Bubblicious,andLa Vosgienne.

Beverages:Jacobs, Gevalia, Carte Noire, Jacques Vabre, Kaffee HAG, Grand’ Mère, Kenco, Saimaza, Maxwell House, Onko,andSplendidcoffees;Tassimohot beverage
system; andSuchard Express, O’BoyandCadburychocolate drinks.

Cheese:Dairylea, Sottilette, OsellaandEl Caseríocheeses; andPhiladelphiacream cheese.

Grocery:Kraftpourable and spoonable salad dressings;Miracel Whipspoonable dressings;Royaldry packaged desserts; andMirácolisauces.

Convenient Meals:Lunchableslunch combinations;Mirácolipasta dinners and sauces; andSimmenthalcanned meats.



Kraft Foods Developing Markets:

Biscuits:Oreo, Chips Ahoy!, Ritz, Club Social, Express, Kraker Bran, Honey Bran, Aveny Bran, Marbu, Variedad, Pacific, Belvita, Cerealitas, Lucky,Trakinas, Tuc, Mikado(under
license), Ourson, Petit Déjeuner, Cracotte, Bolshevik, Prichuda, Jubilee, Major, Merendina, Jacob’s, Chipsmore, Biskuat / Tiger, Milka, Hi Calcium Soda, Pépito, PiM’s/Delicje, LU, Barny / Gyoeri Edes, Prince/Principe,
Utrenne/Jo Regge, U’Guan, Premium, San, Jai GaiandNewtonsbiscuits; andEstrella,Twisties,Cheezels,Chachos,Kar,LuxandPlantersnuts and salted snacks.

Confectionery:Milka,Toblerone,Lacta,Côte d’Or,Terrabusi,Kent, Kan, Alpen Gold,Korona,Poiana, Svoge, Vozdushny,Figaro, Prince
Polo / Siesta, Sport / Smash / Jazz / Moreni, Cadbury Dairy Milk, Picnic, 5 Star, Cadbury Heroes / Favourites, Flake, Crunchie, Perk, Old Gold, Freddo, Cherry Ripe, Moro / Boost, Roses, Trident, Halls, Clorets, Bubbas, Dirol, Chiclets, Eclairs,
Beldent, Dentyne, Recaldent, Xylicrystal, Falim, TNCC, Tom Tom, Bournville, 3-Bit, Pascall, Chappies, First, Stride, Stimorol

Beverages:Tang, Bournvita, Clight, Kool-Aid, Fresh, Frisco, CadburyandCapri Sunbeverages;Jacobs, Maxwell HouseandCarte Noirecoffees.

Cheese:Kraft, VelveetaandEdenprocessed cheeses;Philadelphiacream cheese;Kraftnatural cheese; andCheez Whizprocessed cheese spread.

Grocery:Royaldry packaged desserts;Kraftspoonable and pourable salad dressings;Miracle Whipspoonable dressings;Jell-Odessert toppings;Kraftpeanut
butter; andVegemiteyeast spread.

Convenient Meals:Kraftmacaroni and cheese dinners;Velveetaboxed dinners;Lunchableslunch combinations; andOscar Mayercold cuts.

Proposed Spin-Off Transaction

On August 4, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors intends to create two independent public companies: (i) a global snacks business (the “Global Snacks Business”) and (ii) a North
American grocery business (the “North American Grocery Business”). The Global Snacks Business will consist of our current Kraft Foods Europe and Developing Markets segments as well as our North American snack and confectionery businesses.
The North American Grocery Business will primarily consist of our current U.S. Beverages, Cheese, Convenient Meals and Grocery segments, grocery – related categories in our Canada & N.A. Foodservice segment as well as thePlantersandCorn Nutsbrands and businesses. We expect to create these companies through a U.S. tax-free spin-off of the North American Grocery Business to our shareholders.

The transaction is subject to a number of conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals, a favorable ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to ensure the U.S. tax-free status of the spin-off,
execution of intercompany agreements, further diligence as appropriate and final approval from our Board of Directors. While our current target is to complete the spin-off before year-end 2012, we cannot assure that the spin-off will be completed on
the anticipated timeline or that the terms of the spin-off will not change. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for certain risk factors relating to the proposed spin-off transaction.






Significant Acquisitions and Divestitures

Cadbury Acquisition:

On February 2, 2010, we acquired 71.73% of Cadbury Limited (“Cadbury”) and
as of June 1, 2010, we owned 100% of all outstanding Cadbury shares. The Cadbury acquisition was valued at $18,547 million, or $17,503 million net of cash and cash equivalents. We incurred transaction related fees of $218 million in 2010 and
$40 million in 2009, which we recorded in selling, general and administrative expense. We also incurred acquisition financing fees of $96 million in 2010, which were recorded in interest and other expenses, net. As a condition of our acquisition,
the EU Commission required that we divest certain Cadbury confectionery operations in Poland and Romania. The divestitures were completed in the third quarter of 2010 and generated $342 million of sale proceeds. The impact of these divestitures was
reflected as adjustments within the Cadbury final purchase accounting. During 2010, Cadbury contributed net revenues of $9,143 million and net earnings of $530 million from February 2, 2010 through December 31, 2010. We acquired Cadbury to
create a global snacks powerhouse and an unrivaled portfolio of brands people love.

Pizza Divestiture:

On March 1, 2010, we completed the sale of the assets of our North American frozen pizza business (“Frozen Pizza”) to Nestlé USA, Inc.
(“Nestlé”) for $3.7 billion. The Frozen Pizza business was a component of our U.S. Convenient Meals and Canada & N.A. Foodservice segments. The sale included theDiGiorno,TombstoneandJack’sbrands in the U.S., theDelissiobrand in Canada and theCalifornia Pizza Kitchentrademark license. It also included two Wisconsin manufacturing facilities (Medford and Little Chute) and the leases for the pizza depots and delivery
trucks. Approximately 3,600 of our employees transferred with the business to Nestlé. As a result of the divestiture, we recorded a gain on discontinued operations of $1,596 million, or $0.92 per diluted share, in 2010.

See Note 3,Acquisitions and Divestitures, to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on these transactions.

Customers

Our five largest customers accounted for
approximately 21% of our net revenues in 2011 compared with 23% in 2010 and 27% in 2009. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 29% of our net revenues in 2011 compared with 31% in 2010 and 36% in 2009. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc., accounted for approximately 12% of our net revenues in 2011 compared with 13% in 2010 and 16% in 2009.

Seasonality

Demand for some of our products may be influenced by holidays, changes in seasons or other annual events. However, overall sales of our products
are generally evenly balanced throughout the year due to the offsetting nature of demands for our diversified product portfolio.

Competition

We face competition in all aspects of our business. Competitors include large national and international companies and numerous local and regional
companies. Some competitors have different profit objectives and some international competitors are less susceptible to currency exchange rates. We also compete with generic products and retailer brands, wholesalers and cooperatives. We compete
primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, service, marketing, advertising and price. Moreover, improving our market position or introducing a new product requires substantial advertising and promotional
expenditures.

Distribution and Marketing

Our
products are generally sold to supermarket chains, wholesalers, supercenters, club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, convenience stores, gasoline stations, drug stores, value stores and other retail food outlets. In general, the retail trade
for food products is consolidating. We distribute our products through distribution centers, satellite warehouses, company-operated and public cold-storage facilities, depots and other facilities. We use a combination of warehouse delivery and
direct store delivery and use services of independent sales offices and agents primarily in some of our international locations.

Our marketing efforts
are conducted through three principal sets of activities: (i) consumer marketing in on-air, print, outdoor and digital media; (ii) consumer incentives such as coupons and contests; and (iii) trade promotions to support price features,
displays and other merchandising of our products by our customers.






Raw Materials and Packaging

We purchase large quantities of commodities, including dairy, coffee, cocoa, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, nuts, meat products, and sugar and other sweeteners. In addition, we use
significant quantities of plastic, glass and cardboard to package our products, and natural gas for our factories and warehouses. We continuously monitor worldwide supply and cost trends of these commodities so we can act quickly to obtain
ingredients and packaging needed for production.

Significant cost items in chocolate confectionery products are cocoa and sugar. We purchase cocoa and
sugar on world markets, and their prices are affected by the quality and availability of supply and changes in the value of the pound sterling and the U.S. dollar relative to certain other currencies. Cocoa bean, cocoa butter and sugar costs on
average were higher in 2011 than in 2010. We purchase our dairy raw material requirements, including milk and cheese, from independent third parties such as agricultural cooperatives and independent processors. The prices for milk and other dairy
products are substantially influenced by market supply and demand, as well as by government programs. Dairy commodity costs on average were higher in 2011 than in 2010. The most significant cost item in coffee products is green coffee beans, which
we purchase on world markets. Green coffee bean prices are affected by the quality and availability of supply, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to certain other currencies and consumer demand for coffee products. Green coffee bean
costs on average were higher in 2011 than in 2010. Significant cost items in our biscuit and grocery products are grains (wheat, corn and soybean oil). Grain costs have experienced significant volatility and have increased from 2010 to 2011 due
largely to burgeoning global demand for food, livestock feed and biofuels such as ethanol and biodiesel.

During 2011, our aggregate commodity costs
increased primarily as a result of higher costs of coffee, dairy, grains and oils, packaging materials, other raw materials, meat and nuts. Our commodity costs increased approximately $2.6 billion in 2011 and approximately $1.0 billion in 2010
compared to the prior year. We expect the higher cost environment and commodity cost volatility to continue in 2012.

The prices for raw materials and
agricultural materials used in our products are affected by external factors such as weather conditions, commodity market conditions, currency fluctuations and the effects of governmental agricultural programs. We use hedging techniques to limit the
impact of price fluctuations in our principal raw materials. However, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and these strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. While the prices of our principal
raw materials can be expected to fluctuate, we believe there will continue to be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they will generally remain available from numerous sources.

Intellectual Property

Our trademarks are material to our
business. We protect our trademarks by registration or otherwise in the U.S. and in other markets where we sell our products. Trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and in other countries for as long as it
is registered. Registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. From time to time, we grant third parties licenses to use one or more of our trademarks in particular locations. Similarly, we sell some products under brands we license from
third parties, including at December 31, 2011:



•Capri Sunpackaged juice drinks for sale in the U.S. and Canada; and

•Taco Bell Home OriginalsMexican style food products for sale in U.S. grocery stores.

We also own numerous patents worldwide. We consider our portfolio of patents, patent applications, patents licenses under patents owned by third parties,
proprietary trade secrets, technology, know – how processes and related intellectual property rights to be of material importance to our operations. While our patent portfolio is material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group
of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business. We have either been issued patents or have patent applications pending for a number of current and potential products, including products licensed to others. Patents
issued, or applied for, cover inventions ranging from basic packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. Our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of patent application
filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its
coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country.






Research and Development

We pursue four objectives in research and development: product safety and quality; growth through new products; superior consumer satisfaction; and reduced costs. We have approximately 3,300 food scientists,
chemists and engineers working primarily in 15 key technology centers: East Hanover, New Jersey; Glenview, Illinois; Madison, Wisconsin; Tarrytown, New York; Whippany, New Jersey; Banbury, United Kingdom; Bournville, United Kingdom; Curitiba,
Brazil; Eysins, Switzerland; Paris, France; Melbourne, Australia; Mexico City, Mexico; Munich, Germany; Reading, United Kingdom; and Suzhou, China. These technology centers are equipped with pilot plants and state-of-the-art instruments. Research
and development expense was $702 million in 2011, $583 million in 2010, and $466 million in 2009.

Regulation

Our U.S. food products and packaging materials are primarily regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) or, for products
containing meat and poultry, the U.S. Food Safety and Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. These agencies enact and enforce regulations relating to the manufacturing, distribution and labeling of food products. We supported
the Food Safety Modernization Act, a 2011 law that provided additional food safety authority to the FDA. We do not expect the cost of complying with that law, and implementing regulations expected over the next two to three years, to be
material.

In addition, various states regulate our U.S. operations by licensing plants, enforcing federal and state standards for selected food
products, grading food products, inspecting plants and warehouses, regulating trade practices related to the sale of dairy products and imposing their own labeling requirements on food products.

Many of the food commodities we use in our U.S. operations are subject to governmental agricultural programs. These programs have substantial
effects on prices and supplies and are subject to periodic U.S. Congressional and administrative review.

All of our non-U.S. based operations
are subject to local and national regulations, some of which are similar to those applicable to our U.S. operations. For example, in the European Union, we must comply with requirements that apply to labeling, packaging, food
content, pricing, marketing and advertising and related areas.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to various laws and regulations in and outside of the U.S. relating to the protection of the environment. In the U.S., the laws and regulations
include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and Superfund (the environmental program established in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act to address abandoned
hazardous waste sites), which imposes joint and severable liability on each potentially responsible party. At December 31, 2011, our subsidiaries were involved in 68 active actions in the U.S. under the Superfund legislation (and other
similar actions and legislation) related to our current operations and certain former or divested operations for which we retain liability.

Outside the
U.S., we are subject to applicable multi-national, national and local environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business. Outside the U.S., we have specific programs across our business units designed to meet applicable
environmental compliance requirements.

As of December 31, 2011, we accrued an immaterial amount for environmental remediation. Based on
information currently available, we believe that the ultimate resolution of existing environmental remediation actions and our compliance in general with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on our financial results.
See Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,for additional information on our environmental remediation programs.

Employees

At December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 126,000 people worldwide. Labor unions represent approximately 27% of our 36,000 U.S.
employees. Most of the unionized workers at our U.S. locations are represented under contracts with the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union; the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union; and the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters. These contracts expire at various times throughout the next several years. Outside the U.S., labor unions or workers’ councils represent approximately 58% of our 90,000 employees. Our business units are
subject to various laws and regulations relating to their relationships with their employees. These laws and regulations are specific to the location of each business unit. In addition, in accordance with European Union requirements, we have
established a European Works Council composed of management and elected members of our workforce. We believe that our relationships with employees and their representative organizations are generally good.






Foreign Operations

We sell our products to consumers in approximately 170 countries. At December 31, 2011, we had operations in more than 80 countries and made our products at 220 manufacturing and processing facilities
worldwide. We generated approximately 60% of our 2011 net revenues, 57% of our 2010 net revenues and 49% of our 2009 net revenues outside the U.S. Refer to Note 16,Segment Reporting,for additional information on our foreign operations.
Also, for a discussion of risks attendant to our foreign operations, see “Risk Factors” in Item 1A.

Executive Officers of the
Registrant

The following are our executive officers as of February 27, 2012:



NameAgeTitleIrene B. Rosenfeld58Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerDavid A. Brearton51Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerJohn T. Cahill54Executive Chairman Designate, North American GroceryTimothy P. Cofer43Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods EuropeMarc S. Firestone52Executive Vice President, Corporate and Legal Affairs and General CounselSanjay Khosla60Executive Vice President and President, Developing MarketsKaren J. May53Executive Vice President, Global Human ResourcesTimothy R. McLevish56Executive Vice PresidentDaniel P. Myers56Executive Vice President, Supply ChainSam B. Rovit54Executive Vice President, StrategyJean E. Spence54Executive Vice President, Research, Development and QualityW. Anthony Vernon56Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods North AmericaMary Beth West49Executive Vice President and Chief Category and Marketing Officer

Ms. Rosenfeldwas appointed Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of Kraft Foods in
June 2006 and Chairman of the Board in March 2007. Prior to that, she had been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Frito-Lay, a division of PepsiCo, Inc., a food and beverage company, from September 2004 to June 2006. Previously,
Ms. Rosenfeld was employed continuously by Kraft Foods, and its predecessor, General Foods Corporation, in various capacities from 1981 until 2003, including President of Kraft Foods North America and, before that, President of Operations,
Technology, Information Systems of Kraft Foods, Canada, Mexico, and Puerto Rico. She is also a Trustee of Cornell University.

Mr. Breartonwas appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective May 9, 2011. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, Operations and Business Services from January 2008 to May 2011, Executive Vice President, Global
Business Services and Strategy from April 2006 to December 2007 and Senior Vice President of Business Process Simplification and Corporate Controller from February 2005 to April 2006. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Finance for Kraft
Foods International. Mr. Brearton joined Kraft Foods in 1984. Mr. Brearton also serves on the Board of Directors of Feeding America.

Mr. Cahillwas designated Executive Chairman North American Grocery effective January 2, 2012. Prior to that, he served as an Industrial
Partner at Ripplewood Holdings LLC, a private equity firm, from 2008 to 2011. Mr. Cahill spent nine years with The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc., a beverage manufacturing company, most recently as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from
2003 to 2006 and Executive Chairman until 2007. Mr. Cahill previously spent nine years with PepsiCo, Inc., a food and beverage company, in a variety of leadership positions. Mr. Cahill also serves on the Boards of Directors of
Colgate-Palmolive Company and Legg Mason, Inc.

Mr. Coferwas appointed Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods Europe effective
August 15, 2011. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Global Chocolate Category from June 2010 to August 2011, Senior Vice President, Strategy and Integration from January 2010 to June 2010, President of Pizza from January 2008 to
January 2010, and Senior Vice President and General Manager of Oscar Mayer from January 2007 to January 2008. He served as Vice President and General Manager of EU Chocolate from June 2003 to January 2007. Mr. Cofer joined Kraft Foods in 1992.

Mr. Firestonewas appointed Executive Vice President, Corporate and Legal Affairs and General Counsel in October 2006. He previously served
as Kraft Foods’ Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from November 2003 to October 2006. Prior to joining Kraft Foods in 2003, Mr. Firestone served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Philip Morris
International, a tobacco company. Mr. Firestone also serves on the Board of Directors of Unilife Corporation. On February 16, 2012, we announced that Mr. Firestone will be leaving the Company in early 2012.






Mr. Khoslawas appointed Executive Vice President and President, Developing Markets effective
August 1, 2010. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods International from January 2007 to July 2010. Before joining Kraft Foods, he served as the Managing Director of Fonterra Brands, a dairy company,
from 2004 to 2006. Previously, Mr. Khosla spent 27 years with Unilever N.V., a consumer products company, in India, London and Europe. Mr. Khosla also serves on the Boards of Directors of Best Buy Co., Inc. and NIIT Ltd. and is a trustee
of the Goodman Theater Company in Chicago.

Ms. Maywas appointed Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources in October 2005. Prior to
that, she was Corporate Vice President, Human Resources for Baxter International Inc., a healthcare company, since February 2001. Ms. May also serves on the Board of Directors of MB Financial Inc.

Mr. McLevishhas served as Executive Vice President since August 15, 2011, planning for the proposed separation of Kraft Foods into two
independent companies. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from October 2007 to May 2011. He previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited, an
industrial company, since June 2002. Mr. McLevish also serves on the Board of Directors of Kennametal Inc.

Mr. Myersjoined Kraft
Foods as Executive Vice President, Supply Chain in September 2011. Prior to that, he worked for Procter & Gamble, a consumer products company, for 33 years, in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as Vice President,
Product Supply for P&G’s Global Hair Care business from September 2007 to August 2011. Mr. Myers also serves on the Advisory Board of the University of Tennessee’s Supply Chain Institute.

Mr. Rovitwas appointed Executive Vice President, Strategy effective February 1, 2011. Prior to joining Kraft Foods, he served as a Director of
Bain & Co., a management consulting firm, from January 2008 to January 2011 and from 1988 to June 2005. Mr. Rovit served as President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Swift & Company, a meat processing company, from
June 2005 to July 2007.

Ms. Spencewas appointed Executive Vice President, Research, Development and Quality in January 2004. Prior to
that, Ms. Spence served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development, Kraft Foods North America from August 2003 to January 2004 and Senior Vice President of Worldwide Quality, Scientific Affairs and Compliance for Kraft Foods North
America from November 2001 to August 2003. She joined Kraft Foods in 1981. Ms. Spence also serves as a Trustee of Clarkson University and on the Supervisory Board of GEA Group AG.

Mr. Vernonjoined Kraft Foods as Executive Vice President and President, Kraft Foods North America in August 2009. Prior to that, he was the Healthcare Industry Partner of Ripplewood Holdings LLC,
a private equity firm, since 2006. Mr. Vernon spent 23 years with Johnson & Johnson, a pharmaceutical company, in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as Company Group Chairman of DePuy Inc., an orthopedics
company and subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, from 2004 to 2005. Mr. Vernon also serves on the Boards of Directors of Medivation, Inc. and Novocare, Inc.

Ms. Westwas appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Category and Marketing Officer effective August 1, 2010. Previously, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer
from October 2007 to July 2010 and as Group Vice President for Kraft Foods and President of the North America Beverages Sector from 2005 to October 2007. Ms. West joined Kraft Foods in 1986. Ms. West also serves on the Board of Directors
of J.C. Penney Co., Inc. and is a member of the Executive Leadership Council.

We adopted the Kraft Foods Code of Conduct, which qualifies as a code of
ethics under Item 406 of Regulation S-K. The code applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar
functions. Our code of ethics is available free of charge on our Web site atwww.kraftfoodscompany.comand will be provided free of charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to: Corporate Secretary, Kraft Foods Inc., Three
Lakes Drive, Northfield, IL 60093. We will disclose any waiver we grant to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller under our code of ethics, or certain amendments to the code of
ethics, on our Web site atwww.kraftfoodscompany.com.

In addition, we adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, charters for each of the
Board’s four standing committees and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors. All of these materials are available on our Web site atwww.kraftfoodscompany.comand will be provided free of charge to any shareholder
requesting a copy by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Kraft Foods Inc., Three Lakes Drive, Northfield, IL 60093.

Available Information

Our Internet address iswww.kraftfoodscompany.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically
file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. You can access our filings with the SEC by visitingwww.kraftfoodscompany.com. The information on our Web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or
incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC.






You can also read and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the
SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Kraft Foods, that are electronically filed with the SEC.

