Item 1. Business.

General

We are one of the world’s largest snack companies with global net revenues of $34.2 billion and earnings from continuing operations of $2.2 billion in
2014. We manufacture and market delicious snack food and beverage products for consumers in approximately 165 countries around the world. Our portfolio includes nine billion dollar brands—LU, NabiscoandOreobiscuits;Cadbury,
Cadbury Dairy MilkandMilkachocolates;Tridentgum;Jacobscoffee andTangpowdered beverages. Our portfolio includes 58 brands that each generated annual revenues of $100 million or more in 2014.

We are proud members of the NASDAQ 100 and Standard & Poor’s 500. Our Common Stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol
“MDLZ.” We have been incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia since 2000.







We have been recognized for our ongoing economic, environmental and social contributions and this year were listed again on
the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (“DJSI”) – World and North American Indices. The DJSI selects the top 10% of global companies and top 20% of North American companies based on an extensive review of financial and sustainability
programs within each industry. We also participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project Climate and Water forums and continue to disclose and work to reduce our carbon and water footprints. We are committed to continue this and other related work in the
areas of sustainable resources and agriculture, mindful snacking, community partnerships and safety of our products and people. Please seewww.mondelezinternational.com/well-beingfor more information.

Strategy

We intend to leverage our core strengths, including our
significant global presence, market leadership positions and portfolio of iconic brands and innovation platforms, to achieve two primary goals: deliver top-tier financial performance and be a great place to work. We plan to achieve these goals by
executing five long-term strategies:



•Unleash the Power of Our People.We believe that our two company goals, to deliver top-tier financial performance and to be a great place to work, are interdependent and that one is not fully achievable without
the other. Being a great place to work enables us to recruit, retain and unleash the talents of great people. We strive to maintain balance between our two goals and remain focused on evolving our ways of working, our standards of leadership and the
development opportunities available to our colleagues.



•Transform Snacking. Driving growth is at the forefront of our long-term business strategies. By meeting the needs of consumers through innovation of our portfolio of products, we expect to grow and maintain our
Power Brands and market-leading positions.

Our global Power Brands continue to be a significant competitive advantage. Our Power
Brands include global brands such asOreo, LUandbelVitabiscuits;Milka,Cadbury Dairy Milk and Lactachocolate;Hallscandy;Tridentgum;Tangpowdered beverages andJacobs,TassimoandCarte Noirecoffee. Our brands enable us to fulfill consumer needs with a full range of snacking choices. Our global innovation platforms allow us to quickly adapt successful products from one market to many others and by addressing the
different needs of our consumers.

Beginning in 2015, we changed our regional operating structure to create greater category management leadership
and structure within each of our regions, as we have in place within our Europe and North America regions. We expect these changes to lead to further global and local consumer-preferred innovations and accelerate our speed to market.



•Revolutionize Selling.As part of our focus on growth around the world and particularly in emerging markets, we have heavily invested in our routes to market and sales capabilities. In 2014, we continued to
develop our sales and distribution capabilities across key markets, and we made significant improvements in our marketing effectiveness and spending. We expanded our brand presence across digital media and continue to make our working media more
effective, extending our reach and marketing budgets. By making smart choices on our advertising and marketing effectiveness and spending, we can invest more in our brands and further strengthen our support to grow the business.



•Drive Efficiency to Fuel Growth.We manage our business through a virtuous cycle. To drive sales and earnings growth, we focus first on delivering high quality products that meet consumer needs. We expand our
margins through leveraging lean and simple cost management programs within our integrated supply chain and through overhead discipline. Savings can be reinvested to pursue additional targeted growth opportunities within our portfolio. As we
announced in May 2014, under our 2014-2018 Restructuring Program, we are currently working to reduce our annual operating costs by at least $1.5 billion by the program’s completion at the end of 2018.



•Protect the Well-being of Our Planet.We are committed to growing our business while protecting our planet and its people. We strive to enhance the well-being of the people who enjoy and make our products and to
nurture thriving communities where we live, work and grow the ingredients that go into our products. To accomplish these objectives, we focus on delivering safe, high-quality foods and ensuring a safe work environment for our employees. We are
working to protect resources, focusing on where we can have the greatest impact. We are also creating food that fits the way people eat today and provides balanced snacking choices. Our “Call For Well-Being” initiative focuses on four
areas that we believe will have the greatest impact: sustainability, mindful snacking, safety and community partnerships. In each of these areas, we set clear goals and metrics. For more information on the progress of our Call For Well-Being
initiative, please seewww.mondelezinternational.com/well-being.







Reportable Segments

Our
operations and management structure are organized into five reportable operating segments:

•Latin America

•Asia Pacific

•EEMEA

•Europe

•North America

We manage our operations by region to leverage regional operating scale, manage different and changing
business environments more effectively at a local level and pursue growth opportunities as they arise in our key markets. Our regional management teams have responsibility for the business, product categories and financial results in the regions.

Our segment net revenues for each of the last three years were:



For the Years Ended December 31,201420132012(in millions)Net revenues:Latin America$5,153$5,382$5,396Asia Pacific4,6054,9525,164EEMEA3,6383,9153,735Europe13,91214,05913,817North America6,9366,9916,903$34,244$35,299$35,015

Our brands span five product categories:



•Biscuits (including cookies, crackers and salted snacks)

•Chocolate

•Gum & candy

•Beverages (including coffee and powdered beverages)

•Cheese & grocery

During 2014, our segments contributed to our net revenues in these product categories as
follows:



Percentage of 2014 Net Revenues by Product CategoryGum &Cheese &SegmentBiscuitsChocolateCandyBeveragesGroceryTotalLatin America3.9%3.1%3.4%2.7%1.9%15.0%Asia Pacific3.4%4.5%2.3%1.4%1.9%13.5%EEMEA1.9%3.1%1.9%2.9%0.8%10.6%Europe8.4%15.8%2.6%9.6%4.2%40.6%North America16.0%0.9%3.4%––20.3%33.6%27.4%13.6%16.6%8.8%100.0%

Within our product categories, the classes of products that contributed 10% or more to consolidated net revenues were:



For the Years Ended December 31,201420132012Biscuits - Cookies and crackers29%28%27%Chocolate - Tablets, bars and other27%27%27%Beverages - Coffee11%11%11%







We use segment operating income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. We believe it is appropriate to
disclose this measure to help investors analyze our segment performance and trends. For a definition and reconciliation of segment operating income to consolidated pre-tax earnings as well as other information on our segments, see Note 17,Segment Reporting.

Our segment operating income for each of the last three years was:



For the Years Ended December 31,201420132012(in millions)Segment operating income:Latin America$475$570$769Asia Pacific385512657EEMEA327379506Europe1,7701,6991,762North America922889781$3,879$4,049$4,475

Currency and other items significantly affect the comparability of our consolidated and segment operating results from year to
year. Please see ourManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsfor a review of our operating results.

During the last three fiscal years, our segments contributed to segment operating income as reflected below.



For the Years Ended December 31,201420132012Segment operating income:Latin America12.3%14.1%17.2%Asia Pacific9.9%12.6%14.7%EEMEA8.4%9.4%11.3%Europe45.6%42.0%39.4%North America23.8%21.9%17.4%100.0%100.0%100.0%

Significant Divestitures and Acquisitions

For information on our significant past and planned divestitures and acquisitions, please refer to Note 2,Divestitures and Acquisitions,and specifically, our
discussion underPlanned Coffee Business TransactionsandSpin-Off of Kraft Foods Group.

Customers

No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues from continuing operations in 2014. Our five largest customers accounted for 15.7% and our ten largest
customers accounted for 23.7% of net revenues from continuing operations in 2014.

Seasonality

Demand for our products is generally balanced over the first three quarters of the year and increases in the fourth quarter primarily because of holidays and other
seasonal events.

Competition

We face competition in all aspects of our
business. Competitors include large multi-national as well as numerous local and regional companies. Some competitors have different profit objectives than we do and therefore approach pricing and promotional decisions differently. We compete based
on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, service, product innovation, taste, convenience, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences, effectiveness of sales and marketing, routes to market and distribution networks,
promotional activity and price. Improving our market position or introducing a new product requires substantial research, development, advertising and promotional expenditures. We believe these investments lead to a better value proposition for the
consumer.







Distribution and Marketing

Across our segments, we generally sell our products to supermarket chains, wholesalers, supercenters, club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, convenience stores,
gasoline stations, drug stores, value stores and other retail food outlets. We distribute our products through direct store delivery, company-owned and satellite warehouses, distribution centers and other facilities. We also use the services of
independent sales offices and agents in some of our international locations.

We conduct marketing efforts through three principal sets of activities:
(i) consumer marketing and advertising including on-air, print, outdoor, digital and social media and other product promotions; (ii) consumer sales incentives such as coupons and rebates; and (iii) trade promotions to support price
features, displays and other merchandising of our products by our customers.

Raw Materials and Packaging

We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including cocoa, coffee, dairy, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners and
nuts. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of packaging materials to package our products and natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. We regularly monitor worldwide supply, cost and currency trends
related to these commodities so we can cost-effectively secure ingredients, packaging and energy sources required for production.

A number of external factors such
as weather conditions, commodity market conditions, currency fluctuations and the effects of governmental agricultural programs affect the cost and availability of raw materials and agricultural materials used in our products. We use hedging
techniques to limit the impact of fluctuations in the cost of our principal raw materials. However, we cannot fully hedge against changes in commodity costs and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs.

While the costs of our principal raw materials fluctuate, we believe there will continue to be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they will
generally remain available from numerous sources. For additional information on our commodity costs, refer to theCommodity Trendssection withinManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.

Intellectual Property

Our intellectual property rights
(including trademarks, patents, copyrights, registered designs, proprietary trade secrets, technology and know-how) are material to our business.

We own numerous
trademarks and patents in many countries around the world. Depending on the country, trademarks remain valid for as long as they are in use or their registration status is maintained. Trademark registrations generally are for renewable,
fixed terms. We also have patents for a number of current and potential products. Our patents cover inventions ranging from basic packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. Our issued patents
extend for varying periods according to the date of patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from
country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. While our patent portfolio is material to our
business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business.

From time to time, we grant third parties
licenses to use one or more of our trademarks in connection with the manufacture, sale or distribution of third party products. Similarly, we sell some products under brands we license from third parties. In our agreement with Kraft Foods
Group, Inc., we each granted the other party various licenses to use certain of our and their respective intellectual property rights in named jurisdictions following the Spin-Off.







Research and Development

We
pursue four objectives in research and development: product safety and quality, growth through new products, superior consumer satisfaction and reduced costs. At December 31, 2014, we had approximately 2,650 food scientists, chemists and
engineers working primarily in 11 key technology centers: East Hanover, New Jersey; Whippany, New Jersey; Banbury, United Kingdom; Bournville, United Kingdom; Curitiba, Brazil; Paris, France; Melbourne, Australia; Mexico City, Mexico; Munich,
Germany; Reading, United Kingdom and Suzhou, China. Our research and development expense was $455 million in 2014, $471 million in 2013 and $462 million in 2012.

Regulation

Our food products and packaging materials are subject to local,
national and multi-national regulations related to labeling, packaging, food ingredients, pricing, marketing and advertising, privacy and related areas. In addition, various jurisdictions regulate our operations by licensing our manufacturing
plants, enforcing standards for selected food products, grading food products, inspecting manufacturing plants and warehouses and regulating trade practices related to the sale of and imposing their own labeling requirements on our food products.
Many of the food commodities we use in our operations are subject to government agricultural policy and intervention. These policies have substantial effects on prices and supplies and are subject to periodic governmental and administrative review.

Throughout the countries in which we do business, government authorities are continually adopting new laws and implementing new regulations that affect our
business and operations. Examples include selective food taxes in Mexico; profit, price and other controls imposed within Venezuela and Argentina; Russian sanctions on the sourcing of raw materials from the European Union and potential labeling
disclosure requirements for genetically modified ingredients in the United States. We will continue to monitor developments of the new laws and regulations. At this time, we do not expect the cost of complying with these new laws and regulations
will be material. Also refer to Note 1,Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Currency Translation and Highly Inflationary Accounting, for additional information on government regulations and currency effects on our operations in
Venezuela, Argentina and Russia.

Environmental Regulation

Throughout
the countries in which we do business, we are subject to local, national and multi-national environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. We have programs across our business units designed to meet applicable
environmental compliance requirements. In the United States, the laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act (“CERCLA”). CERCLA imposes joint and severable liability on each potentially responsible party. As of December 31, 2014, our subsidiaries were involved in one active proceeding in the United States under a state
equivalent of CERCLA related to our current operations. As of December 31, 2014, we accrued an immaterial amount for environmental remediation. Based on information currently available, we believe that the ultimate resolution of the existing
environmental remediation and our compliance with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on our financial results.

Employees

We employed approximately 104,000 people worldwide at December 31, 2014 and approximately 107,000 at December 31, 2013. Employees represented by
labor unions or workers’ councils represent approximately 64% of our 91,000 employees outside the United States and approximately 28% of our 13,000 U.S. employees. Our business units are subject to various local, national and multi-national
laws and regulations relating to their relationships with their employees. In accordance with European Union requirements, we also have established a European Workers Council composed of management and elected members of our workforce. We believe we
generally have good relationships with our employees and their representative organizations.

Foreign Operations

We generated 82.1% of our 2014 net revenues, 83.1% of our 2013 net revenues and 82.9% of our 2012 net revenues from continuing operations outside the United States. We
sell our products to consumers in approximately 165 countries. At December 31, 2014, we had operations in more than 80 countries and made our products at 170 manufacturing and processing facilities in 58 countries. Refer to Note 17,Segment
Reporting,for additional information on our U.S. and non-U.S. operations. Refer to Item 2,Properties, for more information on our manufacturing and other facilities. Also, for a discussion of risks related to our operations outside
the United States, see “Risk Factors” in Item 1A.







Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following are our executive officers as of February 20, 2015:



NameAgeTitleIrene B. Rosenfeld61Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerBrian T. Gladden49Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerGustavo H. Abelenda54Executive Vice President and President, Latin AmericaTracey Belcourt48Executive Vice President, StrategyDavid A. Brearton54Executive Vice President, Strategic InitiativesMark A. Clouse46Executive Vice President and Chief Growth Officer andExecutive
Vice President and President, North AmericaTimothy P. Cofer46Executive Vice President and President, Asia Pacific and EEMEALawrence MacDougall58Executive Vice President and President, EEMEAKaren J. May56Executive Vice President, Human ResourcesDaniel P. Myers59Executive Vice President, Integrated Supply ChainGerhard W. Pleuhs58Executive Vice President and General CounselJean E. Spence57Executive Vice President, Research, Development and QualityHubert Weber52Executive Vice President and President, Europe

Ms. Rosenfeldbecame Chief Executive Officer and Director in June 2006 and became Chairman of the Board in March 2007.
Prior to that, she served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Frito-Lay, a division of PepsiCo, Inc., a food and beverage company, from September 2004 to June 2006. Ms. Rosenfeld was employed continuously by Mondelēz International
and its predecessor, General Foods Corporation, in various capacities from 1981 until 2003, including President of Kraft Foods North America and President of Operations, Technology, Information Systems and Kraft Foods, Canada, Mexico and Puerto
Rico.

Mr. Gladdenbecame Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in December 2014. He joined Mondelēz International in October 2014.
Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Dell Inc., a provider of technology products and services, from June 2008 until February 2014, and as President and Chief Executive Officer of SABIC Innovative
Plastics, a manufacturer of industrial plastics, from August 2007 to May 2008. Mr. Gladden spent 19 years at the General Electric Company, a multinational conglomerate, in a variety of key leadership positions, including Vice President and
General Manager, Resin Business and Chief Financial Officer, GE Plastics.

Mr. Abelendabecame Executive Vice President and President, Latin America in
January 2013. Prior to that, he served as Group Vice President and President, Latin America from August 2003 to December 2012, Vice President and Managing Director, Brazil from October 2000 to August 2003, Food Vice President, Mercosur Area from
April 1998 to October 2000 and General Manager, Brazilian Beverages and Sugar Confectionery Business from February 1997 to April 1998. Mr. Abelenda joined Mondelēz International in 1984.

Ms. Belcourtbecame Executive Vice President, Strategy in October 2012. She joined Mondelēz International in September 2012. Prior to that, she was a
partner of Bain & Company, a management consulting firm, from September 1999 to August 2012, where she specialized in the design and implementation of growth strategies to improve business performance across a variety of consumer
industries. Ms. Belcourt was an assistant professor of economics at Concordia University in Montreal from 1994 to 1999 and served as an economic consultant to the U.S. Agency for International Development in Africa in 1999 during her
professorship. Ms. Belcourt also serves on the Board of Directors of FTD Companies, Inc., a floral and gifting provider.

Mr. Breartonbecame Executive Vice President, Strategic Initiatives in December 2014. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from May 2011 to November 2014, Executive Vice President, Operations and Business Services from
January 2008 to May 2011, Executive Vice President, Global Business Services and Strategy from April 2006 to December 2007 and Senior Vice President of Business Process Simplification and Corporate Controller from February 2005 to April 2006. He
previously served as Senior Vice President, Finance for Kraft Foods International. Mr. Brearton joined Mondelēz International in 1984.

Mr. Clousebecame Executive Vice President and Chief Growth Officer in July 2014 and has served as Executive Vice President and President, North America since October 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Clouse served as President of the Snacks and Confectionery
business in North America from June 2011 to October 2012 and Senior Vice President of the Biscuits







Global Category Team from October 2010 to June 2011. He was Managing Director of Kraft Foods Brazil from January 2008 to September 2010 and President of Kraft Foods Greater China from January
2006 to January 2008. Prior to that, Mr. Clouse held various positions of increasing responsibility around the world. Before joining Mondelēz International in 1996, Mr. Clouse served in the United States Army for seven years,
obtaining the rank of Captain.

Mr. Coferbecame Executive Vice President and President, Asia Pacific and EEMEA in September 2013. Prior to that, he
served as Executive Vice President and President, Europe, from August 2011 until September 2013, Senior Vice President, Global Chocolate Category from June 2010 to August 2011, Senior Vice President, Strategy and Integration from January 2010 to
June 2010, President of Pizza from January 2008 to January 2010, Senior Vice President and General Manager of Oscar Mayer from January 2007 to January 2008 and Vice President and General Manager of EU Chocolate from June 2003 to January 2007.
Mr. Cofer joined Mondelēz International in 1992.

Mr. MacDougallbecame Executive Vice President and President, EEMEA in July 2014. Prior to
that, he served as President, EEMEA from November 2012 to July 2014 and as President, Middle East and Africa from March 2010 to October 2012. Prior to its acquisition by Mondelēz International, Mr. MacDougall was continuously employed by
Cadbury Pty Ltd, a confectionery company, for 28 years in various leadership positions, most recently serving as President, Middle East and Africa from February 2007 to February 2010.

Ms. Maybecame Executive Vice President, Human Resources in October 2005. Prior to that, she was Corporate Vice President, Human Resources, for Baxter
International Inc., a healthcare company, from February 2001 to September 2005. Ms. May also serves on the Board of Directors of MB Financial Inc., a financial services provider.

Mr. Myersbecame Executive Vice President, Integrated Supply Chain in September 2011. Prior to that, he worked for Procter & Gamble, a consumer
products company, for 33 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as Vice President, Product Supply for P&G’s Global Hair Care business from September 2007 to August 2011.

Mr. Pleuhsbecame Executive Vice President and General Counsel in April 2012. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President & Deputy General Counsel,
Business Units from November 2007 to March 2012 and Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, International for Kraft Foods Global, Inc. from July 2004 to November 2007. Before joining Mondelēz International in 1990, Mr. Pleuhs
held a number of senior positions within the German Law Department of Jacobs Kaffee Deutschland GmbH, an international beverage and confectionery company, prior to and after its acquisition by Altria Group, the former parent company of Mondelēz
International. Mr. Pleuhs has a law degree from the University of Kiel, Germany and is licensed to practice law in Germany.

Ms. Spencebecame
Executive Vice President, Research, Development and Quality in January 2004. Prior to that, she served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development for Kraft Foods North America from August 2003 to January 2004 and Senior Vice President of
Worldwide Quality, Scientific Affairs and Compliance for Kraft Foods North America from November 2001 to August 2003. She joined Mondelēz International in 1981. Ms. Spence also serves on the Supervisory Board of GEA Group AG.

Mr. Weberbecame Executive Vice President and President Europe in September 2013. Prior to that, he served as President of the European and Global Coffee
category from September 2010 until September 2013, President of the DACH region (Germany, Austria and Switzerland) from February 2009 to August 2010, Managing Director, Spain from August 2007 to January 2009, Vice President of Global Tassimo Venture
Team from July 2004 to July 2007 and Senior Director, International Sales, Kraft Foods International from January 2000 to June 2004. Mr. Weber joined Mondelēz International in 1988.

Ethics and Governance

We adopted the Mondelēz International Code of
Conduct, which qualifies as a code of ethics under Item 406 of Regulation S-K. The code applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller,
and persons performing similar functions. Our code of ethics is available free of charge on our web site atwww.mondelezinternational.comand will be provided free of charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to: Corporate
Secretary, Mondelēz International, Inc., Three Parkway North, Deerfield, IL 60015. We will disclose any waiver we grant to an executive officer or director under our code of ethics, or certain amendments to the code of ethics, on our web site
atwww.mondelezinternational.com.







In addition, we adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, charters for each of the Board’s four standing committees and
the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Non-Employee Directors. All of these materials are available on our web site atwww.mondelezinternational.comand will be provided free of charge to any shareholder requesting a copy by writing to:
Corporate Secretary, Mondelēz International, Inc., Three Parkway North, Deerfield, IL 60015.

Available Information

Our Internet address iswww.mondelezinternational.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically file
them with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You can access our filings with the SEC by visitingwww.mondelezinternational.com. The information on our web site is not, and shall not be
deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC.

You can also read, access and copy any
document that we file, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Mondelēz International, that are electronically
filed with the SEC.

