Item 1A. Risk Factors

We face strong competition from other retailers and warehouse club operators, which could negatively affect our financial performance.

The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for members, employees, sites, products and services and in other important respects with many
other local, regional and national retailers, both in the United States and in foreign countries. We compete with other warehouse club operators, discount retailers, supermarkets, supercenter stores, retail and wholesale grocers, department, drug,
variety and specialty stores and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and warehouse club operators compete in a variety of ways, including
merchandise pricing, selection and availability, services, location, convenience, store hours, and price. Our inability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could negatively affect our financial
performance. Some competitors may have greater financial resources, better access to merchandise, and greater market penetration than we do.

General
economic factors, domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.

Higher interest rates, energy
costs, inflation, levels of unemployment, healthcare costs, consumer debt levels, unsettled financial markets, weaknesses in housing and real estate markets, reduced consumer confidence, changes related to government fiscal and tax policies and
other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services or require a change in the mix of products we sell. Prices of certain commodity products, including gasoline and other food products, are historically volatile and
are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices
may affect our sales and profit margins. These factors can also increase our merchandise costs and/or selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our operations and results. General economic conditions can also be
affected by the outbreak of war, acts of terrorism, or other significant national or international events.







Item 1A—Risk Factors (Continued)



Our growth strategy includes expanding our business, both in existing markets and in new markets.

Our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to acquire property, and build or lease new warehouses. We compete with
other retailers and businesses for suitable locations. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction and operation of our warehouses, as well as local community actions opposed to the location of our warehouses at specific sites
and the adoption of local laws restricting our operations and environmental regulations may impact our ability to find suitable locations, and increase the cost of constructing, leasing and operating our warehouses. We also may have difficulty
negotiating leases or real estate purchase agreements on acceptable terms. Failure to manage these and other similar factors effectively will affect our ability to timely build or lease new warehouses, which may have a material adverse affect on our
future growth and profitability.

We seek to expand our business in existing markets in order to attain a greater overall market share.
Because our warehouses typically draw members from their local areas, a new warehouse may draw members away from our existing warehouses and adversely affect comparable warehouse sales performance and member traffic at those existing warehouses.

We also intend to open warehouses in new markets. The risks associated with entering a new market include difficulties in attracting
members due to a lack of familiarity with us, attracting members of other wholesale club operators currently operating in the new market, our lack of familiarity with local member preferences, and seasonal differences in the market. In addition,
entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. In new markets, we cannot ensure that our new warehouses will be profitably deployed; as a result, our
future profitability may be delayed or otherwise materially adversely affected.

We are highly dependent on the financial performance of our United
States and Canada operations.

Our financial and operational performance is highly dependent on our United States and Canada
operations, which comprised 92% of consolidated net sales in 2010 and 93% in 2009, and 89% of operating income in 2010 and 92% in 2009. Within the United States, we are highly dependent on our California operations, which comprised 26% and 27% of
consolidated net sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our California market in general, has a larger percentage of higher volume warehouses as compared to our other markets. Any substantial slowing or sustained decline in these operations could
materially adversely affect our business and financial results. Declines in financial performance of our United States operations, particularly in California, and our Canada operations could arise from, among other things: failing to meet targets
for warehouse openings; declines in actual or estimated comparable warehouse sales growth rates and expectations; negative trends in operating expenses, including increased labor, healthcare and energy costs; cannibalizing existing locations with
new warehouses; shifts in sales mix toward lower gross margin products; changes or uncertainties in economic conditions in our markets; and failing consistently to provide high quality products and innovative new products to retain our existing
member base and attract new members.

We depend on vendors to supply us with quality merchandise at the right prices in a timely manner.

We depend heavily on our ability to purchase merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We have no assurances of
continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could at any time change the terms upon which it sells to us or discontinue selling to us. Member demands may lead to out-of-stock positions of our merchandise, leading to loss of
sales and profits.







Item 1A—Risk Factors (Continued)





We purchase our merchandise
from numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers and importers and have thousands of vendor relationships. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or the loss of key vendors could negatively affect us. We may not be able to
develop relationships with new vendors, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality or more expensive than those from existing vendors. Because of our efforts to adhere to high quality standards for which available
supply may be limited, particularly for certain food items, the large volume we demand may not be consistently available.

Our suppliers
are subject to risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activities, financial liquidity, inclement weather, natural disasters, supply constraints, and general economic and political conditions, that could limit their ability to timely
provide us with acceptable merchandise. For these or other reasons, one or more of our suppliers might not adhere to our quality control, legal or regulatory standards. These deficiencies may delay or preclude delivery of merchandise to us and might
not be identified before we sell such merchandise to our members. This failure could lead to litigation and recalls, which could damage our reputation and our brands, increase our costs, and otherwise hurt our business.

In addition, the United States’ foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, security and safety regulations,
trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control and could
adversely impact our sourcing of goods.

We depend on our depot operations to effectively and efficiently supply product to our warehouses.

We depend on the orderly operation of the receiving and distribution process, primarily through our depots. Although we believe that
our receiving and distribution process is efficient, unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fires, hurricanes, earthquakes or other catastrophic events, labor shortages and disagreements or shipping problems, may result in delays in the
delivery of merchandise to our warehouses, which could adversely affect sales and the satisfaction of our members.

We may not timely identify or
effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.

It is difficult to consistently and successfully predict the products and services our members will demand. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and respond to trends in demographics and
consumer preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including those relating to sustainability of product sources) and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our
members, the demand for our products and services and our market share. If we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting our purchases accordingly, we may have excess inventory, which could result in additional markdowns and
reduce our operating performance. This could have an adverse effect on margins and operating income.

Our failure to maintain positive membership
loyalty and brand recognition could adversely affect our financial results.

Damage to our brands or reputation may negatively impact
comparable warehouse sales, lower employee morale and productivity, diminish member trust, and reduce member renewal rates and, accordingly, membership fee revenues, resulting in a reduction in shareholder value.







Item 1A—Risk Factors (Continued)





Changes in accounting standards and
subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results.

Changes in Tax Rates

We compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the countries in which we operate. As the tax rates vary among countries, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we
operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. Additionally, any change in the enacted tax rates, any adverse outcome in connection with any income tax audits in any jurisdiction, including transfer pricing disputes, or
any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could make our financial results inaccurate or untimely.

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes: maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly
reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that our receipts and expenditures of our assets are made in accordance
with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to and cannot provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected. Any failure to maintain an effective
system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud.







Item 1A—Risk Factors (Continued)



Our international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting,
regulatory, political and economic factors specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance.

Our international operations are growing. Future operating results internationally could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, many beyond our control and similar to those we face in the United States.
These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, regulatory constraints, currency regulations and exchange rates, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Other factors that may
impact international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws and regulations of foreign governments and the United States (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act),
agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities located in countries which have been historically less stable than the United States. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, the
costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future
costs or on future cash flows from our international operations.

Market expectations for our financial performance is high.

We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. Any failure to meet or delay in
meeting these expectations, including our comparable warehouse sales growth rates, margins, earnings and earnings per share or new warehouse openings, could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock
repurchase policies.

We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in both
our primary and back-up systems could harm our business.

Although we believe that we have independent, redundant, and primary and
secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is important that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are
subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, and errors by our
employees. If our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material
interruption in our computer systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The costs, potential problems, and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce the
efficiency of our operations in the short term. These initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or provide them in a delayed or more costly manner.

Natural disasters or other catastrophic events could unfavorably affect our financial performance.

Natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes, particularly in California or in Washington state, where our centralized operating systems and administrative personnel are located, could unfavorably affect
our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the temporary closure of one or more warehouses or depots, the temporary







Item 1A—Risk Factors (Continued)



lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of
goods from overseas, delays in the delivery of goods to our depots or warehouses within a country in which we operate and the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our warehouses. Public health issues, such as a potential H1N1 flu
pandemic (swine flu), whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or customers, or have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels. We may be required to
suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These events could also reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible
to receive products from suppliers.

We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, regional, local and international laws and regulations
relating to the use, storage, discharge, and disposal of hazardous materials and hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, and other environmental matters.

Any failure to comply with these laws could result in costs to satisfy environmental compliance, remediation or compensatory requirements, or the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on operations by
governmental agencies or courts that could adversely affect our operations.

Factors associated with climate change could adversely affect our
business.

We use natural gas, diesel fuel, gasoline, and electricity in our distribution and sale operations. Increased government
regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions may result in increased compliance costs and legislation or regulation affecting energy inputs could materially affect our profitability. In addition, climate change could affect
our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience. We also sell a substantial amount of gasoline, the demand for which could be impacted by concerns about climate change and which also could face increased
regulation. Climate change may be associated with extreme weather conditions, such as more intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms, as well as rising sea levels. Extreme weather conditions increase our costs, and damage
resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured.

We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits, and while we cannot predict
the outcomes of such proceedings and other contingencies with certainty, some of these outcomes may unfavorably affect our operations or increase our costs.

We are or may become involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits, including grand jury investigations, other government investigations, consumer, employment, tort and other litigation (see discussion of
Legal Proceedings in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report). We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, including environmental remediation and
other proceedings commenced by governmental authorities. The outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking actions which could unfavorably affect our operations or could require us
to pay substantial amounts of money. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our business requires compliance with a great variety of
laws and regulations. Failure to achieve compliance could subject us to lawsuits and other proceedings, and lead to damage awards, fines and penalties.







Item 1A—Risk Factors (Continued)



We are subject to the risks of selling unsafe products.

Our success depends on the continued contributions of management and on our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified employees.

Our success depends to a significant degree on the continued contributions of members of our senior management and other key
operations, merchandising and administrative personnel, and the loss of any such person(s) could have a material adverse effect. Other than an annual agreement with our CEO, Mr. Sinegal, we have no employment agreements with our officers. We
must attract, train and retain a large and growing number of highly qualified employees, while controlling related labor costs. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and
healthcare and other insurance costs. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these employees and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly
qualified employees in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company does not maintain key man insurance.

If we do not maintain the privacy and security of member-related information, we could damage our reputation with members, incur substantial additional costs
and become subject to litigation.

We receive, retain, and transmit certain personal information about our members. In addition, our
online operations at www.costco.com and www.costco.ca depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our security systems or those of other
business partners that results in our members’ personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our members and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition
and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to the security of information systems and could result in
a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.

Additionally, the use of individually identifiable data by
our business and our business associates is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems







Item 1A—Risk Factors (Continued)



changes and the development of new administrative processes. If we or those with whom we share information fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our
reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subjected to additional legal risk as a result of non-compliance.

