
10-K405



               UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
  X       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
- -----
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended       DECEMBER 31, 1997
                          ----------------------------------------------------
                                      OR
        TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
- -----
        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from                         to
                                    ------------------    ----------------
Commission file number                   1-11353
                      --------------------------------------------------------
                  LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
                                       
         DELAWARE                               13-3757370
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)             Identification No.)

  358 SOUTH MAIN STREET, BURLINGTON, NORTH CAROLINA            27215
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (Address of principal executive offices)               (Zip Code)

                        336-229-1127
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

   Title of each class                     Name of exchange on which registered
- --------------------------                 ------------------------------------
Common Stock, $0.01 par value              New York Stock Exchange
Common Stock Purchase Warrants             New York Stock Exchange
Redeemable Preferred Stock,$.10 par value  New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g)of the Act: None

Indicate  by  check  mark whether the registrant (1)  has  filed  all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the  preceding 12 months (or for such shorter  period  that  the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X  No
                                               ---    ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to  the
best  of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated  by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any  amendment  to
this Form 10-K.  X
               -----

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant, by reference to the price at which the stock was sold as of  a
specified  date  within 60 days prior to the date of filing:  $126,340,062  at
March 13, 1998.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's  classes
of  common  stock,  as of the latest practicable date: 124,499,287  shares  at
March  13, 1998, of which 61,329,256 shares are held by indirect wholly  owned
subsidiaries  of  Roche  Holdings Ltd. The number of warrants  outstanding  to
purchase  shares of the issuer's common stock is 22,151,308 as  of  March  13,
1998,  of  which 8,325,000 are held by an indirect wholly owned subsidiary  of
Roche Holdings Ltd.

                                    PART I

ITEM 1.   DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

      Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (the "Company") is one of the
three  largest independent clinical laboratory companies in the United  States
based  on 1997 net revenues.  Through a national network of laboratories,  the
Company  offers  a  broad  range  of testing  services  used  by  the  medical
profession  in  the diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of disease  and  other
clinical  states.  Since its founding in 1971, the Company has  grown  into  a
network  of  25  major  laboratories  and approximately  1,200  service  sites
consisting of branches, patient service centers and STAT laboratories, serving
clients in 50 states.

      The  Company  has achieved a substantial portion of its  growth  through
acquisitions.  On  April 28, 1995, the Company completed a merger  with  Roche
Biomedical  Laboratories,  Inc.  ("RBL"),  an  indirect  subsidiary  of  Roche
Holdings, Inc. ("Roche"), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as
of  December  13,  1994 (the "Merger").  In connection with  the  Merger,  the
Company  changed  its  name from National Health Laboratories  Holdings,  Inc.
("NHL")  to  Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings.  In  June  1994,  the
Company acquired Allied Clinical Laboratories, Inc.("Allied"), then the  sixth
largest  independent clinical laboratory testing company in the United  States
(based  on  1993 net revenues)(the "Allied Acquisition"). In addition  to  the
Merger  and  the  Allied Acquisition, since 1993, the Company has  acquired  a
total  of 57 small clinical laboratories with aggregate sales of approximately
$182.4 million.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

      During  1996  and  the  early  part of  1997,  the  Company  experienced
significant changes in management with Thomas P. Mac Mahon assuming  the  role
of  President and Chief Executive Officer in January 1997 in addition  to  his
position as Chairman.  Prior to such time Mr. Mac Mahon served as Senior  Vice
President  of  Roche  and President of Roche Diagnostics Group  where  he  was
responsible  for  the  management  of all  United  States  operations  of  the
diagnostic  businesses  of  Roche.   Concurrent  with  the  addition  of   Mr.
Mac  Mahon,  the  Company promoted a new Chief Financial  Officer,  Wesley  R.
Elingburg, formerly Senior Vice President-Finance, and formed a new management
committee.

     As part of an examination of the rapid growth of Federal expenditures for
clinical laboratory services, several Federal agencies, including the  Federal
Bureau  of  Investigation,  the Office of Inspector  General  ("OIG")  of  the
Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS") and the Department of  Justice
("DOJ"),  have investigated allegations of fraudulent and abusive  conduct  by
health care providers.  On November 21, 1996, the Company reached a settlement
with  the OIG and the DOJ regarding the prior billing practices of various  of
its predecessor companies (the "1996 Government Settlement").  Consistent with
this  overall  settlement,  the  Company paid  $187  million  to  the  Federal
Government in December 1996, with proceeds from a loan from Roche (the  "Roche
Loan").    As  a  result  of  negotiations  related  to  the  1996  Government
Settlement, the Company recorded a charge of $185 million in the third quarter
of  1996  to  increase reserves for the 1996 Government Settlement  and  other
related expenses of government and private claims resulting therefrom.

     During 1996 and continuing into 1997, management began implementing a new
business  strategy in response to the Company's declining performance.   These
new  strategic  objectives are as follows:  remaining a low cost  provider  of
clinical testing services; providing high quality service to its clients;  and
improving account profitability.  See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Results   of   Operations   and  Financial  Condition",   "Business-Management
Information  Systems"  and "-- Sales and Marketing and  Client  Service".   In
addition,  the  Company  is focused on certain growth initiatives  beyond  the
routine clinical laboratory testing.  In particular the Company is focused  on
increasing  market  share  in  certain sections of  the  market  by  providing
innovative  services  in two primary areas: (i) hospital alliances;  and  (ii)
specialty  and niche businesses.  See "Business--Affiliations and  Alliances,"
and "--Testing Services."

     On May 19, 1997 the Board of Directors of the Company declared a dividend
of 10,000,000 transferable subscription rights which were then issued pro rata
to  holders of its common stock on May 29, 1997 entitling them to purchase  up
to  an aggregate of $500.0 million of convertible preferred stock issuable  in
two  series  at  a  subscription price of $50 per share (the "Preferred  Stock
Offering").   The subscription period ended on June 16, 1997.  On  that  date,
rights  were  exercised  to  purchase 4,363,202 shares  of  Series  A  8  1/2%
Convertible Exchangeable Preferred Stock  ("Series A") and 5,636,798 shares of
Series B 8 1/2% Convertible Pay-in-Kind Preferred Stock ("Series B"), each  at
a subscription price of $50 per share.  Roche exercised its basic subscription
privilege in full for 4,988,751 of Series B and other rights holders purchased
the remaining 5,011,249 shares.

      The  Series A is convertible at the option of the holder after September
30,  1997  into common stock, will pay cash dividends and will be exchangeable
on  or  after  June  30, 2000 at the Company's option for 8  1/2%  Convertible
Subordinated Notes due June 30, 2012. The Series B will be convertible at  the
option of the holder after June 30, 2000 into common stock, will pay dividends
in  kind  until  June  30,  2003  and  in cash  thereafter  and  will  not  be
exchangeable  for  notes.  The conversion rate for both  series  of  preferred
stock  is  18.1818 shares of common stock per share of preferred stock.   Each
series  of preferred stock will be mandatorily redeemable after June 30,  2012
at  $50  per  share and will be redeemable at the option of the Company  after
July  7,  2000 at prices declining from $52.83 in 2000 to $50.00 in  2006  and
thereafter.   Net  proceeds  from the Preferred  Stock  Offering  were  $486.9
million  and were used to repay a loan from Roche, including accrued interest,
and  to reduce amounts outstanding under the Company's term loan and revolving
credit facilities.

      In  connection  with  the  Merger, the Company  entered  into  a  credit
agreement  with  the  banks  named therein and an  administrative  agent  (the
"Existing Credit Agreement"), which made available to the Company a term  loan
facility  (the "Term Loan Facility") of $800.0 million and a revolving  credit
facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility") of $450.0 million.

     In March 1997, the Company entered into an amended credit agreement which
became  effective  upon completion of the Preferred Stock Offering,  following
satisfaction of certain conditions precedent (the "Amended and Restated Credit
Agreement").  The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement makes available to the
Company senior unsecured credit facilities in the form of an amended term loan
facility of $693.8 million and an amended revolving credit facility of  $450.0
million  (the  "Amended  Term  Loan Facility" and  "Amended  Revolving  Credit
Facility," respectively).

      The Amended Revolving Credit Facility includes a $50.0 million letter of
credit sublimit.  The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement maturity dates are
extended approximately three years for the Amended Term Loan Facility to March
31, 2004 and approximately two years for the Amended Revolving Credit Facility
to March 31, 2002.

      Both  the  Amended Term Loan Facility and the Amended  Revolving  Credit
Facility  bear  interest, at the option of the Company, at (i) the  base  rate
plus  the  applicable base rate margin or (ii) the eurodollar  rate  plus  the
applicable  eurodollar rate margin. The Amended and Restated Credit  Agreement
provides  that in the event of a reduction of the percentage of  Common  Stock
held by Roche and its affiliates (other than the Company and its subsidiaries)
below  25%,  the applicable interest margins and facility fees  on  borrowings
outstanding  under  the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement  will  increase.
The  amount of the increase will depend, in part, on the leverage ratio of the
Company  at  the time of such reduction. Future interest margins on borrowings
outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement will be based upon
the performance level of the Company as defined therein.

      Under  the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, maturities  under  the
Amended  Term Loan Facility, after the payment of $50.0 million from  proceeds
of  the  Preferred  Stock  Offering, aggregate $46.4 million  in  1999,  $92.8
million  in  2000,  $139.2 million in 2001 through 2003 and $87.0  million  in
2004.

      The  amounts  available under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility  are
subject  to  certain mandatory permanent reduction and prepayment requirements
and  the  Amended  Term  Loan  Facility  is  subject  to  specified  mandatory
prepayment  requirements.   In  the Amended  and  Restated  Credit  Agreement,
required amounts are first to be applied to repay scheduled Amended Term  Loan
Facility  payments until the Amended Term Loan Facility is repaid in full  and
then to reduce the commitments and advances under the Amended Revolving Credit
Facility.  Required payments and reductions include (i) the proceeds  of  debt
issuances,  subject to certain exceptions; (ii) the proceeds of certain  asset
sales,  unless  reinvested  within one year of the applicable  asset  sale  in
productive assets of a kind then used or usable in the business of the Company
and  its  subsidiaries; (iii) the proceeds of sales of  equity  securities  in
excess  of certain amounts; and (iv) under certain circumstances, a percentage
of excess cash flow, as calculated annually.

      The  Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains financial  covenants
with  respect  to  a  leverage ratio, an interest coverage ratio  and  minimum
stockholders' equity.

      A  portion of the proceeds of the Preferred Stock Offering were used  to
repay  approximately $50.0 million under the Amended Term  Loan  Facility  and
$242.0 million under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility.

      During the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company recorded a provision  for
doubtful  accounts of $182.0 million, which was approximately  $160.0  million
greater  than the amount recorded in the fourth quarter of 1996.  This  pretax
charge  was  made to increase the allowance for doubtful accounts to  a  level
that  management believes is appropriate to reduce its accounts receivable  to
the net amount that management believes will ultimately be collected.

      The Company has  experienced a deterioration in the timeliness  of  cash
collections and a corresponding increase in accounts receivable.  The  primary
causes  of  this  situation are the increased medical  necessity  and  related
diagnosis  code  requirements from third-party payors and the complexities  in
the  billing  process  (data capture) arising from  changing  requirements  of
private  insurance  companies (managed care).  Management previously  believed
that  this deterioration in the timeliness of cash collections would not  have
any significant impact on the ultimate collectability of the receivables.

      In  late 1996, to address the deteriorating cash collections, management
developed  various  short-term improvement projects  ("initiatives")  that  it
anticipated  would improve the timeliness of collections by the end  of  1997.
Initially,  it appeared that these initiatives were having a positive  impact,
as the growth in the Company's Days' Sales Outstanding (DSO) stabilized in the
first and second quarters of 1997.  However, during the third quarter of 1997,
despite continuing focused efforts on the initiatives, the Company's DSO began
increasing  again.   In response, management intensified its  efforts  on  the
aforementioned  initiatives  and  added new initiatives  for  the  purpose  of
significantly lowering the DSO by December 31, 1997.

      In  the  fourth  quarter of 1997, management evaluated the  initiatives'
overall  effect  and  concluded  that,  while  helpful  in  improving  certain
processes, they had not had any significant impact on improving the  Company's
cash  collections  on  aged  receivables.  In  recognition  of  the  Company's
inability  to  enhance collections on a sustained basis, an  increase  in  the
allowance for doubtful accounts was considered necessary by management.

      The  Company also recorded pretax charges in the fourth quarter of $22.7
million,  related  primarily to the downsizing of its Long  Island,  New  York
facility and the future consolidation into its Raritan, New Jersey facility.

     In connection with the aforementioned fourth quarter charges, the Company
has  successfully negotiated an amendment to the Amended and  Restated  Credit
Agreement, covering both long-term and revolving credit, of certain  covenants
contained in the agreement.  The amendment excludes the charges from  interest
coverage  and  leverage ratio calculations applicable to  the  quarters  ended
December 31, 1997 through September 30, 1998.  The amendment also excludes the
charges  from  certain other covenant calculations applicable to  the  quarter
ending December 31, 1997 and all quarterly periods thereafter.

THE CLINICAL LABORATORY TESTING INDUSTRY

      Laboratory  tests  and  procedures  are  used  generally  by  hospitals,
physicians and other health care providers and commercial clients to assist in
the diagnosis, evaluation, detection, monitoring and treatment of diseases and
other  medical conditions through the examination of substances in the  blood,
tissues  and  other  specimens.   Clinical  laboratory  testing  is  generally
categorized  as  either clinical testing, which is performed  on  body  fluids
including blood and urine, or anatomical pathology testing, which is performed
on  tissue  and other samples, including human cells.  Clinical and anatomical
pathology  procedures  are  frequently ordered as part  of  regular  physician
office  visits  and hospital admissions in connection with the  diagnosis  and
treatment  of  illnesses.   Certain of these tests  and  procedures  are  used
principally  as  tools in the diagnosis and treatment of  a  wide  variety  of
medical   conditions  such  as  cancer,  AIDS,  endocrine  disorders,  cardiac
disorders  and  genetic disease.  The most frequently requested tests  include
blood  chemistry  analyses, urinalyses, blood cell counts,  PAP  smears,  AIDS
tests,  microbiology cultures and procedures and alcohol and other  substance-
abuse tests.

      The  clinical laboratory industry consists primarily of three  types  of
providers:  hospital-based  laboratories,  physician-office  laboratories  and
independent clinical laboratories, such as those owned by the Company.

      The  Company  believes that in 1997 approximately 57%  of  the  clinical
testing   revenues  in  the  United  States  were  derived  by  hospital-based
laboratories,  approximately 13% were derived by physicians in  their  offices
and  laboratories  and approximately 30% were derived by independent  clinical
laboratories.  The Health Care Financing Administration ("HCFA")  of  HHS  has
estimated that in 1997 there were over 5,000 independent clinical laboratories
in the United States.

EFFECT OF MARKET CHANGES ON THE CLINICAL LABORATORY BUSINESS

      Many  market-based  changes  in the clinical  laboratory  business  have
occurred,  most  involving  the  shift away from traditional,  fee-for-service
medicine  to managed-cost health care.  The growth of the managed care  sector
presents  various  challenges to the Company and  other  independent  clinical
laboratories.   Managed care organizations typically contract with  a  limited
number of clinical laboratories and negotiate discounts to the fees charged by
such laboratories in an effort to control costs.  Such discounts have resulted
in price erosion and have negatively impacted the Company's operating margins.
In  addition, managed care organizations have used capitated payment contracts
in  an  attempt to promote more efficient use of laboratory testing  services.
Under  a  capitated payment contract, the clinical laboratory and the  managed
care  organization  agree  to a per member, per month  payment  to  cover  all
laboratory  tests during the month, regardless of the number or  cost  of  the
tests  actually performed.  Such contracts also shift the risks of  additional
testing  beyond  that  covered  by  the  capitated  payment  to  the  clinical
laboratory.  For the year ended December 31, 1997 such contracts accounted for
approximately  $88.8 million in net sales.  The increase in managed  care  has
also resulted in declines in the utilization of laboratory testing services.

     In addition, Medicare (which principally services patients 65 and older),
Medicaid  (which  principally  serves indigent  patients)  and  insurers  have
increased their effort to control the cost, utilization and delivery of health
care  services.   Measures  to regulate health care delivery  in  general  and
clinical  laboratories  in particular have resulted in reduced  prices,  added
costs and decreasing test utilization for the clinical laboratory industry  by
increasing   complexity   and   adding  new  regulatory   and   administrative
requirements.  From time to time, Congress has also considered changes to  the
Medicare  fee  schedules  in conjunction with certain  budgetary  bills.   The
Company  believes that reductions in reimbursement for Medicare services  will
continue to be implemented from time to time.  Reductions in the reimbursement
rates of other third-party payors are likely to occur as well.

      The Company believes that the volume of clinical laboratory testing will
be positively influenced by several factors, including primarily:  an expanded
base  of  scientific  knowledge  which has led  to  the  development  of  more
sophisticated  specialized tests and increased the awareness of physicians  of
the  value  of  clinical  laboratory testing  as  a  cost-effective  means  of
prevention,   early  detection  of  disease  and  monitoring   of   treatment.
Additional  factors  which  may  lead to future  volume  growth  include:   an
increase  in  the  number and types of tests which are,  due  to  advances  in
technology  and  increased  cost efficiencies, readily  available  on  a  more
affordable   basis   to  physicians;  expanded  substance-abuse   testing   by
corporations  and  governmental  agencies;  increased  testing  for   sexually
transmitted diseases such as AIDS; and the general aging of the population  in
the  United  States.  The impact of these factors is expected to be  partially
offset  by  declines  in  volume as a result of increased  controls  over  the
utilization  of laboratory services by Medicare and other third-party  payors,
particularly managed care organizations.

LABORATORY TESTING OPERATIONS AND SERVICES

      The  Company has 25 major laboratories, and approximately 1,200  service
sites  consisting of branches, patient service centers and STAT  laboratories.
A  "branch"  is  a  central office which collects specimens in  a  region  for
shipment  to one of the Company's laboratories for testing.  Test results  can
be  printed  at a branch and conveniently delivered to the client.   A  branch
also  is used as a base for sales staff.  A "patient service center" generally
is  a  facility maintained by the Company to serve the physicians in a medical
professional building or other strategic location.  The patient service center
collects the specimens as requested by the physician.  The specimens are sent,
principally  through the Company's in-house courier system (and, to  a  lesser
extent,  through  independent  couriers),  to  one  of  the  Company's   major
laboratories for testing.  Some of the Company's patient service centers  also
function  as  "STAT  labs", which are laboratories that have  the  ability  to
perform  certain  routine tests quickly and report results  to  the  physician
immediately.   The  Company  processed an  average  of  approximately  237,000
patient  specimens per day in 1997.  Patient specimens are  delivered  to  the
Company  accompanied by a test request form.  These forms, which are completed
by  the  client, indicate the tests to be performed and provide the  necessary
billing information.

      Each  specimen and related request form is checked for completeness  and
then  given a unique identification number.  The unique identification  number
assigned  to each specimen helps to assure that the results are attributed  to
the correct patient.  The test request forms are sent to a data entry terminal
where  a  file is established for each patient and the necessary  testing  and
billing  information is entered.  Once this information is  entered  into  the
computer system, the tests are performed and the results are entered primarily
through computer interface or manually, depending upon the tests and the  type
of  equipment involved.  Most of the Company's computerized testing  equipment
is  directly  linked  with the Company's information  systems.   Most  routine
testing  is completed by early the next morning, and test results are  printed
and  prepared  for  distribution  by service representatives  that  day.  Some
clients have local printer capability and have reports printed out directly in
their  offices.  Clients who request that they be called with a result are  so
notified  in  the  morning.   It  is  Company  policy  to  notify  the  client
immediately  if  a  life-threatening result is found at any point  during  the
course of the testing process.

TESTING SERVICES

      ROUTINE TESTING

      The  Company  currently offers over 1,700 different clinical  laboratory
tests  or procedures. Several hundred of these are frequently used in  general
patient  care  by physicians to establish or support a diagnosis,  to  monitor
treatment  or medication or to search for an otherwise undiagnosed  condition.
The  most frequently requested routine tests include blood chemistry analyses,
urinalyses,  blood  cell  counts, pap smears and AIDS  tests.   These  routine
procedures  are  most often used by practicing physicians in their  outpatient
office  practices.  Physicians  may  elect  to  send  such  procedures  to  an
independent laboratory or they may choose to establish an in-house  laboratory
to perform some of the tests.

      The Company performs this core group of routine tests in each of its  25
major  regional  laboratories, which constitutes a  majority  of  the  testing
performed  by  the Company.  The Company generally performs and  reports  most
routine  procedures within 24 hours, utilizing a variety of sophisticated  and
computerized laboratory testing instruments.

      SPECIALTY AND NICHE TESTING

      While  the  information provided by many routine tests may  be  used  by
nearly all physicians, regardless of specialty, many other procedures are more
specialized  in  nature.  Certain types of unique testing capabilities  and/or
client requirements have been developed into specialty or niche businesses  by
the  Company which have become a primary growth strategy for the Company.   In
general,  the specialty and niche businesses are designed to serve two  market
segments:  (i)  markets which are not served by the routine  clinical  testing
laboratory  and  therefore  are  subject  to  less  stringent  regulatory  and
reimbursement  constraints; and (ii) markets which are served by  the  routine
testing  laboratory and offer the possibility of adding related services  from
the  same  supplier.  The Company's research and development group continually
seeks  new  and improved technologies for early diagnosis.  For  example,  the
Company's  Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology is a leader in molecular
diagnostics and polymerase chain reaction technologies which are often able to
provide earlier and more reliable information regarding HIV, genetic diseases,
cancer and many other viral and bacterial diseases. Management believes  these
technologies may represent a significant savings to managed care organizations
by increasing the detection of early stage (treatable) diseases. The following
are  specialty  and niche businesses in which the Company offers  testing  and
related services:

   ALLERGY  TESTING.  The  Company  offers  an  extensive  range  of  allergen
   testing services as well as computerized analysis  and a  treatment program
   that enables primary care physicians to diagnose and  treat  many  kinds of
   allergic  disorders.

   AMBULATORY MONITORING.  The Company performs a  computer assisted  analysis
   of electrocardiograms  and  blood  pressure  measurements.  Many  of  these
   analyses are submitted by physicians who require extended (up to 24  hours)
   monitoring of  these parameters for patients.

   CLINICAL   RESEARCH   TESTING.   The   Company  regularly performs clinical
   laboratory   testing  for  pharmaceutical  companies  conducting   clinical
   research trials on new drugs.  This testing often involves periodic testing
   of patients participating in the trial over several years.

   DIAGNOSTIC  GENETICS.  The  Company  offers  cytogenetic,  biochemical  and
   molecular genetic tests.

   IDENTITY  TESTING.  The Company  provides forensic identity testing used in
   connection  with  criminal proceedings  and parentage  evaluation  services
   which are  used  to assist in the resolution of disputed parentage in child
   support  litigation.    Parentage  testing   involves  the   evaluation  of
   immunological and genetic markers in specimens obtained from the child, the
   mother and the alleged father.  Management believes it is  now the  largest
   provider of identity testing services in the United States.

   INDUSTRIAL  HYGIENE TESTING.  The  Company  maintains  a  separate  testing
   facility in Richmond,  Virginia, dedicated to the analysis  of  potentially
   toxic substances in the workplace environment.

   KIDNEY  STONE ANALYSIS.  The Company  offers specialized  patient  analysis
   assessing  the  risk of kidney stones based on laboratory measurements  and
   patient history.

   ONCOLOGY  TESTING.  The  Company offers  an  extensive  series  of  testing
   technologies that aid  in  diagnosing and  monitoring  certain  cancers and
   predicting the outcome of certain treatments.

   OCCUPATIONAL TESTING SERVICES.  The Company provides urinalysis testing for
   the  detection of  drugs of abuse for private and government customers, and
   also provides blood testing services for the detection of  drug  abuse  and
   alcohol.  These testing services are designed to produce "forensic" quality
   test  results  that satisfy the rigorous requirements for admissibility  as
   evidence  in legal proceedings.  The Company also provides other analytical
   testing and a variety  of management support services.

      The  specialized or niche testing services noted above, as well as other
complex  procedures, are sent to designated facilities where the  Company  has
concentrated the people, instruments and related resources for performing such
procedures  so that quality and efficiency can be most effectively  monitored.
The  Company's Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology in Research Triangle
Park,  North Carolina, also specializes in new test development and  education
and training related thereto.

CLIENTS

      The  Company provides testing services to a broad range of  health  care
providers.   During the year ended December 31, 1997, no client  or  group  of
clients  under  the same contract accounted for more than two percent  of  the
Company's  net  sales.   The primary client groups  serviced  by  the  Company
include:

     INDEPENDENT PHYSICIANS AND PHYSICIAN GROUPS

     Physicians requiring testing for their patients who are unaffiliated with
a  managed  care  plan  are one of the Company's primary  sources  of  testing
services.   Fees for clinical laboratory testing services rendered  for  these
physicians are billed either to the physician, to the patient or the patient's
third  party  payor  such  as  insurance  companies,  Medicare  and  Medicaid.
Billings are typically on a fee-for-service basis.  If the billings are to the
physician,  they  are  based  on the wholesale or customer  fee  schedule  and
subject  to negotiation.  Otherwise, the patient is billed at the laboratory's
retail  or  patient fee schedule and subject to third party payor  limitations
and  negotiation  by  physicians on behalf of their  patients.   Medicare  and
Medicaid billings are based on government-set fee schedules.

      HOSPITALS

      The  Company  serves hospitals with services ranging  from  routine  and
specialty  testing  to  contract  management  services.   Hospitals  generally
maintain  an  on-site  laboratory to perform  immediately  needed  testing  on
patients  receiving  care.   However, they  also  refer  less  time  sensitive
procedures,   less   frequently  needed  procedures  and  highly   specialized
procedures  to outside facilities, including independent clinical laboratories
and  larger medical centers.  The Company typically charges hospitals for  any
such  tests  on  a fee-for-service basis which is derived from  the  Company's
customer fee schedule.

      HMOS AND OTHER MANAGED CARE GROUPS

      The  Company  serves  HMOs and other managed care organizations.   These
medical service providers typically contract with a limited number of clinical
laboratories and then designate the laboratory or laboratories to be used  for
tests  ordered by participating physicians.  Testing is frequently  reimbursed
on  a  capitated  basis  for managed care organizations.   Under  a  capitated
payment  contract, the Company agrees to cover all laboratory tests  during  a
given  month  for which the managed care organization agrees  to  pay  a  flat
monthly  fee  for each covered member.  The tests covered under agreements  of
this  type are negotiated for each contract, but usually include routine tests
and exclude highly specialized tests.  Many of the national and large regional
managed care organizations prefer to use large independent clinical labs  such
as the Company because they can service them on a national basis.

      OTHER INSTITUTIONS

      The  Company serves other institutions, including governmental agencies,
large  employers and other independent clinical laboratories that do not  have
the breadth of the Company's testing capabilities.  The institutions typically
pay on a negotiated or bid fee-for-service basis.

PAYORS

      Most testing services are billed to a party other than the "client" that
ordered the test.  In addition, tests performed by a single physician  may  be
billed  to  different payors depending on the medical benefits of a particular
patient.   Payors  other  than  the  direct patient,  include,  among  others,
insurance companies, managed care organizations, Medicare and Medicaid.  Based
on  the  year  ended  December 31, 1997 billings to the  Company's  respective
payors based on the total volume of accessions are as follows:

                         Accession Volume as a %       Revenue
                               of Total                  per
                                 1997                  Accession
                         -----------------------       ---------
Private Patients                 3  -   5%             $65 - 75
Medicare,  Medicaid  and                             
Insurance                       20  -  25%             $25 - 35
Commercial Clients              45  -  50%             $15 - 25
Managed Care                    25  -  30%             $10 - 30

AFFILIATIONS AND ALLIANCES

      The  Company  provides management services in a variety of  health  care
settings.   The  Company generally supplies the laboratory manager  and  other
laboratory personnel, as well as equipment and testing supplies, to  manage  a
laboratory  that  is owned by a hospital, managed care organization  or  other
health  care  provider.  In addition, the Company maintains a data  processing
system  to  organize and report test results and to provide billing and  other
pertinent   information  related  to  the  tests  performed  in  the   managed
laboratory.  Under the typical laboratory management agreement, the laboratory
manager,  who  is employed by the Company, reports to the hospital  or  clinic
administration.   Thus, the hospital or clinic ("Provider") maintains  control
of the laboratory.  A pathologist designated by the Provider serves as medical
director for the laboratory.

      An  important  advantage  the  Company offers  to  its  clients  is  the
flexibility of the Company's information systems used for contract  management
services.  In addition to the ability to be customized for a particular user's
needs,  the Company's information systems also interface with several hospital
and  clinic  systems, giving the user more efficient and effective information
flow.

      The  Company's management service contracts typically have terms between
three  and five years.  However, most contracts contain a clause that  permits
termination prior to the contract expiration date.  The termination terms vary
but  they generally fall into one of the following categories: (i) termination
without  cause by either the Company or the contracted Provider after  written
notice (generally 60 to 90 days prior to termination); (ii) termination by the
contracted  Provider  only  if  there  are  uncorrected  deficiencies  in  the
Company's  performance  under  the contract after  notice  by  the  contracted
Provider; or (iii) termination by the contracted Provider if there is  a  loss
of  accreditation held by any Company laboratory that services the  contracted
Provider, which accreditation is not reinstated within 30 days of the loss, or
up  to  30  days'  notice  if there is a decline in the  quality  of  services
provided under such contract which remains uncorrected after a 15-day  period.
While  the  Company  believes that it will maintain  and  renew  its  existing
contracts, there can be no assurance of such maintenance or renewal.

      As  part  of its marketing efforts, and as a way to focus on a  contract
management  client's  particular  needs, the  Company  has  developed  several
different pricing formulas for its management services agreements.  In certain
cases, profitability may depend on the Company's ability to accurately predict
test volumes, patient encounters or the number of admissions in the case of an
inpatient facility.

      One  of  the  Company's  primary growth  strategies  is  to  develop  an
increasing  number of hospital alliances.  These alliances  can  take  several
different  forms  including laboratory management contracts, discussed  above,
reference agreements and joint ventures. As hospitals continue to be  impacted
by  decreasing  fee  schedules  from  third  party  payors  and  managed  care
organizations,  the  Company  believes that they  will  seek  the  most  cost-
effective  laboratory  services for their patients.  Management  believes  the
Company's economies of scale as well as its delivery system will enable it  to
assist  the  hospital in achieving its goals.  These alliances  are  generally
more profitable than the Company's core business due to the specialized nature
of many of the testing services offered in the alliance program.  In 1997, the
Company  added  48  alliance agreements with hospitals, physician  groups  and
other  health  care  provider  organizations  representing  approximately  $25
million of annual sales.

SALES AND MARKETING AND CLIENT SERVICE

      The  Company  offers its services through a combination of direct  sales
generalists  and  specialists.  Sales generalists  market  the  mainstream  or
traditional  routine  laboratory  services  primarily  to  physicians,   while
specialists  concentrate on individual market segments, such as  hospitals  or
managed care organizations, or on testing niches, such as identity testing  or
genetic  testing. Specialist positions are established when an in-depth  level
of expertise is necessary to effectively offer the specialized services.  When
the  need  arises, specialists and generalists work cooperatively  to  address
specific   opportunities.   At  December  31,  1997,  the   Company   employed
approximately  247  generalists  and  87  specialists.   The  Company's  sales
generalists and specialists are compensated through a combination of salaries,
commissions  and  bonuses,  at  levels  commensurate  with  each  individual's
qualifications and responsibilities.  Commissions are primarily based upon the
individual's productivity in generating new business for the Company.

     The Company also employs customer service associates ("CSAs") to interact
with  clients  on an ongoing basis.  CSAs monitor the status of  the  services
being provided to clients, act as problem-solvers, provide information on  new
testing  developments and serve as the client's regular point of contact  with
the  Company.   At December 31, 1997, the Company  employed approximately  370
CSAs.   CSAs  are  compensated  with a combination  of  salaries  and  bonuses
commensurate with each individual's qualifications and responsibilities.

      The  Company believes that the clinical laboratory service  business  is
shifting  away  from the traditional direct sales structure and  into  one  in
which  the purchasing decisions for laboratory services are increasingly  made
by  managed care organizations, insurance plans, employers and increasingly by
patients  themselves.  In view of these changes, the Company has  adapted  its
sales   and  marketing  structure  to  more  appropriately  address  the   new
opportunities.   For  example, the Company has expanded its  specialist  sales
positions  in both its primary business and its niche businesses in  order  to
maximize  the  Company's  competitive strengths  of  advanced  technology  and
marketing focus.

      The  Company  competes  primarily on the basis of  the  quality  of  its
testing,  reporting  and information systems, its reputation  in  the  medical
community,  the  pricing of its services and its ability to  employ  qualified
personnel.   As  a  result of the required focus on the consolidation  process
related to the Merger, however, the Company believes that its level of  client
service   has  been  negatively  impacted.   Therefore,  in  1998,  with   the
consolidation process substantially completed, one of the Company's  goals  is
to  improve  client service.  An important factor in improving client  service
includes  the  Company's  initiatives to improve  its  billing  process.   See
"-Billing."

INFORMATION SYSTEMS

      The Company has developed and implemented management information systems
to  monitor  operations  and  control  costs.   All  financial  functions  are
centralized in Burlington, North Carolina including purchasing and accounting.
Management  believes this provides greater control over spending  as  well  as
increased supervision and monitoring of results of operations.

      The  Company believes that the health care provider's need for data will
continue  to place high demands on its information systems staff. The  Company
operates several systems to handle laboratory, billing and financial data  and
transactions.  The Company believes that the efficient handling of information
involving  clients,  patients, payors and other parties  will  be  a  critical
factor  in  the Company's future success.  The Company's Corporate Information
Systems  Division  manages  its  information  resources  and  programs  on   a
consolidated  basis in order to achieve greater efficiency  and  economies  of
scale.   In  addition, as a key part of its response to these challenges,  the
Company  employs  a  Chief  Information Officer, whose  responsibility  is  to
integrate, manage and develop the Company's information systems.

      In  1997,  information systems activities have been focused on selection
and consolidation of the Company's multiple laboratory and billing systems  to
standardized  laboratory testing and billing systems.  The  Company  has  also
been  focused on the establishment of regional data centers to handle  all  of
the information processing needs of the Company.  The Company believes that it
can  benefit  from  the  conversion of its multiple  billing  systems  into  a
centralized  system.   Implementation of the billing  systems  conversion  was
begun  in  1997  and is expected to be completed over the next  two  to  three
years.   During  1997, the Company capitalized approximately $8.0  million  in
information  systems development and implementation costs related  to  billing
systems.  The Company anticipates capitalizing an additional $11.0 million  in
such development and implementation costs during 1998.

BILLING

      Billing  for laboratory services is a complicated process.  Laboratories
must  bill  many  different  payors such as  doctors,  patients,  hundreds  of
different insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid and employer groups, all  of
whom  have  different  billing  requirements.  The  Company  believes  that  a
majority  of  its bad debt expense is the result of non-credit related  issues
which  slow the billing process, create backlogs of unbilled requisitions  and
generally increase the aging of accounts receivable.  A primary cause  of  bad
debt expense is missing or incorrect billing information on requisitions.  The
Company  believes  that  this experience is similar to  that  of  its  primary
competitors.   The Company performs the requested tests and returns  back  the
test  results regardless of whether billing information has been  provided  at
all  or  has been provided incorrectly.  The Company subsequently attempts  to
obtain  any  missing information or rectify any incorrect billing  information
received  from  the  health  care provider.   Among  the  many  other  factors
complicating the billing process are more complicated billing arrangements due
to  contracts with third-party administrators, disputes between payors  as  to
the  party  responsible  for  payment of the bill and  auditing  for  specific
compliance issues.

     The Company's bad debt expense has increased since the Merger principally
due  to  three developments that have further complicated the billing process:
(1)  increased  complexities in the billing process  due  to  requirements  of
managed  care  payors;  (2)  increased medical necessity  and  diagnosis  code
requirements; and (3) existence of multiple billing information systems.   See
"Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and  Results  of
Operations."

      Although there can be no assurance of success, the Company has  recently
developed  a  number of initiatives to address the complexity of  the  billing
process   and  to  improve  collection  rates.   These  initiatives   include:
reorganization  of  departments to allow for more focus  on  specific  issues;
retention of management consultants to assess the situation and assist in  re-
engineering the billing process; establishment of a project group  to  address
inaccurate  and  missing billing information captured  when  the  specimen  is
received;  addition  of  staff  in  each operating  division  to  train  field
personnel  in billing matters and to review and approve contracts with  third-
party payors to ensure that contracts can be properly billed; and training  of
clients  related  to  limited coverage tests and the importance  of  providing
diagnosis codes pertaining to such tests.  Additionally, the Company  believes
that it can benefit from the conversion of its multiple billing systems into a
centralized system.

QUALITY ASSURANCE

      The  Company  considers  the quality of its  tests  to  be  of  critical
importance,  and it has established a comprehensive quality assurance  program
for  all  of  its laboratories and other facilities, designed to  help  assure
accurate  and  timely  test results.  In addition to the  compulsory  external
inspections  and  proficiency programs demanded by HCFA and  other  regulatory
agencies,  Company-wide systems and procedures are in place to  emphasize  and
monitor  quality  assurance.  All of the Company's regional  laboratories  are
subject  to on-site evaluations, the College of American Pathologists  ("CAP")
proficiency  testing  program, state surveys and the  Company's  own  internal
quality control programs.

       EXTERNAL  PROFICIENCY/  ACCREDITATIONS.   The  Company  participates in
numerous   externally-administered,  blind  quality   surveillance   programs,
including  the  CAP program.  The blind programs supplement all other  quality
assurance procedures and give Company management the opportunity to review its
technical and service performance from the client's perspective.

      INTERNAL  QUALITY  CONTROL.   The Company  regularly  performs  internal
quality  control testing by running quality control samples with known  values
with  patient samples submitted for testing.  All quality control sample  test
results  are  entered into the Company's national laboratory  computer,  which
connects  the  Company's  facilities nationwide to a  common  on-line  quality
control  database.   This  system helps technologists  and  technicians  check
quality control values and requires further prompt verification if any quality
control  value  is  out  of range.  The Company has an  extensive,  internally
administered  program of blind sample proficiency testing  (i.e.  the  testing
laboratory does not know the sample being tested is a quality control sample),
as  part of which the Company's locations receive specimens from the Company's
Quality Assurance and Corporate Technical Services departments for analysis.

      The  CAP accreditation program involves both on-site inspections of  the
laboratory and participation in the CAP's proficiency testing program for  all
categories in which the laboratory is accredited by the CAP.  The  CAP  is  an
independent  non-governmental  organization  of  board-certified  pathologists
which  offers  an accreditation program to which laboratories can  voluntarily
subscribe.   The  CAP  has  been  accredited  by  HCFA  to  inspect   clinical
laboratories to determine adherence to the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act
of   1967,  and  the  Clinical  Laboratory  Improvement  Amendments  of   1988
(collectively,  as  amended, "CLIA") standards.   A  laboratory's  receipt  of
accreditation  by the CAP satisfies the Medicare requirement for participation
in  proficiency testing programs administered by an external source.   All  of
the Company's major laboratories are accredited by the CAP.

COMPETITION

      The  clinical laboratory business is intensely competitive.  The Company
believes  that  in  1997 the entire United States clinical laboratory  testing
industry  had  revenues  exceeding  $36 billion;  approximately  57%  of  such
revenues  were attributable to hospital-affiliated laboratories, approximately
30%  were  attributable to independent clinical laboratories and approximately
13%  were  attributable to physicians in their offices and  laboratories.   As
recently  as  1993,  there  were  seven laboratories  that  provided  clinical
laboratory  testing services on a national basis: NHL, RBL, Quest  Diagnostics
Incorporated,  formerly  known  as  Corning Clinical  Laboratories  ("Quest"),
SmithKline   Beecham   Clinical  Laboratories,  Inc.   ("SmithKline"),   Damon
Corporation,  Allied and Nichols Institute.  Apart from  the  Merger  and  the
Allied Acquisition, Quest acquired Nichols Institute in August 1994 and  Damon
Corporation in August 1993.  In addition, in the last several years  a  number
of  large  regional  laboratories  have been  acquired  by  national  clinical
laboratories.   There  are  presently  three  national  independent   clinical
laboratories:  the  Company; Quest, which had approximately  $1.5  billion  in
revenues  from clinical laboratory testing in 1997; and SmithKline, which  had
approximately  $1.2  billion in revenues from clinical laboratory  testing  in
1997.

      In addition to the two other national clinical laboratories, the Company
competes  on a regional basis with many smaller regional independent  clinical
laboratories  as well as laboratories owned by hospitals and physicians.   The
Company  believes that the following factors, among others, are often used  by
health  care  providers  in  selecting  a  laboratory:  (i)  pricing  of   the
laboratory's  test  services;  (ii) accuracy, timeliness  and  consistency  in
reporting test results; (iii) number and type of tests performed; (iv) service
capability  and convenience offered by the laboratory; and (v) its  reputation
in  the  medical  community.  The Company believes that it competes  favorably
with  its  principal  competitors in each of  these  areas  and  is  currently
implementing  strategies to improve its competitive position.  See  "-Clients"
and  "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and  Results
of Operations."

      The  Company  believes that consolidation will continue in the  clinical
laboratory  testing business.  In addition, the Company believes that  it  and
the other large independent clinical laboratory testing companies will be able
to  increase  their share of the overall clinical laboratories testing  market
due  to  a number of external factors including cost efficiencies afforded  by
large-scale  automated  testing,  Medicare reimbursement  reductions  and  the
growth of managed health care entities which require low-cost testing services
and  large  service  networks.  In addition, legal restrictions  on  physician
referrals and the ownership of laboratories as well as increased regulation of
laboratories are expected to contribute to the continuing consolidation of the
industry.

EMPLOYEES

      At  December 31, 1997, the Company employed approximately 18,600 people.
These  include approximately 17,800 full-time employees and approximately  800
part-time   employees.   A  subsidiary  of  the  Company  has  one  collective
bargaining  agreement  which covers approximately 38 employees.   The  Company
believes that its overall relations with its employees are good.

REGULATION AND REIMBURSEMENT

      GENERAL

      The  clinical laboratory industry is subject to significant governmental
regulation at the Federal, state and local levels.  Under CLIA, virtually  all
clinical laboratories, including those owned by the Company, must be certified
by  the  Federal  government.   Many  clinical  laboratories  must  also  meet
governmental  standards,  undergo  proficiency  testing  and  are  subject  to
inspection. Certifications or licenses are also required by various state  and
local laws.

      The health care industry is undergoing significant change as third-party
payors, such as Medicare (which principally serves patients 65 and older)  and
Medicaid  (which principally serves indigent patients) and insurers,  increase
their  efforts  to control the cost, utilization and delivery of  health  care
services.   In  an  effort  to address the problem of increasing  health  care
costs, legislation has been proposed or enacted at both the Federal and  state
levels  to  regulate health care delivery in general and clinical laboratories
in  particular.   Some  of the proposals include managed  competition,  global
budgeting  and  price  controls. Although the Clinton Administration's  health
care  reform  proposal,  initially advanced in 1994,  was  not  enacted,  such
proposal  or  other proposals may be considered in the future.  In particular,
the  Company  believes that reductions in reimbursement for Medicare  services
will  continue  to  be  implemented  from time  to  time.  Reductions  in  the
reimbursement rates of other third-party payors are likely to occur  as  well.
The  Company  cannot predict the effect health care reform, if enacted,  would
have  on  its  business, and there can be no assurance that such  reforms,  if
enacted,  would  not have a material adverse effect on the Company's  business
and operations.

      REGULATION OF CLINICAL LABORATORIES
 
      CLIA extends Federal oversight to virtually all clinical laboratories by
requiring  that  laboratories be certified by the government.   Many  clinical
laboratories  must  also  meet governmental quality and  personnel  standards,
undergo  proficiency  testing and be subject to biennial  inspection.   Rather
than focusing on location, size or type of laboratory, this extended oversight
is based on the complexity of the tests performed by the laboratory.
 
     In  1992,  HHS  published regulations implementing  CLIA.   The  quality
standards  and  enforcement procedure regulations became  effective  in  1992,
although   certain   personnel,  quality  control  and   proficiency   testing
requirements  are  currently being phased in by HHS.   The  quality  standards
regulations  divide  all  tests  into  three  categories  (waivered,  moderate
complexity  and high complexity) and establish varying requirements  depending
upon  the  complexity of the test performed.  A laboratory that performs  high
complexity tests must meet more stringent requirements than a laboratory  that
performs only moderate complexity tests, while those that perform only one  or
more  of approximately twelve routine "waivered" tests may apply for a  waiver
from most requirements of CLIA.  All major and many smaller Company facilities
are  certified  by  CLIA  to perform high complexity  testing.  The  remaining
smaller testing sites of the Company are certified by CLIA to perform moderate
complexity testing or have obtained a waiver from most requirements  of  CLIA.
Generally,  the  HHS regulations require, for laboratories that  perform  high
complexity  or moderate complexity tests, the implementation of  systems  that
ensure  the  accurate performance and reporting of test results, establishment
of  quality  control  systems, proficiency testing by  approved  agencies  and
biennial inspections.

      The  sanction  for  failure  to comply with  these  regulations  may  be
suspension,  revocation  or  limitation of  a  laboratory's  CLIA  certificate
necessary to conduct business, significant fines and criminal penalties.   The
loss  of  a  license, imposition of a fine or future changes in such  Federal,
state and local laws and regulations (or in the interpretation of current laws
and regulations) could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

      The  Company is also subject to state regulation.  CLIA provides that  a
state  may  adopt  more stringent regulations than Federal law.  For  example,
state  law  may require that laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications,
specify  certain  quality  controls,  maintain  certain  records  and  undergo
proficiency  testing.  For example, certain of the Company's laboratories  are
subject  to  the  State of New York's clinical laboratory  regulations,  which
contain provisions that are more stringent than Federal law.

      The Company's laboratories have continuing programs to ensure that their
operations meet all applicable regulatory requirements.

      REGULATION AFFECTING REIMBURSEMENT OF CLINICAL LABORATORY SERVICES

      Containment  of health care costs, including reimbursement for  clinical
laboratory  services,  has been a focus of ongoing governmental  activity.  In
1984,  Congress  established a Medicare fee schedule for  clinical  laboratory
services  performed for patients covered under Part B of the Medicare program.
Subsequently, Congress imposed a national ceiling on the amount  that  can  be
paid  under the fee schedule.  Laboratories bill the program directly and must
accept the scheduled amount as payment in full for covered tests performed  on
behalf  of  Medicare beneficiaries.  In addition, state Medicaid programs  are
prohibited from paying more than the Medicare fee schedule amount for clinical
laboratory services furnished to Medicaid recipients.  In 1997 and  1996,  the
Company derived approximately 20% and 23%, respectively, of its net sales from
tests  performed  for  beneficiaries of Medicare and  Medicaid  programs.   In
addition,  the  Company's  other business depends significantly  on  continued
participation in these programs because clients often want a single laboratory
to   perform  all  of  their  testing  services.   Since  1984,  Congress  has
periodically  reduced  the  ceilings  on Medicare  reimbursement  to  clinical
laboratories  from  previously  authorized  levels.   In  1993,  pursuant   to
provisions in the Omnibus Budget and Reconciliation Act of 1993 ("OBRA  `93"),
Congress reduced, effective January 1, 1994, the Medicare national limitations
from 88% of the 1984 national median to 76% of the 1984 national median, which
reductions  were implemented on a phased-in basis from 1994 through  1996  (to
84%  in  1994,  80% in 1995 and 76% in 1996). The 1996 reduction  to  76%  was
implemented  as  scheduled on January 1, 1996. OBRA `93  also  eliminated  the
provision  for  annual fee schedule increases based upon  the  Consumer  Price
Index  for 1994 and 1995. These reductions were partially offset, however,  by
annual  Consumer Price Index fee schedule increases of 3.2% and 2.7%  in  1996
and  1997,  respectively. In early August, Congress passed and  the  President
signed   the  Balanced Budget Act of 1997 ("BBA"), which includes a  provision
that  reduces,  effective January 1, 1998, the Medicare  national  limitations
from  76% of the 1984 national median to 74% of the 1984 national median.   An
additional  provision in the BBA freezes the Consumer Price Index  update  for
five  years.  Because  a  significant  portion  of  the  Company's  costs  are
relatively  fixed,  these  Medicare reimbursement  reductions  have  a  direct
adverse  effect  on  the Company's net earnings and cash  flows.  The  Company
cannot predict if additional Medicare reductions will be implemented.

      On  January  1,  1993,  numerous  changes  in  the  Physicians'  Current
Procedural  Terminology ("CPT") were published.  The CPT is  a  coding  system
that  is  published by the American Medical Association.  It lists descriptive
terms  and  identifying  codes  for reporting medical  and  medically  related
services.   The  Medicare and Medicaid programs require  suppliers,  including
laboratories,  to use the CPT codes when they bill the programs  for  services
performed.  HCFA implemented these CPT changes for Medicare on August 1, 1993.
The  CPT changes have altered the way the Company bills third-party payors for
some  of its services, thereby reducing the reimbursement the Company receives
from  those programs for some of its services. For example, certain codes  for
calculations,  such  as LDL cholesterol, were deleted  and  are  no  longer  a
payable service under Medicare and Medicaid.

      Moreover, Medicare denied reimbursement to NHL for claims submitted  for
HDL cholesterol and serum ferritin (a measure of iron in the blood) tests from
September 1993 to December 1993, at which time NHL removed such tests from its
basic test profiles.

      In 1996, the HCFA implemented changes in the policies used to administer
Medicare  payments to clinical laboratories for the most frequently  performed
automated   blood  chemistry  profiles.   Among  other  things,  the   changes
established a consistent standard nationwide for the content of the  automated
chemistry  profiles. Another change incorporated in the HCFA  policy  requires
laboratories performing certain automated blood chemistry profiles  to  obtain
and  provide documentation of the medical necessity of tests included  in  the
profiles  for  each  Medicare  beneficiary.   The  Company  expects  to  incur
additional  costs  associated with the implementation of  these  requirements.
The  amount of additional costs and potential reductions in reimbursement  for
certain  components  of  chemistry profiles and the impact  on  the  Company's
financial condition and results of operations have not yet been determined.

      Future  changes  in  Federal, state and local  regulations  (or  in  the
interpretation  of  current regulations) affecting governmental  reimbursement
for  clinical laboratory testing could have a material adverse effect  on  the
Company.   However, based on currently available information, the  Company  is
unable to predict what type of legislation, if any, will be enacted into law.

      FRAUD AND ABUSE REGULATIONS

      The  Medicare  and  Medicaid anti-kickback laws  prohibit  intentionally
paying  anything of value to influence the referral of Medicare  and  Medicaid
business.   HHS  has published safe harbor regulations which  specify  certain
business  activities that, although literally covered by the  laws,  will  not
violate  the Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback laws.  Failure to fall  within  a
safe  harbor does not constitute a violation of the anti-kickback laws if  all
conditions  of the safe harbor are met; rather, the arrangement  would  remain
subject to scrutiny by HHS.

     In October 1994, the OIG  issued a Special Fraud Alert, which set forth a
number  of practices allegedly engaged in by clinical laboratories and  health
care  providers  that the OIG believes violate the anti-kickback  laws.  These
practices  include providing employees to collect patient samples at physician
offices  if the employees perform additional services for physicians that  are
typically  the  responsibility of the physicians'  staff;  selling  laboratory
services to renal dialysis centers at prices that are below fair market  value
in  return  for  referrals of Medicare tests which are billed to  Medicare  at
higher  rates;  providing  free  testing to  a  physician's  HMO  patients  in
situations where the referring physicians benefit from such lower utilization;
providing free pick-up and disposal of bio-hazardous waste for physicians  for
items  unrelated  to  a  laboratory's testing  services;  providing  facsimile
machines  or  computers  to  physicians  that  are  not  exclusively  used  in
connection with the laboratory services performed; and providing free  testing
for  health  care providers, their families and their employees  (professional
courtesy  testing). The OIG stressed in the Special Fraud Alert that when  one
purpose  of  the  arrangements  is  to induce referral  of  program-reimbursed
laboratory testing, both the clinical laboratory and the health care  provider
or  physician may be liable under the anti-kickback laws and may be subject to
criminal  prosecution and exclusion from participation  in  the  Medicare  and
Medicaid programs.

     According to the 1995 work plan of the OIG, the Office of Civil Fraud and
Administrative  Adjudication ("OCFAA") will be responsible for protecting  the
government-funded  health care programs and deterring  fraudulent  conduct  by
health care providers through the negotiation and imposition of civil monetary
penalties,  assessments and program exclusions.  The OCFAA works very  closely
with  the  Department of Justice, the Office of General Counsel  and  the  OIG
investigative and audit offices in combating fraud and abuse. In addition, the
OIG  has  stated in its 1995 work plan that it will determine  the  extent  to
which    laboratories   supply   physicians'   offices   with    phlebotomists
(blood-drawing  technicians),  offer  management  services  or  medical  waste
pick-up  to  physicians, provide training to physicians  or  engage  in  other
financial  arrangements with purchasers of laboratories'  services.   The  OIG
will  assess the potential benefits of such arrangements as well as the extent
to which such arrangements might be unlawful.

      In  March  1992,  HCFA published proposed regulations to  implement  the
Medicare  statute's  prohibition (with certain  exceptions)  on  referrals  by
physicians  who  have an investment interest in or a compensation  arrangement
with  laboratories.   The  prohibition on  referrals  also  applies  where  an
immediate  family  member  of  a  physician  has  an  investment  interest  or
compensation  arrangement with a laboratory.  The proposed  regulations  would
define remuneration that gives rise to a compensation arrangement as including
discounts granted by a laboratory to a physician who sends testing business to
the  laboratory  and  who  pays the laboratory  for  such  services.  If  that
definition of remuneration were to have become effective, it could have had an
impact on the way the Company prices its services to physicians.  However,  in
August 1993, the referenced Medicare statute was amended by OBRA `93.  One  of
these   amendments  makes  it  clear  that  day-to-day  transactions   between
laboratories  and  their customers, including, but not limited  to,  discounts
granted  by  laboratories  to  their  customers,  are  not  affected  by   the
compensation arrangement provisions of the Medicare statute.

      ENVIRONMENTAL AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY

      The  Company is subject to licensing and regulation under Federal, state
and  local  laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment
and  human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating  to  the
handling,  transportation  and disposal of medical specimens,  infectious  and
hazardous waste and radioactive materials as well as to the safety and  health
of  laboratory employees.  All Company laboratories are subject to  applicable
Federal and state laws and regulations relating to biohazard disposal  of  all
laboratory specimens and the Company utilizes outside vendors for disposal  of
such  specimens.  In  addition,  the Federal Occupational  Safety  and  Health
Administration  has established extensive requirements relating  to  workplace
safety  for  health  care  employers, including clinical  laboratories,  whose
workers  may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens such as HIV and the hepatitis
B  virus.   These  regulations,  among other  things,  require  work  practice
controls,  protective  clothing and equipment,  training,  medical  follow-up,
vaccinations  and  other  measures  designed  to  minimize  exposure  to,  and
transmission of, blood-borne pathogens.  Although the Company is not aware  of
any  current material non-compliance with such Federal, state and  local  laws
and  regulations, failure to comply could subject the Company to denial of the
right  to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement
actions.

      DRUG TESTING

      Drug  testing for public sector employees is regulated by the  Substance
Abuse  and  Mental  Health  Services Administration ("SAMSHA")  (formerly  the
National  Institute on Drug Abuse), which has established detailed performance
and  quality standards that laboratories must meet in order to be approved  to
perform  drug  testing  on  employees of Federal  government  contractors  and
certain other entities.  To the extent that the Company's laboratories perform
such  testing,  each  must  be  certified as  meeting  SAMSHA  standards.  The
Company's Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; Memphis, Tennessee; Raritan,
New   Jersey;   Seattle,  Washington;  Herndon,  Virginia  and  Reno,   Nevada
laboratories are SAMSHA certified.

      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES

      The  use  of  controlled substances in testing for  drugs  of  abuse  is
regulated by the Federal Drug Enforcement Administration.

OIG INVESTIGATIONS

     Several Federal agencies are responsible for investigating allegations of
fraudulent and abusive conduct by health care providers, including the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, the OIG and the DOJ.  In its published work plan  for
1992-1993,  the  OIG  indicated  its intention to  target  certain  laboratory
practices  for  investigation and prosecution.  Pursuant to one  such  project
described in such work plan, entitled "Laboratory Unbundle," laboratories that
offer  packages of tests to physicians and "unbundle" them into several "tests
to  get  higher  reimbursement when billing Medicare  and  Medicaid"  will  be
identified  and  "suitable cases will be presented  for  prosecution."   Under
another  project described  in such work plan, laboratories "that  link  price
discounts to the volume of physician referrals, `unbundle' tests in  order  to
bill Medicare at a higher total rate, and conduct unnecessary tests... will be
identified to coordinate investigations through the country."

      1996 GOVERNMENT SETTLEMENT

      In  August  1993, RBL and Allied each received a subpoena from  the  OIG
requesting documents and information concerning pricing and billing practices.
In  September 1993, NHL received a subpoena from the OIG which required NHL to
provide  documents to the OIG concerning its regulatory compliance procedures.
Among other things, the OIG subpoena received by RBL and Allied called for the
production of documents regarding 14 blood chemistry tests which were being or
had been performed by certain independent clinical laboratories in conjunction
with  automated  chemistry profiles and which were being or  had  been  billed
separately  to  Medicare  or Medicaid.  An automated chemistry  profile  is  a
grouping of tests that can be performed together on a single specimen and that
Medicare  and  Medicaid pay under the Medicare fee schedule.  The government's
investigations  covered billings for tests performed by NHL,  RBL  and  Allied
from  1988  to  1994.  These tests were deemed by regulators to  be  medically
unnecessary.   The investigations were part of a broad-based  federal  inquiry
into Medicare and related billings that have resulted in financial settlements
with  a  number  of  other  clinical laboratories.  The  inquiries  have  also
prompted  the  imposition of more stringent regulatory compliance requirements
industry-wide.   In  November  1996,  the  Company  agreed  to  enter  into  a
comprehensive Corporate Integrity Agreement and to pay $182 million to  settle
civil  claims  involving Medicare and related government  billings  for  tests
performed  by  NHL, RBL and Allied (the "1996 Government Settlement").   These
claims  arose  out  of the government's contention that laboratories  offering
profiles  containing  certain test combinations had the obligation  to  notify
ordering  physicians how much would be billed to the government for each  test
performed  for a patient whose tests are paid by Medicare, Medicaid  or  other
government  agency.   The  government contended  claims  submitted  for  tests
ordered  by  physicians and performed by the laboratories were improper.   The
Company  settled  these  allegations  without  an  admission  of  fault.   The
Corporate  Integrity  Agreement, among other things,  requires  that  detailed
notifications  be  made to physicians.  In addition, as part  of  the  overall
settlement, a San Diego laboratory that was formerly part of Allied agreed  to
plead guilty to a charge of filing a false claim with Medicare and Medicaid in
1991  and to pay $5 million to the Federal government.  The assets of the  San
Diego  laboratory  were sold by Allied in 1992, two years  before  the  Allied
Acquisition.  As is customary with asset sales, Allied retained the  liability
for  conduct preceding the sale - a liability the Company later succeeded  to,
following  the  Allied  Acquisition and Merger.  As a result  of  negotiations
related  to the 1996 Government Settlement, the Company recorded a  charge  of
$185  million  in  the  third  quarter of 1996 (the  "Settlement  Charge")  to
increase reserves for the 1996 Government Settlement described above and other
related expenses of government and private claims resulting therefrom.

     Pursuant to the 1996 Government Settlement, the Company paid $187 million
in  December 1996 (the "Settlement Payment").  The Settlement Payment was paid
from  the  proceeds  of a $187 million loan made by Roche to  the  Company  in
December 1996.  See "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources".

     The Company is involved in litigation which purports to be a class action
brought on behalf of certain patients, private insurers and benefit plans that
paid for laboratory testing services during the time frame covered by the 1996
Government  Settlement.  The Company has also received certain similar  claims
brought  on  behalf of certain other insurance companies, some of  which  have
been  resolved for immaterial amounts.  These claims for private reimbursement
are  similar to the government claims settled in 1996.  However, no amount  of
damages has been specified at this time and, with the exception of the  above,
no  settlement  discussions  have  taken  place.   The  Company  is  carefully
evaluating  these claims, however, due to the early stage of the  claims,  the
ultimate outcome of these claims cannot presently be predicted.

      1994 ALLIED GOVERNMENT SETTLEMENT

      In  April  1994,  Allied  received a subpoena from  the  OIG  requesting
documents and certain information regarding the Medicare billing practices  of
its  Cincinnati,  Ohio  clinical laboratory with  respect  to  certain  cancer
screening  tests.   In March 1995, Allied resolved the issues  raised  by  the
April 1994 subpoena and a related qui tam action commenced in Cincinnati, Ohio
Federal court by entering into agreements with, among others, HHS, the  United
States  Department of Justice and the relators in the qui tam action  pursuant
to  which  it  agreed  to pay $4.9 million to settle all  pending  claims  and
inquiries  regarding  these billing practices and  certain  others.   NHL  had
previously  established reserves that were adequate to cover  such  settlement
payments.   In connection with the settlement, Allied agreed with  HHS,  among
other things, to implement a corporate integrity program to ensure that Allied
and  its  representatives  remain  in  compliance  with  applicable  laws  and
regulations  and to provide certain reports and information to  HHS  regarding
such compliance efforts.

COMPLIANCE PROGRAM

      Because  of  evolving interpretations of regulations  and  the  national
debate  over  health  care, compliance with all Medicare, Medicaid  and  other
government-established rules and regulations has become a  significant  factor
throughout  the clinical laboratory industry.  The Company has  implemented  a
comprehensive company-wide compliance program.  The objective of  the  program
is   to  develop,  implement  and  update  as  necessary  reliable  compliance
safeguards.  Emphasis is placed on developing training programs for  personnel
to  attempt  to assure the strict implementation of all rules and regulations.
Further,  in-depth  reviews  of  procedures,  personnel  and  facilities   are
conducted  to  assure  regulatory compliance  throughout  the  Company.   Such
sharpened focus on regulatory standards and procedures will continue to  be  a
priority for the Company in the future.

      The  Company believes that it is in compliance in all material  respects
with  all  statutes,  regulations  and other requirements  applicable  to  its
clinical laboratory operations.  The clinical laboratory testing industry  is,
however,  subject  to  extensive regulation, and many of  these  statutes  and
regulations  have  not  been  interpreted by the  courts.   There  can  be  no
assurance  therefore  that applicable statutes and regulations  might  not  be
interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in
a  manner  that  would adversely affect the Company. Potential  sanctions  for
violation of these statutes and regulations include significant fines and  the
loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

      The  following  table  summarizes certain  information  as  to  the
Company's principal operating and administrative facilities as of December 31,
1997.
                               APPROXIMATE
                                  AREA                     NATURE OF
  Location                   (IN SQUARE FEET)              OCCUPANCY
- ---------------------        ----------------         --------------------

Operating Facilities:
Birmingham, Alabama               100,000             Lease expires 2005
Phoenix, Arizona                   43,000             Lease expires 2001;
                                                        one 5 year renewal 
                                                        option
San Diego, California              54,000             Lease expires 2007
Denver, Colorado                   20,000             Lease expires 2001;
                                                        two 5 year renewal
                                                        options
Tampa, Florida                     95,000             Lease expires 2009;
                                                        one 5 year renewal
                                                        option
Chicago, Illinois                  40,000             Lease expires 2003;
                                                        two 5 year renewal
                                                        options
Louisville, Kentucky               60,000             Lease expires 2002;
                                                        three 5 year
                                                        renewal options
Detroit, Michigan                  32,000             Lease expires 2004;
                                                        two 5 year renewal
                                                        options
Kansas City, Missouri              78,000             Owned
Reno, Nevada                       16,000             Owned
                                   14,000             Lease expires 1999;
                                                        2 year renewal options
Raritan, New Jersey               186,000             Owned
Uniondale, New York               108,000             Lease expires 2007;
                                                        two 5 year renewal
                                                        options
Burlington, North Carolina        275,000             Owned
Charlotte, North Carolina          25,000             Lease expires 1998;
                                                        three 1 year renewal
                                                        options
Research Triangle Park,            71,000             Lease expires 2008,three
  North Carolina                                        5 year renewal options
                                  101,000             Lease   expires   2011;
                                                        three 5 year renewal
                                                        options
Winston-Salem,                     10,000             Lease expires 2009; one
  North Carolina                                        5 year renewal option
Dublin, Ohio                       82,000             Owned
Memphis, Tennessee                 30,000             Lease expires 1999; one
                                                        5 year renewal option
Dallas, Texas                      54,000             Lease expires 2004; one
                                                        5 year renewal option
Houston, Texas                     70,000             Lease expires 2012;two
                                                        5 year renewal options
San Antonio, Texas                 44,000             Lease expires 2004; one
                                                        5 year renewal option
Salt Lake City, Utah               20,000             Lease expires 2002; two
                                                        5 year renewal options
Chesapeake, Virginia               21,000             Lease expires 2002; two
                                                        5 year renewal options
Herndon, Virginia                  64,000             Leases expire 1999,2004;
                                                        one 5 year renewal
                                                        option
Richmond, Virginia                 57,000             Lease Expires 2001; one
                                                        5 year renewal option
Seattle, Washington                42,000             Lease expires 1998; two
                                                        5 year renewal options
Fairmont, West Virginia            25,000             Lease expires 2005;three
                                                        5 year renewal options
Administrative facilities:
  Burlington, North Carolina      164,000             Owned
                                  198,000             Leases expire 1998-
                                                        2008;various options
                                                        to purchase or renew

      All  of the major laboratory facilities have been built or improved  for
the  single  purpose of providing clinical laboratory testing  services.   The
Company  believes  that these facilities are suitable and  adequate  and  have
sufficient  production  capacity  for  its  currently  foreseeable  level   of
operations.  The Company believes that if it were to lose the lease on any  of
the  facilities  it  presently  leases,  it  could  find  alternate  space  at
competitive  market  rates and readily relocate its  operations  to  such  new
locations without material disruption to its operations.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is involved in litigation which purports to be a class action
brought on behalf of certain patients, private insurers and benefit plans that
paid for laboratory testing services during the time frame covered by the 1996
Government  Settlement.  The Company has also received certain similar  claims
brought  on  behalf of certain other insurance companies, some of  which  have
been  resolved for immaterial amounts.  These claims for private reimbursement
are  similar to the government claims settled in 1996.  However, no amount  of
damages has been specified at this time and, with the exception of the  above,
no  settlement  discussions  have  taken  place.   The  Company  is  carefully
evaluating  these claims, however, due to the early stage of the  claims,  the
ultimate outcome of these claims cannot presently be predicted.

      The Company is also involved in certain claims and legal actions arising
in  the  ordinary  course of business.  These matters  include,  but  are  not
limited  to,  inquiries from governmental agencies and  Medicare  or  Medicaid
carriers requesting comment on allegations of billing irregularities that  are
brought  to their attention through billing audits or third parties.   In  the
opinion  of management, based upon the advice of counsel and consideration  of
all  facts  available at this time, the ultimate disposition of these  matters
will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results  of
operations or liquidity of the Company.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

      No  matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.
                                       
                                    PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET  FOR  REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY  AND  RELATED
          STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

      On May 1, 1995, the Common Stock commenced trading on the New York Stock
Exchange  ("NYSE") under the symbol "LH".  Prior to such date and since  April
24, 1991, the Common Stock traded on the NYSE under the symbol "NH."  Prior to
April  24,  1991,  the Common Stock was quoted on the NASDAQ  National  Market
under the symbol "NHLI".

      The  following table sets forth for the calendar periods  indicated  the
high  and low sales prices for the Common Stock reported on the NYSE Composite
Tape, and the cash dividends declared per share of Common Stock.

                                              High           Low
                                             ------         ------
  First Quarter                              9  3/8         7 1/4
  Second Quarter                             9              7 3/8
  Third Quarter                              7  5/8         3 1/4
  Fourth Quarter                             3  7/8         2 3/8

                                              High           Low
                                             ------         ------
  First Quarter                              4              2 1/2
  Second Quarter                             3  7/8         2 3/8
  Third Quarter                              2  3/4         2 1/2
  Fourth Quarter                             2  7/8         1 1/4


                                              High           Low
                                             ------         ------
  First Quarter (through March 13, 1998)     2 3/16         1 9/16

      On March 13, 1998 there were 937 holders of record of the Common Stock.

      The  Company,  in  connection  with  the  Allied  Acquisition  in  1994,
discontinued  its  dividend payments for the foreseeable future  in  order  to
increase  its  flexibility  with  respect to  its  acquisition  strategy.   In
addition,   the  Company's  credit  agreement,  as  amended,  places   certain
restrictions, as defined in the credit agreement, on the payment of dividends.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The selected financial data presented below under the captions "Statement
of  Operations  Data" and "Balance Sheet Data" as of and for  the  year  ended
December  31, 1997 are derived from consolidated financial statements  of  the
Company,  which  have  been  audited  by  Price  Waterhouse  LLP,  independent
accountants.  The selected financial data presented below under  the  captions
"Statement of Operations Data" and "Balance Sheet Data" as of and for each  of
the  years  in  the four-year period ended December 31, 1996 are derived  from
consolidated financial statements of the Company, which have been  audited  by
KPMG  Peat Marwick LLP, independent accountants.  This data should be read  in
conjunction with the accompanying notes, the Company's consolidated  financial
statements  and  the related notes thereto, and "Management's  Discussion  and
Analysis  of  Financial  Condition and Results of  Operations,"  all  included
elsewhere herein.


[FN]
(a)   In  April  1995,  the  Company completed the Merger.  RBL's  results  of
operations  have  been included in the Company's results of  operations  since
April  28,  1995.   See  "Management's Discussion and  Analysis  of  Financial
Condition  and Results of Operations-General" and Note 2 of the Notes  to  the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)   In  June  1994, the Company completed the Allied Acquisition.   Allied's
results  of  operations  have  been  included  in  the  Company's  results  of
operations since June 23, 1994.  See "Management's Discussion and Analysis  of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations-General."

(c)   In  the  second  quarter of 1996, the Company recorded  certain  pre-tax
charges of a non-recurring nature including additional charges related to  the
restructuring  of  operations following the Merger.  The  Company  recorded  a
restructuring charge totaling $13.0 million for the shutdown of its La  Jolla,
California  administrative  facility  and  other  workforce  reductions.    In
addition, the Company recorded $10.0 million in non-recurring charges  in  the
second  quarter of 1996 related to the integration of its operations following
the Merger.  See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  As
a  result  of negotiations with the OIG and DOJ related to the 1996 Government
Settlement,  the Company recorded the Settlement Charge of $185.0  million  in
the  third  quarter of 1996 to increase accruals for  settlements and  related
expenses of government and private claims resulting from these investigations.
See   "Regulation   and   Reimbursement-OIG   Investigations-1996   Government
Settlement."

(d)   In  1995, following the Merger, the Company determined that it would  be
beneficial  to  close  certain laboratory facilities and  eliminate  duplicate
functions in certain geographic regions where duplicate NHL and RBL facilities
or  functions existed at the time of the Merger.  The Company recorded pre-tax
restructuring  charges of $65.0 million in connection with these  plans.   See
Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which sets forth  the
Company's restructuring activities for the years ended December 31,  1997  and
1996.   Also in 1995, the Company recorded a pre-tax special charge  of  $10.0
million  in  connection  with the estimated costs of settling  various  claims
pending  against the Company, substantially all of which were billing disputes
with various third party payors relating to the contention that NHL improperly
included  tests  for  HDL cholesterol and serum ferritin  in  its  basic  test
profile  without clearly offering an alternative profile that did not  include
these  medical tests.  As of December 31, 1997, the majority of these disputes
have been settled.

(e)  In connection with the repayment in 1995 of existing revolving credit and
term  loan  facilities in connection with the Merger, the Company recorded  an
extraordinary loss of approximately $13.5 million ($8.3 million, net of  tax),
consisting of the write-off of deferred financing costs, related to the  early
extinguishment of debt.

(f)   Long term obligations include capital lease obligations of $5.8 million,
$9.8  million,  $9.6 million, $9.8 million and $9.7 million  at  December  31,
1997,  1996,  1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  Long-term  obligations  also
include the long-term portion of the expected value of future contractual  and
contingent   amounts  to  be  paid  to  the  former  principals  of   acquired
laboratories.  Such payments are principally based on a percentage  of  future
revenues derived from the acquired customer lists or specified amounts  to  be
paid  over a period of time.  At December 31, 1997, 1996, 1995, 1994 and 1993,
such  amounts  were $9.6 million, $14.8 million, $14.7 million, $8.5  million,
and $15.9 million, respectively.  Long term obligations exclude amounts due to
affiliates.

(g)   In December 1996, Roche loaned $187.0 million to the Company to fund the
Settlement Payment in the form of a promissory note.  Such note bore  interest
at  a rate of 6.625% per annum and was repaid in June, 1997 with proceeds from
the  Preferred  Stock Offering.  The remaining amounts shown  represent  trade
payables to affiliated companies.

(h)   During  the fourth quarter of 1997 the Company recorded a provision  for
doubtful  accounts of $182.0 million, which was approximately  $160.0  million
greater  than the amount recorded in the fourth quarter of 1996  and  a  $22.7
million provision for restructuring certain laboratory operations.

(i)   For  the purpose of calculating the ratio of earnings to combined  fixed
charges  and  preferred stock dividends (i) earnings consist of income  before
provision for income taxes and fixed charges and (ii) fixed charges consist of
interest   expense   and  one-third  of  rental  expense   which   is   deemed
representative of an interest factor.  For the years ended December  31,  1997
and  1996,  earnings  were insufficient to cover fixed charges  and  preferred
stock dividends by $196.8 million and $188.3 million, respectively.




ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
          CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

      GENERAL

      The  Company  grew  significantly through  1995,  substantially  through
acquisitions.  Prior to April 28, 1995, the Company's name was National Health
Laboratories Holdings Inc. ("NHL").  In April 1995, the Company completed  the
Merger with RBL.  In connection with the Merger, the Company issued 61,329,256
shares of Common Stock to HLR and Roche in exchange for all outstanding shares
of   RBL   and  $135.7  million  in  cash.   The  exchange  consideration   of
approximately $558.0 million for the purchase of RBL consisted of the value of
the  stock issued to HLR and Roche, as well as other cash costs of the Merger,
net  of cash received from HLR.  In June 1994, the Company acquired Allied for
approximately $191.5 million in cash plus the assumption of $24.0  million  of
Allied  indebtedness.   The  Allied  Acquisition  and  the  Merger  have  been
accounted  for under the purchase method of accounting; as such, the  acquired
assets  and  liabilities were recorded at their estimated fair values  on  the
date  of  acquisition.   Allied's and RBL's results of  operations  have  been
included  in  the  Company's results of operations since  June  23,  1994  and
April  28,  1995,  respectively.  See Note 2  of  the  Notes  to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements.  In addition to the Merger and the Allied  Acquisition,
since 1993, the Company has acquired a total of 57 small clinical laboratories
with aggregate annual sales of approximately $182.4 million.

      Following  the Merger in 1995, the Company determined that it  would  be
beneficial  to  close  certain laboratory facilities and  eliminate  duplicate
functions  in certain geographic regions where both NHL and RBL facilities  or
functions   existed  at  the  time  of  the  Merger.  The   Company   recorded
restructuring charges of $65.0 million in connection with these plans in 1995.
In  addition,  in  the  second  quarter  of  1995,  the  Company  recorded  an
extraordinary  loss  of  $8.3  million,  net  of  taxes,  related   to   early
extinguishment of debt related to the Merger.  In the second quarter of  1996,
the  Company  recorded certain additional charges related to the restructuring
of  operations  following  the Merger.  The Company recorded  a  restructuring
charge  totaling  $13.0 million for the shutdown of its La  Jolla,  California
administrative  facility and other workforce reductions and $10.0  million  in
non-recurring  charges related to the integration of its operations  following
the  Merger.  During the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company recorded  pre-tax
charges  of  $22.7 million, related primarily to the downsizing  of  its  Long
Island,  New York facility and the future consolidation into its Raritan,  New
Jersey  facility.   This  amount  includes  approximately  $5.2  million   for
severance  and  $12.5  million  for  the future  lease  obligation  and  other
facilities related charges.  The net workforce reduction as a result  of  this
activity  is  expected  to be approximately 260 employees,  primarily  in  the
laboratory's  operations.  See Note 3 of the Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.  Future cash payments under restructuring plans are expected to be
$21.8  million  in  the  year  ended  December  31,  1998  and  $16.8  million
thereafter.

      In  the last several years, the Company's business has been affected  by
significant  government regulation, price competition and increased  influence
of  managed  care organizations resulting from payors' efforts to control  the
cost,  utilization and delivery of health care services.  As a result of these
factors,  the  Company's profitability has been impacted  by  changes  in  the
volume of testing, the prices and costs of its services, the mix of payors and
the level of bad debt expense.

      Many  market-based  changes  in the clinical  laboratory  business  have
occurred,  most  involving  the  shift away from traditional,  fee-for-service
medicine  to managed-cost health care.  The growth of the managed care  sector
presents  various  challenges to the Company and  other  independent  clinical
laboratories.  Managed care providers typically contract with a limited number
of  clinical laboratories and negotiate discounts to the fees charged by  such
laboratories in an effort to control costs.  Such discounts have  resulted  in
price  erosion  and have negatively impacted the Company's operating  margins.
In  addition, managed care organizations have used capitated payment contracts
in  an  attempt to promote more efficient use of laboratory testing  services.
Under  a  capitated payment contract, the clinical laboratory and the  managed
care  organization agree to a per month payment to cover all laboratory  tests
during  the  month,  regardless of the number or cost of  the  tests  actually
performed.   Such contracts also shift the risks of additional testing  beyond
that  covered  by  the  capitated payment to  the  clinical  laboratory.   The
increase  in managed care has also resulted in declines in the utilization  of
laboratory  testing  services.  For the three years ended December  31,  1997,
such  contracts accounted for approximately $88.8, $64.5 and $58.8 million  in
net sales, respectively.

      In  addition, Medicare (which principally serves patients 65 and  older)
and  Medicaid (which principally serves indigent patients) and insurers,  have
increased  their  efforts  to control the cost, utilization  and  delivery  of
health  care services.  Measures to regulate health care delivery  in  general
and clinical laboratories in particular have resulted in reduced prices, added
costs and decreasing test utilization for the clinical laboratory industry  by
increasing   complexity   and   adding  new  regulatory   and   administrative
requirements.  From time to time, Congress has also considered changes to  the
Medicare  fee  schedules  in conjunction with certain  budgetary  bills.   Any
future changes to the Medicare fee schedules cannot be predicted at this  time
and  management, therefore, cannot predict the impact, if any, such proposals,
if  enacted, would have on the results of operations or financial condition of
the Company.

      These market-based factors have had a significant adverse impact on  the
clinical  laboratory industry, and on the Company's profitability.  Management
expects  that  price  erosion  and  utilization  declines  will  continue   to
negatively  impact  net sales and results of operations  for  the  foreseeable
future.  The Company has expanded its efforts to improve the profitability  of
new  and  existing  business. To date this effort  has  focused  primarily  on
reviewing existing contracts, including those with managed care organizations,
and  selectively  repricing or discontinuing business with  existing  accounts
which perform below Company expectations. In 1997, the Company initiated price
increases  across  most of its business lines, including specialty  and  niche
testing,  which  have not seen price increases since the Merger.   While  such
increases  may  adversely  affect  volumes, the  Company  believes  that  such
measures,  along with other cost reduction programs, will improve its  overall
profitability.  There can be no assurance, however, of the timing  or  success
of such measures or that the Company will not lose market share as a result of
these measures.  Finally, the Company is reviewing its sales organization  and
expects  to modify its commission structure so that compensation is tied  more
directly  to  the profitability of retained and new business  instead  of  the
current  practice of basing commissions primarily on revenue  generated.   The
Company is also reviewing alternatives relating to regions of the country  and
certain businesses where profitability is not reaching internal goals and  may
enter  into joint ventures, alliances, or asset swaps with interested  parties
in order to maximize regional operating efficiencies.

      As  a result of the Merger, the Company realized substantial savings  in
operating  costs  through  the consolidation of  certain  operations  and  the
elimination of redundant expenses.  Such savings have been realized over  time
as the consolidation process was completed. The realization of the savings was
partially offset by increased temporary help and overtime expenses during  the
consolidation process. In addition, these savings were largely offset by price
erosion  and utilization declines resulting from the increase in managed  care
and,  to  a lesser extent, from increases in other expenses such as  bad  debt
expense  as  discussed below. The Company is focused on additional initiatives
which  are expected to achieve incremental cost savings in 1998.  These  plans
include  further  regional laboratory consolidation, a new  agreement  with  a
supplier   of  telecommunications  services  and  additional  supply   savings
primarily due to changes in supply inventory management procedures.  There can
be  no  assurance that the estimated additional cost savings  expected  to  be
achieved will be realized or achieved in a timely manner or that improvements,
if  any,  in profitability will be achieved or that such savings will  not  be
offset by increases in other expenses.

IMPACT OF THE YEAR 2000 ISSUE

      The  Year  2000 Issue is the result of computer programs  being  written
using  two digits rather than four to define the applicable year.  Any of  the
Company's computer programs that have date-sensitive software may recognize  a
date using "00" as the year 1900 rather than the year 2000.  This could result
in  a  system  failure or miscalculations causing disruptions  of  operations,
including,  among other things, a temporary inability to process transactions,
send invoices or engage in similar normal business activities.

      Based on an assessment completed in 1996, the Company determined that it
will be required to modify or replace significant portions of its software  so
that  its  computer  systems will properly utilize dates beyond  December  31,
1999.  The  Company  currently believes that with  modifications  to  existing
software  and  conversions  to  new software,  the  Year  2000  Issue  can  be
mitigated. However, if such modifications and conversions are not made, or are
not  completed timely, the Year 2000 Issue could have a material impact on the
operations of the Company.

      The  Company intends to initiate formal communications with all  of  its
significant suppliers and large customers in 1998 to determine the  extent  to
which  the  Company is vulnerable to those third parties' failure to remediate
their  own  Year 2000 Issue.  The Company's total Year 2000 project  cost  and
estimates to complete include the estimated costs and time associated with the
impact  of  a  third  party's  Year 2000 Issue, and  are  based  on  currently
available information.  However, there can be no guarantee that the systems of
other  companies on which the Company's systems rely will be timely converted,
or  that  a  failure  to convert by another company, or a conversion  that  is
incompatible with the Company's systems would not have material adverse effect
on the Company.

      The  Company  will  utilize  both internal  and  external  resources  to
reprogram, or replace, and test the software for Year 2000 modifications.  The
Company  plans to complete the Year 2000 project not later than  December  31,
1999.   The  total  remaining cost of the Year 2000 project  is  estimated  at
approximately $5.0 million and is expected to be funded through operating cash
flows.  This cost will be expensed as incurred over the next two years and  is
not expected to have a material effect on the results of operations.  To date,
the  Company has incurred and expensed approximately $2.0 million  related  to
the  assessment of, and preliminary efforts in connection with, its Year  2000
project and the development of a remediation plan.

      The  costs  of  the project and the date on which the Company  plans  to
complete the Year 2000 modifications are based on management's best estimates,
which  were derived utilizing numerous assumptions of future events, including
the  continued  availability of certain resources,  third  party  modification
plans  and  other  factors.  However, there can be  no  guarantee  that  these
estimates  will  be achieved and actual results could differ  materially  from
those  plans.   Specific  factors that might cause such  material  differences
include,  but  are  not  limited to, the availability and  cost  of  personnel
trained  in this area, the ability to locate and correct all relevant computer
codes and similar uncertainties.

SEASONALITY

      Volume  of testing generally declines during the summer months, year-end
holiday  periods and other major holidays, resulting in net revenues and  cash
flows  in  the third and fourth quarter below the annual average. In addition,
volume  declines  due to inclement weather may reduce net  revenues  and  cash
flows.   Therefore, comparison of the results of successive quarters  may  not
accurately reflect trends or results for the full year.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997 COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996.

    Net sales for 1997 were $1,519.0 million, a decrease of approximately 5.5%
from  $1,607.7 million reported in the comparable 1996 period.  Sales declined
approximately 6.5% as a result of lower testing volume, which is a  result  of
industry-wide  trends  as  well  as  the  Company's  program  of   selectively
eliminating  unprofitable accounts and carefully evaluating the  acceptability
of  new  business.   The decline in sales resulting from volume  declines  was
partially  offset by an increase in price per accession of approximately  1.0%
from the comparable 1996 period.  The increase in the price per accession  was
a  direct  result of the Company's effort to negotiate better pricing  on  new
contracts,  raising  prices on existing contracts that  do  not  meet  Company
profitability targets and other pricing initiatives discussed in the "General"
section above.

    Cost of sales, which includes primarily laboratory and distribution costs,
was   $1,080.5  million  for  1997  compared  to  $1,183.9  million   in   the
corresponding  1996  period,  a  decrease of 8.7%.  Cost  of  sales  decreased
approximately $76.1 million due to the decrease in volume, approximately $21.3
million  due  to  a decrease in salaries and benefits and approximately  $13.8
million  primarily  relating to data processing supplies,  request  forms  and
freight expense as a result of the Company's cost reduction programs and lower
volume.  These decreases were partially offset by an increase in salaries  due
to  scheduled  salary increases and supply costs resulting primarily  from  an
increase  in volume in the Company's specialty and niche testing areas.   Cost
of  sales  as  a percentage of net sales was 71.1% for 1997 and 73.6%  in  the
corresponding 1996 period. The decrease in the cost of sales percentage of net
sales primarily resulted from the cost reduction efforts mentioned above.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $477.2  million
in  1997  from  $305.0  million in the same period  in  1996  representing  an
increase of $172.2 million or 56.5%. The increase in 1997 was partially offset
by  decreases  in telephone and insurance categories aggregating approximately
$33.4  million.   During the fourth quarter of 1997, the  Company  recorded  a
provision  for  doubtful accounts of $182.0 million, which  was  approximately
$160.0 million greater than the amount recorded in the fourth quarter of 1996.
This  charge  was made to increase the allowance for doubtful  accounts  to  a
level   that  management  believes  is  appropriate  to  reduce  its  accounts
receivable  to  the  net amount that management believes  will  ultimately  be
collected.

      Selling, general and administrative expenses were 31.4% and 19.0%  as  a
percentage  of net sales in 1997 and 1996, respectively. The increase  in  the
selling,  general  and  administrative  percentage  primarily  resulted   from
increased  employee and consulting expenses related to billing and  collection
activities and the increases in the provision for doubtful accounts  discussed
above  and,  to  a  lesser  extent, from a  reduction  in  net  sales  due  to
utilization declines, which provided little corresponding reduction in costs.

    The  Company  has  experienced a deterioration in the timeliness  of  cash
collections and a corresponding increase in accounts receivable.  The  primary
causes  of  this  situation are the increased medical  necessity  and  related
diagnosis  code  requirements from third-party payors and the complexities  in
the  billing  process  (data capture) arising from  changing  requirements  of
private  insurance  companies (managed care).  Management previously  believed
that  this deterioration in the timeliness of cash collections would not  have
any significant impact on the ultimate collectability of the receivables.

    In  late  1996, to address the deteriorating cash collections,  management
developed  various  short-term improvement projects  ("initiatives")  that  it
anticipated  would improve the timeliness of collections by the end  of  1997.
Initially,  it appeared that these initiatives were having a positive  impact,
as the growth in the Company's Days' Sales Outstanding (DSO) stabilized in the
first and second quarters of 1997.  However, during the third quarter of 1997,
despite continuing focused efforts on the initiatives, the Company's DSO began
increasing  again.   In response, management intensified its  efforts  on  the
aforementioned  initiatives  and  added new initiatives  for  the  purpose  of
significantly lowering the DSO by December 31, 1997.

      In  the  fourth  quarter of 1997, management evaluated the  initiatives'
overall  effect  and  concluded  that,  while  helpful  in  improving  certain
processes, they had not had any significant impact on improving the  Company's
cash  collections  on  aged  receivables.  In  recognition  of  the  Company's
inability  to  enhance collections on a sustained basis, an  increase  in  the
allowance for doubtful accounts was considered necessary by management.

      The  Company also recorded pre-tax charges in the fourth quarter of 1997
of  $22.7 million, related primarily to the downsizing of its Long Island, New
York  facility  and  the  future consolidation into its  Raritan,  New  Jersey
facility.

      In  the  second quarter of 1996, the Company recorded additional pre-tax
charges  related to the restructuring of operations.  The Company  recorded  a
restructuring charge totaling $13.0 million for the shutdown of its La  Jolla,
California   administrative  facility  and  other  workforce  reductions.   In
addition, the Company recorded $10.0 million of non-recurring charges  in  the
second  quarter of 1996 related to the abandonment of certain data  processing
systems,  relocation of its principal drug testing facility and various  other
items,  including the write-off of certain laboratory testing supplies related
to changes in testing methodologies designed to increase efficiency.

      As  a  result of negotiations related to the 1996 Government Settlement,
the  Company  recorded the Settlement Charge of $185.0 million  in  the  third
quarter  of  1996  to  increase reserves for the  1996  Government  Settlement
described above.

      Net interest expense was $69.3 million in 1997 compared to $69.5 million
in 1996. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources."

      As  a result of the bad debt and restructuring and non-recurring charges
taken  in  1997  and  1996, the provision for income taxes is  not  comparable
between  periods. However, before charges, the Company's effective income  tax
rate  in  1997  increased  from  1996 as a  result  of  net  loss  carry  back
limitations.

      At  December 31, 1997, the Company had net deferred tax assets of  $77.7
million  in  its consolidated balance sheet.  These net assets included  gross
deferred  tax liabilities of $65.3 million and a valuation allowance of  $42.0
million.  This compares to a deferred tax asset of $27.5 million, net of gross
deferred  tax liabilities of $82.4 million and a valuation allowance of  $32.0
million as of December 31, 1996.  The Company believes that it is more  likely
than  not  that  the results of future operations and carry back  availability
will generate sufficient taxable income to realize the remaining deferred  tax
assets.

  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996 COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995.

      Net  sales increased by $175.7 million to $1,607.7 million in  1996,  an
increase  of  12.3% from $1,432.0 million reported in 1995.  The inclusion  of
RBL  as  a  result  of the Merger increased net sales by approximately  $243.5
million  or  17.0%.   Acquisitions  of  small  clinical  laboratory  companies
increased net sales by approximately 1.8%.  Also contributing to the increases
in  net  sales  was  growth in new accounts and price increases  in  selective
markets.   Such  increases  were partially offset  by  price  erosion  in  the
industry  as  a  whole,  lower  utilization of  laboratory  testing  and  lost
accounts.  Price erosion and lower utilization of laboratory testing primarily
resulted  from  continued changes in payor mix brought on by the  increase  in
managed  care. A reduction in Medicare fee schedules from 80% to  76%  of  the
national  limitation  amounts  on  January  1,  1996,  reduced  net  sales  by
approximately  1.3%.   Severe weather in January and  February  of  1996  also
negatively impacted net sales.

      Cost  of  sales,  which includes primarily laboratory  and  distribution
costs,  increased to $1,183.9 million in 1996 from $1,024.3 million  in  1995.
Of  the $159.6 million increase, approximately $181.9 million or 17.8% was due
to  the  inclusion of the cost of sales of RBL.  Cost of sales  increased  (i)
approximately  $23.8  million  as a result of  wage  increases  prior  to  the
implementation  of a six-month deferral on wage rate increases implemented  on
July  1,  1996; (ii) approximately $5.0 million as a result of higher overtime
and  temporary employee expenses related to the acceleration of the  Company's
synergy  program  and  other  operational factors;  (iii)  approximately  $7.5
million  due  to  higher depreciation and maintenance of lab  equipment  as  a
result  of  the Company's purchase in 1996 of more sophisticated equipment  to
improve  efficiency; and (iv) approximately $8.0 million in outside collection
and reference testing fees. These increases were partially offset by decreases
due  to  lower volume of approximately $14.7 million. Additional decreases  in
salaries  and  benefits of $49.5 million and several other expense  categories
aggregating  approximately  $2.4  million  were  primarily  a  result  of  the
Company's  synergy and cost reduction programs.  Cost of sales as a percentage
of net sales was 73.6% in 1996 and 71.5% in 1995.  The increase in the cost of
sales percentage of net sales primarily resulted from a reduction in net sales
due  to  price erosion and utilization declines, each of which provided little
corresponding  reduction  in costs, and, to a lesser  extent,  due  to  severe
weather  in  January  and  February of 1996 and a reduction  in  Medicare  fee
schedules.

      Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $305.0 million
in  1996  from  $238.5  million in the same period in  1995,  representing  an
increase of $66.5 million or 27.9%.  The inclusion of the selling, general and
administrative  expenses  of RBL since April 28, 1995  increased  expenses  by
approximately  $36.5  million or 15.3%. Increases in  salaries,  overtime  and
temporary employee expenses, primarily related to billing issues, and  related
telephone  and data processing costs, aggregated approximately $24.8  million.
Also,  increased medical necessity and related diagnosis code requirements  of
third-party  payors  placed  on  the  Company  in  late  1995  and  additional
requirements placed on the Company at the beginning of 1996 have  resulted  in
lower  collection rates.  As a result the provision for doubtful accounts  for
1996  increased  approximately $16.7 million,  including  a  charge  of  $10.0
million in the second quarter of 1996 compared to 1995 which included a  $15.0
million charge in the fourth quarter of 1995. The 1995 charge was necessitated
by  the deterioration in the Company's accounts receivable collection rates in
the  fourth  quarter of 1995 primarily due to the effect of increased  medical
necessity and diagnosis code requirements of third party payors placed on  the
Company in the second half of 1995.  Additional such requirements were  placed
on  the  Company  at  the  beginning of 1996,  which  resulted  in  a  further
deterioration in accounts receivable collection rates in the second quarter of
1996.   As  a  result of this further deterioration, the Company recorded  the
charge  of  $10.0  million in the second quarter of 1996.   In  addition,  the
Company increased its monthly provision for doubtful accounts beginning in the
third  quarter of 1996 as a result of continued lower collection rates.  These
increases  were  partially  offset by decreases in legal  expenses,  excluding
settlement   expenses,   insurance  and  several  other   expense   categories
aggregating  approximately $1.9 million. Selling, general  and  administrative
expenses  were 19.0% and 16.7% as a percentage of net sales in 1996 and  1995,
respectively.   The  increase  in  the  selling,  general  and  administrative
percentage  primarily  resulted from increased employee  expenses  related  to
billing  and  collection activities and the increases  in  the  provision  for
doubtful accounts discussed above and, to a lesser extent, from a reduction in
net  sales  due  to  price  erosion and utilization declines,  each  of  which
provided little corresponding reduction in costs.

      In  the  second  quarter of 1996, the Company recorded  certain  pre-tax
charges of a non-recurring nature, including additional charges related to the
restructuring  of  operations.  The Company recorded  a  restructuring  charge
totaling   $13.0  million  for  the  shutdown  of  its  La  Jolla,  California
administrative  facility  and  other workforce reductions.  In  addition,  the
Company  recorded $10.0 million of non-recurring charges in the second quarter
of  1996  related  to  the  abandonment of certain  data  processing  systems,
relocation  of  its principal drug testing facility and various  other  items,
including  the  write-off of certain laboratory testing  supplies  related  to
changes in testing methodologies to increase efficiency.

      As  a  result of negotiations related to the 1996 Government Settlement,
the  Company  recorded the Settlement Charge of $185.0 million  in  the  third
quarter  of  1996  to  increase reserves for the  1996  Government  Settlement
described  above, and other related expenses of government and private  claims
resulting therefrom.

      The  increase in amortization of intangibles and other assets  to  $29.6
million in 1996 from $27.0 million in 1995 primarily resulted from the  Merger
in April 1995.

      Net interest expense was $69.5 million in 1996 compared to $64.1 million
in  1995.   The increase resulted primarily from increased borrowings  due  to
higher accounts receivable balances and a higher effective borrowing rate as a
result  of an amendment to the Company's credit agreement. See "Liquidity  and
Capital Resources."

      As  a result of the restructuring and non-recurring charges in 1996  and
1995,  the  provision  for  income taxes is not  comparable  between  periods.
However,  before charges, the Company's effective income tax rate in 1996  has
increased  from 1995 as a result of increased non-deductible amortization  and
lower earnings before income taxes.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

      Net  cash provided by (used for)operating activities was $144.4 million,
$(174.5) million and $51.1 million, in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The
increase  in  cash  flow from operations in 1997 primarily  resulted  from  an
income tax refund, decreases in accounts receivable and the fact that the 1996
cash  flows from operations were negatively impacted by the payment of  $187.0
million for the 1996 Government Settlement.

      Capital expenditures were $34.5 million, $69.9 million and $87.3 million
for   1997,   1996  and  1995,  respectively.  The  Company  expects   capital
expenditures  to be approximately $70.0 million in 1998 and $72.5  million  in
1999  to  improve  billing systems and further automate laboratory  processes.
Such  expenditures are expected to be funded by cash flow from  operations  as
well as borrowings under the Company's credit facilities.

    The  Company  has  experienced a deterioration in the timeliness  of  cash
collections and a corresponding increase in accounts receivable.  The  primary
causes  of  this  situation are the increased medical  necessity  and  related
diagnosis  code  requirements from third-party payors and the complexities  in
the  billing  process  (data capture) arising from  changing  requirements  of
private  insurance  companies (managed care).  Management previously  believed
that  this deterioration in the timeliness of cash collections would not  have
any significant impact on the ultimate collectability of the receivables.

     In  late  1996, to address the deteriorating cash collections, management
developed  various  short-term improvement projects  ("initiatives")  that  it
anticipated  would improve the timeliness of collections by the end  of  1997.
Initially,  it appeared that these initiatives were having a positive  impact,
as the growth in the Company's Days' Sales Outstanding (DSO) stabilized in the
first and second quarters of 1997.  However, during the third quarter of 1997,
despite continuing focused efforts on the initiatives, the Company's DSO began
increasing  again.   In response, management intensified its  efforts  on  the
aforementioned  initiatives  and  added new initiatives  for  the  purpose  of
significantly lowering the DSO.  There can be no assurance of the  success  of
the  Company's  plans  to improve collections. However,  the  Company  expects
accounts receivable balances to stabilize and possibly decline in the future.

     On May 19, 1997 the Board of Directors of the Company declared a dividend
of 10,000,000 transferable subscription rights which were then issued pro rata
to  holders of its common stock on May 29, 1997 entitling them to purchase  up
to  an aggregate of $500.0 million of convertible preferred stock issuable  in
two  series at a subscription price of $50 per share. The subscription  period
ended  on  June  16,  1997.  On that date, rights were exercised  to  purchase
4,363,202  shares of Series A 8 1/2% Convertible Exchangeable Preferred  Stock
("Series  A") and 5,636,798 shares of Series B 8 1/2% Convertible  Pay-in-Kind
Preferred Stock, ("Series B"), each at a subscription price of $50 per  share.
Roche  exercised its basic subscription privilege in full for 4,988,751 shares
of Series B and other rights holders purchased the remaining 5,011,249 shares.

      In  connection  with  the  Merger, the Company  entered  into  a  credit
agreement  with  the  banks  named therein and an  administrative  agent  (the
"Existing Credit Agreement"), which made available to the Company a term  loan
facility  (the "Term Loan Facility") of $800.0 million and a revolving  credit
facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility") of $450.0 million.

     In March 1997, the Company entered into an amended credit agreement which
became  effective  upon completion of the Preferred Stock  Offering  following
satisfaction of certain conditions precedent (the "Amended and Restated Credit
Agreement").  The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement made available to  the
Company senior unsecured credit facilities in the form of an amended term loan
Facility of $693.8 million and an amended revolving credit facility of  $450.0
million  (the  "Amended  Term  Loan Facility" and  "Amended  Revolving  Credit
Facility," respectively).

      The Amended Revolving Credit Facility includes a $50.0 million letter of
credit sublimit. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement maturity dates  are
extended approximately three years for the Amended Term Loan Facility to March
31, 2004 and approximately two years for the Amended Revolving Credit Facility
to March 31, 2002.

      Both  the  Amended Term Loan Facility and the Amended  Revolving  Credit
Facility  bear  interest, at the option of the Company, at (i) the  base  rate
plus  the  applicable base rate margin or (ii) the Eurodollar  rate  plus  the
applicable  Eurodollar rate margin. The Amended and Restated Credit  Agreement
provides  that in the event of a reduction of the percentage of  Common  Stock
held by Roche and its affiliates (other than the Company and its subsidiaries)
below  25%,  the applicable interest margins and facility fees  on  borrowings
outstanding  under  the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement  will  increase.
The  amount of the increase will depend, in part, on the leverage ratio of the
Company  at  the time of such reduction. Future interest margins on borrowings
outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement will be based upon
the performance level of the Company as defined therein.

      Under  the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, maturities  under  the
Amended  Term Loan Facility, after the payment of $50.0 million from  proceeds
of  the  Preferred  Stock  Offering, aggregate $46.4 million  in  1999,  $92.8
million  in  2000,  $139.2 million in 2001 through 2003 and $87.0  million  in
2004.

      The  amounts  available under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility  are
subject  to  certain mandatory permanent reduction and prepayment requirements
and  the  Amended  Term  Loan  Facility  is  subject  to  specified  mandatory
prepayment  requirements.   In  the Amended  and  Restated  Credit  Agreement,
required amounts are first to be applied to repay scheduled Amended Term  Loan
Facility  payments until the Amended Term Loan Facility is repaid in full  and
then to reduce the commitments and advances under the Amended Revolving Credit
Facility.  Required payments and reductions include (i) the proceeds  of  debt
issuances,  subject to certain exceptions; (ii) the proceeds of certain  asset
sales,  unless  reinvested  within one year of the applicable  asset  sale  in
productive assets of a kind then used or usable in the business of the Company
and  its  subsidiaries; (iii) the proceeds of sales of  equity  securities  in
excess  of certain amounts; and (iv) under certain circumstances, a percentage
of excess cash flow, as calculated annually.

      The  Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains financial  covenants
with  respect  to  a  leverage  ratio, an  interest  coverage  ratio,  minimum
shareholders' equity and excess cash flow.  A portion of the proceeds  of  the
Preferred Stock Offering were used to repay approximately $50.0 million  under
the  Amended Term Loan Facility and $242.0 million under the Amended Revolving
Credit Facility.

      Effective December 31, 1997, the Company negotiated an amendment to  the
Amended  and Restated Credit Agreement, covering both long-term and  revolving
credit,  of  certain  covenants  contained in the  agreement.   The  amendment
excludes  certain actual expenses incurred during the fourth quarter  of  1997
from  interest  coverage  and leverage ratio calculations  applicable  to  the
quarters  ended December 31, 1997 through September 30, 1998.   The  amendment
also   excludes  these  expenses  from  certain  other  covenant  calculations
applicable  to the quarter ending December 31, 1997 and all quarterly  periods
thereafter.

     Borrowings under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility were $40.0 million
as  of  December  31, 1997 in addition to $26.1 million of letters  of  credit
which  encumbered  the facility as of December 31, 1997.  The  Roche  Loan  of
$187.0  million,  which  was borrowed in December 1996,  was  repaid   with  a
portion of the proceeds from the Preferred Stock Offering in June 1997.   Cash
and  cash  equivalents  on  hand,  cash flow from  operations  and  additional
borrowing  capabilities of $383.9 million under the Amended  Revolving  Credit
Facility  as  of  December  31, 1997 are expected to  be  sufficient  to  meet
anticipated  operating  requirements, debt repayments and  provide  funds  for
capital expenditures and working capital through 1998.

      At  December 31, 1997, the Company continued to be a party  to  interest
rate  swap  agreements with certain major financial institutions, rated  A  or
better  by  Moody's  Investor  Service, solely to  manage  its  interest  rate
exposure  with respect to $600.0 million of floating rate debt to  a  weighted
average fixed interest rate of 5.95%, through requiring that the Company pay a
fixed rate amount in exchange for the financial institutions paying a floating
rate  amount.   Amounts paid by the Company in 1997 were  $1.7  million.   The
notional amounts of the agreements are used to measure the interest to be paid
or received and do not represent the amount of exposure to credit loss.  These
agreements mature in September 1998.  The estimated cost at which the  Company
could terminate such agreements was $0.4 million at December 31, 1997.

      The  Company,  in  connection  with  the  Allied  Acquisition  in  1994,
discontinued  its dividend payments for the foreseeable future.  In  addition,
the  Amended  and  Restated  Credit  Agreement  places  certain  restrictions,
as defined in the credit agreement, on the payment of dividends.

CAUTIONARY  STATEMENT  FOR  PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR"  PROVISIONS  OF  THE
PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

      The  Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides  a  "safe
harbor"  for  forward-looking  statements so  long  as  those  statements  are
identified  as  forward-looking and are accompanied by  meaningful  cautionary
statements  identifying important factors that could cause actual  results  to
differ  materially from those projected in the statement. Included herein  are
certain   forward-looking  statements  concerning  the  Company's  operations,
economic  performance  and  financial  condition,  including,  in  particular,
forward-looking  statements  regarding the  Company's  expectation  of  future
performance  following  implementation of its  new  business  strategy.   Such
statements  are subject to various risks and uncertainties.  Accordingly,  the
Company hereby identifies the following important factors that could cause the
Company's  actual financial results to differ materially from those projected,
forecast,  estimated  or  budgeted  by the  Company  in  such  forward-looking
statements.

      (a)   Heightened  competition, including the  intensification  of  price
            competition.

      (b)   Impact  of  changes  in  payor  mix,  including  the  shift  from
            traditional, fee-for-service medicine to managed-cost health care.

      (c)   Adverse actions by governmental or other third-party payors,
            including unilateral  reduction of fee schedules payable to the
            Company.

      (d)   The  impact  upon the Company's collection  rates  or  general  or
            administrative    expenses   resulting   from   compliance    with 
            Medicare administrative   policies,   including   specifically the
            HCFA's    recent requirement    that   laboratories   performing   
            certain automated blood chemistry profiles obtain and provide 
            documentation of the medical necessity of tests included in the
            profiles for each Medicare beneficiary.

      (e)   Adverse results from investigations of clinical laboratories by the
            Federal Bureau ofinvestigation and the OIG, including specifically
            significant monetary damages and/or exclusion from the Medicare
            and Medicaid programs.

      (f)   Failure  to  obtain new customers, retain  existing  customers  or
            reductions in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing
            customers.

      (g)   Adverse  results  in significant litigation matters,  specifically
            including   claims   brought  by  the  purported  class  action of
            certain patients, private insurers and benefit plans.

      (h)   Denial  of  certification or licensure of  any  of  the  Company's
            clinical laboratories under CLIA, by Medicare and Medicaid programs
            or other Federal, state or local agencies.

      (i)   Adverse  publicity  and news coverage about  the  Company  or  the
            clinical laboratory industry.

      (j)   Inability to carry out marketing and sales plans.

      (k)   Inability  to successfully integrate the operations  of  or  fully
            realize the costs savings expected from the consolidation of certain
            operations and the elimination of duplicative expenses resulting
            from the April 28, 1995 merger of the Company and RBL or risk that
            declining revenues or increases in other expenses will offset such
            savings.

      (l)   Ability  of  the  Company to attract and  retain  experienced  and
            qualified personnel.

      (m)   Changes  in  interest rates causing an increase in  the  Company's
            effective borrowing rate.

      (n)   The effect of the Company's effort to improve account profitability
            by selectively repricing or discontinuing business with existing
            accounts which perform below Company expectations.

      (o)   Inability to successfully consolidate the Company's  many  billing
            systems and harness the operational efficiencies therefrom.

      (p)   Inability  to  improve the front end data capture  of  information
            necessary to  generate  timely  and  accurate  bills  for  services
            rendered.

      (q)   Inability  to  successfully  implement  the  Company's  Year  2000
            readiness plan.


ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

          Reference   is   made   to  the  Index  on   Page   F-1   of   the
          Financial Report included herein.

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
          ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

          Not Applicable.




                                   PART III

      The  information required by Part III, Items 10 through 13, of Form 10-K
is  incorporated by reference from the registrant's definitive proxy statement
for its 1997 annual meeting of stockholders, which is to be filed pursuant  to
Regulation 14A not later than April 30, 1997.


                                    PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  List of documents filed as part of this Report:

          (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements and Independent
               Auditors' Reports included herein:

               See Index on page F-1

          (2)  Financial Statement Schedules:

               See Index on page F-1

      All other schedules are omitted as they are inapplicable or the required
      information is furnished in the Consolidated Financial Statements or notes
      thereto.

          (3)  Index to and List of Exhibits

               (a)  Exhibits:*

      Exhibits  10.1  through  10.3  and 10.6  through  10.13  are  management
      contracts or   compensatory plans or arrangements.

         2.1   -  Agreement  and  Plan of Merger among the  Company,  NHL  Sub
                  Acquisition Corp. and NHLI (incorporated herein by reference 
                  to   the   Company's    Registration Statement  on  Form  S-4
                  filed with the Securities  and  Exchange  Commission
                  (the "Commission") on March 14, 1994, File No. 33-52655 
                  (the "1994 S-4")).
         2.2   -  Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 3, 1994 of  NHLI
                  and N Acquisition Corp. (incorporated herein by reference to
                  Exhibit (c)(1) of Schedule 14D-1 and Schedule 13D
                  ("Schedule 14D-1 and Schedule 13D") filed with the Commission
                  on May 9, 1994).
         2.3   -  Agreement dated as of June 7, 1994, among N Acquisition Corp.,
                  the Company and NHLI (incorporated herein by reference to 
                  Exhibit (c)(7) of amendment No.  2  to  Schedule 14D-1 and
                  Schedule  13D  of  NHLI  and  N Acquisition  Corp filed with
                  the Commission on June 8, 1994).
         2.4   -  Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of December  13,  1994
                  among the Company, HLR  Holdings  Inc., Roche Biomedical 
                  Laboratories, Inc. and (for the purposes  stated  therein)
                  Hoffmann-La Roche  Inc.  (incorporated  herein  by reference
                  to  the  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the  year
                  ended December 31, 1994 filed with the Commission on March 3,
                  1995, File  No.  1- 11353 (the "1994 10-K")).
         2.5   -  Stock  Purchase Agreement dated December  30,  1994  between
                  Reference Pathology  Holding  Company,  Inc.  and  Allied
                  Clinical  Laboratories,  Inc. ("Allied") (incorporated herein
                  by reference to the 1994 10-K).
         3.1   -  Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (amended pursuant
                  to a Certificate of Merger filed on April 28, 1995)
                  (incorporated by reference herein to the report on Form  8-K
                  dated April 28, 1995, filed with the Commission on May 12, 
                  1995, File No. 1-11353 (the "April 28, 1995 Form 8-K")).
         3.2   -  Amended  and  Restated By-Laws of the Company  (incorporated
                  herein by reference to the April 28, 1995 Form 8-K).
         4.1   -  Warrant  Agreement dated as of April 10,  1995  between the
                  Company and American Stock  Transfer & Trust Company
                  (incorporated herein by reference to the April 28, 1995 Form
                  8-K).
         4.2   -  Specimen of the Company's Warrant Certificate (included in the
                  Exhibit to the Warrant Agreement included therein as Exhibit 
                  4.1 hereto) (incorporated herein by reference to the April 28,
                  1995 Form 8-K).
         4.3   -  Specimen  of  the  Company's  Common  Stock   Certificate
                  (incorporated herein by reference to the April 28, 1995 Form
                  8-K).
        10.1   -  National Health Laboratories Incorporated Employees' Savings
                  and Investment Plan (incorporated  herein  by  reference  to 
                  the  Company's  Annual   Report   on Form  10-K  for the year
                  ended December 31, 1991 filed with the Commission on February
                  13, 1992, File No. 1-10740** (the "1991 10-K")).
        10.2   -  National Health Laboratories Incorporated Employees'Retirement
                  Plan (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992
                  filed with the Commission on March 26, 1993, File No. 1-10740
                  (the "1992 10-K")).
        10.3   -  National Health Laboratories Incorporated Pension Equalization
                  Plan (incorporated herein by reference to the 1992 10-K).
        10.4   -  Settlement  Agreement dated December 18,  1992  between  the
                  Company and the United States of America (incorporated herein
                  by reference to the 1992 10-K).
        10.5   -  Settlement  Agreement dated November 21,  1996  between  the
                  Company  and the  United States of America.
        10.6   -  National Health Laboratories 1988 Stock Option Plan, as
                  amended (incorporated  herein  by  reference to the Company's
                  Registration  Statement on  Form  S-1  (No. 33-35782) filed
                  with the Commission on July 9,  1990  (the "1990 S-1")).
        10.7   -  National  Health  Laboratories  1994  Stock  Option   Plan
                  (incorporated herein by reference  to  the  Company's
                  Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed with the Commission
                  on August 12, 1994, File No. 33-55065).
        10.8   -  Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Performance  Unit
                  Plan (incorporated by reference to Annex II of the Company's
                  1995  Annual  Proxy Statement filed with the Commission on
                  August 17, 1995 (the "1995 Proxy")).
        10.9   -  Laboratory  Corporation of  America  Holdings  Annual  Bonus
                  Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Annex III of the
                  1995 Proxy).
        10.10  -  Laboratory  Corporation of America  Holdings  Master  Senior
                  Executive Severance Plan (incorporated herein by reference to
                  the report  on  Form  8-K dated  October  24,  1996 
                  (the "October 24, 1996 8-K") filed with the Commission on 
                  October 24, 1996, File No. 1-11353).
        10.11  -  Special Severance Agreement dated June 28, 1996 between the
                  Company  and Timothy J. Brodnik (incorporated herein by
                  reference to the October 24, 1996 8-K).
        10.12  -  Special Severance Agreement dated July 12, 1996 between  the
                  Company and John F. Markus (incorporated herein by reference
                  to the October 24, 1996 8-K).
        10.13  -  Special Severance Agreement dated June 28, 1996 between  the
                  Company and Robert E. Whalen (incorporated herein by reference
                  to the October 24, 1996 8-K).
        10.14  -  Tax  Allocation Agreement dated as of June 26, 1990  between
                  MacAndrews & Forbes Holding Inc., Revlon Group Incorporated, 
                  New Revlon Holdings, Inc. and the subsidiaries of Revlon set
                  forth on Schedule A thereto (incorporated herein by reference
                  to the 1990 S-1).
        10.15  -  Loan  Agreement  dated August 1,  1991  among  the  Company,
                  Frequency Property Corp. and Swiss Bank Corporation, New York
                  Branch (incorporated herein by reference to the 1991 10-K).
        10.16  -  Sharing and Call Option Agreement dated as of December 13,1994
                  among HLR Holdings Inc., Roche Biomedical Laboratories, Inc.,
                  Mafco Holdings Inc., National Health Care Group, Inc. and (for
                  the purposes stated therein) the Company (incorporated by 
                  reference herein to the 1994 10-K).
        10.17  -  Stockholder Agreement dated as of April 28, 1995  among  the
                  Company, HLR Holdings Inc., Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. and Roche
                  Holdings,  Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to the April
                  28, 1995 Form 8-K).
        10.18  -  Exchange Agent Agreement dated as of April 28, 1995 between
                  the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company
                  (incorporated herein by reference to the April 28, 1995 Form
                  8-K). 
        10.19  -  Credit Agreement dated as of April 28,1995, among the Company,
                  the banks named therein, and Credit Suisse (New York Branch),
                  as Administrative Agent (incorporated herein by reference to
                  the April 28, 1995 Form 8-K).
        10.20  -  First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of September 8,
                  1995 among the Company, the banks named therein, and Credit 
                  Suisse (New York Branch), as Administrative  Agent. 
                  (incorporated by reference herein to the Company's Quarterly
                  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995
                  filed with the Commission on November 14, 1995, File No.
                  1-11353) 
        10.21  -  Second Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of February  16,
                  1996 among the Company, the banks named therein, and Credit
                  Suisse (New York Branch), as Administrative Agent
                  (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for  the  year ended December 31, 1995
                  filed with the Commission on March 29, 1996, File No.1-11353).
        10.22  -  Third Amendment and Second Waiver to Credit Agreement dated as
                  of July 10, 1996 among the Company, the banks named therein
                  and Credit Suisse (New York Branch) as Administrative Agent
                  (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's quarterly
                  report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996 filed
                  with the Commission on  August  14, 1996, File No. 1-11353).
        10.23  -  Fourth Amendment to the Credit Agreement dated as of September
                  23, 1996 among the Company, the banks named therein and Credit
                  Suisse (New York Branch), as  Administrative Agent
                  (incorporated herein by reference to the report in Form 8-K
                  dated September 23, 1996, filed with the Commission on
                  September 30, 1996, File No. 1-11353).
        10.24  -  Third Waiver to the Credit Agreement dated as of November 4,
                  1996 among the Company, the banks named therein  and  Credit
                  Suisse (New York Branch), as Administrative  Agent 
                  (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's quarterly
                  report  on  Form  10-Q for the quarter  ended  September  30,
                  1996 filed with the Commission on November 14, 1996, File No.
                  1-11353).
        10.25  -  Fifth Amendment and Fourth Waiver to the Credit Agreement
                  dated as of December 23, 1996 among the Company, the banks
                  named therein and Credit Suisse (New York Branch), as
                  Administrative Agent (incorporated herein by reference to the
                  report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on January 6,
                  1997, File No. 1-11353(the "January 6, 1997 8-K")).
        10.26  -  Fifth Waiver to the Credit Agreement dated as of January  27,
                  1997 among the Company, the banks named therein and Credit 
                  Suisse (New York Branch) as Administrative Agent.
        10.27  -  Sixth Amendment and Waiver to the Credit Agreement dated as of
                  March 31, 1997  among the Company, the banks named therein and
                  Credit Suisse First Boston as Administrative Agent.
        10.28  -  Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 31,
                  1997 among the Company, the banks named therein and Credit
                  Suisse First Boston as Administrative Agent.
        10.29* -  Second Amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
                  dated as of February 25, 1998 among the Company, the banks
                  named therein and Credit Suisse First Boston as Administrative
                  Agent.
        10.30  -  Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings 1995 Stock Plan for
                  Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference herein to
                  the report  of Form S-8 dated September 26, 1995, filed with
                  the Commission on September 26, 1995).
        10.31  -  Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings 1997 Employee Stock
                  Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference herein to Annex I of
                  the Company's  1996 Annual Proxy Statement filed with the
                  Commission on October 25, 1996.
        10.32  -  Promissory note dated December 30, 1996 between the Company 
                  and Roche Holdings Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to
                  the January 6, 1997 8-K).
        10.33  -  First Amendment to promissory note given by the Company to
                  Roche Holdings Inc.

        12.1*  -  Statement regarding Computation of Ratio of Earnings to
                  Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends

        21.1   -  List of Subsidiaries of the Company

        23.1*  -  Consent of Price Waterhouse LLP
        23.2*  -  Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

        24.1*  -  Power of Attorney of Jean-Luc Belingard
        24.2*  -  Power of Attorney of Wendy E. Lane
        24.3*  -  Power of Attorney of Robert E. Mittelstaedt, Jr.
        24.4*  -  Power of Attorney of James B. Powell, M.D.
        24.5*  -  Power of Attorney of David B. Skinner
        24.6*  -  Power of Attorney of Andrew G. Wallace, M.D.

        27     -  Financial Data Schedule (electronically filed version only).

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K
       None Filed

- ------------------------

*    Filed herewith.
**   Previously filed under File No. 0-17031 which has been corrected to File
     No. 1-10740.



                                  SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934,  the Company has duly caused this report to be  signed  on  its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                           LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS
                           ------------------------------------------
                                        Registrant


                              By:/s/ THOMAS P. MAC MAHON
                                 ------------------------------------
                                 Thomas P. Mac Mahon
                                 Chairman of the Board, President
                                 and Chief Executive Officer






Dated:  March 30, 1998



     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed by the following persons on March 30,  1998  in  the
capacities indicated.

     Signature                          Title
     ---------                          -----



/s/ THOMAS P. MAC MAHON                 Chairman of the Board, 
- --------------------------------------  President and Chief
Thomas P. Mac Mahon                     Executive Officer
                                        (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ WESLEY R. ELINGBURG                 Executive Vice President,   
- --------------------------------------  Chief Financial Officer
Wesley R.Elingburg                      and Treasurer
                                        (Principal Financial Officer and
                                        Principal Accounting Officer)

/s/ JEAN-LUC BELINGARD*                 Director
- --------------------------------------
Jean-Luc Belingard

/s/ WENDY E. LANE*                      Director
- --------------------------------------
Wendy E. Lane

/s/ ROBERT E. MITTELSTAEDT, JR.*        Director
- --------------------------------------
Robert E. Mittelstaedt, Jr.

/s/ JAMES B. POWELL, M.D.*              Director
- --------------------------------------
James B. Powell, M.D.

/s/ DAVID B. SKINNER, M.D.*             Director
- --------------------------------------
David B. Skinner, M.D.

/s/ ANDREW G. WALLACE, M.D.*            Director
- --------------------------------------
Andrew G. Wallace, M.D.

- -----------------------------------

*   Bradford T. Smith, by his signing his name hereto, does hereby  sign  this
report  on  behalf of the directors of the Registrant after whose typed  names
asterisks  appear,  pursuant  to  powers of attorney  duly  executed  by  such
directors and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

By:/s/ BRADFORD T. SMITH
   --------------------------------------
   Bradford T. Smith
   Attorney-in-fact



     LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES

           INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                          AND SCHEDULE



                                                           Page
                                                           ----

Report of Independent Accountants...........................F-2

Report of Independent Accountants...........................F-3

Consolidated Financial Statements:

 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
   December 31, 1997 and 1996...............................F-4

 Consolidated Statements of Operations for
   the three-year period ended December 31, 1997............F-5

 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders'
   Equity for the three-year period ended
   December 31, 1997........................................F-6

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
   three-year period ended December 31, 1997................F-7

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements................ F-9

Financial Statement Schedule:

 II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves....... F-32
                                       

                                       
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                                       

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
of Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings

In our opinion,  the consolidated financial statements presented in  the
accompanying  index  present  fairly,  in  all  material  respects,  the 
financial position of Laboratory Corporation  of  America  Holdings  and
its subsidiaries (the Company) at December 31,  1997, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for the  year  in conformity  with
generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management; our   responsibility
is to express an opinion on  these  financial statements  based  on  our
audit.  We conducted our audit of these statements  in  accordance  with
generally accepted  auditing  standards which  require  that we plan and
perform the  audit  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about whether the
financial  statements  are  free  of  material  misstatement.   An audit
includes examining, on a test  basis,  evidence supporting  the  amounts
and disclosures in the  financial  statements,  assessing the accounting
principles used  and  significant  estimates  made  by  management,  and
evaluating  the  overall  financial  statement presentation.  We believe
that  our  audit  provides  a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.






PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
Raleigh, North Carolina
February 20, 1998, except
as to Note 10, which is as
of February 25, 1998


                                       
                                       
                                       
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings:

    We  have  audited  the accompanying consolidated balance  sheets  of
Laboratory  Corporation  of  America Holdings  and  subsidiaries  as  of
December 31, 1996 and the related consolidated statements of operations,
of  changes  in  shareholders' equity and cash flows  for  the  two-year
period  ended December 31, 1996.  In connection with our audits  of  the
consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the accompanying
financial  statement schedule as of December 31, 1996 and for  the  two-
year  period  ended  December  31, 1996.  These  consolidated  financial
statements  and  financial statement schedule are the responsibility  of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule
based on our audits.

      We  conducted  our  audits in accordance with  generally  accepted
auditing  standards.  Those standards require that we plan  and  perform
the  audit  to  obtain reasonable assurance about whether the  financial
statements  are  free  of  material  misstatement.   An  audit  includes
examining,  on  a  test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures  in  the  financial  statements.   An  audit  also  includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates  made
by  management,  as  well as evaluating the overall financial  statement
presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.

      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred  to
above  present fairly, in all material respects, the financial  position
of  Laboratory  Corporation of America Holdings and subsidiaries  as  of
December  31, 1996, and the results of their operations and  their  cash
flows  for  the  two-year period ended December 31, 1996, in  conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.  Also in our opinion, the
related  financial statement schedule as of and for the two-year  period
ended  December  31,  1996, when considered in  relation  to  the  basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly,  in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.




                                        KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP

Raleigh, North Carolina
February 14, 1997 except for
Note 10 as to which the
date is March 31, 1997
                                       

                                       













   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF PRESENTATION:

       Laboratory   Corporation  of  America  Holdings  and  its  subsidiaries
("Company")  is  believed  by  management to  be  one  of  the  three  largest
independent clinical laboratory companies in the United States based  on  1997
net  revenues.  Through a national network of laboratories, the Company offers
a  broad  range  of  testing services used by the medical  profession  in  the
diagnosis,  monitoring  and treatment of disease and  other  clinical  states.
Since  its founding in 1971, the Company has grown into a network of 25  major
laboratories  and  approximately 1,200 service sites consisting  of  branches,
patient service centers and STAT laboratories, serving clients in 50 states.

      The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Laboratory
Corporation of America Holdings and its subsidiaries after elimination of  all
material intercompany accounts and transactions. Prior to April 28, 1995,  the
Company's name was National Health Laboratories Holdings, Inc.  ("NHL").

CASH EQUIVALENTS:

      Cash  equivalents  (primarily investments in money  market  funds,  time
deposits  and commercial paper which have original maturities of three  months
or  less  at  the  date  of purchase) are carried at cost  which  approximates
market.

INVENTORIES:

      Inventories, consisting primarily of purchased laboratory supplies,  are
stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:

      Interest  rate  swap agreements, which are used by the  Company  in  the
management  of interest rate exposure, are accounted for on an accrual  basis.
Amounts  to  be  paid  or  received under such agreements  are  recognized  as
interest income or expense in the periods in which they accrue.




          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT:

      Property,  plant  and  equipment are recorded  at  cost.   The  cost  of
properties held under capital leases is equal to the lower of the net  present
value  of  the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased property
at  the  inception  of  the lease.  Depreciation and amortization  expense  is
computed  on all classes of assets based on their estimated useful  lives,  as
indicated below, using principally the straight-line method.

                                                      Years
                                                      -----

       Buildings and building improvements            35-40
       Machinery and equipment                         3-10
       Furniture and fixtures                          5-10
       Computer software                               5

     Leasehold improvements and assets held under capital leases are amortized
over the shorter of their estimated lives or the period of the related leases.
Expenditures  for  repairs and maintenance charged against earnings  in  1997,
1996 and 1995 were $28.4, $34.2 and $28.3, respectively.

CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE COSTS:

     The Company capitalizes purchased software which is ready for service and
software development costs incurred on significant projects from the time  the
project  is  determined to be technologically feasible until the  software  is
ready  for  use to provide processing services to the Company.   Research  and
development  costs and other computer software maintenance  costs  related  to
software development are expensed as incurred.  Capitalized software costs are
amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the
underlying system, generally five years.

      The  carrying  value  of software and development  assets  is  regularly
reviewed  by  the  Company, and a loss is recognized when the  net  realizable
value falls below the unamortized cost.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:

      The  carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable,
income   taxes   receivable  and  accounts  payable  are  considered   to   be
representative of their respective fair values due to their short-term nature.
The  carrying amounts of the revolving credit facility and long-term debt  are
considered  to  be  representative of their respective fair  values  as  their
interest rates are based on market rates.  The carrying value of the loan from



                                       
          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

affiliate  is  considered  to  be  representative of its fair value due to the
related party nature of the obligation.

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK:

     Substantially all of the Company's accounts receivable are with companies
and  individuals  in  the  health care industry.  However,  concentrations  of
credit risk are limited due to the number of the Company's clients as well  as
their dispersion across many different geographic regions.

REVENUE RECOGNITION:

      Sales  are recognized on the accrual basis at the time test results  are
reported,  which  approximates  when  services  are  provided.   Services  are
provided  to  certain patients covered by various third-party  payor  programs
including  the  Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Billings for  services  under
third-party  payor  programs  are included in  sales  net  of  allowances  for
contractural  discounts  and allowances for differences  between  the  amounts
billed  and  estimated program payment amounts. Adjustments to  the  estimated
payment amounts based on final settlement with the programs are recorded  upon
settlement as a charge to revenue.  In 1997, 1996 and 1995, approximately 20%,
23%  and 28%, respectively, of the Company's revenues were derived from  tests
performed for beneficiaries of Medicare and Medicaid programs.

INCOME TAXES:

      The  Company accounts for income taxes utilizing the asset and liability
method.  Under this method deferred tax assets and liabilities are  recognized
for  the  future  tax  consequences attributable to  differences  between  the
financial  statement carrying amounts of existing assets and  liabilities  and
their  respective  tax  bases  and for tax loss carryforwards.   Deferred  tax
assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to  apply
to  taxable  income  in  the  years in which those temporary  differences  are
expected  to  be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax  assets  and
liabilities  of a change in tax rates is recognized in income  in  the  period
that includes the enactment date.

STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS:

      The  Company  accounts  for its employee stock option  plans  using  the
intrinsic  method  under APB Opinion No. 25 and related Interpretations.   The
Company's employee stock purchase plan is also accounted for under APB Opinion
No. 25 and is treated as non-compensatory.  The Company provides supplementary
disclosures using the fair value method under SFAS No. 123.

                                       
                                       
          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

EARNINGS PER SHARE:

      On  March  3,  1997,  the  Financial Accounting Standards  Board  issued
Statement  of  Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 128, "Earnings  per
Share," replacing Accounting Principles Board ("APB")Opinion No. 15, "Earnings
Per  Share."  SFAS No. 128 replaces "primary" and "fully diluted" earnings per
common  share ("EPS")under APB Opinion No. 15 with "basic" and "diluted"  EPS.
Unlike  primary  EPS,  basic  EPS excludes the dilutive  effects  of  options,
warrants and other convertible securities.  Diluted EPS reflects the potential
dilution of securities that could share in the earnings of an entity,  similar
to  fully diluted EPS.  The Company adopted SFAS No. 128 in the fourth quarter
of 1997 and applied its provisions retroactively to all current and prior year
calculations.  The implementation of SFAS No. 128 had no significant impact on
the  calculation of earnings per common share for the years ended December 31,
1997, 1996 and 1995 and the quarterly periods contained herein.

      For  the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, basic and diluted
earnings  per common share is calculated based on the weighted average  number
of   shares  outstanding  during  each  year  (123,241,222,  122,919,767   and
110,579,096 shares, respectively).

      The effect of conversion of the Company's redeemable preferred stock, or
exercise  of the Company's stock options or warrants was not included  in  the
computation of diluted earnings per common share as it would have  been  anti-
dilutive for all periods presented.

      Supplementary  earnings per common share represents  what  earnings  per
share  would have been if the Company's issuance of redeemable preferred stock
and related retirement of debt had taken place at the beginning of the period.
For  the  year ended December 31, 1997 supplementary loss per common share  is
$(1.15).  Supplementary loss per common share was calculated by adjusting  net
loss  attributable to common shareholders by adding back interest, net of  tax
$(8.9), and deducting additional dividends $(20.1).

USE OF ESTIMATES:

      The  preparation  of financial statements in conformity  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles requires management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions  that  affect the reported amounts of assets and  liabilities  and
disclosure  of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the  financial
statements  and  the  reported amounts of revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reported  periods.  Significant estimates include the allowances for  doubtful
accounts and deferred tax assets, amortization lives for intangible assets and
accruals for self-insurance reserves.  Actual results could differ from  those
estimates.
                                       


                                       
          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS AND LONG-LIVED ASSETS TO BE DISPOSED OF:

      The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for  the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed  Of,"
on  January  1,  1996.   This  Statement requires that  long-lived  assets  be
reviewed  for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances  indicate
that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  Recoverability of assets to
be  held  and  used  is determined by the Company at the  entity  level  by  a
comparison  of  the carrying amount of the assets to future  undiscounted  net
cash  flows  expected to be generated by the assets. Impairment,  if  any,  is
measured  by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceed  the
fair  value of the assets.  Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower
of  the  carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.  Adoption  of  this
Statement  did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position,
results of operations or liquidity.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS:

      Intangible  assets, consisting of goodwill and other intangibles  (i.e.,
customer  lists and non-compete agreements), are amortized on a  straight-line
basis  over  the  expected periods to be benefited,  generally  40  years  for
goodwill, 25 years for customer lists and over the contractual lives for  non-
compete agreements.

RECLASSIFICATIONS:

      Certain  amounts in the consolidated financial statements for the  years
ended  December 31, 1996 and 1995 have been reclassified to conform  with  the
presentation adopted in 1997.

2.   MERGER AND ACQUISITIONS

      In  April 1995, the Company completed a merger (the "Merger") with Roche
Biomedical  Laboratories, Inc. ("RBL").  In connection with  the  Merger,  the
Company issued 61,329,256 shares of Common Stock to HLR Holdings, Inc. ("HLR")
and  Roche Holdings, Inc. ("Roche") in exchange for all outstanding shares  of
RBL  and  $135.7 in cash.  The exchange consideration of approximately  $558.0
for  the purchase of RBL consisted of the value of the stock issued to HLR and
Roche, as well as other direct costs of the Merger, net of cash received  from
HLR.   RBL's results of operations have been included in the Company's results
of operations since April 28, 1995.

      During  1996  and 1995, the Company acquired four and nine laboratories,
respectively,  for  an  aggregate  purchase  price,  including  assumption  of
liabilities, of $23.4 and $41.7,



                                       
          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

respectively.  The  acquisitions were accounted for as purchase  transactions.
The  excess of cost over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired during
1996  and 1995 was $22.5 and $28.2, respectively, which is included under  the
caption  "Intangible  assets,  net" in the accompanying  consolidated  balance
sheets.  The  consolidated statements of operations  reflect  the  results  of
operations of these purchased businesses from the dates of acquisition.

3.    RESTRUCTURING AND NON-RECURRING CHARGES

      During  the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company recorded pre-tax charges
of  $22.7,  related primarily to the downsizing of its Long Island,  New  York
facility  and the future consolidation into its Raritan, New Jersey  facility.
This amount includes approximately $5.2 for severance and $12.5 for the future
lease  obligation  and other facilities related charges.   The  net  workforce
reduction  as  a  result of this activity is expected to be approximately  260
employees, primarily in the laboratory's operations.

      In the second quarter of 1997, the Company determined that approximately
$12.6  of  existing  reserves  were excessive due  largely  to  proceeds  from
subleases  and  asset  disposals. Also, in the second  quarter  of  1997,  the
Company  decided to downsize the Winston-Salem, North Carolina laboratory  and
redirect  specimen  volumes to other company facilities in  order  to  realize
operational efficiencies. Restructuring charges related to the closing of  the
Winston-Salem laboratory totaled $12.6.

      In  the  second  quarter of 1996, the Company recorded  a  restructuring
charge   totaling  $13.0  for  the  shutdown  of  its  La  Jolla,   California
administrative facility and other workforce reductions.  This amount  included
approximately $8.1 for severance, $3.5 for the future lease obligation of  the
La  Jolla  facility and $1.4 for the write-down of leasehold improvements  and
fixed assets that will be abandoned or disposed of.  The La Jolla facility was
substantially  closed by the end of 1996.  The remaining workforce  reductions
took  place in other areas of the Company and were substantially completed  by
the  end of 1996.  The net workforce reduction as a result of these activities
was  approximately  250 employees. Payments for severance  were  substantially
complete by the end of 1997.

      In  addition, the Company recorded certain non-recurring charges in  the
second  quarter of 1996 related to further integration after the Merger.   The
Company decided to abandon certain data processing systems and therefore wrote
off  approximately  $6.7  in capitalized software  costs.   In  addition,  the
Company   relocated  its  principal  drug  testing  facility  to   accommodate
consolidation  of  the  RBL and Company operations and incurred  approximately
$1.3 in costs primarily related to the write-off of leasehold improvements and
building clean up.  Finally, the Company recorded a charge of $2.0 for various
other
 


                                      
          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

items  including the write-off of certain supplies which were  not  compatible
with new testing methods designed to increase efficiency.
                                       
      Following  the Merger in 1995, the Company determined that it  would  be
beneficial  to  close  Company  laboratory facilities  in  certain  geographic
regions where duplicate Company and RBL facilities existed at the time of  the
Merger.  As a result, the Company recorded a restructuring charge of $65.0  in
the second quarter of 1995.  As part of the Company's evaluation of its future
obligations  under  these restructuring activities,  certain  changes  in  the
estimates  were  made during the quarter ended June 30, 1996.   These  changes
resulted in the reclassification of certain accruals in the categories  listed
below  although  the  total  liability did not  change.   These  restructuring
activities were substantially complete as of December 31, 1996 and resulted in
a net reduction of approximately 1,600 employees.




                                       
          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

4.  ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET
                                             December 31,   December 31,
                                                1997           1996
                                             -----------    -----------
Gross accounts receivable                      $ 526.0        $ 617.2
Less contractual allowances and discounts
  and allowance for doubtful accounts           (195.4)        (111.6)
                                                ------         ------
                                               $ 330.6        $ 505.6
                                                ======         ======


      The provision for doubtful accounts was $250.5, $81.5 and $64.8 in 1997,
1996 and 1995, respectively.

      During the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company recorded a provision  for
doubtful  accounts of $182.0, which was approximately $160.0 greater than  the
amount recorded in the fourth quarter of 1996.  This pretax charge was made to
increase  the  allowance  for doubtful accounts to  a  level  that  management
believes  is appropriate to reduce its accounts receivable to the  net  amount
that management believes will ultimately be collected.

     The  Company  has experienced a deterioration in the timeliness  of  cash
collections and a corresponding increase in accounts receivable.  The  primary
causes  of  this  situation are the increased medical  necessity  and  related
diagnosis  code  requirements from third-party payors and the complexities  in
the  billing  process  (data capture) arising from  changing  requirements  of
private  insurance  companies (managed care).  Management previously  believed
that  this deterioration in the timeliness of cash collections would not  have
any significant impact on the ultimate collectability of the receivables.

      In  late 1996, to address the deteriorating cash collections, management
developed  various  short-term improvement projects  ("initiatives")  that  it
anticipated  would improve the timeliness of collections by the end  of  1997.
Initially,  it appeared that these initiatives were having a positive  impact,
as the growth in the Company's Days' Sales Outstanding (DSO) stabilized in the
first and second quarters of 1997.  However, during the third quarter of 1997,
despite continuing focused efforts on the initiatives, the Company's DSO began
increasing  again.   In response, management intensified its  efforts  on  the
aforementioned  initiatives  and  added new initiatives  for  the  purpose  of
significantly lowering the DSO by December 31, 1997.

      In  the  fourth  quarter of 1997, management evaluated the  initiatives'
overall  effect  and  concluded  that,  while  helpful  in  improving  certain
processes, they had not had any significant impact on improving the  Company's
cash  collections  on  aged  receivables.  In  recognition  of  the  Company's
inability  to  enhance collections on a sustained basis, an  increase  in  the
allowance for doubtful accounts was considered necessary by management.




          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

5.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET
                                             December 31,   December 31,
                                                1997           1996
                                             ----------     ----------
Land                                          $    9.4       $    9.2
Buildings and building improvements               65.2           64.2
Machinery and equipment                          293.9          289.3
Leasehold improvements                            55.4           58.3
Furniture and fixtures                            25.9           27.0
Buildings under capital leases                     5.4            9.6
Equipment under capital leases                     4.6             --
                                               -------        -------
                                                 459.8          457.6
Less accumulated depreciation
  and amortization of capital lease assets      (204.9)        (174.7)
                                               -------        -------
                                              $  254.9       $  282.9
                                               =======        =======


6.  INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET
                                            December 31,    December 31,
                                                1997           1996
                                            -----------     -----------
Goodwill                                      $  774.0       $  782.7
Other intangibles                                224.7          225.3
                                               -------        -------
                                                 998.7        1,008.0
Less accumulated amortization                   (147.4)        (116.9)
                                               -------        -------
                                              $  851.3       $  891.1
                                               =======        =======
                                       
7.  ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER
                                             December 31,   December 31,
                                                1997           1996
                                             ----------     ----------
Employee compensation and benefits            $   50.4       $   49.5
Deferred acquisition related payments             12.0           12.9
Acquisition related reserves                       8.6           17.2
Restructuring reserves                            21.8           25.5
Accrued taxes                                     13.1           15.4
Self-insurance reserves                           24.1           31.1
Interest payable                                   6.0           12.8
Other                                              4.7            4.0
                                               -------         ------
                                              $  140.7        $ 168.4
                                               =======         ======






8.  OTHER LIABILITIES
                                             December 31,   December 31,
                                                1997           1996
                                             ----------     ----------
Deferred acquisition related payments         $    9.6       $   14.8
Acquisition related reserves                      10.6           12.3
Restructuring reserves                            16.8            9.1
Deferred income taxes                             34.3           38.7
Postretirement benefit obligation                 29.4           27.0
Self-insurance reserves                           41.1           41.1
Other                                              0.5            1.5
                                               -------        -------
                                              $  142.3       $  144.5
                                               =======        =======




          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

9.   SETTLEMENTS

     As previously discussed in the Company's public filings, the Office
of  Inspector  General ("OIG") of the Department of Health and Human  Services
and  the  Department  of Justice ("DOJ") had been investigating  certain  past
laboratory practices of the predecessor companies of the Company. On  November
21,  1996, the Company reached a settlement with the OIG and the DOJ regarding
the  prior  billing  practices  of  these  predecessor  companies  (the  "1996
Government Settlement"). Consistent with this overall settlement, the  Company
paid  $187.0  to  the  Federal Government in December  1996  (the  "Settlement
Payment")  with  proceeds from a loan from Roche (the  "Roche  Loan").   As  a
result  of negotiations related to the 1996 Government Settlement, the Company
recorded  a  charge  of $185.0 in the third quarter of 1996  (the  "Settlement
Charge")  to  increase  reserves for the 1996 Government Settlement  described
above,  and other related expenses of government and private claims  resulting
therefrom.

      In the second quarter of 1995, the Company took a pre-tax special charge
of  $10.0  in  connection with the estimated costs of settling various  claims
pending  against the Company, substantially all of which were billing disputes
with various third-party payors relating to the contention that NHL improperly
included  tests  for  HDL cholesterol and serum ferritin  in  its  basic  test
profile  without clearly offering an alternative profile that did not  include
these  medical tests.  As of December 31, 1996, the majority of these disputes
had been settled.

10. LONG-TERM DEBT

      The  Company entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated
as  of  March 31, 1997 (the "Amended Credit Agreement"), with the banks  named
therein (the "Banks") and Credit Suisse First Boston, as administrative  agent
(the  "Bank  Agent"), under which the Banks made available to  the  Company  a
senior term loan facility of $693.8 (the "Amended Term Loan Facility")  and  a
revolving  credit facility of $450.0 (the "Amended Revolving Credit  Facility"
and, together with the Term Loan Facility, the "Bank Facility") which includes
a  $50.0  letter of credit sublimit.  The Bank Facility is unconditionally and
irrevocably guaranteed by certain of the Company's subsidiaries.

      Under  the  Amended Credit Agreement, maturities under the Amended  Term
Loan  Facility  were extended in aggregate to $46.4 in 1999,  $92.8  in  2000,
$139.2   in   2001  through  2003  and  $87.0  in  2004  (paid  in   quarterly
installments).  The maturities of the Amended Revolving Credit  Facility  were
also extended approximately two years to March 31, 2002.



                                       
          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

      Both  the  Amended Term Loan Facility and the Amended  Revolving  Credit
Facility  bear  interest, at the option of the Company, at (i) the  base  rate
plus  the  applicable base rate margin or (ii) the Eurodollar  rate  plus  the
applicable Eurodollar rate margin.  The Amended Credit Agreement provides that
in  the  event of a reduction of the percentage of Common Stock held  by  HLR,
Roche and their affiliates (other than the Company and its subsidiaries) below
25%,   the  applicable  interest  margins  and  facility  fees  on  borrowings
outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement will increase.  The  amount  of
the increase will depend, in part, on the leverage ratio of the Company at the
time  of  such  reduction.   In  addition,  pursuant  to  the  Amended  Credit
Agreement,   the   applicable  interest  margins  on  borrowings   outstanding
thereunder are based upon the leverage ratio.

      The  Amended Credit Agreement contains covenants similar to, and in  the
case  of  limitations on acquisitions and incurrence of additional debt,  more
restrictive  than  the covenants set forth in the previously  existing  credit
agreement.

      The  Amended Credit Agreement  contains financial covenants with respect
to a leverage ratio, interest coverage ratio, minimum shareholders' equity and
excess  cash  flow.  The covenant levels are less restrictive than  under  the
previously  existing  credit agreement, and are computed quarterly,  with  the
exception  of  excess cash flow which is computed annually.  In addition,  the
Amended  Credit  Agreement  places certain  restrictions  on  the  payment  of
dividends.

      In February 1998 and effective December 31, 1997, the Company negotiated
an  amendment  to  the Amended Credit Agreement, covering both  long-term  and
revolving  credit,  of  certain covenants contained  in  the  agreement.   The
amendment excludes certain actual expenses incurred during the fourth  quarter
of  1997 from interest coverage and leverage ratio calculations applicable  to
the  quarters  ended  December  31,  1997 through  September  30,  1998.   The
amendment   also   excludes  these  expenses  from  certain   other   covenant
calculations  applicable  to the quarter ending  December  31,  1997  and  all
quarterly periods thereafter.

      At  December 31, 1997 and 1996 the Company was a party to interest  rate
swap  agreements with certain major financial institutions, rated A or  better
by  Moody's Investor Service, solely to manage its interest rate exposure with
respect  to  $600.0  of  its  floating rate debt to a  weighted-average  fixed
interest  rate of 5.95%, through requiring that the Company pay a  fixed  rate
amount  in  exchange  for the financial institutions paying  a  floating  rate
amount.   Amounts  paid by the Company in 1997 and 1996 were  $1.7  and  $2.0,
respectively,  which  were recorded in interest expense  in  the  accompanying
consolidated statements of operations.  The notional amounts of the agreements
are  used  to measure the interest to be paid or received and do not represent
the  amount  of  exposure to credit loss.  The current  agreements  mature  in
September 1998.  The estimated cost at which the Company could have terminated
these



          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

agreements as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 was approximately $0.4  and  $0.9,
respectively.  This fair value was estimated by discounting the expected  cash
flows  using  rates currently available  for interest rate swaps with  similar
terms  and  maturities. Interest rates in effect for both  the  long-term  and
revolving credit agreement were 6.9% as of December 31, 1997 and 1996.

11.  ISSUANCE OF MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK

     On May 19, 1997 the Board of Directors of the Company declared a dividend
of 10,000,000 transferable subscription rights which were then issued pro rata
to  holders of its common stock on May 29, 1997 entitling them to purchase  up
to  an  aggregate of $500.0 of redeemable convertible preferred stock issuable
in  two series at a subscription price of $50 per share (the "Preferred  Stock
Offering").   The subscription period ended on June 16, 1997.  On  that  date,
rights  were  exercised  to  purchase 4,363,202 shares  of  Series  A  8  1/2%
Convertible Exchangeable Preferred Stock  ("Series A") and 5,636,798 shares of
Series B 8 1/2% Convertible Pay-in-Kind Preferred Stock ("Series B"), each  at
a subscription price of $50 per share.  Roche exercised its basic subscription
privilege  in  full for 4,988,751 share of Series B and other  rights  holders
purchased the remaining 5,011,249 shares.

      The  Series A is convertible at the option of the holder after September
30,  1997  into common stock, will pay cash dividends and will be exchangeable
on  or  after  June  30, 2000 at the Company's option for 8  1/2%  Convertible
Subordinated Notes due June 30, 2012. The Series B will be convertible at  the
option of the holder after June 30, 2000 into common stock, will pay dividends
in-kind  until  June  30,  2003,  and in cash  thereafter,  and  will  not  be
exchangeable  for  notes.  The conversion rate for both  series  of  preferred
stock  is  18.1818 shares of common stock per share of preferred stock.   Each
series  of preferred stock will be mandatorily redeemable after June 30,  2012
at  $50  per  share and will be redeemable at the option of the Company  after
July 7, 2000 at prices declining from $52.83 to $50.00 in 2006 and thereafter.
Neither series of preferred stock entitles the holder to any voting rights  in
the  Company.  Net proceeds from the Preferred Stock Offering were $486.9  and
were  used  to  repay a loan from Roche, including accrued  interest,  and  to
reduce  amounts outstanding under the Company's term loan and revolving credit
facilities.

      Offering  costs of $13.1 were recorded against the aggregate  preference
value  of the preferred stock and will be accreted up to the date of mandatory
redemption.  Accretion for the year ended December 31, 1997 was $0.5.




          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

12.  LOAN FROM AFFILIATE

      In  December 1996, the Company financed the Settlement Payment with  the
proceeds of a $187.0 loan from Roche bearing interest at 6.625% per annum.  In
June  1997,  the Company repaid the Roche note and all accrued  interest  with
proceeds from the Preferred Stock Offering.  Interest expense related to  this
loan was $ 5.7 and $ 0.1 in 1997 and 1996, respectively.

13.  INCOME TAXES



      The  effective  tax  rates on earnings (loss)  before  income  taxes  is
reconciled to statutory federal income tax rates as follows:




                                       
          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)


      There  was no valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as of December
31,  1995.  Realization of the deferred tax assets related to  the  state  net
operating loss carry forwards, the postretirement benefit obligation  as  well
as certain other temporary differences is considered less likely than not, and
therefore, a valuation allowance of $32.0 was established for these  items  in
1996.  The increase in the valuation allowance of $10.0 from December 31, 1996
to  December  31, 1997 is due to the uncertain realization of  the  state  tax
effect  of  certain temporary differences.   The Company believes that  it  is
more  likely  than not that the results of future operations  and  carry  back
availability will generate sufficient taxable income to realize the  remaining
deferred  tax  assets.   The  amount  of the  deferred  tax  asset  considered
realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if estimates of  future
taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced.

      During  1997,  the Company reduced goodwill by $7.3 with a corresponding
decrease  in  its  deferred  tax liabilities due to  adjustments  to  acquired
deferred tax balances.

      The  Company  has  state tax loss carryforwards of approximately  $208.3
which expire, starting in 1998, through 2012.
                                       

                                       
          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

14.  STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS

      In  1988,  the  Company  adopted the 1988 Stock Option  Plan,  reserving
2,000,000  shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to options  and  stock
appreciation rights that may be granted under the plan.  The Stock Option Plan
was  amended  in  1990 to limit the number of options to be issued  under  the
Stock  Option  Plan  to  550,000  in  the  aggregate  (including  all  options
previously  granted).  In 1991, the number of shares authorized  for  issuance
under the Stock Option Plan was increased to an aggregate of 2,550,000.

      In  1994,  the  Company  adopted the 1994 Stock Option  Plan,  reserving
3,000,000  shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to options  and  stock
appreciation rights that may be granted under the plan.

     In connection with the Merger, all options outstanding as of December 13,
1994  became vested and employees were given the choice to (i) cancel  options
outstanding  as  of December 13, 1994 and receive cash and  shares  of  common
stock  according to a formula included in the merger agreement or (ii) convert
such  options  into  new  options based on a formula included  in  the  merger
agreement.  In connection with the cancellation of stock options, the  Company
paid  a  total  of $5.5 in cash and issued 538,307 shares of common  stock  to
option  holders.  The value of such amounts were considered transaction  costs
of the merger and therefore were not treated as compensation expense.  Also, a
total  of  562,532 options were reissued as a result of option conversions  at
exercise prices between $11.293 and $16.481.

      In  1997,  the  Company  adopted the 1997 Stock Option  Plan,  reserving
6,000,000  shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to options  and  stock
appreciation  rights that may be granted under the plan.  During  1997,  there
were  4,080,000 options granted to officers and key employees of the  company.
Exercise prices for these options ranged from $2.50 to $3.13.

      At  December 31, 1997, there were 5,936,816 additional shares  available
for  grant  under  the Company's Stock Option Plans.  The per share  weighted-
average fair value of stock options granted during 1997 was $1.56 per share on
the  date  of  grant  using the Black-Scholes option-pricing  model  with  the
following  weighted-average  assumptions:  -  expected  dividend  yield  0.0%,
volatility  of 0.5, risk-free interest rate of 5.6%, and an expected  life  of
five years.

      In  1997, the Company adopted the 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the
"Plan"),   reserving   3,500,000  shares  of  common   stock   for   issuance.
Substantially all employees of the Company are eligible to participate in  the
Plan  through  periodic  payroll withholdings.   For  each  six-month  period,
eligible  employees  will receive options to purchase shares  at  85%  of  the
lesser of the fair market value of a share of common stock at the beginning or
end  of  the withholding period.  In July of 1997, the Company issued  607,536
shares of common




          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

stock to participating employees with payroll withholdings of $1.6. In January
and  February  of 1998, the Company issued 923,335 shares of common  stock  to
participating employees with payroll withholdings of $1.6.

      The  per  share weighted-average grant date fair value of  the  benefits
granted  under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the first six  months  and
second  six months of 1997 was $0.90 and $0.80, respectively, using the Black-
Scholes  option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:
first  six  months-expected dividend yield 0.0%, volatility of 0.7,  risk-free
interest  rate  of 5.2%, expected life of 181 days; second six months-expected
dividend  yield  0.0%,  volatility of 0.6, risk-free interest  rate  of  5.1%,
expected life of 184 days.

      The  Company applies the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 in  accounting
for  its plans and, accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized  for
its  stock  compensation plans in the financial statements.  Had  the  Company
determined compensation cost based on the fair value method as defined in SFAS
No.  123,  the Company's net loss would have been increased to the  pro  forma
amounts indicated below:


      Pro forma net loss reflects only options granted in 1997, 1996 and 1995.
Therefore, the full impact of calculating compensation cost for stock  options
under  SFAS  No.  123  is  not reflected in the pro  forma  net  loss  amounts
presented  above  because  compensation cost is reflected  over  the  optionsO
vesting period of two to three years and compensation cost for options granted
prior to January 1, 1995 is not considered.

      The  following table summarizes grants of non-qualified options made  by
the  Company to officers and key employees under all plans.  Stock options are
generally  granted  at  an exercise price equal to or greater  than  the  fair
market  price  per share on the date of grant.  Also, for each grant,  options
vest  ratably over a period of two to three years on the anniversaries of  the
grant date, subject to their earlier expiration or termination.




          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     Changes  in options outstanding under the plans for the  periods
indicated were as follows:
                                                      Weighted-Average
                                       Number          Exercise Price
                                     of Options          per Option
                                     ----------       ---------------

Outstanding at January 1, 1995       3,502,713            $14.637

    Granted                          1,378,000            $13.000
    Merger-related grants              562,532            $15.870
    Exercised                          (20,542)           $10.297
    Merger-related  cancellations   (3,459,167)           $14.653
    Canceled                          (222,291)           $14.816

                                    ----------
Outstanding at December 31, 1995     1,741,245            $14.637

    Canceled                          (443,027)           $14.104

                                    ----------
Outstanding at December 31, 1996     1,298,218            $14.637

    Granted                          4,080,000            $ 2.900
    Canceled                          (589,500)           $ 9.508

                                    ----------
Outstanding at December 31, 1997     4,788,718            $ 4.963
                                    ==========

Exercisable at December 31, 1997     1,769,893            $ 8.556
                                    ==========


     The  weighted  average remaining life of options outstanding  at
December 31, 1997 is approximately 9.0 years.

15.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

      At  December  31,  1997  and  1996, 61,329,256  shares  of  the
Company's  outstanding  common  stock,  or  approximately  49.6%   at
December  31,  1997  and 49.9% at December 31, 1996,  were  owned  by
Roche.   In  addition, Roche owned 5,214,810 shares of the  Company's
redeemable  convertible  preferred stock at  December  31,  1997,  or
approximately  50.8%.   No  voting rights  are  associated  with  the
redeemable preferred shares.

      The  Company  purchases  certain  items,  primarily  laboratory
testing  supplies from various affiliates of Roche.  Total  purchases
from  these  affiliates, which are recorded in cost  of  sales,  were
$25.2,  $19.6 and $11.0 in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Amounts
owed  to affiliates at December 31, 1997 and 1996 were $2.2 and $3.5,
respectively.

      As  of  December  31,  1997  and 1996 the  number  of  warrants
outstanding to purchase the Company's common stock was 22,151,308, of
which 8,325,000 warrants were held by an affiliate of Roche.  These



                                       
          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

warrants are exercisable at a price of $22.00 per share and expire on
April 28, 2000.

16.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

      The  Company is involved in litigation which purports to  be  a
class  action brought on behalf of certain patients, private insurers
and  benefit  plans that paid for laboratory testing services  during
the  time  frame  covered  by  the 1996 Government  Settlement.   The
Company has also received certain similar claims brought on behalf of
certain  other insurance companies, some of which have been  resolved
for  immaterial amounts.  These claims for private reimbursement  are
similar to the government claims settled in 1996.  However, no amount
of damages has been specified at this time and, with the exception of
the  above, no settlement discussions have taken place.  The  Company
is carefully evaluating these claims. However, due to the early stage
of  the claims, the ultimate outcome of these claims cannot presently
be predicted.

     The Company is also involved in certain claims and legal actions
arising  in the ordinary course of business.  These matters  include,
but  are  not  limited  to, inquires from governmental  agencies  and
Medicare  or  Medicaid carriers requesting comment on allegations  of
billing  irregularities  that have been brought  to  their  attention
through  billing  audits  or  third  parties.   In  the  opinion   of
management, based upon the advice of counsel and consideration of all
facts  available  at  this time, the ultimate  disposition  of  these
matters  will  not  have a material adverse effect on  the  financial
position, results of operations or liquidity of the Company.

      Under  the  Company's present insurance programs,  coverage  is
obtained  for catastrophic exposures as well as those risks  required
to be insured by law or contract.  The Company is responsible for the
uninsured portion of losses related primarily to general, product and
vehicle   liability  and  workers'  compensation.   The  self-insured
retentions are on a per occurrence basis without any aggregate annual
limit.   Provisions  for  losses expected under  these  programs  are
recorded  based  upon  the  Company's  estimates  of  the  aggregated
liability  of  claims incurred.  At December 31, 1997 and  1996,  the
Company  had  provided  letters of credit  aggregating  approximately
$26.1  and $17.6, respectively, primarily in connection with  certain
insurance programs.

      During 1991, the Company guaranteed a $9.0, five-year loan to a
third  party for construction of a new laboratory to replace  one  of
the  Company's  existing  facilities.  Following  its  completion  in
November  of  1992, the building was leased to the  Company  by  this
third  party.   Such  transaction is treated as a capital  lease  for
financial  reporting purposes.  The associated lease  term  continues
for a period of 15 years, expiring in 2007.  Under the terms of this



                                       
     LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
            (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

guarantee, as modified, the Company is required to maintain  105%  of
the  outstanding  loan  balance including  any  overdue  interest  as
collateral  in  a custody account established and maintained  at  the
lending  institution.  As of December 31, 1997 and 1996, the  Company
had   placed  $9.5  of  investments  in  the  custody  account.  Such
investments are included under the caption "Other assets, net" in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

      In  January, 1998 the third party sold this facility to a  Real
Estate  Investment  Trust  company.  This  transaction  relieved  the
original  guarantee  required  of the  Company.   Currently,  a  rent
deposit  of $1.5 is the only requirement imposed by the new  property
owners.   On  February  2, 1998, the Company  received  $8.0  of  the
investments  previously held in the custodial account.  The  proceeds
were used to reduce revolving loan balances outstanding.
                                       
      The  Company leases various facilities and equipment under non-
cancelable lease arrangements.  Future minimum rental commitments for
leases with noncancellable terms of one year or more at December  31,
1997 are as follows:

                                   Operating         Capital
                                   ---------         --------
     1998                             41.1              3.6
     1999                             32.9              3.7
     2000                             25.4              2.8
     2001                             18.0              2.6
     2002                             14.7              2.4
     Thereafter                       58.4             12.4
                                    ------           ------

     Total minimum lease payments    190.5             27.5
     Less:
       Amounts included in
         restructuring accruals         --             15.3
       Amount representing interest     --              5.0
                                    ------           ------
     Total minimum operating
       lease payments and
       present value of minimum
       capital lease payments      $ 190.5          $   7.2
                                    ======           ======

     Current                                        $   1.4
     Non-current                                        5.8
                                                     ------
                                                    $   7.2
                                                     ======

      Rental  expense, which includes rent for real estate, equipment
and  automobiles under operating leases, amounted to $67.9, $70.6 and
$60.4  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  1997,  1996  and  1995,
respectively.

17.  PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT PLANS

      The  Company maintains a defined contribution pension plan  for
all eligible employees. Eligible employees are defined as individuals




      LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
            (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

who are age 21 or older and have been employed by the Company for  at
least  six  consecutive months and completed 1,000 hours of  service.
Company  contributions  to  the plan are based  on  a  percentage  of
employee  contributions.  The cost of this plan was  $6.9,  $7.5  and
$5.8 in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

      In  addition,  substantially all employees of the  Company  are
covered  by  a defined benefit retirement plan (the "Company  Plan").
The benefits to be paid under the Company Plan are based on years  of
credited service and average final compensation.

      In  connection with the Merger, the Company assumed obligations
under  the  RBL defined benefit pension plan ("RBL Plan").  Effective
July 1, 1995, the plan was amended to provide benefits similar to the
Company   Plan,   as  amended.   Certain  employees   of   RBL   were
grandfathered  so  that  their benefits  were  not  affected  by  the
amendment.  On January 1, 1996, the two plans were merged.

      The  Company's policy is to fund the Company Plan with at least
the   minimum   amount  required  by  applicable  regulations.    The
components  of  net  periodic pension cost for each  of  the  defined
benefit plans are summarized as follows:

                              Company Plan            RBL Plan
                           -------------------  --------------------
                               Years ended       Eight months ended
                               December 31,          December 31,
                            1997   1996   1995          1995
                           -------------------   -------------------
Service cost               $10.3  $10.3  $ 3.2         $ 2.6
Interest cost                7.9    7.0    2.7           2.3
Actual return on
  plan assets              (20.2) (11.9)  (7.6)         (4.3)
Net amortization and
  deferral                  10.0    3.3    4.2           1.2
                            ----    ----  ----          ----
Net periodic pension cost  $ 8.0  $ 8.7  $ 2.5         $ 1.8
                            ====   ====   ====          ====

The status of the defined benefit plans are as follows:

                                                   Company Plan
                                                ------------------
                                                    December 31,
                                                   1997    1996
                                                ------------------
Actuarial present value
  of benefit obligations:
    Vested benefits                             $ 105.3  $  86.2
    Non-vested benefits                            16.1     11.2
                                                 ------   ------
Accumulated benefit obligation                    121.4     97.4
Effect of projected future salary increases         7.0      6.3
                                                 ------   ------
Projected benefit obligation                      128.4    103.7
Fair value of plan assets,principally
  corporate equity securities and fixed
  income investments                              118.5     96.2
                                                 ------   ------
Unfunded projected benefit obligation               9.9      7.5
Unrecognized prior service cost                    15.5     17.4
Unrecognized net loss                             (16.9)   (14.9)
                                                 ------   ------
Accrued pension cost                            $   8.5  $  10.0
                                                 ======   ======




          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

Assumptions used in the accounting for the defined benefit plans were
as follows:

                                                  Company Plan
                                                -----------------
                                                 1997      1996
                                                -----------------

Weighted average discount rate                    7.00%    7.75%
Weighted average rate of increase
  in future compensation levels                   4.0%     4.0%
Weighted average expected long-
  term rate of return                             9.0%     9.0%

      In  addition,  the  Company  assumed  obligations  under  RBL's
postretirement  medical plan effective with  the  Merger.   Effective
July  1,  1995,  coverage under the plan was  restricted  to  certain
existing  RBL  employees.  This plan is unfunded  and  the  Company's
policy is to fund benefits as claims are incurred. The components  of
postretirement benefit expense are as follows:

                                                             Eight Months
                                 Year ended     Year ended      ended
                                December 31,   December 31,  December 31,
                                   1997           1996          1995
                               -------------  ------------  ------------

Service cost                     $  1.0         $  0.9        $  1.1
Interest cost                       2.4            1.4           1.4
                                  -----          -----         -----
Postretirement benefit costs     $  3.4         $  2.3        $  2.5
                                  =====          =====         =====

The status of the plan is as follows:
                                                       December 31,
                                                      1997     1996
                                                    -----------------
Accumulated postretirement benefit
  obligation:
    Retirees                                        $  6.2   $  4.9
    Fully eligible active plan participants           14.4      8.9
    Other active plan participants                    20.0     14.8
                                                     -----    -----
                                                      40.6     28.6
Unrecognized net loss                                (11.2)    (1.6)
                                                     -----    -----
Accrued postretirement benefit obligation           $ 29.4   $ 27.0
                                                     =====    =====

      The weighted-average discount rates used in the calculation  of
the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation were 7.1% and 7.9%,
respectively, as of December 31, 1997 and 1996. The health care  cost
trend  rate was assumed to be 8.0% and 8.5%, respectively,  declining
gradually  to 5.0% in the year 2006 and thereafter.  The health  care
cost trend rate has a significant effect on the amounts reported.  To
illustrate, increasing the assumed health care cost trend rates by  a
percentage   point  in  each  year  would  increase  the  accumulated
postretirement  benefit obligation as of December 31,  1997  by  $7.6
million.   The impact of a percentage point increase on the aggregate
of  the service cost and interest cost components of the net periodic
postretirement benefit cost results in an increase of $0.7.

                                         
          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

18.  QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)


      During  the  fourth  quarter of 1997, the  Company  recorded  a
provision  for  doubtful accounts of $182.0, which was  approximately
$160.0  greater  than the amount recorded in the  fourth  quarter  of
1996.   This  pre-tax charge was made to increase the  allowance  for
doubtful  accounts to a level that management believes is appropriate
to  reduce  its accounts receivable to the net amount that management
believes will ultimately be collected.

      In  the  fourth quarter of 1997, the Company recorded a pre-tax
charge   of  $22.7,  related  primarily  to  a  restructuring  charge
associated with the downsizing of its Long Island, New York  facility
and the future consolidation into its Raritan, New Jersey facility.

      In  the  second  quarter  of 1997 the Company  determined  that
approximately $12.6 of existing restructuring reserves were excessive
due  largely to expected proceeds from subleases and asset disposals.
Also,  in  the second quarter of 1997 the Company decided to downsize
the  Winston-Salem, North Carolina laboratory and  redirect  specimen
volumes  to  other company facilities in order to realize operational
efficiencies.  Restructuring charges related to the  closing  of  the
Winston-Salem laboratory totaled $12.6.


                                       
          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

      In  the  third quarter of 1996, the Company recorded a  pre-tax
charge  of $185.0 to increase reserves related to the 1996 Government
Settlement  and  other  related expenses of  government  and  private
claims resulting therefrom.

      In  the  second quarter of 1996, the Company recorded a pre-tax
charge   of  $23.0  relating  to  the  shutdown  of  its   La   Jolla
administrative facility and other non-recurring charges. In addition,
the  Company  recorded  an additional $10.0  provision  for  doubtful
accounts  which  was  based  on  the  Company's  determination   that
additional reserves were needed, based on trends that became  evident
in  the  second  quarter, for lower collection rates, primarily  from
Medicare.
                                       
19.  NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

      In  June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board  issued
SFAS  No.  130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," and SFAS  No.  131,
"Disclosures   about   Segments  of   an   Enterprise   and   Related
Information."   Both  Statements  are  effective  for  fiscal   years
beginning after December 15, 1997. SFAS No. 130 establishes standards
for  reporting and display of comprehensive income and its components
in  financial statements.  SFAS No. 131 establishes standards for the
way   that  public  business  enterprises  report  information  about
operating  segments in annual financial statements and requires  that
those   enterprises  report  selected  information  about   operating
segments  in interim financial reports issued to shareholders.   SFAS
No.  131  requires  presentation  of segment  information  under  the
"management approach," which aligns segments disclosure with the  way
that  management  organizes the segments within  the  enterprise  for
making operational decisions and assessing performance.

      In  February  1998,  the Financial Accounting  Standards  Board
issued SFAS No. 132, "Employers' Disclosures About Pensions and Other
Postretirement  Benefits."  This Statement is  effective  for  fiscal
years  beginning after December 15, 1997. The objective of  SFAS  No.
132  is  to  provide financial statement users with more  comparable,
understandable  and  concise information  concerning  the  employer's
obligations  to  fund  retirement plans  and  provide  postretirement
benefits.  The  Statement only applies to disclosures  and  does  not
address the measurement of the employer's obligation.

      Management  has not yet completed its assessment of  how  these
standards  will impact existing disclosures. The Company  will  adopt
these standards in 1998 as required.




