
10-K405


                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                          WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                                 FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
  X  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended       DECEMBER 31, 1995                
                         --------------------------------------------
                                       OR
      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from                to
                              ---------------    --------------------
Commission file number                   1-11353                      
                      -----------------------------------------------
             LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
         (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         DELAWARE                            13-3757370
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of           (I.R.S. Employer  
 incorporation or organization              Identification No.)

  358 SOUTH MAIN STREET, BURLINGTON, NORTH CAROLINA           27215
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
      (Address of principal executive offices)             (Zip Code)

                            910-229-1127       
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
         (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     Title of each class           Name of exchange on which registered 
- -----------------------------        ------------------------------------
Common Stock, $0.01 par value           New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g)of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period 
that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been 
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X  No       

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the 
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements 
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to 
this Form 10-K.  

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of 
the registrant, by reference to the price at which the stock was sold as of a 
specified date within 60 days prior to the date of filing:  $477,240,862 at 
February 26, 1996.  

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes 
of common stock, as of the latest practicable date: 122,908,722 shares at 
February 26, 1996, of which 61,329,256 shares are held by  indirect wholly 
owned subsidiaries of Roche Holding Ltd. The number of warrants outstanding to
purchase shares of the issuer's common stock is 22,151,308 as of February 26, 
1996, of which 8,325,000 are held by an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of 
Roche Holding Ltd.



                                      PART I

Item 1.  DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

   Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings ("Company") is one of 
the leading clinical laboratory companies in the United States. 
Through a national network of laboratories, the Company offers a 
broad range of testing services used by the medical profession in the 
diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of disease and other clinical 
states. The Company's principal executive offices are located at 358 
South Main Street, Burlington, North Carolina 27215, and its 
telephone number is 910-229-1127.

    Prior to April 28, 1995, the Company's name was National Health 
Laboratories Holdings Inc. ("NHL").  On April 28, 1995, following 
approval at a special meeting of the stockholders of the Company, the 
name was changed to Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings.  On 
April 28, 1995 the Company also completed a merger with Roche 
Biomedical Laboratories, Inc. ("RBL") pursuant to an Agreement and 
Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") dated as of December 13, 1994 
(the "Merger").

   Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of 
common stock, par value $0.01 per share of the Company ("Common 
Stock), was converted (the "Share Conversion") into (i) 0.72 of a 
share of Common Stock of the Company and (ii) a distribution of $5.60 
in cash per share, without interest.  The aggregate number of shares 
issued and outstanding following the Share Conversion was 61,041,159.  
Also, an aggregate of 538,307 shares of Common Stock were issued in 
connection with the cancellation of certain employee stock options.

   In addition, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, an aggregate of 
61,329,256 shares of Common Stock were issued to HLR Holdings, Inc. 
("HLR") and its designee, Roche Holdings, Inc. in exchange for  all 
shares of common stock, no par value, of RBL outstanding immediately 
prior to the effective date of the Merger (other than treasury 
shares, which were canceled) and a cash contribution of $135.7 
million. The issuance of such shares of Common Stock constituted 
approximately 49.9% of the total outstanding shares of Common Stock 
outstanding immediately after the Merger.

   The Company also made a distribution (the "Warrant 
Distribution") to holders of record as of April 21, 1995, of 0.16308 
of a warrant per outstanding share of Common Stock, each such warrant 
representing the right to purchase one newly issued share of Common 
Stock for $22.00 (subject to adjustment) on April 28, 2000 (each such 
warrant, a "Warrant").  Approximately 13,826,000 Warrants were issued 
to stockholders entitled to receive Warrants in the Warrant 
Distribution. In addition, pursuant to the Merger Agreement on April 
28, 1995 the Company issued to Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., for a purchase 
price of approximately $51.0 million, 8,325,000 Warrants to purchase




shares of Common Stock, which Warrants have the terms described 
above. 

   Until the initial public offering of approximately 5% of the 
Company's common stock in July 1988, the Company was a subsidiary of 
Revlon Holdings Inc. ("Revlon"), then known as Revlon, Inc., which, 
in turn, is a subsidiary of Mafco Holdings Inc. ("Mafco"), a 
corporation that is 100% owned by Ronald O. Perelman. Mafco's 
indirect ownership as of December 31, 1995 is approximately 12% of 
the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock.

   On June 23, 1994, the Company acquired Allied Clinical 
Laboratories, Inc.  ("Allied"), then the sixth largest independent 
clinical laboratory testing company in the United States (in terms of 
net revenues), as a wholly owned subsidiary for approximately $191.5 
million in cash plus the assumption of $24.0 million of Allied 
indebtedness and the recognition of approximately $5.0 million of 
Allied net liabilities (the "Allied Acquisition").

   Since its founding in 1971 and with the Merger and Allied 
Acquisition, the Company has grown into a network of 31 major 
laboratories and approximately 1,500 service sites consisting of 
branches, patient service centers and STAT laboratories, serving 
customers in 48 states.

The Clinical Laboratory Testing Industry

   Laboratory tests and procedures are used generally by hospitals, 
physicians and other health care providers to assist in the 
diagnosis, evaluation, monitoring and treatment of diseases and other 
medical conditions through the examination of substances in the 
blood, tissues and other specimens.  Clinical laboratory testing is 
generally categorized as either clinical testing, which is performed 
on body fluids including blood and urine, or anatomical pathology 
testing, which is performed on tissue and other samples, including 
human cells.  Clinical and anatomical pathology procedures are 
frequently ordered as part of regular physician office visits and 
hospital admissions in connection with the diagnosis and treatment of 
illnesses.  Certain of these tests and procedures are used 
principally as tools in the diagnosis and treatment of a wide variety 
of medical conditions such as cancer, AIDS, endocrine disorders, 
cardiac disorders and genetic disease.  The most frequently requested 
tests include blood chemistry analyses, urinalyses, blood cell 
counts, PAP smears, AIDS tests, microbiology cultures and procedures 
and alcohol and other substance-abuse tests.  The clinical laboratory 
industry consists primarily of three types of providers: hospital 
based laboratories, physician-office laboratories and independent 
clinical laboratories, such as those owned by the Company.

   The Company believes that in 1995 approximately 46 percent of 
the clinical testing revenues in the United States were derived by 
hospital-based laboratories, approximately 15 percent was derived by 




physicians in their offices and laboratories and approximately 39 
percent went to independent clinical laboratories.  The Health Care 
Financing Administration ("HCFA") of the Department of Health and 
Human Services ("HHS") has estimated that there are approximately 
5,700 independent clinical laboratories in the United States.  The 
Company believes that the volume of clinical laboratory testing has 
grown over the past few years due to several factors, including 
primarily: an expanded base of scientific knowledge which has led to 
the development of more sophisticated specialized tests and an 
increase in the awareness of physicians of the value of clinical 
laboratory testing as a cost-effective means of prevention, early 
detection of disease and monitoring of treatment.  Additional factors 
which have contributed to the recent growth include: an increase in 
the number and types of tests which are, due to advances in 
technology and increased cost efficiencies, readily available on a 
more affordable basis to physicians; expanded substance-abuse testing 
by corporations and governmental agencies; increased testing for 
sexually transmitted diseases such as AIDS and the general aging of 
the population in the United States.

Laboratory Testing Operations and Services

   The Company has 31 major laboratories, and approximately 1,500 
service sites consisting of branches, patient service centers and 
STAT laboratories.  A "branch" is a central office which collects 
specimens in a region for shipment to one of the Company's 
laboratories for testing.  Test results can be printed at a branch 
and conveniently delivered to the client.  A branch also is used as a 
base for sales staff.  A "patient service center" generally is a 
facility maintained by the Company to serve the physicians in a 
medical professional building.  The patient service center collects 
the specimens as requested by the physician.  The specimens are sent, 
principally through the Company's in-house courier system (and, to a 
lesser extent, through independent couriers), to one of the Company's 
major laboratories for testing.  Some of the Company's patient 
service centers also function as "STAT labs", which are laboratories 
that have the ability to perform certain routine tests quickly and 
report results to the physician immediately.

   The Company processes approximately 255,000 patient specimens on 
an average day.  Patient specimens are delivered to the Company 
accompanied by a test request form.  These forms, which are completed 
by the client, indicate the tests to be performed and provide the 
necessary billing information.

   Each specimen and related request form is checked for 
completeness and then given a unique identification number.  The 
unique identification number assigned to each specimen helps to 
assure that the results are attributed to the correct patient.  The 
test request forms are sent to a data entry terminal where a file is 
established for each patient and the necessary testing and billing 
information is entered.  Once this information is entered into the 




computer system, the tests are performed and the results are entered 
primarily through computer interface or manually, depending upon the 
tests and the type of equipment involved.  Most of the Company's 
computerized testing equipment is directly linked with the Company's 
information systems.  Most routine testing is completed by early the 
next morning, and test results are printed and prepared for 
distribution by service representatives that day. Some clients have 
local printer capability and have reports printed out directly in 
their offices.  Clients who request that they be called with a result 
are so notified in the morning.  It is Company policy to notify the 
client immediately if a life-threatening result is found at any point 
during the course of the testing process.

Services Offered

   The following discussion describes the different types of tests 
performed by the Company:

Testing for Physician Offices and Clinics

   The Company currently offers over 1,700 different clinical 
laboratory tests or procedures.  Several hundred of these are 
frequently used in general patient care by physicians to establish or 
support a diagnosis, to monitor treatment or medication or to search 
for an otherwise undiagnosed condition.  These routine procedures are 
most often used by practicing physicians in their outpatient office 
practices. Physicians may elect to send such procedures to an 
independent laboratory or they may choose to establish an in-house 
laboratory to perform some of the tests.  

   The Company performs this core group of routine tests in each of 
its 31 major regional laboratories, which constitutes a majority of 
the testing performed by the Company.  The Company generally performs 
and reports most routine procedures within 24 hours, utilizing a 
variety of sophisticated and computerized laboratory testing 
instruments.

Testing for Hospitals

   Hospitals generally maintain an on-site laboratory to perform 
immediately needed testing on patients receiving care.  However, they 
also refer less frequently needed procedures to outside facilities, 
including independent clinical laboratories and larger medical 
centers.  Since some hospitals actively encourage community 
physicians to send their testing to the hospital, such medical 
facilities can be both client and competitor for independent 
laboratories such as the Company.




Specialty and Niche Testing

   While the information provided by many routine tests may be used 
by nearly all physicians, regardless of specialty, many other 
procedures are more specialized in nature.  Certain types of unique 
testing capabilities and/or client requirements have been developed 
into specialty or niche businesses by the Company. The following are 
niche businesses in which the Company offers testing and related 
services:

  Allergy Testing.  The Company offers an extensive range of 
  allergen testing services as well as computerized analysis and a 
  treatment program that enables primary care physicians to diagnose 
  and treat many kinds of allergic disorders.

  Ambulatory Monitoring.  The Company performs a computer assisted 
  analysis of electrocardiograms and blood pressure measurements. 
  Many of these analyses are submitted by physicians who require 
  extended (up to 24 hours) monitoring of these parameters for 
  patients.

  Clinical Research Testing.  The Company regularly performs 
  clinical laboratory testing for pharmaceutical companies 
  conducting clinical research trials on new drugs.  This testing 
  often involves periodic testing of patients participating in the 
  trial over several years.

  Diagnostic Genetics.  The Company offers cytogenetic biochemical 
  and molecular genetic tests.

  Industrial Hygiene Testing.  The Company maintains a separate 
  testing facility in Richmond, Virginia, dedicated to the analysis 
  of potentially toxic substances in the workplace environment.

  Kidney Stone Analysis.  The Company offers specialized patient 
  analysis assessing the risk of kidney stones based on laboratory 
  measurements and patient history.

  Oncology Testing. The Company offers an extensive series of 
  testing technologies that aid in diagnosing and monitoring certain 
  cancers and predicting the outcome of certain treatments.

  Identity Testing.  The Company provides forensic identity testing 
  used in connection with criminal proceedings and parentage 
  evaluation services which are used to assist in the resolution of 
  disputed parentage in child support litigation.  Parentage testing 
  involves the evaluation of immunological and genetic markers in 
  specimens obtained from the child, the mother and the alleged 
  father.

  Substance Abuse Testing.  The Company provides urinalysis testing 
  for the detection of drugs of abuse for private and government 




  customers, and also provides blood testing services for the 
  detection of drugs of abuse and alcohol. These testing services 
  are designed to produce "forensic" quality test results that 
  satisfy the rigorous requirements for admissibility as evidence in 
  legal proceedings.

  Veterinary Testing.  The Company offers clinical laboratory 
  testing of animal specimens for veterinarians which require 
  specialized testing procedures and handling due to their differing 
  characteristics.

Specialty Testing Centers 

   The specialized or niche testing services noted above, as well 
as other complex procedures, are sent to designated facilities where 
the Company has concentrated the people, instruments and related 
resources for performing such procedures so that quality and 
efficiency can be most effectively monitored.  The Company's Center 
for Molecular Biology in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, also 
specializes in new test development and education and training 
related thereto.

Contract Management Services

   The Company provides management services in a variety of health 
care settings.  The Company generally supplies the laboratory manager 
and other laboratory personnel, as well as, equipment and testing 
supplies to manage a laboratory that is owned by a hospital, managed 
care organization or other health care provider.  In addition, the 
Company maintains a data processing system to organize and report 
test results and to provide billing and other pertinent information 
related to the tests performed in the managed laboratory.  Under the 
typical laboratory management agreement, the laboratory manager, who 
is employed by the Company, reports to the hospital or clinic 
administration.  Thus, the hospital or clinic ("Provider") maintains 
control of the laboratory.  A pathologist designated by the Provider 
serves as medical director for the laboratory.

   An important advantage the Company offers to its clients is the 
flexibility of the Company's information systems used in contract 
management services.  In addition to the ability to be customized for 
a particular user's needs, the Company's information systems also 
interface with several hospital and clinic systems, giving the user 
more efficient and effective information flow.

   The Company's management service contracts typically have terms 
between three and five years.  However, most contracts contain a 
clause that permits termination prior to the contract expiration 
date.  The termination terms vary but they generally fall into one of 
the following categories: (i) termination without cause by either the 
Company or the contracted Provider after written notice (generally 60 
to 90 days prior to termination); (ii) termination by the contracted 




Provider only if there are uncorrected deficiencies in the Company's 
performance under the contract after notice by the contracted 
Provider; or (iii) termination by the contracted Provider if there is 
a loss of accreditation held by any Company laboratory that services 
the contracted Provider, which accreditation is not reinstated within 
30 days of the loss, or up to 30 days' notice if there is a decline 
in the quality of services provided under such contract which remains 
uncorrected after a 15-day period.  While the Company believes that 
it will maintain and renew its existing contracts, there can be no 
assurance of such maintenance or renewal.

   As part of its marketing efforts, and as a way to focus on a 
contract management client's particular needs, the Company has 
developed several different pricing formulas for its management 
services agreements.  In certain cases, profitability may depend on 
the Company's ability to accurately predict test volumes, patient 
encounters or the number of admissions in the case of an inpatient 
facility.

Clients and Payees

   In 1995, no single client or group of clients under the same 
contract accounted for more than two percent of the Company's net 
sales.  The Company believes that the loss of any one of its 
laboratory service agreements would be unlikely to have a material 
adverse effect on the Company's financial results.  For the year 
ended December 31, 1995, billings to private patients or their 
insurance carriers accounted for approximately 34% of the Company's 
net sales, billings to Medicare and Medicaid accounted for 
approximately 28% of net sales and billings paid directly by 
physicians and other commercial clients accounted for approximately 
38% of the Company's net sales.

Sales and Marketing

   The Company offers its services through a combination of direct 
sales generalists and specialists.  Sales generalists market the 
mainstream or traditional routine laboratory services primarily to 
physicians, while specialists concentrate on individual market 
segments, such as hospitals or managed care organizations, or on 
testing niches, such as identity testing or genetic testing. 
Specialist positions are established when an in-depth level of 
expertise is necessary to effectively offer the specialized services.  
When the need arises, specialists and generalists work cooperatively 
to address specific opportunities.  At December 31, 1995, the Company 
employed approximately 290 generalists and 120 specialists.  The 
Company's sales generalists and specialists are compensated through a 
combination of salaries, commissions and bonuses, at levels 
commensurate with each individual's qualifications and 
responsibilities.  Commissions are primarily based upon the 
individual's productivity in generating new business for the Company.




   The Company also employs customer service associates ("CSA's") 
to interact with clients on an ongoing basis.  CSA's monitor the 
status of the services being provided to clients, act as problem-
solvers, provide information on new testing developments and serve as 
the client's regular point of contact with the Company.  At December 
31, 1995, the Company  employed approximately 370 CSA's.  CSA's are 
compensated with a combination of salaries and bonuses commensurate 
with each individual's qualifications and responsibilities.

   The Company believes that the clinical laboratory service 
business is shifting away from the traditional direct sales structure 
and into one in which the purchasing decisions for laboratory 
services are increasingly made by managed care organizations, 
insurance plans, employers and increasingly by patients themselves.  
In view of these changes, the Company has adapted its sales and 
marketing structure to more appropriately address the new 
opportunities.  For example, the Company has expanded its specialists 
sales positions in both its primary business and its niche businesses 
in order to maximize the Company's competitive strengths of advanced 
technology and marketing focus.  Additionally, the Company has begun 
to integrate traditional sales and customer support functions into a 
new position, the Account Manager, which will have responsibility for 
certain sales, service and daily operational contact with physician-
clients.

   The Company believes that given the increasing complexity of the 
clinical laboratory marketplace, training of its sales force is of 
paramount importance.  With this goal in mind, during 1995 the 
Company enhanced its comprehensive sales training program.  This 
project involved a complete revision of the sales training material.

Potential New Markets

   Health care reform, the shift to managed care and increased 
competition by hospitals all had an impact on the clinical laboratory 
testing industry in 1995.  The Company expects these trends to 
continue and plans to respond by shifting additional sales staff to 
support the managed care market segment.

   The Company believes that sales of testing and related services 
for use in clinical trials, detection of drugs of abuse and hospital 
reference testing will also continue to offer opportunities for  
additional revenue growth in 1996.  The Company views hospitals in 
general as a major competitive force in the marketplace today.  To 
that end, a hospital business venture group has been formed whose 
primary goal is to identify potential hospital joint venture 
arrangements.  These arrangements are likely to include management 
agreements, hospital laboratory operations ventures and hospital 
laboratory purchases.  The Company views this market as having 
exceptional future potential for 1996 and beyond.




Information Systems

  The Company believes that the health care provider's need for 
data will continue to place high demands on its information systems 
staff. The Company operates several systems to handle laboratory, 
billing and financial data and transactions.  The Company believes 
that the efficient handling of information involving clients, 
patients, payors and other parties will be a critical factor in the 
Company's future success.  In 1995, the Company created the Corporate 
Information Systems Division to manage its information resources and 
programs on a consolidated basis in order to achieve greater 
efficiency and economies of scale.  In addition, as a key part of its 
response to these challenges, the Company hired a Chief Information 
Officer, whose responsibility is to integrate, manage and develop the 
Company's information systems. 

Quality Assurance

   The Company considers the quality of its tests to be of critical 
importance, and it has established a comprehensive quality assurance 
program for all of its laboratories and other facilities, designed to 
help assure accurate and timely test results.  In addition to the 
compulsory external inspections and proficiency programs demanded by 
HCFA and other regulatory agencies, Company-wide systems and 
procedures are in place to emphasize and monitor quality assurance.  
All of the Company's regional laboratories are subject to on-site 
evaluations, the College of American Pathologists ("CAP") proficiency 
testing program, state surveys and the Company's own internal quality 
control programs.

   Internal Quality Control.  The Company regularly performs 
internal quality control testing by running quality control samples 
with known values with patient samples submitted for testing.  All 
quality control sample test results are entered into the Company's 
national laboratory computer, which connects the Company's facilities 
nationwide to a common on-line quality control database.  This system 
helps technologists and technicians check quality control values and 
requires further prompt verification if any quality control value is 
out of range.  The Company has an extensive, internally administered 
program of blind sample proficiency testing (i.e. the testing 
laboratory does not know the sample being tested is a quality control 
sample), as part of which the Company's locations receive specimens 
from the Company's Quality Assurance and Corporate Technical Services 
departments for analysis.

   External Proficiency/ Accreditations.  The Company participates 
in numerous externally-administered, blind quality surveillance 
programs, including the CAP program.  The blind programs supplement 
all other quality assurance procedures and give Company management 
the opportunity to review its technical and service performance from 
the client's perspective.




   The CAP accreditation program involves both on-site inspections 
of the laboratory and participation in the CAP's proficiency testing 
program for all categories in which the laboratory is accredited by 
the CAP.  The CAP is an independent non-governmental organization of 
board certified pathologists which offers an accreditation program to 
which laboratories can voluntarily subscribe.  The CAP has been 
accredited by the HCFA to inspect clinical laboratories to determine 
Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical 
Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (collectively, as amended 
"CLIA") standards.  A laboratory's receipt of accreditation by the 
CAP satisfies the Medicare requirement for participation in 
proficiency testing programs administered by an external source.  All 
of the Company's major laboratories are accredited by the CAP.

Employees

   At December 31, 1995, the Company employed approximately 24,600 
people.  These include approximately 20,900 full-time employees and 
approximately 3,700 part-time employees, which represents the 
equivalent of approximately 22,000 persons full-time.  Of the 
approximately 22,000 full-time equivalent employees, approximately 
450 are sales personnel, approximately 19,150 are laboratory and 
distribution personnel and approximately 2,400 are administrative and 
data processing personnel. The Company has no collective bargaining 
agreements with any unions and believes that its overall relations 
with its employees are excellent.

Effect of the Growth of the Managed Care Sector on the Clinical 
Laboratory Business

   Many market-based changes in the clinical laboratory business 
have occurred, most involving the shift away from traditional, fee-
for-service medicine to managed-cost health care.  The growth of the 
managed care sector presents various challenges to the Company and 
other independent clinical laboratories.  Managed care providers 
typically contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories and 
negotiate discounts to the fees charged by such laboratories in an 
effort to control costs.  In addition, managed care providers have 
used capitated payment contracts in an attempt to promote more 
efficient use of laboratory testing services.  Under a capitated 
payment contract, the clinical laboratory and the managed care 
provider agree to a per month payment to cover all laboratory tests 
during the month, regardless of the number or cost of the tests 
actually performed.  Such contracts shift the risks of additional 
testing beyond that covered by the capitated payment to the clinical 
laboratory.

   For the last several years, the Company has had a strong 
presence in the managed care sector and has designed its sales 
efforts to expand its presence in that sector. There can be no 
assurance, however, that the Company will be successful in expanding 
its share of this market sector, or that the Company will not 




experience additional declines in test utilization or per-test 
revenue in the future as a result of managed care growth or 
otherwise.

   In response to the growth of the managed care sector and the 
developments described above, many health care providers have 
established new alliances.  Hospital-physician networks are emerging 
in many markets in order to offer comprehensive, integrated service 
capabilities, either to the managed care plans or directly to 
employers.  While adapting to these changes, the clinical laboratory 
industry is also facing a significantly intensified level of 
regulatory and investigative scrutiny, in many cases in areas that 
have been left without, until recently,  clear regulatory guidance 
for providers.  There is currently uncertainty in the industry 
regarding the impact of these factors on the clinical laboratory 
business.

Competition

   The clinical laboratory business is highly fragmented and 
intensely competitive.  In recent years, certain independent 
laboratories have engaged in acquisitions of other laboratories and 
taken advantage of opportunities for cost efficiencies afforded by 
larger scale, automated testing operations.  In 1995, the Company 
completed the Merger and in 1994 acquired Allied.  Also, in June 
1994, Corning Inc. ("Corning") and Nichols Institute entered into a 
merger agreement pursuant to which Corning acquired Nichols Institute 
in exchange for Corning common stock.  In 1993, Corning acquired the 
stock of Damon Corporation.  The Company believes that acquisition 
activity will continue in the clinical laboratory business.  Several 
factors are contributing to this activity, including legislative 
initiatives such as restrictions on physician referrals and ownership 
of laboratories, increasing demand for higher quality services and 
more stringent service requirements, the growth of managed health 
care entities which require low-cost testing services and, generally, 
the demands by health care providers and payors for faster reporting 
of test results and lower prices.

   The Company competes primarily on the basis of the quality of 
its testing, reporting and information services, its reputation in 
the medical community, the pricing of its services and its ability to 
employ qualified laboratory personnel.  The Company also believes 
that its ability to compete also depends on its ability to make 
investments in equipment and management information systems and offer 
testing services on a broad regional geographic basis.

Regulation and Reimbursement

   Overview. The clinical laboratory industry is subject to 
significant governmental regulation at the Federal, state and local 
levels.  Under CLIA, virtually all clinical laboratories, including 
those owned by the Company, must be certified by the Federal 




government.  Many clinical laboratories also must meet governmental 
standards, undergo proficiency testing and are subject to inspection. 
Certifications or licenses are also required by various state and 
local laws.

   The health care industry is undergoing significant change as 
third-party payors, such as Medicare (which principally serves 
patients 65 and older) and Medicaid (which principally serves 
indigent patients) and insurers, increase their efforts to control 
the cost, utilization and delivery of health care services.  In an 
effort to address the problem of increasing health care costs, 
legislation has been proposed or enacted at both the Federal and 
state levels to regulate health care delivery in general and clinical 
laboratories in particular.  Some of the proposals include managed 
competition, global budgeting and price controls. Although the 
Clinton Administration's health care reform proposal, initially 
advanced in 1994, was not enacted, such proposal or other proposals 
may be considered in the future.  In particular, the Company believes 
that reductions in reimbursement for Medicare services will continue 
to be implemented from time to time. Reductions in the reimbursement 
rates of other third-party payors are likely to occur as well.  The 
Company cannot predict the effect health care reform, if enacted, 
would have on its business, and there can be no assurance that such 
reforms, if enacted, would not have a material adverse effect on the 
Company's business and operations.

   Regulation of Clinical Laboratories.  CLIA extends Federal 
oversight to virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring that 
laboratories be certified by the government.  Many clinical 
laboratories must also meet governmental quality and personnel 
standards, undergo proficiency testing and be subject to biennial 
inspection.  Rather than focusing on location, size or type of 
laboratory, this extended oversight is based on the complexity of the 
tests performed by the laboratory.

   In 1992, HHS published regulations implementing CLIA.  The 
quality standards and enforcement procedure regulations became 
effective in 1992, although certain personnel, quality control and 
proficiency testing requirements are currently being phased in by 
HHS.  The quality standards regulations divide all tests into three 
categories (waivered, moderate complexity and high complexity) and 
establish varying requirements depending upon the complexity of the 
test performed.  A laboratory that performs high complexity tests 
must meet more stringent requirements than a laboratory that performs 
only moderate complexity tests, while those that perform only one or 
more of eight routine "waivered" tests may apply for a waiver from 
most requirements of CLIA.  All major and many smaller company 
facilities are certified by CLIA to perform high complexity testing. 
The remaining smaller testing sites of the Company are certified by 
CLIA to perform moderate complexity testing or have obtained a waiver 
from most requirements of CLIA.  Generally, the HHS regulations 
require, for laboratories that perform high complexity or moderate 




complexity tests, the implementation of systems that ensure the 
accurate performance and reporting of test results, establishment of 
quality control systems, proficiency testing by approved agencies and 
biennial inspections.

   The sanction for failure to comply with these regulations may be 
suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory's CLIA 
certificate necessary to conduct business, significant fines and 
criminal penalties.  The loss of a license, imposition of a fine or 
future changes in such Federal, state and local laws and regulations 
(or in the interpretation of current laws and regulations) could have 
a material adverse effect on the Company.

   The Company is also subject to state regulation.  CLIA provides 
that a state may adopt more stringent regulations than Federal law. 
For example, state law may require that laboratory personnel meet 
certain qualifications, specify certain quality controls, maintain 
certain records and undergo proficiency testing.  For example, 
certain of the Company's laboratories are subject to the State of New 
York's clinical laboratory regulations, which contain provisions that 
are more stringent than Federal law.

   The Company's laboratories have continuing programs to ensure 
that their operations meet all applicable regulatory requirements.

   Regulation Affecting Reimbursement of Clinical Laboratory 
Services. Containment of health care costs, including reimbursement 
for clinical laboratory services, has been a focus of ongoing 
governmental activity. In 1984, Congress established a Medicare fee 
schedule for clinical laboratory services performed for patients 
covered under Part B of the Medicare program.  Subsequently, Congress 
imposed a national ceiling on the amount that can be paid under the 
fee schedule.  Laboratories must accept the scheduled amount as 
payment in full for most tests performed on behalf of Medicare 
beneficiaries and must bill the program directly. In addition, state 
Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more than the Medicare 
fee schedule amount for clinical laboratory services furnished to 
Medicaid recipients.  In 1995, the Company derived approximately 28% 
of its net sales from tests performed for beneficiaries of Medicare 
and Medicaid programs.  In addition, the Company's other business 
depends significantly on continued participation in these programs 
because clients often want a single laboratory to perform all of 
their testing services.  Since 1984, Congress has periodically 
reduced the ceilings on Medicare reimbursement to clinical 
laboratories from previously authorized levels.  In 1993, pursuant to 
provisions in the Omnibus Budget and Reconciliation Act of 1993 
("OBRA `93"), Congress reduced, effective January 1, 1994, the 
Medicare national limitations from 88% of the 1984 national median to 
76% of the 1984 national median, which reductions were implemented on 
a phased-in basis from 1994 through 1996 (to 84% in 1994, 80% in 1995 
and 76% in 1996). The 1996 reduction to 76% was implemented as 
scheduled on January 1, 1996. OBRA `93 also eliminated the provision 




for annual fee schedule increases based upon the consumer price index 
for 1994 and 1995. Because a significant portion of the Company's 
costs are relatively fixed, these Medicare reimbursement reductions 
have a direct adverse effect on the Company's net earnings and cash 
flows. The Company cannot predict if additional Medicare reductions 
will be implemented.

   On January 1, 1993, numerous changes in the Physicians' Current 
Procedural Terminology ("CPT") were published.  The CPT is a coding 
system that is published by the American Medical Association.  It 
lists descriptive terms and identifying codes for reporting medical 
and medically related services.  The Medicare and Medicaid programs 
require suppliers, including laboratories, to use the CPT codes when 
they bill the programs for services performed.  HCFA implemented 
these CPT changes for Medicare and Medicaid on August 1, 1993.  The 
CPT changes have altered the way the Company bills Medicare and 
Medicaid for some of its services, thereby reducing the reimbursement 
the Company receives from those programs for some of its services. 
For example, certain codes for calculations, such as LDL cholesterol, 
were deleted and are no longer a payable service under Medicare and 
Medicaid. 

   Moreover, Medicare denied reimbursement to NHL for claims 
submitted for HDL cholesterol and serum ferritin (a measure of iron 
in the blood) tests from September 1993 to December 1993, at which 
time NHL removed such tests from its basic test profiles.

   In March 1996, the HCFA implemented changes in the policies used 
to administer Medicare payments to clinical laboratories for the most 
frequently performed automated blood chemistry profiles.  Among other 
things, the changes established a consistent standard nationwide for 
the content of the automated chemistry profiles. Another change 
incorporated in the HCFA proposal requires laboratories performing 
certain automated blood chemistry profiles to obtain and provide 
documentation of the medical necessity of tests included in the 
profiles for each Medicare beneficiary.  The Company expects to incur 
additional costs associated with the implementation of these 
requirements.  The amount of additional costs and the impact on the 
Company's financial condition and results of operations have not yet 
been determined.

   Future changes in Federal, state and local regulations (or in 
the interpretation of current regulations) affecting governmental 
reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing could have a material 
adverse effect on the Company.  The Company is unable to predict, 
however, whether and what type of legislation will be enacted into 
law.

   Fraud and Abuse Regulations.  The Medicare and Medicaid anti-
kickback laws prohibit intentionally paying anything of value to 
influence the referral of Medicare and Medicaid business.  HHS has 
published safe harbor regulations which specify certain business 




activities that, although literally covered by the laws, will not 
violate the Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback laws.  Failure to fall 
within a safe harbor does not constitute a violation of the anti-
kickback laws if all conditions of the safe harbor are met; rather, 
the arrangement would remain subject to scrutiny by HHS.

   In October 1994, the Office of Inspector General ("OIG") of HHS 
issued a Special Fraud Alert, which set forth a number of practices 
allegedly engaged in by clinical laboratories and health care 
providers that the OIG believes violate the anti-kickback laws. These 
practices include providing employees to collect patient samples at 
physician offices if the employees perform additional services for 
physicians that are typically the responsibility of the physicians' 
staff; selling laboratory services to renal dialysis centers at 
prices that are below fair market value in return for referrals of 
Medicare tests which are billed to Medicare at higher rates; 
providing free testing to a physician's HMO patients in situations 
where the referring physicians benefit from such lower utilization; 
providing free pickup and disposal of bio-hazardous waste for 
physicians for items unrelated to a laboratory's testing services; 
providing facsimile machines or computers to physicians that are not 
exclusively used in connection with the laboratory services 
performed; and providing free testing for health care providers, 
their families and their employees (professional courtesy testing). 
The OIG stressed in the Fraud Alert that when one purpose of the 
arrangements is to induce referral of program-reimbursed laboratory 
testing, both the clinical laboratory and the health care provider or 
physician may be liable under the anti-kickback laws and may be 
subject to criminal prosecution and exclusion from participation in 
the Medicare and Medicaid programs.

   According to the 1995 work plan of the OIG, its recently 
established Office of Civil Fraud and Administrative Adjudication 
("OCFAA") will be responsible for protecting the government-funded 
health care programs and deterring fraudulent conduct by health care 
providers through the negotiation and imposition of civil monetary 
penalties, assessments and program exclusions.  The OCFAA works very 
closely with the Department of Justice, the Office of General Counsel 
and the OIG investigative and audit offices in combating fraud and 
abuse.  In addition, the OIG has stated in its 1995 work plan that it 
will determine the extent to which laboratories supply physicians' 
offices with phlebotomists (blood-drawing technicians), offer 
management services or medical waste pick-up to physicians, provide 
training to physicians or engage in other financial arrangements with 
purchasers of laboratories' services.  The OIG will assess the 
potential benefits of such arrangements as well as the extent to 
which such arrangements might be unlawful.

   In March 1992, HCFA published proposed regulations to implement 
the Medicare statute's prohibition (with certain exceptions) on 
referrals by physicians who have an investment interest in or a 
compensation arrangement with laboratories.  The prohibition on 




referrals also applies where an immediate family member of a 
physician has an investment interest or compensation arrangement with 
a laboratory.  The proposed regulations would define remuneration 
that gives rise to a compensation arrangement as including discounts 
granted by a laboratory to a physician who sends testing business to 
the laboratory and who pays the laboratory for such services.  If 
that definition of remuneration were to have become effective, it 
could have had an impact on the way the Company prices its services 
to physicians.  However, in August 1993, the referenced Medicare 
statute was amended by OBRA '93.  One of these amendments makes it 
clear that day-to-day transactions between laboratories and their 
customers, including, but not limited to, discounts granted by 
laboratories to their customers, are not affected by the compensation 
arrangement provisions of the Medicare statute.

   Infectious Wastes and Radioactive Materials.  The Company is 
subject to licensing and regulation under Federal, state and local 
laws relating to the handling and disposal of medical specimens, 
infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials as well as 
to the safety and health of laboratory employees.  All Company 
laboratories are operated in accordance with applicable Federal and 
state laws and regulations relating to biohazard disposal of all 
laboratory specimens and the Company utilizes outside vendors for 
disposal of such specimens. Although the Company believes that it is 
currently in compliance in all material respects with such Federal, 
state and local laws, failure to comply could subject the Company to 
denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties 
and/or other enforcement actions.

   Occupational Safety.  In addition to its comprehensive 
regulation of safety in the workplace, the Federal Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA") has established extensive 
requirements relating to workplace safety for health care employers, 
including clinical laboratories, whose workers may be exposed to 
blood-borne pathogens such as HIV and the hepatitis B virus.  These 
regulations, among other things, require work practice controls, 
protective clothing and equipment, training, medical follow-up, 
vaccinations and other measures designed to minimize exposure to, and 
transmission of, blood-borne pathogens.

   Drug Testing.  Drug testing for public sector employees is 
regulated by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
Administration ("SAMSHA") (formerly the National Institute on Drug 
Abuse), which has established detailed performance and quality 
standards that laboratories must meet in order to be approved to 
perform drug testing on employees of Federal government contractors 
and certain other entities.  To the extent that the Company's 
laboratories perform such testing, each must be certified as meeting 
SAMSHA standards. The Company's Research Triangle Park, North 
Carolina; Memphis, Tennessee; Raritan, New Jersey; Seattle, 
Washington; Herndon, Virginia and Reno, Nevada laboratories are 
SAMSHA certified.




   Controlled Substances.  The use of controlled substances in 
testing for drugs of abuse is regulated by the Federal Drug 
Enforcement Administration.

   Specimen Transportation.  Regulations of the Department of 
Transportation, the Public Health Service and the Postal Service 
apply to the transportation of clinical laboratory specimens.

OIG Investigations

   Several Federal agencies are responsible for investigating 
allegations of fraudulent and abusive conduct by health care 
providers, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the OIG.  
In its published work plan for 1992-1993, the OIG indicated its 
intention to target certain laboratory practices for investigation 
and prosecution.  Pursuant to one such project described in such work 
plan, entitled "Laboratory Unbundle," laboratories that offer 
packages of tests to physicians and "unbundle" them into several 
"tests to get higher reimbursement when billing Medicare and 
Medicaid" will be identified and "suitable cases will be presented 
for prosecution."  Under another project described  in such work 
plan, laboratories "that link price discounts to the volume of 
physician referrals, `unbundle' tests in order to bill Medicare at a 
higher total rate, and conduct unnecessary tests... will be 
identified to coordinate investigations through the country."

   1992 NHL Government Settlement.  In November 1990, NHL became 
aware of a grand jury inquiry relating to its pricing practices being 
conducted by the United States Attorney for the San Diego area (the 
Southern District of California) with the assistance of the OIG.  On 
December 18, 1992, NHL entered into the 1992 NHL Government 
Settlement, which related to the government's contention that NHL 
improperly included tests for HDL cholesterol and serum ferritin in 
its basic test profile, without clearly offering an alternative 
profile that did not include these medical tests.  The government 
also contended that, in certain instances, physicians were told that 
these additional tests would be included in the basic test profile at 
no extra charge.  As a result, the government contended, NHL's 
marketing activities denied physicians the ability to exercise their 
judgment as to the medical necessity of these tests.

   Pursuant to the 1992 Government Settlement, NHL pleaded guilty 
to the charge of presenting two false claims to the Civilian Health 
and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services ("CHAMPUS") and paid a 
$1 million fine.  In connection with pending and threatened civil 
claims, NHL also agreed to pay $100 million to the Federal Government 
in installments.  At December 31, 1995, all such payments due to the 
government under the 1992 NHL Government Settlement have been made. 
Concurrent with the 1992 NHL Government Settlement, NHL settled 
related Medicaid claims with states that account for over 99.5% of 
its Medicaid business and paid $10.4 million to the settling states.




   1993 OIG Investigation.  In August 1993, RBL and Allied each 
received a subpoena from the OIG requesting documents and information 
concerning pricing and billing practices.  According to published 
reports, other independent clinical laboratories have received 
similar subpoenas as part of a nationwide OIG audit and 
investigation.  In September 1993, NHL received a subpoena from the 
OIG which required NHL to provide documents to the OIG concerning its 
regulatory compliance procedures.  Each of NHL, RBL and Allied has 
complied with, or the Company is in the process of complying with the 
respective subpoenas and cooperating with the related OIG 
investigation.  Among other things, the OIG subpoena received by RBL 
and Allied called for the production of documents regarding 14 blood 
chemistry tests which were being or had been performed by certain 
independent clinical laboratories in conjunction with automated 
chemistry profiles and which were being or had been billed separately 
to Medicare or Medicaid.  An automated chemistry profile is a 
grouping of which tests that can be performed together on a single 
specimen and that Medicare and Medicaid pay under the Medicare fee 
schedule.

   Based on published reports, the Company believes that the OIG's 
investigation is primarily focused on two alleged practices.  The 
first alleged practice consists of offering the automated chemistry 
profile as a part of a "standard" blood chemistry profile that also 
includes one or more of the 14 tests referenced in the OIG subpoena 
in a manner which is misleading to the ordering physician or which 
fails to provide the physician with the choice of ordering only the 
automated chemistry profile.  Representatives of the OIG have 
publicly stated that this practice may lead to the ordering of 
"unnecessary" tests.  The second alleged practice involves the 
failure to disclose to physicians that the prices charged by those 
laboratories to Medicare and Medicaid for many of these tests 
referenced in the OIG subpoena were greater than the prices the 
laboratories charged to the physicians for those same tests where the 
tests were performed in conjunction with an automated chemistry 
profile.  Representatives of the OIG have publicly stated that 
undisclosed pricing differences may cause physicians to believe 
incorrectly that they are ordering tests at little or no cost to the 
Medicare and Medicaid programs, possibly causing tests to be ordered 
which are not medically necessary.  RBL's and Allied's laboratories 
have included some of the 14 tests in their respective "standard" 
blood chemistry profiles, and also in "custom" profiles created for 
individual physicians at their request. Tests performed for Medicare 
and Medicaid patients are, in accordance with applicable laws, billed 
directly to the Medicare and Medicaid programs.

   If the OIG were to pursue and successfully prove a violation of 
the laws related to the Medicare and Medicaid programs, potential 
sanctions may include significant fines, recovery of the amounts paid 
to the clinical laboratory for the tests involved and, in the case of 
a criminal conviction, mandatory exclusion from the Medicare and 




Medicaid programs for a period of at least five years.  If the OIG 
asserts a claim against RBL or Allied and is successful in pursuing 
such a claim, the Company's business and financial condition could be 
adversely affected.  Although neither the 1992 Government Settlement 
nor, based on published reports, any settlement agreements with the 
OIG entered into by other major clinical laboratory companies, 
provided for exclusion from participation in the Medicare and 
Medicaid programs, there can be no assurance that the Company will be 
able to negotiate settlement agreements with similar terms if the 
government asserts (or threatens to assert) a claim.  In addition, a 
criminal conviction or the successful prosecution of a civil fraud or 
false claims action could result in the exclusion of the defendant 
from the Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Any such exclusion would 
likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's non-Medicare 
and non-Medicaid testing business.  No prediction, however, can be 
made as to the outcome of the OIG investigations or the impact of any 
such outcomes on the Company's financial condition or results of 
operations.

   1994 OIG Investigation of Allied.  In April 1994, Allied 
received a subpoena from the OIG requesting documents and certain 
information regarding the Medicare billing practices of its 
Cincinnati, Ohio clinical laboratory with respect to certain cancer 
screening tests.  In March 1995, Allied resolved the issues raised by 
the April 1994 subpoena and a related qui tam action commenced in 
Cincinnati, Ohio Federal court by entering into agreements with, 
among others, HHS, the United States Department of Justice and the 
relators in the qui tam action pursuant to which it agreed to pay 
$4.9 million to settle all pending claims and inquiries regarding 
these billing practices and certain others.  NHL had previously 
established reserves that were adequate to cover such settlement 
payments.  In connection with the settlement, Allied agreed with HHS, 
among other things, to implement a corporate integrity program to 
ensure that Allied and its representatives remain in compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations and to provide certain reports and 
information to HHS regarding such compliance efforts.  During 1995, 
Allied met all of its obligations assumed under the corporate 
integrity agreement.
 
Compliance Program

   Because of evolving interpretations of regulations and the 
national debate over health care, compliance with all Medicare, 
Medicaid and other government-established rules and regulations has 
become a significant factor throughout the clinical laboratory 
industry.  The Company began the implementation of a new compliance 
program in  late 1992 and early 1993.  The objective of the program 
is to develop aggressive and reliable compliance safeguards. Emphasis 
is placed on developing training programs for personnel to attempt to 
assure the strict implementation of all rules and regulations. 
Further, in-depth reviews of procedures, personnel and facilities are 
conducted to assure regulatory compliance throughout the Company. 




Such sharpened focus on regulatory standards and procedures will 
continue to be a priority for the Company in the future.

   The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material 
respects with all statutes, regulations and other requirements 
applicable to its clinical laboratory operations.  The clinical 
laboratory testing industry is, however, subject to extensive 
regulation, and many of these statutes and regulations have not been 
interpreted by the courts.  There can be no assurance therefore that 
applicable statutes and regulations might not be interpreted or 
applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a 
manner that would adversely affect the Company. Potential sanctions 
for violation of these statutes and regulations include significant 
fines and the loss of various licenses, certificates and 
authorizations.

   This program was consolidated with an existing RBL compliance 
program at the time of the Merger.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF 
THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

   The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a 
new "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements to encourage 
companies to provide prospective information about their companies 
without fear of litigation so long as those statements are identified 
as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary 
statements identifying important factors that could cause actual 
results to differ materially from those projected in the statement.  
The Company desires to take advantage of the new "safe harbor" 
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 
and is including this section herein in order to do so.  Accordingly, 
the Company hereby identifies the following important factors that 
could cause the Company's actual financial results to differ 
materially from those projected, forecast, estimated, or budgeted by 
the Company in forward-looking statements.

     (a) Heightened competition, including the intensification of 
         price competition.

     (b) Impact of changes in payor mix, including the shift from 
         traditional, fee-for-service medicine to managed-cost health 
         care.

     (c) Adverse actions by governmental or other third-party  
         payors, including unilateral reduction of fee schedules 
         payable to the Company.

     (d) The impact upon the Company's collection rates or general or 
         administrative expenses resulting from compliance with 
         Medicare administrative policies including specifically the 
         HCFA's recent requirement that laboratories performing 




         certain automated blood chemistry profiles to obtain and 
         provide documentation of the medical necessity of tests 
         included in the profiles for each Medicare beneficiary.

     (e) Adverse results from investigations of clinical laboratories 
         by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the OIG including 
         specifically significant monetary damages and/or exclusion 
         from the Medicare and Medicaid programs.

     (f) Failure to obtain new customers, retain existing customers 
         or reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by 
         existing customers.

     (g) Adverse results in significant litigation matters.

     (h) Denial of certification or licensure of any of the Company's 
         clinical laboratories under CLIA, by Medicare and Medicaid 
         programs or other Federal, state or local agencies.

     (i) Adverse publicity and news coverage about the Company or the 
         clinical laboratory industry.

     (j) Inability to carry out marketing and sales plans.

     (k) Inability to successfully integrate the operations of or 
         fully realize the costs savings expected from the 
         consolidation of certain operations and the elimination of 
         duplicative expenses resulting from the April 28, 1995 
         merger of the Company and RBL or risk that declining 
         revenues or increases in other expenses will offset such 
         savings.

     (l) Loss or retirement of key executives.

     (m) Changes in interest rates causing an increase in the 
         Company's effective borrowing rate.

Item 2.  PROPERTIES

  The following table summarizes certain information as to 
the Company's principal operating and administrative facilities as of 
December 31, 1995.

                                Approximate                         
                                   Area               Nature of
      Location                (in square feet)        Occupancy        
- ----------------------       ------------------    -----------------
Operating Facilities:
  Birmingham, Alabama            100,000         Lease expires 2005
  Phoenix, Arizona                43,000         Lease expires 2001; one
                                                   5 year renewal option
  San Diego, California           40,000         Lease expires 2000
  Denver, Colorado                20,000         Lease expires 2001; two
                                                   5 year renewal options





                              Approximate                               
                                 Area                 Nature of
      Location               (in square feet)         Occupancy      
- ------------------------     ------------------  -----------------------
Operating Facilities cont:
  Hollywood, Florida             47,000          Lease expires 1997; three 
                                                   5 year renewal options
  Tampa, Florida                 95,000          Lease expires 2009; one
                                                   5 year renewal option
  Chicago, Illinois              40,000          Lease expires 2003; two
                                                   5 year renewal options
  Louisville, Kentucky           60,000          Lease expires 2002; three
                                                   5 year renewal options
  Detroit, Michigan              32,000          Lease expires 2004; two
                                                   5 year renewal options
  Southhaven, Mississippi        25,000          Owned
                                 16,000          Leases expire 1996-
                                                   1997;various renewal 
                                                   options
  Kansas City, Missouri          78,000          Owned
  Reno, Nevada                   12,000          Owned
                                 14,000          Leases expire 1998-2003; 
                                                   2 year renewal options
  Cranford, New Jersey           81,000          Lease expires 2009
  Raritan, New Jersey           186,000          Owned
  Uniondale, New York           108,000          Lease expires 2007; two
                                                   5 year renewal options
  Burlington, North Carolina    205,000          Owned
  Charlotte, North Carolina      25,000          Lease expires 1997;renewal
                                                   option every 3 years
  Research Triangle Park, 
    North Carolina               71,000          Lease expires 2008, three
                                                   5 year renewal options
                                 70,000          Lease expires 1996; one
                                                   5 year renewal options
  Winston-Salem,                 73,000          Lease expires 2004; one
    North Carolina                                 5 year renewal option
  Dublin, Ohio                   82,000          Owned
  Memphis, Tennessee             30,000          Lease expires 1999; one
                                                   5 year renewal option      
  Dallas, Texas                  54,000          Lease expires 2004; one
                                                   5 year renewal option
  Houston, Texas                 32,000          Lease expires 1997
  San Antonio, Texas             44,000          Lease expires 2004; two
                                                   5 year renewal options
  Salt Lake City, Utah           21,000          Lease expires 2002; two
  Chesapeake, Virginia           21,000          Lease expires 2002; two
                                                   5 year renewal options
  Herndon, Virginia              64,000          Lease expires 2004; one
                                                   5 year renewal option
  Richmond, Virginia             57,000          Lease Expires 2001; one
                                                   5 year renewal option
  Seattle, Washington            42,000          Lease expires 1998; two
                                                   5 year renewal options
  Fairmont, West Virginia        25,000          Lease expires 2005;three
                                                   5 year renewal options
Administrative facilities:
  Burlington, North Carolina    127,000          Owned
                                 98,000          Leases expire 1997-
                                                   2008;various options
                                                   to purchase or renew
  La Jolla, California           29,000          Lease expires 2000




   All of the major laboratory facilities have been built or 
improved for the single purpose of providing clinical laboratory 
testing services.  The Company believes that these facilities are 
suitable and adequate and have sufficient production capacity for its 
currently foreseeable level of operations.  The Company believes that 
if it were to lose the lease on any of the facilities it presently 
leases, it could find alternate space at competitive market rates and 
readily relocate its operations to such new locations without 
material disruption to its operations.

Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

   The Company is involved in certain claims and legal actions 
arising in the ordinary course of business.  In the opinion of 
management, based upon the advice of counsel, the ultimate 
disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect 
on the financial position or results of operations of the Company.

Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

   No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the 
fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.





                                     PART II 

Item 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED 
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

   On May 1, 1995, the Common Stock commenced trading on the New 
York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "LH".  Prior to such 
date and since April 24, 1991, the Common Stock traded on the NYSE 
under the symbol "NH."  Prior to April 24, 1991, the Common Stock was 
quoted on the National Market System of the National Association of 
Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System ("NASDAQ") under 
the symbol "NHLI".

   The following table sets forth for the calendar periods 
indicated the high and low sales prices for the Common Stock reported 
on the NYSE Composite Tape, and the cash dividends declared per share 
of Common Stock.

                                                          Dividends  
                                                          Declared
                          High           Low              Per Share
                         ------         -----           ------------
  First Quarter          15 1/4        12 7/8                0.08
  Second Quarter         13 3/4        10 5/8                  --
  Third Quarter          13 3/8        10 7/8                  --
  Fourth Quarter         15 3/4        11 3/8                  --

  First Quarter          15 1/2        12 5/8                  --
  Second Quarter         15 1/4        11 3/4                  --
  Third Quarter          14             9 1/8                  --
  Fourth Quarter         10             8 1/8                  --

  First Quarter           9 3/8         7 1/4                  --
  (through February 26, 1996)

   On February 26, 1996 there were approximately 600 holders of 
record of the Common Stock.

    The Company, in connection with the Allied Acquisition in 1994, 
discontinued its dividend payments for the foreseeable future in 
order to increase its flexibility with respect to its acquisition 
strategy.  In addition, the Company's credit agreement (the "Credit 
Agreement") entered into on April 28, 1995 in connection with the 
Merger contains, among other provisions, a covenant prohibiting the 
payment of cash dividends for the first year following the date of 
the Credit Agreement and places certain restrictions, as defined in 
the Credit Agreement, on the payment of such dividends after that 
date.




Item 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

   The selected financial data presented below under the captions 
"Statement of Operations Data" and "Balance Sheet Data" as of and for 
each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 1995 are 
derived from consolidated financial statements of the Company, which 
financial statements have been audited by KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, 
independent certified public accountants.  This data should be read 
in conjunction with the accompanying notes, the Company's 
consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, and 
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations," all included elsewhere herein.



Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

   The Company derived approximately 28% of its 1995 net sales from 
tests performed for beneficiaries of Medicare and Medicaid programs. 
During 1993, provisions were included in OBRA '93 which reduced 
Medicare reimbursement schedules by lowering payments under the fee 
schedule methodology from 88% to 84% of the 1984 national median, 
effective January 1, 1994 and from 84% to 80% of the national median, 
effective January 1, 1995. A further reduction in payments to 76% of 
the 1984 national median became effective on January 1, 1996.  The 
Company estimates that the change effective January 1, 1996 would 
have decreased 1995 net sales by approximately $18 million had it 
been implemented as of January 1, 1995.  OBRA '93 also eliminated, 
for 1994 and 1995, the provision for annual fee schedule increases 
based upon the consumer price index.

   The health care industry is undergoing significant change as 
third-party payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid and insurers, 
increase their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery 
of health care services.  In an effort to address the problem of 
increasing health care costs, legislation has been proposed or 
enacted at both the Federal and state levels to regulate health care 
delivery in general and clinical laboratories in particular.  Some of 
the proposals include managed competition, global budgeting and price 
controls.  Although the Clinton Administration's health care reform 




proposal was not enacted, such a proposal or other proposals may be 
considered in the future.  In particular, the Company believes that 
reductions in reimbursement for Medicare services will continue to be 
implemented from time to time. Reductions in the reimbursement rates 
of other third-party payors may occur as well.  The Company cannot 
predict the effect health care reform, if enacted, would have on its 
business, and there can be no assurance that such reforms, if 
enacted, would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's 
business and operations.

   Also, in recent years there has been a significant shift away 
from traditional, fee-for-service medicine to managed-cost health 
care.  Managed care providers typically contract with a limited 
number of clinical laboratories and negotiate discounts to the fees 
charged by such laboratories in an effort to control costs. In 
addition, managed care providers have used capitated payment 
contracts which function to shift the risks of additional testing 
beyond that covered by the capitated payment to the clinical 
laboratory. For competitive reasons, the Company has continued to 
expand its share of this market sector, which has resulted in 
declines in test utilization and per-test revenue.  The Company 
cannot predict if it will experience additional declines in test 
utilization or per-test revenue in the future as a result of managed 
care growth or otherwise.

Year Ended December 31, 1995 compared with Year Ended December 31, 
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
1994.
- ----
   Net sales increased by $559.5 million to $1,432.0 million in 
1995, an increase of 64.1% from $872.5 million reported in 1994.  Net 
sales from the inclusion of Roche Biomedical Laboratories, Inc. 
("RBL"), which was acquired on April 28, 1995 (the "Merger"), 
increased net sales by approximately $514.7 million or 59.0%.  Also, 
net sales from the inclusion of Allied Clinical Laboratories, Inc. 
("Allied"), which was acquired on June 23, 1994, increased net sales 
by approximately $56.6 million or 6.5%.  Growth in new accounts and 
acquisitions of small clinical laboratory companies increased net 
sales by approximately 8.6% and 2.8%, respectively. Lower utilization 
of laboratory testing and price erosion in the industry as a whole 
decreased net sales by approximately 5.0%. A reduction in Medicare 
fee schedules from 84% to 80% of the national limitation amounts on 
January 1, 1995, plus changes in reimbursement policies of various 
third-party payors, reduced net sales by approximately 1.5%.  Other 
factors, including accounts terminated by management, comprised the 
remaining reduction in net sales.

   Cost of sales, which includes primarily laboratory and 
distribution costs, increased to $1,024.3 million in 1995 from $597.0 
million in 1994.  Of the $427.3 million increase, approximately 
$368.8 million was due to the inclusion of the cost of sales of RBL 
and approximately $44.8 million was due to the inclusion of the cost 
of sales of Allied.  Cost of sales increased by approximately $26.1 




million due to higher testing volume unrelated to the Merger or 
acquisition of Allied and approximately $4.5 million due to  
increases in other expenses. Reductions in compensation and benefit 
expense of $9.2 million, insurance of $4.8 million, and other expense 
categories of $2.9 million decreased cost of sales an aggregate of 
approximately $16.9 million.  These decreases resulted from the 
consolidation of operations as a result of the Merger and the 
Company's on-going cost-reduction program.  As a percentage of net 
sales, cost of sales increased to 71.5% in 1995 from 68.4% in 1994. 
The increase in the cost of sales percentage primarily resulted from 
a reduction in net sales due to a reduction in Medicare fee 
schedules, pricing pressures and utilization declines, each of which 
provided little corresponding reduction in costs.

   Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $238.5 
million in 1995 from $149.3 million in 1994, an increase of $89.2 
million. Approximately $74.3 million of the increase was due to the 
inclusion of the selling, general and administrative expenses of RBL 
and approximately $7.7 million due to the inclusion of the selling, 
general and administrative expenses of Allied. In the fourth quarter 
of 1995, the Company recorded an additional $15.0 million of 
provision for doubtful accounts which reflects the Company's 
determination, based on trends that became evident in the fourth 
quarter, that additional reserves were needed primarily to cover 
potentially lower collection rates from several third-party payors. 
The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was 
partially offset by decreases in other expense categories, including 
reductions in selling expenses, as a result the elimination of 
duplicative functions in connection with the Merger and the Company's 
on-going cost-reduction program. Before the increase to the provision 
for doubtful accounts, selling, general and administrative expenses 
as a percentage of net sales was 15.6% in 1995 and 17.1% in 1994. The 
decrease in the selling, general and administrative percentage 
primarily resulted from reductions in expenses as discussed above.

   Management expects net sales to continue to grow through 
strategic acquisitions and the addition of new accounts, although 
there can be no assurance that the Company will experience such 
growth.  A reduction in Medicare fee schedules, pursuant to the 
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 ("OBRA '93"), to 76% of the 
median fee amounts, effective January 1, 1996 is expected to 
negatively impact net sales, cost of sales as a percentage of net 
sales and selling, general and administrative expenses as a 
percentage of net sales in the future.  Management expects that price 
erosion and utilization declines will continue to negatively impact 
net sales and the results of operations for the foreseeable future. 
It is the objective of management to partially offset the increases 
in cost of sales as a percentage of net sales and selling, general 
and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales through 
comprehensive cost reduction programs at each of the Company's 
regional laboratories, although there can be no assurance of the 
timing or success of such programs. Congress is also considering 




changes to the Medicare fee schedules in conjunction with certain 
budgetary bills pending in Congress.  The ultimate outcome of these 
deliberations on pending legislation cannot be predicted at this time 
and management, therefore, cannot predict the impact, if any, such 
proposals, if enacted, would have on the results of operations of the 
Company. In addition, severe weather in the first two months of 1996 
will negatively impact net sales and results of operations in the 
first quarter of 1996.

   The increase in amortization of intangibles and other assets to 
$27.0 million in 1995 from $16.3 million in 1994 primarily resulted 
from the Merger in April 1995 and the acquisition of Allied in June 
1994.

   See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
which sets forth the Company's restructuring activities for the year 
ended December 31, 1995.

   In the second quarter of 1995, the Company took a pre-tax 
special charge of $10.0 million in connection with the estimated 
costs of settling various claims pending against the Company, 
substantially all of which are billing disputes, in which the Company 
believes it is probable that settlements will be made by the Company.

   Net interest expense was $64.1 million in 1995 compared to $33.5 
million in 1994.  The change resulted primarily from increased 
borrowings used to finance the Merger with RBL and the acquisition of 
Allied and, to a lesser extent, due to a higher effective borrowing 
rate in the first four months of 1995.

   In connection with the repayment of the Company's existing 
revolving credit and term loan facilities at the time of the Merger, 
the Company recorded an extraordinary loss from the early 
extinguishment of debt of approximately $13.5 million ($8.3 million 
net of tax) consisting of the write-off of deferred financing costs.

   As a result of the restructuring charges and extraordinary loss, 
the provision for income taxes as a percentage of earnings before 
income taxes for 1995 is not comparable to prior periods.

   As discussed above and in Notes 2, 3 and 8 of the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements, reported results in 1995 were 
impacted by the extraordinary loss, restructuring charges and 
provision for settlements.  Excluding the impact of these non-
recurring items, net earnings would have increased to $42.8 million 
in 1995 compared to $30.1 million in 1994.

Year Ended December 31, 1994 compared with Year Ended December 31, 
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
1993.
- ----
   Net sales increased by $112.0 million to $872.5 million in 1994, 
an increase of 14.7% over 1993.  The inclusion of Allied since June 




23, 1994 increased net sales by approximately $96.8 million or 12.7%. 
Revenues generated by new accounts and numerous acquisitions of small 
clinical laboratory companies increased net sales by approximately 
9.6% and 11.4%, respectively.  In addition, a price increase, 
effective April 1, 1994, increased net sales for 1994 by 
approximately 1.8%.  A reduction in Medicare's fee schedules from 88% 
to 84% of the 1984 national median effective on January 1, 1994, plus 
changes in reimbursement policies of various third party payors, 
reduced net sales by approximately 3.1%.  Other factors, in order of 
decreasing magnitude, comprised the remaining reduction in net sales 
as follows:  declines in the level of HDL cholesterol and serum 
ferritin testing, lower utilization of laboratory testing, price 
erosion in the industry as a whole and severe weather in the first 
quarter of 1994.  The Company believes that the decline in 
utilization was due to fewer patient visits to physicians' offices 
since the number of tests ordered per patient remained relatively 
constant.  Revenues derived from tests performed for beneficiaries of 
Medicare and Medicaid programs were approximately 35% and 41% of net 
sales in 1994 and 1993, respectively.

   Cost of sales, which primarily includes laboratory and 
distribution costs, increased to $597.0 million in 1994 from $444.5 
million in 1993.  Of the $152.5 million increase, approximately $66.6 
million was due to the inclusion of the cost of sales of Allied since 
June 23, 1994, approximately $62.3 million was a result of higher 
testing volume, and approximately $7.0 million was due to an increase 
in phlebotomy staffing to improve client service and meet competitive 
demand.  Rental of premises increased approximately $2.7 million due 
to the expansion and/or relocation of existing facilities to 
accommodate increased volume and the full year impact of expanding 
the number of patient service centers by 50% during 1993.  The 
remaining increase resulted primarily from higher compensation and 
insurance expenses.  As a percentage of net sales, cost of sales 
increased to 68.4% in 1994 from 58.4% in 1993.  The increase in the 
cost of sales percentage primarily resulted from a reduction in net 
sales due to a reduction in Medicare fee schedules, pricing pressures 
and utilization declines, each of which provide little corresponding 
reduction in costs.  

   Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $149.3 
million in 1994 from $121.4 million in 1993, an increase of $27.9 
million.  Approximately $21.7 million of the increase was due to the 
inclusion of the selling, general and administrative expenses of 
Allied since June 23, 1994.  Approximately $3.9 million of the 
increase was a result of a non-recurring charge in the fourth quarter 
of 1994 for lease costs and the write-off of leasehold improvements 
related to the relocation of certain of the Company's regional 
laboratories.  The remaining increase was primarily due to expansion 
of data processing and billing departments due to increased volume 
and to improve client service.  As a percentage of net sales, 
selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 17.1% in 
1994 compared with 16.0% in 1993.  The increase in the selling, 




general and administrative percentage primarily resulted from a 
reduction in net sales, as discussed above, that provided little 
corresponding reduction in costs.

   The increase in amortization of intangibles and other assets to 
$16.3 million in 1994 from $9.1 million in 1993 primarily resulted 
from the acquisition of Allied and several small clinical laboratory 
companies during 1994 and 1993.

   In the third quarter of 1994, the Company approved a settlement 
of previously disclosed shareholder class and derivative litigation. 
As previously disclosed, the litigation consisted of two consolidated 
class action suits and a consolidated shareholder derivative action 
brought in Federal and state courts in San Diego, California.  The 
settlement involved no admission of wrongdoing.  In connection with 
the settlement, the Company took a pre-tax special charge of $15.0 
million and a $6.0 million charge for expenses related to the settled 
litigation.  Insurance payments and payments from other defendants 
aggregate $55.0 million plus expenses. 

   Other gains and expenses in 1993 include expense reimbursement 
and termination fees of $21.6 million received in connection with the 
Company's attempt to purchase Damon Corporation, less related 
expenses and the write-off of certain bank financing costs 
aggregating $6.3 million, resulting in a one-time pre-tax gain of 
$15.3 million.

   Net interest expense was $33.5 million in 1994 compared to $9.7 
million in 1993.  The increase resulted primarily from increased 
borrowings used to finance the Allied Acquisition in June 1994, the 
acquisition of numerous small laboratory companies during both 1994 
and 1993 and repurchases of the Company's common stock in 1993. 
Higher average interest rates also contributed to the increase in net 
interest expense.

   The provision for income taxes as a percentage of earnings 
before income taxes increased to 45.7% in 1994 from 41.0% in 1993, 
primarily due to a higher effective tax rate for both Federal and 
state income taxes.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

   Net cash provided by operating activities (after payment of 
settlement and related expenses of $32.1 million and $29.8 million in 
1995 and 1994, respectively) was $47.0 million and $14.7 million, 
respectively.  Capital expenditures were $75.4 million and $48.9 
million for 1995 and 1994, respectively.  The Company expects capital 
expenditures to be approximately $65.0 million in 1996 to continue 
the Merger related integration, to accommodate expected growth, to 
further automate laboratory processes and to improve efficiency.  




   On April 28, 1995, the Company completed its merger with RBL 
pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger dated as of December 13, 
1994. The Merger was accounted for under the purchase method of 
accounting.  See note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements which describes the Merger.

   The Company acquired nine small laboratory companies during 1995 
for an aggregate amount of $32.0 million in cash and the recognition 
of $9.7 million of liabilities.  These laboratories, on an annual 
basis, are expected to generate approximately $30.0 million in net 
sales.  During 1994, the Company acquired eleven small laboratory 
companies for a total of $46.4 million in cash and the recognition of 
$32.9 million of liabilities.

   The Company entered into a credit agreement dated as of April 
28, 1995 (the "Credit Agreement"), with the banks named therein (the 
"Banks") and Credit Suisse (New York Branch), as administrative agent 
(the "Bank Agent"), which made available to the Company a senior term 
loan facility of $800.0 million (the "Term Loan Facility") and a 
revolving credit facility of $450.0 million (the "Revolving Credit 
Facility" and, together with the Term Loan Facility, the "Bank 
Facility").  The Bank Facility provided funds for cash payment to 
shareholders in connection with the Merger, for the refinancing of 
certain existing debt of the Company and its subsidiaries and RBL, 
for related fees and expenses of the Merger and for general corporate 
purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries, in each case subject to 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement.

   The Company pays a facility fee based on the total Revolving 
Credit Facility commitment (regardless of usage) of 0.125% per annum.  
Availability of funds under the Bank Facility is conditioned on 
certain customary conditions, and the Credit Agreement, as amended, 
contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and events 
of default.

   The Revolving Credit Facility matures in April 2000.  The Term 
Loan Facility matures in April 2001, with repayments in each quarter 
prior to maturity based on a specified amortization schedule. For as 
long as HLR Holdings Inc. and its affiliates' ownership of Company 
Common Stock (the "HLR Group Interest") remains at least 25%, the 
Revolving Credit Facility bears interest, at the option of the 
Company, at (i) Credit Suisse's Base Rate (as defined in the Credit 
Agreement) or (ii) the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the Credit 
Agreement) plus a margin of 0.25% and the Term Loan Facility bears 
interest, at the option of the Company, at (i) Credit Suisse's Base 
Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) or (ii) the Eurodollar Rate 
(as defined in the Credit Agreement) plus a margin of 0.375%.  In the 
event there is a reduction in the HLR Group Interest to below 25%, 
applicable interest margins will not be determined as set forth 
above, but instead will be determined based upon the Company's 
financial performance as described in the Credit Agreement.  The 
Company's weighted average borrowing rate, including the effects of 




interest rate swap agreements discussed below, was 6.23% at December 
31, 1995.

   At December 31, 1995, the Company was a party to interest rate 
swap agreements with certain major financial institutions, rated A or 
better by Moody's Investor Service, solely to manage its interest 
rate exposure with respect to $600.0 million of its floating rate 
debt under the Term Loan Facility.  The agreements effectively 
changed the interest rate exposure on $600.0 million of floating rate 
debt to a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6.01%, through 
requiring that the Company pay a fixed rate amount in exchange for 
the financial institutions paying a floating rate amount.  Amounts 
paid by the Company in 1995 were not significant.  The notional 
amounts of the agreements are used to measure the interest to be paid 
or received and do not represent the amount of exposure to credit 
loss. These agreements mature in September 1998.  The estimated cost 
at which the Company could terminate such agreements was $9.5 million 
at December 31, 1995.

   On April 28, 1995, the Company borrowed $800.0 million under the 
Term Loan Facility and $184.0 million under the Revolving Credit 
Facility (i) to pay the cash payment to shareholders in connection 
with the Merger; (ii) to repay in full the existing revolving credit 
and term loan facilities of a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company 
of approximately $640.0 million including interest and fees; (iii) to 
repay approximately $50.0 million of existing indebtedness of RBL; 
and (iv) for other transaction costs in connection with the Merger 
and for use as working capital and general corporate purposes of the 
Company and its subsidiaries.

   See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
which sets forth the Company's restructuring activities for 1995. 
Future cash payments under the restructuring plan are expected to be 
$13.7 million over the next year and $18.0 million thereafter. 

   As a result of the Merger, the Company is expected to achieve 
substantial savings in operating costs through the consolidation of 
certain operations and the elimination of redundant expenses.  Such 
savings are expected to be realized over time as the consolidation 
process is completed.  The Company expects to realize annualized net 
savings of approximately $110.0 million within two years following 
the Merger.  The synergies expected to be realized by the Company 
will be derived from several sources, including corporate, general 
and administrative expenses, including the consolidation of 
administrative staff.  Other reductions in sales staff where 
duplicate territories exist, operational savings, including the 
closing of overlapping laboratories and other facilities, and savings 
to be realized from the additional buying power of the larger 
Company, are expected to generate significant savings.  It is also 
expected that savings will be realized from certain changes in 
employee benefits.  These estimated savings are anticipated to be 
partially offset by a loss of existing business during the conversion




process.  Realization of improvements in profitability is dependent, 
in part, on the extent to which the revenues of the combined 
companies are maintained and will be influenced by many factors, 
including factors outside the control of the Company.  There can be 
no assurance that the estimated cost savings described above will be 
realized or achieved in a timely manner or that improvements, if any, 
in profitability will be achieved or that such savings will not be 
offset by increases in other expenses. 

   The Company expects that its cash needs for working capital, 
capital expenditures and the cash costs of the restructuring and 
operations of the Company after the Merger will be met by its cash 
flow from operations and borrowings under the Revolving Credit 
Facility.

Impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121 -- 
Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived 
Assets to Be Disposed Of

   Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting 
for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to 
Be Disposed Of ("SFAS No. 121")," was issued in 1995 and established 
accounting standards for the impairment  of long-lived assets, 
certain identifiable intangibles, and goodwill related to those 
assets held and used and for long-lived assets and certain 
indentifiable intangibles to be disposed of. SFAS No. 121 is 
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1995.  As a 
result of acquisitions in recent years, the Company has signficant 
amounts of intangible assets.  The Company is currently evaluating 
the impact of the implementation of SFAS No. 121.

   In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued 
SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123") 
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1995.  SFAS 
123 establishes the fair value based method of accounting for stock-
based compensation arrangements, under which compensation cost is 
determined using the fair value of the stock option at the grant date 
and the number of options vested, and is recognized over the periods 
in which the related services are rendered.  If the Company were to 
retain its current intrinsic value based method, as allowed by SFAS 
123, it will be required to disclose the pro forma effect of adopting 
the fair value based method.  The Company anticipates adopting the 
pro forma disclosure method of accounting for stock-based 
compensation.

Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Reference is made to the Index on Page F-1 of the Financial 
Report included herein.

Item 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON 
         ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not Applicable. 





                               PART III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

   The following table sets forth as of March 15, 1996 the 
executive officers and directors of the Company:


        Name                                          Position                  
 --------------------                  -----------------------------------
James R. Maher                          Chairman of the Board and
                                          Director
Thomas P. Mac Mahon                     Vice Chairman of the Board and 
                                          Director
James B. Powell, M.D.                   President, Chief Executive 
                                          Officer and Director
Jean-Luc Belingard                      Director
Linda Gosden Robinson                   Director
David B. Skinner, M.D.                  Director
Andrew G. Wallace, M.D.                 Director

Timothy J. Brodnik                      Executive Vice President, Sales 
                                          and Marketing
Haywood D. Cochrane, Jr.                Executive Vice President, Chief 
                                          Financial Officer and Treasurer
Larry L. Leonard                        Executive Vice President
John F. Markus                          Executive Vice President, 
                                          Corporate Compliance
Bradford T. Smith                       Executive Vice President, General 
                                          Counsel and Secretary
David C. Weavil                         Executive Vice President and Chief 
                                          Operating Officer
Robert E. Whalen                        Executive Vice President and
                                          Chief Administrative Officer
Wesley R. Elingburg                     Senior Vice President, Finance

   James R. Maher (45) has been Chairman of the Board and a 
Director since April 28, 1995.  Prior to such date and since 1992, 
Mr. Maher was President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of 
NHL.  Since July 1995, Mr. Maher has been President and Chief 
Executive Officer of MAFCO Consolidated Group Inc., an affiliate 
of National Health Care Group ("NHCG").  NHCG owns approximately 
12% of the outstanding common stock of the Company.  Mr. Maher 
was Vice Chairman of The First Boston Corporation from 1990 to 1992 
and Managing Director of The First Boston Corporation from 1982 to 
1992. Mr. Maher also is a Director of First Brands Corporation.

   Thomas P. Mac Mahon (49) has served as Vice Chairman and a 
Director of the Company since the Merger.  Mr. Mac Mahon has been 
Senior Vice President of Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. since 1993 and 
President of Roche Diagnostics Group and a Director and member of the 




Executive Committee of Hoffmann-La Roche since 1988.  Mr. Mac Mahon 
is also a Director of HLR.  As Senior Vice President of Hoffmann-La 
Roche Inc. and President of Roche Diagnostics Group, Mr. Mac Mahon is 
responsible for the management of all United States operations of the 
diagnostic business of Hoffmann-La Roche.  Mr. Mac Mahon is also 
currently a member of the Worldwide Diagnostics Executive Committee 
of Roche Holdings.

   James B. Powell, M.D.(57) has served as President and Chief 
Executive Officer and as a Director of the Company since the Merger.  
Previously, Dr. Powell was President of RBL from 1982 until the 
Merger.  He is a medical doctor and became certified in anatomic and 
clinical pathology in 1969.  Dr. Powell is a member of the management 
committee of the Company.

   Jean-Luc Belingard (47) has served as a Director of the Company 
since the Merger.  Mr. Belingard is Director General of the 
Diagnostics Division and member of the Executive Committee of F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd ("F. Hoffmann-La Roche"), Basel, Switzerland, a 
subsidiary of Roche Holding.  He joined F. Hoffmann-La Roche in 1982, 
and held various positions prior to being named to his current 
positions in 1990.  His current responsibilities include the 
management of the worldwide diagnostic business of Roche.  Mr. 
Belingard is also a director of Perkin-Elmer Corporation, Norwalk, 
Connecticut and a Foreign Trade Advisor to the French Government.

   Linda Gosden Robinson (43) has served as a Director of the 
Company since 1990.  Ms. Robinson is Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer of Robinson Lerer Sawyer Miller since 1986 and was Senior 
Vice President, Corporate Affairs, of Warner Cable Communications, 
Inc. from 1983 to 1986.  She is also a Director of Revlon Group 
Incorporated ("Revlon Group"), an affiliate of NHCG, and of Bozell, 
Jacobs, Kenyon & Eckhardt, Inc. and is a trustee of New York 
University Medical Center.

   David B. Skinner, M.D. (60) has served as a Director of the 
Company since the Merger.  Dr. Skinner has been President and Chief 
Executive Officer of New York Hospital and Professor of Surgery at 
Cornell Medical School since 1987.  He was the Chairman of the 
Department of Surgery and Professor of Surgery at the University of 
Chicago Hospitals and Clinics from 1972 to 1987.

   Andrew G. Wallace, M.D. (61) has served as a Director of the 
Company since the Merger.  Dr. Wallace has served as both the Dean of 
Dartmouth Medical School and Vice President for Health Affairs at 
Dartmouth College since 1987.  He was the Vice Chancellor for Health 
Affairs at Duke University and the Chief Executive Officer of Duke 
Hospital from 1981 to 1987.

   Timothy J. Brodnik (48) has served as Executive Vice President, 
Sales and Marketing since the Merger.  He joined the Company in 1971.  
He was appointed Executive Vice President of the Company in 1993 and 




was Senior Vice President from 1991 to 1993 and Vice President-
Division Manager from 1979 until 1991.  Mr. Brodnik oversees the 
Company's sales operations including managed care, business 
ventures/alliances and new business development. Mr. Brodnik is a 
member of the management committee of the Company.

   Haywood D. Cochrane, Jr. (47) has served as Executive Vice 
President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since the Merger and 
has been an executive of the Company since June 1994 following the 
acquisition by the Company of Allied Clinical Laboratories, Inc. 
("Allied").  Mr. Cochrane was President, Chief Executive Officer and 
a Director of Allied from its formation in 1989 until its acquisition 
by the Company in 1994.  Mr. Cochrane serves as a Director of JDN 
Realty Corp., Atlanta, Georgia.  Mr. Cochrane is a member of the 
management committee of the Company.

   Larry L. Leonard (54) has served as Executive Vice President of 
the Company since 1993.  He joined the Company in 1978.  Dr. Leonard, 
who holds a Ph.D degree in microbiology, was named Senior Vice 
President of the Company in 1991 and previously was Vice President-
Division Manager.  Dr. Leonard oversees major regional laboratories 
in Arizona, Texas and Colorado.

   John F. Markus (44) has served as Executive Vice President, 
Corporate Compliance since the Merger.  From 1990, when he joined the 
Company, he has been responsible for quality, operations review, 
pathology/cytology, compliance and the Company's phlebotomy program.  
He served as Executive Vice President and Director of Compliance from 
1993 and was Vice President-Managing Director from 1990 to 1993.  
Previously, Mr. Markus was an attorney in the law firm of Akin, Gump, 
Strauss, Haur and Feld in Washington, D.C. for more than five years 
and was a partner in such firm in 1989.  Mr. Markus is a member of 
the management committee of the Company.

   Bradford T. Smith (42) has served as Executive Vice President, 
General Counsel and Secretary since the Merger.  Previously, Mr. 
Smith served as Assistant General Counsel of HLR, Division Counsel of 
RBL and Assistant Secretary and member of RBL's Senior Management 
Committee from 1988 until April 1995.  Mr. Smith served as Assistant 
Secretary of HLR from 1989 until the Merger and as an Assistant Vice 
President of HLR during 1992 and 1993.  Mr. Smith is a member of the 
management committee of the Company.

   David C. Weavil (45) has served as Executive Vice President 
since the Merger and was appointed Chief Operating Officer in 
September 1995.  Previously, Mr. Weavil served as Senior Vice 
President and Chief Operating Officer of RBL beginning in 1989.  From 
1988 through 1989, Mr. Weavil was Regional Senior Vice President-Mid-
Atlantic of RBL.  Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer of RBL from 1982.  Mr. Weavil is a member 
of the management committee of the Company.




   Robert E. Whalen (53) has served as Executive Vice President 
since the Merger.  He was appointed Chief Administrative Officer in 
September 1995.  Mr. Whalen joined the Company in 1976.  He was named 
Executive Vice President of the Company in 1993 and was Senior Vice 
President from 1991 to 1993 and Vice President-Administration from 
1985 to 1993.  From 1979 to 1985, he was Vice President-Division 
Manager of the Company.  Mr. Whalen oversees human resources, client 
service and major regional laboratories in California, Washington, 
Nevada and Utah.  Mr. Whalen is a member of the management committee 
of the Company.

   Wesley R. Elingburg (39) has served as Senior Vice President, 
Finance since the Merger.  Mr. Elingburg is responsible for the day 
to day supervision of the finance function of the Company, including 
treasury functions, and reports to the Chief Financial Officer.  
Previously, Mr. Elingburg served as Senior Vice President-Finance and 
Treasurer of RBL from 1988 through April 1995 and Assistant Vice 
President of Hoffmann-La Roche from 1989 until the Merger in April 
1995.  Mr. Elingburg is a member of the management committee of the 
Company.

Board of Directors and its Committees

   The Board of Directors has an Audit Committee, an Employee 
Benefits Committee, an Ethics and Quality Assurance Committee and a 
Nominating Committee.  During 1994 and prior to the Merger in April 
1995, the Board of Directors also had an Executive Committee.

   The Audit Committee, currently consisting of Dr. Skinner and Dr. 
Wallace, makes recommendations, among other things,  to the Board 
regarding the engagement of the Company's independent auditors, 
reviews the plan, scope and results of the audit, reviews with the 
auditors and management the Company's policies and procedures with 
respect to internal accounting and financial controls and reviews 
changes in accounting policy and the scope of the non-audit services 
which may be performed by the Company's independent auditors.  
Pursuant to the Stockholder Agreement (See "Item 13: Certain 
Relationships and Related Transactions"), the Audit Committee is 
comprised entirely of Independent Directors.  During 1994 and prior 
to the Merger in April 1995, the Audit Committee consisted of Dr. 
Saul J. Farber, Anne Dibble Jordan and Dr. Paul A. Marks.

   The Ethics and Quality Assurance Committee, currently consisting 
of Mr. Maher, Dr. Powell, Dr. Wallace and Dr. Skinner, is responsible 
for ensuring that the Company adopts and implements procedures that 
require the Company's employees to act in accordance with high 
ethical standards and to deliver high quality services.  During 1994 
and prior to the Merger, the Ethics and Quality Assurance Committee 
consisted of Howard Gittis, Dr. Farber and Ms. Jordan.

   The Employee Benefits Committee, currently consisting of Mr. 
Belingard, Ms. Robinson and Dr. Skinner, makes recommendations to the 




Board regarding compensation and benefit policies and practices and 
incentive arrangements for executive officers and key managerial 
employees of the Company.  The  Employee Benefits Committee also 
considers and grants awards under the Company's incentive plans, 
subject to a Special Majority Vote of the Board as described in "Item 
13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions".  Pursuant to the 
Stockholder Agreement, the Employee Benefits Committee is comprised 
of a majority of Independent Directors.  During 1994 and prior to the 
Merger, the Employee Benefits Committee consisted of Dr. Farber, Mr. 
Gittis, David J. Mahoney, Ms. Robinson and Dr. Samuel O. Thier.

   The Nominating Committee, currently consisting of Mr. Mac Mahon, 
Dr. Wallace and Ms. Robinson, is responsible for recommending the 
nomination of directors.  Pursuant to the Stockholder Agreement, the 
Nominating Committee is comprised of one HLR Director and two 
Independent Directors and acts by a majority vote of the entire 
committee.  During 1994 and prior to the Merger in April 1995, the 
Nominating Committee consisted of Ronald O. Perelman, Ms. Jordan, Ms. 
Robinson and Dr. Thier.

   During 1994 and prior to the Merger, the Board had an Executive 
Committee, consisting of Messrs. Perelman, Gittis and Maher, which 
was empowered to exercise all the powers and authority of the Board 
except as otherwise provided under applicable Delaware corporation 
law.  The Executive Committee was dissolved immediately following the 
Merger.

   During 1995, the Board of Directors held seven meetings and 
acted five times by unanimous written consent of all members thereof, 
each in accordance with the Company's By-laws and applicable Delaware 
corporation law.  The Employee Benefits Committee held two meetings; 
the Audit Committee held two meetings; and the Ethics and Quality 
Assurance Committee held one meeting in 1995.  The Nominating 
Committee did not meet in 1995.  During 1995, none of the directors 
attended fewer than 75% of the meetings of the Board and the 
committees of which he or she was a member.

Compliance With Section 16(A) Of The Exchange Act

   On the basis of reports and representations submitted by the 
directors and executive officers of the Company, all Forms 3, 4 and 5 
showing ownership of and changes of ownership in the Company's equity 
securities during 1995 were timely filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission as required by Section 16(a) of the Securities 
and Exchange Act of 1934, except that Dr. Skinner sold 720 shares of 
Common Stock on December 22, 1995, which should have been reported on 
Form 4 but which instead was reported on Form 5 for year-end 1995.

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

   The compensation paid by the Company during the year ended 
December 31, 1995 to certain executive officers is set forth below.  




The executive officers named are the two who served as chief 
executive officer during the year, the four other most highly 
compensated executive officers serving at year end, and an officer 
who would have been one of such four had he not resigned before year 
end.





Stock Option Transactions in 1995 

   During 1995, the following grants,  excluding Roll-Over Options, 
were made under the 1994 Stock Option Plan for the executive officers 
named in the Summary Compensation Table:


   The following chart shows, for 1995, the number of stock options 
exercised and the 1995 year-end value of the options held by the 
executive officers named in the Summary Compensation Table:





Retirement Benefits and Savings Plan  

   The following table sets forth the estimated annual retirement 
benefits payable at age 65 to persons retiring with the indicated 
average direct compensation and years of credited service, on a 
straight life annuity basis after Social Security offset, under the 
Company's Employees' Retirement Plan or RBL's Employee Retirement 
Plan which was assumed by the Company in connection with the Merger, 
as supplemented by the Company's Pension Equalization Plan and RBL's 
Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan.

                                   Pension Plan Table
                                  James B. Powell, M.D.
                                  --------------------- 
  Five year 
   average
Compensation(1)   10 Years(2)  15 Years(2) 20 Years(2) 25 Years(2) 30 Years(2)
- ----------------  -----------  ----------  ----------- ----------  ----------
   $ 50,000        $ 7,917      $ 11,676    $ 15,434    $ 19,193    $ 19,193
    100,000         17,522        26,064      34,645      43,206      43,206
    150,000         27,522        41,084      54,645      68,206      68,206





                              Pension Plan Table
           Haywood D. Cochrane, Jr., Timothy J. Brodnik, John F. Markus
           ------------------------------------------------------------  
  Five year 
   average
Compensation(1) 10 Years(2) 15 Years(2) 20 Years(2) 25 Years(2)  30 Years(2)
- --------------  ----------  ----------- ----------- ----------   -----------
  $ 50,000      $ 1,413      $ 2,510     $ 3,882     $ 5,528      $ 7,174
   100,000        2,626        5,021       7,764      11,056       14,348
   150,000        4,239        7,531      11,646      16,584       21,522
   200,000        5,652       10,041      15,528      22,112       28,695
   250,000        7,065       12,551      19,409      27,639       35,869
   300,000        8,477       15,061      23,291      33,167       43,043

                              Pension Plan Table
                               Robert E. Whalen
                               ------------------               
 Five year 
  average
Compensation(1) 10 Years(2) 15 Years(2) 20 Years(2) 25 Years(2)  30 Years(2)
- --------------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------  -----------
  $ 50,000       $ 6,790     $ 10,184    $ 13,579    $ 16,974    $ 20,369
   100,000        16,130       24,195      32,268      40,325      48,390
   150,000        25,490       38,235      50,980      63,725      76,470
   200,000        34,850       52,275      69,700      87,125     104,550
   250,000        44,210       66,315      88,420     110,525     132,630
   300,000        53,570       80,355     107,140     133,925     160,710


(1) Highest consecutive five year average base compensation 
    during final ten years. Compensation considered for this  
    five year average is reflected in the Summary Compensation 
    Table under the heading "salary."  Under the Equalization 
    Plan, a maximum of $300,000 final average compensation is 
    considered for benefit calculation.  Under the Supplemental 
    Plan, a maximum of $150,000 final average compensation is 
    considered for benefit calculation.  No bonuses are consid-
    ered.

(2) Under the plans, the normal form of benefit for an unmarried 
    participant is a life annuity with a guaranteed minimum pay-
    ment of ten years.  Payments in other optional forms, in-
    cluding the 50% joint and survivor normal form for married 
    participants, are actuarially equivalent to the normal form 
    for an unmarried participant.  The above tables are 
    determined with regard to a life only form of payment; thus, 
    payment using a ten year guarantee would produce a lower 
    annual benefit.

   The Retirement Plan, which is intended to qualify under Section 
401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), is 
a defined benefit pension plan designed to provide an employee having 
30 years of credited service with an annuity equal to 52% of final 




average compensation less 50% of estimated individual Social Security 
benefits.  Credited service is defined generally as all periods of 
employment with the Company, a participating subsidiary or with 
Revlon prior to 1992, or RBL after attainment of age 21 and 
completion of one year of service.  Final average compensation is 
defined as average annual base salary during the five consecutive 
calendar years in which base salary was highest out of the last ten 
years prior to normal retirement age or earlier termination.  The 
Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, places 
certain maximum limitations upon the annual benefit payable under all 
qualified plans of an employer to any one individual.  Such 
limitation for defined benefit pension plans was $120,000 for 1995 
(except to the extent a larger benefit had accrued as of December 31, 
1982) and 1996, and will be subject to cost of living adjustments for 
future years.  In addition, the Tax Reform Act of 1986 limits the 
amount of compensation that can be considered in determining the 
level of benefits under qualified plans.  The applicable limit for 
1995 and 1996 will remain at $150,000.  The Company believes that, 
with respect to certain employees, annual retirement benefits 
computed in accordance with the Retirement Plan's benefit formula may 
be greater than such qualified plan limitation. The Company's non-
qualified, unfunded, Equalization and Supplemental Plans are designed 
to provide for the payment of the difference, if any, between the 
amount of such maximum limitation and the annual benefit that would 
be payable under the Retirement Plans but for such limitation.

   As of December 31, 1995, credited years of service under the 
retirement plans for the following individuals are for Dr. Powell-13 
years, Mr. Cochrane-none, Mr. Whalen-18 years, Mr. Brodnik-23 years 
and Mr. Markus-4 years.

Compensation of Directors

   Effective on April 28, 1995, directors who are not receiving 
compensation as officers or employees of the Company are paid an 
annual retainer of $30,000, payable in monthly installments and a fee 
of $1,000 for each meeting of the Board of Directors or of any 
Committee thereof they attend and receive reimbursement of expenses 
they incur for attending any meeting.  Pursuant to the Non-Employee 
Director Stock Plan, 50% of such annual retainer is payable in cash 
and 50% shall be payable in Common Stock of the Company.  Prior to 
April 28, 1995 and during the year ended December 31, 1994, directors 
were paid an annual retainer of $25,000, payable in monthly 
installments, and a fee of $1,000 for each meeting of the Board of 
Directors or any committee thereof attended.

Compensation Plans and Arrangements

   The Company has amended employment agreements with Robert E. 
Whalen and Timothy J. Brodnik which provide for each of them to be 
employed as an Executive Vice President through December 31, 1996 at 
an annual salary of $325,000 with an annual bonus equal to 50% of the 




annual salary then in effect and an additional discretionary bonus as 
may be awarded at the discretion of the Board of Directors. The 
employment agreements also provide that the duties assigned to Mr. 
Whalen and Mr. Brodnik will be performed primarily at the offices of 
the Company in San Diego, California and Fairfax County, Virginia, 
respectively.  If the respective employment agreement is terminated 
by Mr. Whalen or Mr. Brodnik for certain specified reasons, 
including, (i) the assignment of duties materially inconsistent with 
the status of the office of Executive Vice President of the Company 
or resulting in an adverse alteration in the nature of the 
responsibilities associated therewith, (ii) a reduction by the 
Company in the annual salary or annual bonus or a failure by the 
Company to pay any such amount when due or (iii) a material breach of 
any of the terms of the employment agreement by the Company, then the 
Company will be required to pay, in monthly installments, (i) the 
annual salary and annual bonus Mr. Whalen and Mr. Brodnik would have 
otherwise received during the remainder of their respective 
employment periods and (ii) for a period of one year following the 
respective dates of expiration of their respective employment terms, 
in consideration of the performance of specified noncompetition 
obligations, an amount equal to one-half the annual salary at the 
rate in effect on the date of expiration of their respective 
employment terms.

   The Company has an amended employment agreement with John F. 
Markus which provides for him to be employed as an Executive Vice 
President through December 31, 1996 at an annual salary of $325,000 
with an annual bonus equal to 50% of the annual salary then in effect 
and an additional discretionary bonus as may be awarded at the 
discretion of the Board of Directors.  If the employment agreement is 
terminated by Mr. Markus for certain specified reasons, including, 
(i) the assignment of duties materially inconsistent with the status 
of the office of Executive Vice President of the Company or resulting 
in an adverse alteration in the nature of the responsibilities 
associated therewith, (ii) a reduction by the Company in the annual 
salary or annual bonus or a failure by the Company to pay any such 
amount when due or (iii) a material breach of any of the terms of the 
employment agreement by the Company, then the Company will be 
required to pay, in monthly installments, (i) the annual salary and 
annual bonus Mr. Markus would have otherwise received during the 
remainder of his employment period and (ii) for a period of one year 
following the date of expiration of his employment term, in 
consideration of the performance of specified noncompetition 
obligations, an amount equal to one-half the annual salary at the 
rate in effect on the date of expiration his employment term.

   The Company had an amemded employment agreement with David C. 
Flaugh which provided for his employment as Executive Vice President 
and Chief Operating Officer of the Company through December 31, 1996 
at an annual salary of $500,000 with an annual bonus of 50% of the 
annual salary then in effect and an additional discretionary bonus to 
be awarded at the discretion of the Board of Directors.  The 




employment agreement also provided that the duties assigned to Mr. 
Flaugh would be performed primarily at the offices of the Company in 
San Diego County, California.  If the employment agreement was 
terminated by Mr. Flaugh for certain specified reasons ("Good 
Reason") including (i) the assignment of duties materially 
inconsistent with Mr. Flaugh's status as Executive Vice President and 
Chief Operating Officer, (ii) a reduction by the Company in the 
annual salary or annual bonus or a failure by the Company to pay any 
such amount when due or (iii) a material breach of any of the terms 
of the employment agreement by the Company, then the Company will be 
required to pay, in monthly installments, (i) the annual salary Mr. 
Flaugh would have otherwise received during the remainder of the 
employment period and (ii) for a period of one year following the 
date of the expiration of the employment term, in consideration of 
the performance of specified noncompetition obligations, an amount 
equal to one-half the annual salary at the rate in effect on the date 
of expiration of the employment term.  The Company had acknowledged 
that the change to Mr. Flaugh's position following the Merger 
constituted an event of Good Reason.  Mr. Flaugh had agreed not to 
terminate his employment prior to December 31, 1995 due to his new 
position. However, on September 19, 1995, Mr. Flaugh decided to 
terminate his employment agreement and therefore the Company is 
required to pay in monthly installments, the amounts as described 
above.

Employee Benefits Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation

   The members of the Employee Benefits Committee prior to the 
Merger on April 28, 1995 were Saul J. Farber, M.D., Howard Gittis, 
David J. Mahoney, Ms. Robinson and Samuel O. Thier, M.D. Subsequent 
to the Merger, the members of the Employee Benefits Committee are Mr. 
Belingard, Ms. Robinson, and Dr. Skinner.  No member of the Employee 
Benefits Committee is an officer or employee of the Company. 

   Certain Director Relationships.  Robinson Lerer Sawyer Miller, 
the corporate communications firm of which Ms. Robinson is President 
and Chief Executive Officer, performs corporate communications 
services for the Company.  The amount paid to Robinson Lerer Sawyer 
Miller for services to the Company in 1995 was $151,207.

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL HOLDERS

   The following table sets forth as of February 15, 1996, the 
total number of shares of common stock beneficially owned, and the 
percent so owned, by each director of the Company who is a beneficial 
owner of any shares of common stock, by each person known to the 
Company to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of the outstanding 
common stock, by the officers named in the summary compensation table 
and by all directors and officers as a group.  The number of shares 
owned are those "beneficially owned," as determined under the rules 
of the Commission, and such information is not necessarily indicative 
of beneficial ownership for any other purpose.  Under such rules, 




beneficial ownership includes any shares as to which a person has 
sole or shared voting power or investment power and any shares of 
common stock which the person has the right to acquire within 60 days 
through the exercise of any option, warrant or right, through 
conversion of any security, or pursuant to the automatic termination 
of power of attorney or revocation of trust, discretionary account or 
similar arrangement.

                                           Amount and Nature
                                            of Beneficial       Percent of
                                              Ownership           Class   
                                          ------------------- -------------
Roche Holdings, Inc.                         61,329,256(1)        49.9%
15 East North Street
Dover, DE  19901

Ronald O. Perelman                           14,527,244(2)        11.8%
35 East 62nd Street
New York, NY  10021

James R. Maher                                  203,223              *
James B. Powell, M.D.                            66,667(3)           *
Haywood D. Cochrane, Jr.                        141,069(3)           *
Robert E. Whalen                                 53,607(3)           *
Timothy J. Brodnik                               47,464(3)           *
John F. Markus                                   66,256(3)           *
Jean-Luc Belingard                                1,023              *
Linda Gosden Robinson                             1,023              *
David Bernt Skinner, M.D.                         1,023              *
Andrew G. Wallace, M.D.                           1,023              *
All directors and executive                     683,525(3)           *
 officers as a group (17 persons)

_________________________________________

* Less than 1%

(1) As reported on the Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on May 
    8, 1995, on behalf of Roche Holdings, Inc., 49,008,538 of these 
    shares are directly held by HLR, and 12,320,718 of these shares 
    are directly held by Roche Holdings, Inc.  Both HLR and Roche  
    Holdings, Inc. are indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of Roche 
    Holding.  Dr. h.c. Paul Sacher, an individual and citizen of 
    Switzerland has, pursuant to an agreement, the power to vote a 
    majority of the voting shares of Roche Holding.    
(2) As reported in the Schedule 13G/A filed with the Commission on 
    February 13, 1996, on behalf of Mafco Holdings Inc. ("Mafco"), 
    all shares are owned by NHCG, an indirect wholly-owned 
    subsidiary of Mafco.  All of the capital stock of Mafco is owned 
    by Mr. Ronald O. Perelman. 




(3) Beneficial ownership by officers of the Company includes shares  
    of common stock which such officers have the right to acquire 
    upon the exercise of options which either are vested or which 
    may vest within 60 days.  The number of shares of common stock 
    included in the table as beneficially owned which are subject to 
    such options is as follows:  Dr. Powell - 66,667; Mr. Cochrane -
    33,334; Mr. Whalen - 53,607, Mr. Brodnik - 47,464; Mr. Markus - 
    38,607; all directors and executive officers as a group (not 
    including Mr. Flaugh, who resigned effective September 19, 1995) 
    - 332,144.

Item 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The Merger Agreement and The Stockholder Agreement

   In connection with the Merger, the Company, HLR, Hoffmann-La 
Roche Inc. and Holdings entered into a stockholder agreement dated as 
of April 28, 1995 (the "Stockholder Agreement").  The Stockholder 
Agreement contains certain provisions relating to (i) the governance 
of the Company following the Merger, including but not limited to the 
composition of the Board of Directors, (ii) the issuance, sale and 
transfer of the Company's Equity Securities (as defined in the 
Stockholder Agreement) by the Company and Roche, (iii) the 
acquisition of additional Equity Securities of the Company's Equity 
Securities and (iv) the registration rights granted by the Company to 
Roche with respect to the Company's Equity Securities.  A copy of the 
Stockholder Agreement was included as an exhibit to the current 
report on Form 8-K of the Company filed with the Commission on May 
12, 1995 in connection with the consummation of the Merger.

   The governance provisions of the Stockholder Agreement provide, 
among other things, that immediately after April 28, 1995, and for a 
period of one year thereafter (the "Initial Period"), the Board of 
Directors of the Company is to be comprised of seven members, 
consisting of Mr. Maher, three designees of HLR (each, an "HLR 
Director") and three Independent Directors (as defined therein).  The 
HLR Directors currently are Mr. Belingard, Mr. Mac Mahon and Dr. 
Powell.  The persons nominated to serve as the Independent Directors 
for the Initial Period, who are Mr. Robinson, Dr. Skinner and Dr. 
Wallace, were required pursuant to the Stockholder Agreement to be 
mutually acceptable to a majority of the members of the Company's 
Board of Directors in office immediately prior to April 28, 1995 and 
to HLR.  Pursuant to the Stockholder Agreement, following the Initial 
Period, the Board of Directors of the Company will (subject to 
specified exceptions) be comprised of seven members, consisting of 
three HLR Directors and four Independent Directors nominated by the 
Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors.

   The Stockholder Agreement also provides that Mr. Maher will 
serve as Chairman of the Board and Mr. Mac Mahon will serve as Vice 
Chairman of the Board of the Company for the Initial Period.  
Following the Initial Period, Mr. Maher will resign his Board and 




committee positions, Mr. Mac Mahon will become Chairman of the Board 
and the position of Vice Chairman will be eliminated.  The 
Stockholder Agreement also provides that, among other things, certain 
actions by the Company will require approval by a majority of the HLR 
Directors and at least one Independent Director (a "Special Majority 
Vote"). Included in these items is any change in the size or 
composition of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof and 
the establishment of a new committee of the Board of Directors.

The Sharing and Call Option Agreement

   In connection with the Merger Agreement, HLR, Mafco, NHCG, and 
the Company entered into the Sharing and Call Option Agreement dated 
as of December 13, 1994 (the "Sharing and Call Option Agreement").  
The Sharing and Call Option Agreement provides, among other things, 
that at any time after the third anniversary of the Merger, HLR or 
one of its affiliates (other than the Company) may exercise the 
right, which right may only be exercised once, to purchase all, but 
not less than all, the shares of Common Stock then owned by NHCG, 
Mafco or any of their controlled affiliates.  The Sharing and Call 
Option Agreement provides that a member of the Investor Group will, 
if it elects to exercise this purchase right, pay a price per share 
for the shares to be purchased equal to 102% of the average closing 
price per share of such security as reported on the National 
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System-
National Market System, for the 30 trading days before the date of 
such exercise.

   In addition, in accordance with the Sharing and Call Option 
Agreement, the Company has filed with the Commission a registration 
statement on Form S-3 (the "Registration Statement") which has been 
declared effective by the Commission and includes a resale prospectus 
that permits NHCG (or any of its pledgees) to sell shares of Common 
Stock and Warrants received by NHCG in the Merger without 
restriction.  The Company has agreed to use its best efforts to 
prepare and file with the Commission such post-effective amendments 
to the Registration Statement or other filings as may be necessary to 
keep such Registration Statement continuously effective for a period 
ending on the third anniversary of the date of the Sharing and Call 
Option Agreement and during such period to use its best efforts to 
cause the resale prospectus to be supplemented by any required 
prospectus supplement.  The Company has also agreed to pay all the 
Registration Expenses (as defined therein) arising from exercise of 
the registration rights set forth in the Sharing and Call Option 
Agreement.  A copy of the Sharing and Call Option Agreement was filed 
with the Commission by the Company as an exhibit to the Company's 
December 31, 1994 Form 10-K.




Registration Rights Agreement

   In addition to those registration rights granted to NHCG under 
the Sharing and Call Option Agreement, the Company and NHCG also are 
parties to a registration rights agreement dated as of April 30, 1991 
(the "Registration Rights Agreement") pursuant to which the Company 
is obligated, upon the request of NHCG, to file registration 
statements ("Demand Registration Statements") from time to time with 
the Commission covering the sale of any shares of Common Stock owned 
by NHCG upon the completion of certain public offerings by the 
Company of shares of Common Stock in 1991. Such Demand Registration 
Statements may also cover the resale from time to time of any shares 
of Common Stock that NHCG may purchase in the open market at a time 
when it is deemed to be an affiliate (as such term is defined under 
Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended), and certain 
securities issued in connection with a combination of shares, 
recapitalization, reclassification, merger or consolidation, or other 
pro rata distribution.  NHCG will also have the right to include such 
Common Stock and other securities in any registration statement filed 
by the Company for the underwritten public offering of shares of 
Common Stock (whether or not for the Company's account), subject to 
certain reductions in the amount of such Common Stock and securities 
if the managing underwriters of such offering determine that the 
inclusion thereof would materially interfere with the offering.  The 
Company agreed not to effect any public or private sale, distribution 
or purchase of any of its securities which are the same as or similar 
to the securities covered by any Demand Registration Statement during 
the 15-day period prior to, and during the 45-day period beginning 
on, the closing date of each underwritten offering under such 
registration statement and NHCG agreed to a similar restriction with 
respect to underwritten offerings by the Company.   NHCG's rights 
under the Registration Rights Agreement are transferable as provided 
therein.  

   Until the third anniversary of the Sharing and Call Option 
Agreement, when the Company's obligation to keep the Registration 
Statement effective expires, the registration rights granted to NHCG 
pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement are substantially 
duplicative of those granted pursuant to the Sharing and Call Option 
Agreement.  After such date and only to the extent that NHCG still 
holds shares of Common Stock or Warrants that it held as of or 
received in the Merger, NHCG will continue to be entitled to the 
registration rights described in the proceding paragraph, unless the 
Registration Rights Agreement has been otherwise amended or 
terminated.

Tax Allocation Arrangement

   Until May 7, 1991, the Company was included in the consolidated 
federal income tax returns, and in certain state income tax returns, 
of Mafco, M&F Holdings, Revlon Group and Revlon.  As a result of the 
reduction of M&F Holdings' indirect ownership interest in the Company




on May 7, 1991, the Company is no longer a member of the Mafco 
consolidated tax group.  For periods subsequent to May 7, 1991, the 
Company files its own separate Federal, state and local income tax 
returns.  Nevertheless, the Company will remain obligated to pay to M&F 
Holdings (or other members of the consolidated group of which M&F 
Holdings is a member) any income taxes the Company would have had to 
pay (in excess of those which it has already paid) if it had filed 
separate income tax returns for taxable periods beginning on or after 
January 1, 1985 (but computed without regard to (i) the effect of 
timing differences (i.e., the liability or benefit that otherwise could 
be deferred will be, instead, includible in the determination of 
current taxable income) and (ii) any gain recognized on the sale of any 
asset not in the ordinary course of business).  In addition, despite 
the reduction of M&F Holdings' indirect ownership of the Company, the 
Company will continue to be subject under existing federal regulations 
to several liability for the consolidated federal income taxes for any 
consolidated return year in which it was a member of any consolidated 
group of which Mafco, M&F Holdings, Revlon Group or Revlon was the 
common parent.  However, Mafco, M&F Holdings, Revlon Group and Revlon 
have agreed to indemnify the Company for any federal income tax 
liability (or any similar state or local income tax liability) of 
Mafco, M&F Holdings, Revlon Group, Revlon or any of their subsidiaries 
(other than that which is attributable to the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries) that the Company would be required to pay.

Certain Other Transactions with Roche

   The Company has certain on-going arrangements with Roche for the 
purchase by the Company of certain products and the licensing by the 
Company from Roche of certain diagnostics technologies, with an 
aggregate value of approximately $9.1 million in 1995.  The Company 
provides certain diagnostic testing and support services to Roche in 
connection with Roche's clinical pharmaceutical trials, with an 
aggregate value of approximately $2.3 million in 1995.  In addition, in 
connection with the Merger, the Company and Roche have entered into a 
transition services agreement for the provision by Roche to the Company 
of certain payroll and other corporate services for a limited 
transition period following the Merger.  These services are charged to 
the Company based on the time involved and the Roche personnel 
providing the service.  Each of these arrangements was entered into in 
the ordinary course of business, on an arm's length basis and on terms 
which the Company believes are no less favorable to it than those 
obtainable from unaffiliated third parties.  The Company paid Roche a 
total of $214,597 in 1995 for these services.

Consulting Agreement

   Pursuant to a letter agreement, the Company has retained Mr. Maher 
as an independent contractor to provide certain consulting services to 
the Company for a one year period beginning from April 28, 1995.  Mr. 
Maher is paid an annual retainer of $160,000 under this agreement.




                               PART IV


Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON 
          FORM 8-K

(a) List of documents filed as part of this Report:

    (1) Consolidated Financial Statements and Independent 
        Auditors' Report included herein:

        See Index on page F-1
 
    (2) Financial Statement Schedules:

        See Index on page F-1
 
        All other schedules are omitted as they are inapplicable 
        or the required information is furnished in the 
        Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto.

    (3) Index to and List of Exhibits

        (a) Exhibits:*

        Exhibits 10.2 through 10.4 and 10.6 through 10.45 are 
        management contracts or compensatory plans or 
        arrangements.

       2.1 - Agreement and Plan of Merger among the Company, NHL Sub 
             Acquisition Corp. and NHLI (incorporated herein by 
             reference to the Company's Registration Statement on 
             Form S-4 filed with the Securities and Exchange 
             Commission (the "Commission") on March 14, 1994, File 
             No. 33-52655 (the "1994 S-4")).
       2.2 - Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 3, 1994 of 
             NHLI and N Acquisition Corp. (incorporated herein by 
             reference to Exhibit (c)(1) of Schedule 14D-1 and 
             Schedule 13D ("Schedule 14D-1 and Schedule 13D") filed 
             with the Commission on May 9, 1994). 
       2.3 - Agreement dated as of June 7, 1994, among N Acquisition 
             Corp., the Company and NHLI (incorporated herein by 
             reference to Exhibit (c)(7) of amendment No. 2 to 
             Schedule 14D-1 and Schedule 13D of NHLI and N 
             Acquisition Corp filed with the Commission on June 8, 
             1994). 
       2.4 - Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of December 13, 
             1994 among the Company, HLR Holdings Inc., Roche 
             Biomedical Laboratories, Inc. and (for the purposes 
             stated therein) Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. (incorporated 
             herein by reference to the Company's Annual Report on 
             Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994 filed 
             with the Commission on March 3, 1995, File No. 1-11353 
             (the "1994 10-K")).




      2.5 - Stock Purchase Agreement dated December 30, 1994 between 
            Reference Pathology Holding Company, Inc. and Allied 
            Clinical Laboratories, Inc. ("Allied") (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1994 10-K). 
      3.1 - Certificate of Incorporation of the Company 
            (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's 1994 
            S-4).
      3.2 - By-laws of the Company (incorporated herein by reference 
            to the Company's 1994 S-4).
      3.3 - Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (amended 
            pursuant to a Certificate of Merger filed on April 28, 
            1995) (incorporated by reference herein to the report on 
            Form 8-K dated April 28, 1995, filed with the Commission 
            on May 12, 1995, File No. 1-11353 (the "April 28, 1995 
            Form 8-K")).
      3.4 - Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company 
            (incorporated herein by reference to the April 28, 1995 
            Form 8-K).
      4.1 - Warrant Agreement dated as of April 10, 1995 between the 
            Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company 
            (incorporated herein by reference to the April 28, 1995 
            Form 8-K).
      4.2 - Specimen of the Company's Warrant Certificate (included 
            in the Exhibit to the Warrant Agreement included therein 
            as Exhibit 4.1 hereto) (incorporated herein by reference 
            to the April 28, 1995 Form 8-K).
      4.3 - Specimen of the Company's Common Stock Certificate 
            (incorporated herein by reference to the April 28, 1995 
            Form 8-K).
     10.1 - Laboratory Agreement dated February 4, 1983 between the 
            Company and Humana of Texas, Inc. d/b/a/ Medical City 
            Dallas Hospital (incorporated herein by reference to the 
            Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with 
            the Commission on May 5, 1988, File No. 33-21708).
     10.2 - National Health Laboratories Incorporated Employees' 
            Savings and Investment Plan (incorporated herein by 
            reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
            for the year ended December 31, 1991 filed with the 
            Commission on February 13, 1992, File No. 1-10740** (the 
            "1991 10-K")).
     10.3 - National Health Laboratories Incorporated Employees' 
            Retirement Plan (incorporated herein by reference to the 
            Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
            December 31, 1992 filed with the Commission on March 26, 
            1993, File No. 1-10740 (the "1992 10-K")). 
     10.4 - National Health Laboratories Incorporated Pension 
            Equalization Plan (incorporated herein by reference to 
            the 1992 10-K).
     10.5 - Settlement Agreement dated December 18, 1992 between the 
            Company and the United States of America (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1992 10-K).
     10.6 - Employment Agreement dated May 1, 1991 between the 
            Company and Robert Whalen (incorporated herein by 
            reference to the 1991 10-K).
     10.7 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 6, 1991 
            between the Company and Robert Whalen (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1991 10-K).




     10.8 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1993 
            between the Company and Robert Whalen (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1992 10-K).
     10.9 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1994 
            between the Company and Robert Whalen (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the Company's Annual Report on 
            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 filed 
            with the Commission on March 25, 1994, File No. 1-10790 
            (the "1993 10-K")).  
    10.10 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated March 1, 1994 
            between the Company and Robert Whalen (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1993 10-K).
    10.11 - Employment Agreement dated May 1, 1991 between the 
            Company and Larry L. Leonard (incorporated herein by 
            reference to the 1991 10-K).
    10.12 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 6, 1991 
            between the Company and Larry L. Leonard (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1991 10-K).
    10.13 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1993 
            between the Company and Larry L. Leonard (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1992 10-K).
    10.14 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1994 
            between the Company and Larry L. Leonard (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1993 10-K).
    10.15 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated March 1, 1994 
            between the Company and Larry L. Leonard (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1993 10-K).
    10.16 - Employment Agreement dated May 1, 1991 between the 
            Company and Timothy Brodnik (incorporated herein by 
            reference to the 1991 10-K).
    10.17 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 6, 1991 
            between the Company and Timothy Brodnik (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1991 10-K).
    10.18 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1993 
            between the Company and Timothy Brodnik (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1992 10-K).
    10.19 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1994 
            between the Company and Timothy Brodnik (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1993 10-K).
    10.20 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated March 1, 1994 
            between the Company and Timothy Brodnik (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1993 10-K).
    10.21 - Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1991 between the 
            Company and David C. Flaugh (incorporated herein by 
            reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
            for the year ended December 31, 1990 filed with the 
            Commission on March 14, 1991, File No. 1-10740** (the 
            "1990 10-K")).
    10.22 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated April 1, 1991 
            between the Company and David C. Flaugh (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1991 10-K).
    10.23 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 6, 1991 
            between the Company and David C. Flaugh (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1991 10-K).
    10.24 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1993 
            between the Company and David C. Flaugh (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1992 10-K).




    10.25 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated April 1, 1994 
            between the Company and David C. Flaugh (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1994 10-K).  
    10.26 - Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1991 between the 
            Company and W. David Slaunwhite (incorporated herein by 
            reference to the 1990 10-K).
    10.27 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated April 1, 1991 
            between the Company and David Slaunwhite (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1991 10-K).
    10.28 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 6, 1991 
            between the Company and David Slaunwhite (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1991 10-K).
    10.29 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1993 
            between the Company and W. David Slaunwhite 
            (incorporated herein by reference to the 1992 10-K).
    10.30 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1994 
            between the Company and W. David Slaunwhite 
            (incorporated herein by reference to the 1993 10-K).
    10.31 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated March 1, 1994 
            between the Company and W. David Slaunwhite 
            (incorporated herein by reference to the 1993 10-K).
    10.32 - Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1991 between the 
            Company and John Markus (incorporated herein by 
            reference to the 1990 10-K).
    10.33 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated April 1, 1991 
            between the Company and John Markus (incorporated herein 
            by reference to the 1991 10-K).
    10.34 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 6, 1991 
            between the Company and John Markus (incorporated herein 
            by reference to the 1991 10-K).
    10.35 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1993 
            between the Company and John F. Markus (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1992 10-K).
    10.36 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1994 
            between the Company and John F. Markus (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1993 10-K).
    10.37 - Amendment to Employment Agreement dated March 1, 1994 
            between the Company and John F. Markus (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1993 10-K).
    10.38 - Employment Agreement dated as of June 23, 1994 between 
            the Company and Haywood D. Cochrane, Jr. (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the 1994 10-K).
    10.39 - Amendment dated as of April 28, 1995 to the Employment 
            Agreement dated as of January 1, 1991, as amended on 
            April 1, 1991, June 6, 1991 January 1, 1993 and April 1, 
            1994, between La Jolla Management Corp., a Delaware 
            corporation and David C. Flaugh (incorporated herein by 
            reference to the April 28, 1995 Form 8-K).
    10.40 - Amendment dated as of September 19, 1995 to the 
            Employment Agreement dated as of January 1, 1991, as 
            amended on April 1, 1991, June 6, 1991, January 1, 1993, 
            April 1, 1994 and April 28, 1995, between La Jolla 
            Management Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-
            owned subsidiary of the Company, and David C. Flaugh. 
            (Incorporated by reference herein to the report on Form 
            8-K dated September 19, 1995, filed with the Commission 
            on September 21, 1995).




    10.41 - National Health Laboratories 1988 Stock Option Plan, as 
            amended (incorporated herein by reference to the 
            Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-
            35782) filed with the Commission on July 9, 1990 (the 
            "1990 S-1")).
    10.42 - National Health Laboratories 1994 Stock Option Plan 
            (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's 
            Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed with the 
            Commission on August 12, 1994, File No. 33-55065).
    10.43 - Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Performance 
            Unit Plan (incorporated by reference to Annex II of the 
            Company's 1995 Annual Proxy Statement filed with the 
            Commission on August 17, 1995 (the "1995 Proxy")).
    10.44 - Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Annual Bonus 
            Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Annex III 
            of the 1995 Proxy).
    10.45*- Letter Agreement dated July 17, 1995 between the Company 
            and James R. Maher.
    10.46 - Tax Allocation Agreement dated as of June 26, 1990 
            between MacAndrews & Forbes Holding Inc., Revlon Group 
            Incorporated, New Revlon Holdings, Inc. and the 
            subsidiaries of Revlon set forth on Schedule A thereto 
            (incorporated herein by reference to the 1990 S-1).
    10.47 - Loan Agreement dated August 1, 1991 among the Company, 
            Frequency Property Corp. and Swiss Bank Corporation, New 
            York Branch (incorporated herein by reference to the 
            1991 10-K).
    10.48 - Sharing and Call Option Agreement dated as of December 
            13, 1994 among HLR Holdings Inc., Roche Biomedical 
            Laboratories, Inc., Mafco Holdings Inc., National Health 
            Care Group, Inc. and (for the purposes stated therein) 
            the Company (incorporated by reference herein to the 
            1994 10-K).
    10.49 - Stockholder Agreement dated as of April 28, 1995 among 
            the Company, HLR Holdings Inc., Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. 
            and Roche Holdings, Inc. (incorporated herein by 
            reference to the April 28, 1995 Form 8-K).
    10.50 - Exchange Agent Agreement dated as of April 28, 1995 
            between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust 
            Company (incorporated herein by reference to the April 
            28, 1995 Form 8-K).
    10.51 - Credit Agreement dated as of April 28, 1995, among the 
            Company, the banks named therein, and Credit Suisse (New 
            York Branch), as Administrative Agent (incorporated 
            herein by reference to the April 28, 1995 Form 8-K).
    10.52 - First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of 
            September 8, 1995 among the Company, the banks named 
            therein, and Credit Suisse (New York Branch), as 
            Administrative Agent. (incorporated by reference herein 
            to the Company's Quarter's Report on Form 10-Q for the 
            quarter ended September 30, 1995 filed with the 
            Commission on November 14, 1995, File No. 1-11353)
    10.53 - Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings 1995 Stock 
            Plan for Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by 
            reference herein to the report of Form S-8 dated 
            September 26, 1995, filed with the Commission on 
            September 26, 1995).




    10.54*- Second Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of 
            February 16, 1996 the Company, the banks named therein, 
            and Credit Suisse (New York Branch), as Administrative 
            Agent.

     21.1 - List of Subsidiaries of the Company (incorporated by 
            reference to the April 28, 1995 Form 8-K). 

     23.1*- Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP.

     24.1*- Power of Attorney of James R. Maher.
     24.2*- Power of Attorney of Thomas P. Mac Mahon
     24.3*- Power of Attorney of Jean-Luc Belingard
     24.4*- Power of Attorney of Linda Gosden Robinson.
     24.5*- Power of Attorney of David B. Skinner
     24.6*- Power of Attorney of Andrew G. Wallace, M.D.

     27   - Financial Data Schedule (electronically filed version 
            only).
     28.1 - Form of Collateral Agency Agreement (Bank Obligations) 
            (incorporated herein by reference to Amendment No. 1 to 
            the 1990 S-1 filed with the Commission on July 27, 1990, 
            File No. 33-35785).

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

    A current report on Form 8-K dated February 13, 1996 was filed on 
    February 20, 1996 in connection with the Company's press release dated 
    February 13, 1996 announcing operating results of the Registrant for 
    the year ended December 31, 1995 as well as certain other information.

- ------------------------               
* Filed herewith.
**Previously filed under File No. 0-17031 which has been corrected to 
   File No. 1-10740.






                                 SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                        LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS 
                                         Registrant              


                                      By:/s/ JAMES B. POWELL           
                                         --------------------------------
                                        James B. Powell, M.D. 
                                        President and Chief Executive Officer


                                      By:/s/ HAYWOOD D. COCHRANE, JR.     
                                         --------------------------------
                                        Haywood D. Cochrane, Jr.
                                        Executive Vice President, Chief 
                                        Financial Officer and Treasurer


                                      By:/s/ WESLEY R. ELINGBURG
                                         --------------------------------
                                        Wesley R. Elingburg
                                        Senior Vice President - Finance
                                        (Principal Accounting Officer)



Dated:  March 29, 1996




Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
this report has been signed by the following persons on March 29, 
1996 in the capacities indicated.

Signature                                               Title
- ---------                                             -----------

/s/ JAMES R. MAHER*                                    Director
- --------------------------
(James R. Maher) 


/s/ THOMAS P. MAC MAHON*                               Director
- --------------------------
(Thomas P. MacMahon)


/s/ JEAN-LUC BELINGARD*                                Director
- --------------------------
(Jean-Luc Belingard) 


/s/ LINDA GOSDEN ROBINSON*                             Director
- --------------------------
(Linda Gosden Robinson) 


/s/ DAVID B. SKINNER*                                  Director
- --------------------------   
(David B. Skinner) 


/s/ ANDREW G. WALLACE, M.D.*                           Director
- --------------------------
(Andrew G. Wallace, M.D.)



     

- ---------------------                              
*  Bradford T. Smith, by his signing his name hereto, does hereby 
sign this report on behalf of the directors of the Registrant after 
whose typed names asterisks appear, pursuant to powers of attorney 
duly executed by such directors and filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission.



                                      By:/s/ BRADFORD T. SMITH
                                          -------------------------
                                        Bradford T. Smith
                                        Attorney-in-fact







                    LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS

                            INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   AND SCHEDULE

                                                                

                                                                   Page
                                                                  -----
Independent Auditors' Report                                       F-2

Financial Statements:

  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of 
    December 31, 1995 and 1994                                     F-3

  Consolidated Statements of Operations for
    each of the years in the three-year
    period ended December 31, 1995.                                F-4

  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
    Equity for each of the years in the
    three-year period ended December 31, 1995                      F-5

  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
    each of the years in the three-year
    period ended December 31, 1995.                                F-6

  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                       F-8

Financial Statement Schedule:

  II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves             F-28






                   INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings:

     We have audited the consolidated financial statements of 
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings and subsidiaries as listed 
in the accompanying index.  In connection with our audits of the 
consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial 
statement schedule as listed in the accompanying index.  These 
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule 
are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated 
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our 
audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes 
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes 
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates 
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial 
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred 
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
position of Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings and 
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the results of 
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the 
three-year period ended December 31, 1995, in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles.  Also in our opinion, the 
related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to 
the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, 
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth 
therein.


                                      KPMG Peat Marwick LLP



Raleigh, North Carolina
February 16, 1996



















          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Basis of Presentation:

   The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of 
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings and its subsidiaries ("Company") 
after elimination of all material intercompany accounts and transactions. 
Prior to April 28, 1995, the Company's name was National Health 
Laboratories Holdings Inc.  ("NHL").  On April 28, 1995, following approval 
at a special meeting of the stockholders of the Company, the name of the 
Company was changed to Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings.

Cash Equivalents:

   Cash equivalents (primarily investments in money market funds, time 
deposits and commercial paper which have original maturities of three 
months or less at the date of purchase) are carried at cost which 
approximates market.

Inventories:

   Inventories, consisting primarily of laboratory supplies, are stated 
at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market.

Financial Instruments:

   Interest rate swap agreements, which are used by the Company in the 
management of interest rate exposure, are accounted for on an accrual 
basis.  Amounts to be paid or received under such agreements are recognized 
as interest income or expense in the periods in which they accrue.

Property, Plant and Equipment:

   Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost.  The cost of 
properties held under capital leases is equal to the lower of the net 
present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased 
property at the inception of the lease.  Depreciation and amortization 
expense is computed on all classes of assets based on their estimated 
useful lives, as indicated below, using principally the straight-line 
method.

                                                          Years
                                                         -------
Buildings and building improvements                       35-40
Machinery and equipment                                    3-10
Furniture and fixtures                                     5-10





        LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
          NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
               (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

   Leasehold improvements and assets held under capital leases are 
amortized over the shorter of their estimated lives or the period of the 
related leases.  Expenditures for repairs and maintenance charged against 
earnings in 1995, 1994 and 1993 were $27.5, $16.5 and $10.8, respectively.

Intangible Assets:

  Intangible assets, consisting of goodwill, net of amortization, of 
$700.1 and $417.0 at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively, and other 
intangibles (i.e., customer lists and non-compete agreements), net of 
amortization, of $216.6 and $134.9 at December 31, 1995 and 1994, 
respectively, are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of 
40 years and 3-25 years, respectively.  Total accumulated amortization for 
intangible assets aggregated $87.4 and $60.8 at December 31, 1995 and 1994, 
respectively.  The Company assesses the recoverability of intangible assets 
by determining whether the amortization of the intangibles' balance over 
its remaining life can be recovered through undiscounted future operating 
cash flows of the acquired operations.  The amount of intangible asset 
impairment, if any, is measured based on projected undiscounted future 
operating cash flows.  

Fair Value of Financial Instruments:

   Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107, "Disclosures 
About Fair Value of Financial Instruments", requires that fair values be 
disclosed for most of the Company's financial instruments.  The carrying 
amount of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable 
and accrued expenses are considered to be representative of their 
respective fair values.  The carrying amount of the revolving credit 
facility and long-term debt are considered to be representative of their 
respective fair values as their interest rates are based on market rates.

Concentration of Credit Risk:

   Concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are 
limited due to the diversity of the Company's clients as well as their 
dispersion across many different geographic regions.

Revenue Recognition:

   Sales are recognized on the accrual basis at the time test results are 
reported, which approximates when services are provided.  Services are 
provided to certain patients covered by various third-party payor programs 
including the Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Billings for services under 
third-party payor programs are included in sales net of allowances for 
differences between the amounts billed




       LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
         NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
             (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

and estimated program payment amounts. Adjustments to the estimated payment 
amounts based on final settlement with the programs are recorded upon 
settlement.  In 1995, 1994 and 1993, approximately 28%, 35% and 41%, 
respectively, of the Company's revenues were derived from tests performed 
for beneficiaries of Medicare and Medicaid programs.

Income Taxes:

   The Company accounts for income taxes under Financial Accounting 
Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, 
"Accounting for Income Taxes" ("Statement 109").  Statement 109 requires 
the use of the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes.  
Under the asset and liability method of Statement 109, deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable 
to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing 
assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.  Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to 
taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are 
expected to be recovered or settled.  Under Statement 109, the effect on 
deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized 
in income in the period that includes the enactment date.

Earnings per Common Share:

   For the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, earnings per 
common share is calculated based on the weighted average number of shares 
outstanding during each year (110,579,096, 84,754,183 and 89,438,764 
shares, respectively).

Use of Estimates:

   The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and 
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the 
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses 
during the reported periods.  Actual results could differ from those 
estimates.

Reclassifications:

   Certain amounts in the prior years' financial statements have been 
reclassified to conform with the 1995 presentation.




        LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
         NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
             (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

2.MERGER AND ACQUISITIONS

   On April 28, 1995, the Company completed its merger with Roche 
Biomedical Laboratories, Inc. ("RBL") pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of 
Merger (the "Merger Agreement") dated as of December 13, 1994 (the 
"Merger").

   Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of common 
stock, par value $0.01 per share of the Company ("Common Stock") (other 
than as provided in the Merger Agreement), was converted (the "Share 
Conversion") into (i) 0.72 of a share of Common Stock of the Company and 
(ii) a distribution of $5.60 in cash per share, without interest.  The 
aggregate number of shares issued and outstanding following the Share 
Conversion was 61,041,159.  Also, an aggregate of 538,307 shares of Common 
Stock were issued in connection with the cancellation of certain employee 
stock options.

   In addition, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, an aggregate of 
61,329,256 shares of Common Stock were issued to HLR Holdings Inc. ("HLR") 
and its designee, Roche Holdings, Inc. in exchange for all shares of common 
stock, no par value, of RBL outstanding immediately prior to the effective 
date of the Merger (other than treasury shares, which were canceled) and a 
cash contribution described below.  The issuance of such shares of Common 
Stock constituted approximately 49.9% of the total outstanding shares of 
Common Stock outstanding immediately after the Merger.

   The Company also made a distribution (the "Warrant Distribution") to 
holders of record as of April 21, 1995, of 0.16308 of a warrant per 
outstanding share of Common Stock, each such warrant representing the right 
to purchase one newly issued share of Common Stock for $22.00 (subject to 
adjustment) on April 28, 2000 (each such warrant, a "Warrant").  
Approximately 13,826,000 Warrants were issued in the Warrant Distribution 
(including fractional Warrants, which were not distributed, but were 
liquidated in sales on the New York Stock Exchange and the proceeds thereof 
distributed to such stockholders).  

   In addition, pursuant to the Merger Agreement on April 28, 1995 the 
Company issued to Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. ("Roche"), for a purchase price of 
approximately $51.0, 8,325,000 Warrants (the "Roche Warrants") to purchase 
shares of Common Stock, which Warrants have the terms described above.

   The aggregate cash consideration of approximately $474.7 paid to 
stockholders of the Company in the Merger was financed from three sources:  
a cash contribution (the "Company Cash Contribution") of approximately 
$288.0 out of the proceeds of borrowings under the credit agreement (as 
described in note 9), a cash contribution made




      LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
             (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

by HLR to the Company in the amount of approximately $135.7 and the 
proceeds from the sale and issuance of the Roche Warrants.

   The exchange consideration of approximately $558.0 for the purchase of 
RBL consisted of the value of the stock issued to HLR and Roche Holdings, 
Inc., as well as other cash costs of the Merger, net of cash received from 
HLR.  The Merger has been accounted for under the purchase method of 
accounting; as such RBL's assets and liabilities were recorded at their 
estimated fair values on the date of acquisition.  The exchange 
consideration exceeded the fair value of acquired net tangible assets by 
approximately $371.9. RBL's results of operations have been included in the 
Company's results of operations since April 28, 1995.

   The Company acquired Allied Clinical Laboratories, Inc. ("Allied") as 
a wholly owned subsidiary on June 23, 1994, for approximately $191.5 in 
cash, $185.0 of which was borrowed under a revolving credit facility, plus 
the assumption of $24.0 of Allied indebtedness and the recognition of 
approximately $5.0 of Allied net liabilities (the "Allied Acquisition").  
The Allied Acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of 
accounting; as such, Allied's assets and liabilities were recorded at their 
fair values on the date of acquisition.  The purchase price exceeded the 
fair value of acquired net tangible assets by approximately $220.5. 
Allied's results of operations have been included in the Company's results 
of operations since June 23, 1994.

     The following table provides unaudited pro forma operating results as 
if the Merger and the acquisition of Allied had been completed at the 
beginning of each of the periods presented.  The pro forma information does 
not include the restructuring charges and the extraordinary item related to 
the Merger.  The pro forma information has been prepared for comparative 
purposes only and does not purport to be indicative of future operating 
results.

                                                   Year Ended
                                                  December 31,
                                             ---------------------
                                                1995        1994
                                             ---------------------
      Net sales                              $ 1,678.6   $ 1,692.6
      Net earnings                                48.9        71.3
      Net earnings per common share          $    0.40   $    0.58

   During 1995, the Company also acquired nine small clinical laboratory 
companies for an aggregate purchase price, including assumption of 
liabilities, of $41.7.  During 1994 and 1993, the Company acquired eleven 
and thirty-four laboratories, respectively, for an aggregate purchase 
price, including assumption of liabilities, of $79.3 and $106.9, 
respectively.  The acquisitions were accounted




        LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

for as purchase transactions.  The excess of cost over the fair value of 
net tangible assets acquired during 1995, 1994 and 1993 was $28.2, $72.1, 
and $100.1, respectively, which is included under the caption "Intangible 
assets, net" in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  The 
consolidated statements of operations reflect the results of operations of 
these purchased businesses from their dates of acquisition.

3.RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

   Following the Merger, the Company determined that it would be 
beneficial to close Company laboratory facilities in certain geographic 
regions where duplicate Company and RBL facilities existed at the time of 
the Merger.  In addition, the Company decided to downsize certain finance 
and administrative positions in La Jolla, California in order to eliminate 
duplicative functions.

   Under the restructuring plan, the Company recorded a restructuring 
charge of $65.0 in the second quarter of 1995.  The charge includes 
approximately $24.2 to reduce the workforce by approximately 2,200 
individuals.  The plan includes a reduction of approximately 1,520 
laboratory operations personnel, approximately 80 sales and marketing 
personnel and approximately 600 finance and administrative personnel both 
at laboratory locations and in La Jolla, California.

   Approximately $21.3 of the restructuring charges consist of the 
reduction of certain assets to their net realizable values and primarily 
consists of the write-off of approximately $17.7 of leasehold improvements 
on facilities to be closed or significantly downsized.

   Lease and other facility obligations accounted for approximately $19.5 
of the restructuring charge, including the future minimum lease payments 
and expenses from the estimated closing or downsizing date to the end of 
the contractual lease term for facilities to be significantly downsized or 
closed.

   As of December 31, 1995, three facilities have either been closed or 
significantly downsized.  In addition, certain duplicative functions in La 
Jolla, California were eliminated.  As of December 31, 1995, the net 
reduction in the total workforce was approximately 800 employees.  The 
Company expects that a substantial portion of the remaining restructuring 
will be completed in 1996 with the remainder completed in early 1997. The 
Company believes that the remaining liabilities are sufficient to complete 
such restructuring activities.




            LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                    (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)


   The following represents the Company's restructuring activities for 
the period indicated:

                                      Asset          Lease and
                      Severance    revaluations    other facility
                        Costs     and write-offs     obligations      Total
                   ------------  ---------------  -----------------  ---------
Balance at
December 31, 1994     $   --        $   --           $   --            $  --

Restructuring charges    24.2          21.3             19.5             65.0
Non cash items           (0.3)         (2.7)             --              (3.0)
Cash payments           (11.1)          --              (0.6)           (11.7)
                      --------      --------         --------          -------
Balance at
  December 31, 1995   $  12.8       $  18.6          $  18.9           $ 50.3
                      ========      ========         ========          =======

Current                                                                $ 32.3
Non-current                                                              18.0
                                                                       -------
                                                                       $ 50.3
                                                                       =======
4.  ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET

                                                December 31,    December 31,
                                                   1995            1994    
                                               ------------    -------------
Gross accounts receivable                        $ 516.0         $ 270.7
Less contractual allowances and
  allowance for doubtful accounts                  (90.4)          (65.3)
                                                 -------         --------
                                                 $ 425.6         $ 205.4 
                                                 =======         ========
5.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET

                                               December 31,    December 31,
                                                  1995            1994    
                                              ------------    -------------
Land                                            $  7.0          $  1.3
Buildings and building improvements               54.7             1.8
Machinery and equipment                          268.1           154.2
Leasehold improvements                            70.3            44.2
Furniture and fixtures                            27.3            22.0
Buildings under capital leases                     9.6             9.6
                                                ------          ------
                                                 437.0           233.1
Less accumulated depreciation
and amortization                                (132.2)          (93.0)
                                                ------          ------
                                                $304.8          $140.1
                                                ======          ======




          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                 (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

6.  ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER

                                              December 31,    December 31,
                                                  1995            1994    
                                              ------------    ------------
Employee compensation and benefits             $   50.5         $  38.8
Deferred acquisition related payments              14.8            15.9
Acquisition related reserves                       39.4            21.8
Restructuring reserves                             32.3             --
Other                                              31.9            16.3
                                               --------         -------
                                               $  168.9         $  92.8
                                               ========         =======
7.  OTHER LIABILITIES

                                              December 31,    December 31,
                                                  1995            1994    
                                              ------------    ------------
Deferred acquisition related payments          $    8.5         $  19.2
Acquisition related reserves                       68.2            31.9
Restructuring reserves                             18.0             -- 
Other                                              35.2             8.4
                                               --------         -------
                                               $  129.9         $  59.5
                                               ========         =======
8.  PROVISIONS FOR SETTLEMENTS

   In the second quarter of 1995, the Company took a pre-tax special 
charge of $10.0 in connection with the estimated costs of settling various 
claims pending against the Company, substantially all of which are billing 
disputes, in which the Company believes it is probable that settlements 
will be made by the Company.

   In the third quarter of 1994, the Company approved a settlement of 
previously disclosed shareholder class and derivative litigation.  The 
litigation consisted of two consolidated class action suits and a 
consolidated shareholder derivative action brought in Federal and state 
courts in San Diego, California.  The settlement involved no admission of 
wrongdoing.  In connection with the settlement, the Company took a pre-tax 
special charge of $15.0 and a $6.0 charge for expenses related to the 
settled litigation.  Insurance payments and payments from other defendants 
aggregated $55.0 plus expenses. 




          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                  (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

9.LONG-TERM DEBT

   The Company entered into a credit agreement dated as of April 28, 1995 
(the "Credit Agreement"), with the banks named therein (the "Banks") and 
Credit Suisse (New York Branch), as administrative agent (the "Bank 
Agent"), under which the Banks made available to the Company a senior term 
loan facility of $800.0 (the "Term Loan Facility") and a revolving credit 
facility of $450.0 (the "Revolving Credit Facility" and, together with the 
Term Loan Facility, the "Bank Facility").  The Bank Facility provided funds 
for the Company Cash Contribution, for the refinancing of certain existing 
debt of the Company and its subsidiaries and RBL, for related fees and 
expenses of the Merger and for general corporate purposes of the Company 
and its subsidiaries, in each case subject to the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Credit Agreement. The Bank Facility is unconditionally and 
irrevocably guaranteed by certain of the Company's subsidiaries.

   In connection with the Credit Agreement, the Company paid the Banks 
and Bank Agent customary underwriting, closing and participation fees, 
respectively.  In addition, the Credit Agreement includes a facility fee 
based on the total Revolving Credit Facility commitment (regardless of 
usage) of 0.125% per annum.  Availability of funds under the Bank Facility 
is conditioned on certain customary conditions, and the Credit Agreement, 
as amended, contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and 
events of default.

   The Revolving Credit Facility matures in April 2000. The Term Loan 
Facility matures in April 2001, with payments in each quarter prior to 
maturity based on a specified amortization schedule.  For as long as HLR 
and its affiliates' ownership of outstanding Company common stock (the "HLR 
Group Interest") remains at least 25%, the Revolving Credit Facility bears 
interest, at the option of the Company, at (i) Credit Suisse's Base Rate 
(as defined in the Credit Agreement) or (ii) the Eurodollar Rate (as 
defined in the Credit Agreement) plus a margin of 0.25% and the Term Loan 
Facility bears interest, at the option of the Company, at (i) Credit 
Suisse's Base Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) or (ii) the 
Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) plus a margin of 
0.375%.  In the event there is a reduction in the HLR Group interest to 
below 25%, applicable interest margins will not be determined as set forth 
above, but instead will be determined based upon the Company's financial 
performance as described in the Credit Agreement. The Company's weighted 
average borrowing rate, including the effects of interest rate swap 
agreements discussed below, was 6.23% at December 31, 1995.




          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                 (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

   Aggregate maturities on long-term debt are $70.8, $112.5, $150.0, 
$162.5, and $187.5 for the years 1996 through 2000, respectively.

   At December 31, 1995, the Company was a party to interest rate swap 
agreements with certain major financial institutions, rated A or better by 
Moody's Investor Service, solely to manage its interest rate exposure with 
respect to $600.0 of its floating rate debt under the Term Loan Facility.  
The agreements effectively changed the interest rate exposure on $600.0 of 
floating rate debt to a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6.01%, 
through requiring that the Company pay a fixed rate amount in exchange for 
the financial institutions paying a floating rate amount.  Amounts paid by 
the Company in 1995 were not significant.  The notional amounts of the 
agreements are used to measure the interest to be paid or received and do 
not represent the amount of exposure to credit loss.  These agreements 
mature in September 1998.  The estimated cost at which the Company could 
terminate these agreements as of December 31, 1995 was $9.5.  The fair 
value was estimated by discounting the expected cash flows using rates 
currently available for interest rate swaps with similar terms and 
maturities.

   In connection with the repayment of existing revolving credit and term 
loan facilities, the Company recorded an extraordinary loss of 
approximately $13.5 ($8.3 net of tax), consisting of the write-off of 
deferred financing costs, related to the early extinguishment of debt.

   Prior to April 28, 1995, the Company had a credit agreement with a 
group of banks which provided the Company with a $400.0 term loan facility 
and a revolving credit facility of $350.0.  This credit agreement provided 
funds for the Allied Acquisition, to refinance certain existing debt of 
Allied and the Company, and for general corporate purposes.  The credit 
agreement was repaid in full on April 28, 1995.  At December 31, 1994, the 
Company's effective borrowing rate on this credit agreement was 8.16%.

10.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

   In connection with a corporate reorganization on June 7, 1994, all of 
the 14,603,800 treasury shares held by National Health Laboratories 
Incorporated were canceled.  As a result, the $286.1 cost of such treasury 
shares was eliminated with corresponding decreases in the par value, 
additional paid-in capital and retained earnings accounts of $0.2, $72.3 
and $213.6, respectively.




           LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                 (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

11.  INCOME TAXES

   The provisions for income taxes in the accompanying consolidated 
statements of operations consist of the following:


                                           Years Ended December 31, 
                                           1995     1994      1993
                                          -------  -------  -------
Current:
Federal                                   $ 10.4   $ 16.2    $ 48.9
State                                        1.5      3.0      10.4
                                          ------   ------    ------
                                            11.9     19.2      59.3
                                          ------   ------    ------
Deferred:
Federal                                     (4.6)     4.9      14.9
State                                       (0.2)     1.2       4.2
                                          ------   ------    ------
                                            (4.8)     6.1      19.1
                                          ------   ------    ------
                                          $  7.1   $ 25.3    $ 78.4
                                          ======   ======    ======

   The effective tax rates on earnings before income taxes is reconciled 
to statutory federal income tax rates as follows:

                                           Years Ended December 31,             
                                           1995     1994     1993
                                          -------  -------  -------
Statutory federal rate                      35.0%    35.0%    35.0%
State and local income taxes,
net of federal income tax benefit           28.0      4.9      4.9
Non deductible amortization of
   intangible assets                       166.0      4.9      0.9
Other                                        7.0      0.9      0.2
                                           -----    -----    -----
Effective rate                             236.0%    45.7%    41.0%
                                           =====    =====    =====

   The significant components of deferred income tax expense are as 
follows:

                                           Years Ended December 31, 
                                           1995     1994     1993
                                          -------  -------  -------
Acquisition related reserves              $ (17.7) $ (1.2)  $   --
Settlement and related expenses               8.8     2.5      22.2
Reserve for doubtful accounts                (4.3)    0.9       0.4
Other                                         8.4     3.9      (3.5)
                                          -------  ------   -------
                                          $  (4.8) $  6.1   $  19.1
                                          =======  ======   ======= 




           LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                   (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

   The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant 
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at 
December 31, 1995 and 1994 are as follows:

                                        December 31,    December 31,
                                           1995            1994    
                                        -----------     -----------
Deferred tax assets:
Settlement and related expenses, 
principally due to accrual for
financial reporting purposes               $ 1.8          $ 10.7
Accounts receivable, principally due
to allowance for doubtful accounts          21.9             8.4
Self insurance reserves, principally
due to accrual for financial 
reporting purposes                           4.8             2.4
Postretirement benefit obligation, 
principally due to accrual for 
financial reporting purposes                 9.9             --
Compensated absences, principally due
to accrual for financial reporting
purposes                                     --              2.8
Acquisition related reserves,
principally due to accrual for 
financial reporting purposes                81.0             8.0
State net operating loss carryforwards       7.4             --
Other                                       13.7             4.4
                                        --------        --------
Total gross deferred tax assets            140.5            36.7

Deferred tax liabilities:
Intangible assets, principally due to
differences in amortization                (59.5)          (22.1)
Property, plant and equipment, 
principally due to differences in
depreciation                               (16.4)           (0.8)
Other                                       (6.4)           (5.0)
                                        --------        --------
Total gross deferred tax liabilities       (82.3)          (27.9)
                                        --------        -------- 
Net deferred tax asset                    $ 58.2          $  8.8
                                         =======        ========

   A valuation allowance was deemed unnecessary at December 31, 1995, 
1994 and 1993.  Based on the Company's history of taxable income, exclusive 
of one-time charges, and its projection of future earnings, it believes 
that it is more likely than not that sufficient taxable income will be 
generated in the foreseeable future to realize the deferred tax asset.





          LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                  (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

12.  STOCK OPTIONS

   In 1988, the Company adopted the 1988 Stock Option Plan, reserving 
2,000,000 shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to options and stock 
appreciation rights that may be granted under the plan.  The Stock Option 
Plan was amended in 1990 to limit the number of options to be issued under 
the Stock Option Plan to 550,000 in the aggregate (including all options 
previously granted).  In 1991, the number of shares authorized for issuance 
under the Stock Option Plan was increased to an aggregate of 2,550,000.
 
   In 1994, the Company adopted the 1994 Stock Option Plan, reserving 
3,000,000 shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to options and stock 
appreciation rights that may be granted under the plan.

   In connection with the Merger, all options outstanding as of December 
13, 1994 became vested and employees were given the choice to (i) cancel 
options outstanding as of December 13, 1994 and receive cash and shares of 
common stock according to a formula included in the Merger Agreement or 
(ii) convert such options into new options based on a formula included in 
the Merger Agreement.  In connection with the cancellation of stock 
options, the Company paid a total of $5.5 in cash and issued 538,307 shares 
of common stock to option holders.  Also, a total of 562,532 options were 
reissued as a result of option conversions at exercise prices between 
$11.293 and $16.481.

   The following table summarizes grants of non-qualified options made by 
the Company to officers and key employees under both plans.  Stock options 
are generally granted at an exercise price equal to or greater than the 
fair market price per share on the date of grant.  Also, for each grant, 
one-third of the options vested on the date of grant and one-third vest on 
each of the first and second anniversaries of such date, subject to their 
earlier expiration or termination.




       LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
         NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
              (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

   Changes during 1993, 1994 and 1995 in options outstanding under the 
plans were as follows:
                                          Number           Exercise Price  
                                        of Options            per Option 
                                      --------------      ------------------
Outstanding at January 1, 1993           864,071           $ 7.750-$20.250

Granted                                  818,500           $16.625-$17.875
Exercised                                (33,400)          $ 7.750
Canceled or expired                      (84,835)          $16.625-$20.250
                                       ---------
Outstanding at December 31, 1993       1,564,336           $ 7.750-$20.250

Granted                                2,042,000           $ 7.690-$13.875
Exercised                                (11,125)          $ 7.690-$ 7.750
Canceled or expired                      (92,498)          $13.875-$20.250
                                       ---------
Outstanding at December 31, 1994       3,502,713           $ 7.690-$20.250

Granted                                1,378,000           $13.000
Merger-related grants                    562,532           $11.293-$16.481
Exercised                                (20,542)          $ 7.690-$13.875
Merger-related cancellations          (3,425,667)          $ 7.690-$20.250
Canceled or expired                     (254,125)          $ 7.690-$20.250
                                       ---------       
Outstanding at December 31, 1995       1,742,911           $11.293-$16.481
                                       =========    
Exercisable at December 31, 1995         886,973           $11.293-$16.481
                                       =========   

13.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

   The Company is involved in certain claims and legal actions arising in 
the ordinary course of business.  In the opinion of management, based upon 
the advice of counsel, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not 
have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of 
operations of the Company.

   Under the Company's present insurance programs, coverage is obtained 
for catastrophic exposures as well as those risks required to be insured by 
law or contract.  The Company is responsible for the uninsured portion of 
losses related primarily to general, product and vehicle liability and 
workers' compensation.  The self-insured retentions are on a per occurrence 
basis without any aggregate annual limit.  Provisions for losses expected 
under these programs are recorded based upon the Company's estimates of the 
aggregated liability of claims incurred.  At December 31, 1995 and 1994, 
the Company had provided letters of credit aggregating approximately $8.6 
and $4.9, respectively, primarily in connection with certain insurance 
programs.




           LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                  (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

   During 1991, the Company guaranteed a $9.0, five-year loan to a third 
party for construction of a new laboratory to replace one of the Company's 
existing facilities.  Following its completion in November of 1992, the 
building was leased to the Company by this third party.  Such transaction 
is treated as a capital lease for financial reporting purposes.  The 
associated lease term continues for a period of 15 years, expiring in 2007.  
Under the terms of this guarantee, as modified, the Company is required to 
maintain 105% of the outstanding loan balance including any overdue 
interest as collateral in a custody account established and maintained at 
the lending institution.  As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, the Company had 
placed $9.5 of investments in the custody account.  Such investments are 
included under the caption "Other assets, net" in the accompanying 
consolidated balance sheets.

   The Company does not anticipate incurring any loss as a result of this 
loan guarantee due to protection provided by the terms of the lease.  
Accordingly, the Company, if required to repay the loan upon default of the 
borrower (and ultimate lessor), is entitled to a rent abatement equivalent 
to the amount of repayment made by the Company on the borrower's behalf, 
plus interest thereon at a rate equal to 2% over the prime rate.

   The Company leases various facilities and equipment under non-
cancelable lease arrangements.  Future minimum rental commitments for 
leases with noncancellable terms of one year or more at December 31, 1995 
are as follows:

                                         Operating          Capital
                                         ---------          -------
  1996                                    $ 38.1              $ 1.3
  1997                                      29.8                1.4
  1998                                      23.5                1.5
  1999                                      19.5                1.6
  2000                                      16.2                1.7
  Thereafter                                47.0               15.0
                                         -------             ------
  Total minimum lease payments             174.1               22.5
  Less amount representing 
    interest                                 --                12.9
                                         -------             ------
  Total minimum operating 
    lease payments and   
    present value of minimum 
    capital lease payments               $ 174.1              $ 9.6
                                         =======             ======

   Rental expense, which includes rent for real estate, equipment and 
automobiles under operating leases, amounted to $60.4, $34.6 and $29.9 for 
the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993,  respectively.




         LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

14.  PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT PLANS

   The Company maintains a defined contribution pension plan for all 
eligible employees.  Eligible employees are defined as individuals who are 
age 21 or older and have been employed by the Company for at least six 
consecutive months and completed 1,000 hours of service.  Company 
contributions to the plan are based on a percentage of employee 
contributions.  The cost of this plan was $5.8, $3.6, and $3.0 in 1995, 
1994, and 1993, respectively.

   In addition, substantially all employees of the Company are covered by 
a defined benefit retirement plan (the "NHL Plan").  The benefits to be 
paid under the NHL Plan are based on years of credited service and average 
final compensation.  Employees of Allied became eligible under the NHL Plan 
effective January 1, 1995.

   Effective December 31, 1994, the Company adopted certain amendments to 
the NHL Plan which resulted in a decrease of approximately $9.5 million in 
the projected benefit obligation. 

   Under the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 
No. 87, "Employers Accounting for Pensions", the Company recorded an 
additional minimum pension liability representing the excess accumulated 
benefit obligation over plan assets at December 31, 1993.  A corresponding 
amount was recognized as an intangible asset to the extent of unrecognized 
prior service cost, with the balance recorded as a separate reduction of 
stockholders' equity.  The Company recorded an additional liability of 
$3.0, an intangible asset of $0.6, and a reduction of stockholders' equity 
of $2.4.  Such amounts were eliminated as a result of the amendments to the 
NHL Plan effective December 31, 1994.

   In connection with the Merger, the Company assumed obligations under 
the RBL defined benefit pension plan ("RBL Plan").  Effective July 1, 1995, 
the plan was amended to provide benefits similar to the NHL Plan, as 
amended.  Certain employees of RBL were grandfathered so that their 
benefits were not affected by the amendment.  On January 1, 1996, the two 
plans were merged.  

   The Company's policy is to fund both the NHL Plan and RBL Plan with at 
least the minimum amount required by applicable regulations.  The 
components of net periodic pension cost for each of the NHL and RBL plans 
are summarized as follows:




        LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
          NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
               (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

                                 NHL Plan                   RBL Plan
                               Years ended              Eight months ended
                               December 31,               December 31,
                           1995    1994    1993               1995
                          ----------------------        -----------------
Service cost              $ 3.2   $ 5.5   $ 3.7              $ 2.6
Interest cost               2.7     3.5     2.6                2.3
Actual return on 
  plan assets              (7.6)    0.1    (1.3)              (4.3)
Net amortization and
  deferral                  4.2    (1.4)    0.4                1.2
                          -----   -----   -----              -----
Net periodic pension cost $ 2.5   $ 7.7   $ 5.4              $ 1.8
                          =====   =====   =====              =====

The status of the plans are as follows:

                                      NHL Plan            RBL Plan
                                    December 31,         December 31,
                                  1995      1994             1995
                                ------------------      --------------
Actuarial present value
  of benefit obligations:
    Vested benefits               $36.2     $26.6            $38.8
    Non-vested benefits             4.4       3.5              6.4
                                 ------    ------           ------
Accumulated benefit obligation     40.6      30.1             45.2
Effect of projected future
  salary increases                  2.2       1.9              1.6
                                 ------    ------           ------
Projected benefit obligation       42.8      32.0             46.8
Fair value of plan assets,
  principally corporate equity
  securities and fixed income
  investments                      40.8      31.6             46.6
                                 ------    ------           ------
Unfunded projected benefit
  obligation                        2.0       0.4              0.2
Unrecognized prior service cost     6.6       9.7             12.7
Unrecognized net loss              (7.1)     (8.4)            (9.4)
                                 ------    ------           ------
Accrued pension cost              $ 1.5     $ 1.7            $ 3.5
                                 ======    ======           ======

Assumptions used in the accounting for the plans were as follows:

                                     NHL Plan              RBL Plan
                                  1995     1994              1995
                                 -----------------       ------------
Weighted average discount rate     7.5%     8.5%             7.5%
Weighted average rate of increase
  in future compensation levels    4.0%     4.0%             5.4%
Weighted average expected long-
  term rate of return              9.0%     9.0%             9.5%




        LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
          NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
               (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

   In addition, the Company assumed obligations under RBL's 
postretirement medical plan.  Effective July 1, 1995, coverage under 
the plan was restricted to certain existing RBL employees.  This plan 
is unfunded and the Company's policy is to fund benefits as claims are 
incurred.  The components of postretirement benefit expense are as 
follows:

                                                   Eight months ended
                                                      December 31,
                                                   ------------------
Service cost                                             $ 1.1
Interest cost                                              1.4
                                                         -----
Postretirement benefit costs                             $ 2.5
                                                         =====


The status of the plan is as follows:

                                                       December 31,
                                                     ---------------
Accumulated postretirement benefit
  obligation                                            $ 27.2
Unrecognized net loss                                     (2.1)
                                                        ------
Accrued post retirement benefit obligation              $ 25.1
                                                        ======

   The weighted average discount rate used in the calculation of the 
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and the net 
postretirement benefit costs was 7.6% and 8.1%, respectively.  The 
health care cost trend rate was assumed to be 9.0%, declining 
gradually to 5.1% in the year 2005, then remaining level to the year 
2020 in which it declines to 5.0%, and remaining level thereafter.  
The health care cost trend rate has a significant effect on the 
amounts reported.  To illustrate, a one percentage point increase in 
the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase the accumulated 
postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 1995 by 
approximately $5.1, and the aggregate of the service and interest 
components of 1995 net periodic postretirement benefit cost by 
approximately $0.2.



         LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                 (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

15.  QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)

The following is a summary of unaudited quarterly data:

                                         Year ended December 31, 1995
                                  ------------------------------------------
                                    1st      2nd      3rd     4th     Full 
                                  Quarter  Quarter  Quarter Quarter   Year 
                                  -------  -------  ------- ------- --------
Net sales                         $ 243.8  $ 367.3  $ 417.5 $ 403.4 $1,432.0
Gross profit                         79.5    108.9    117.8   101.5    407.7
Earnings (loss) before
  extraordinary item                 12.8    (31.6)    14.4     0.4     (4.0)
Extraordinary item                    --      (8.3)     --      --      (8.3)
Net earnings (loss)                  12.8    (39.9)    14.4     0.4    (12.3)
Earnings (loss) per 
  common share before
  extraordinary loss                 0.15    (0.28)    0.12     --     (0.03)
Extraordinary loss
  per common share                    --     (0.08)     --      --     (0.08)
Earnings (loss) per 
  common share                       0.15    (0.36)    0.12     --     (0.11)
        

                                          Year ended December 31, 1994
                                  -------------------------------------------
                                    1st      2nd      3rd      4th     Full 
                                  Quarter  Quarter  Quarter  Quarter   Year  
                                  -------  -------  -------  ------- --------
Net sales                         $ 185.0  $ 203.9  $ 248.7  $ 234.9  $ 872.5
Gross profit                         52.7     67.4     81.0     74.4    275.5
Net earnings                          8.1     14.1      0.2      7.7     30.1
Earnings per 
  common share                       0.10     0.16      --      0.10     0.36

   In the fourth quarter of 1995, the Company recorded an additional 
$15.0 of provision for doubtful accounts which reflects the Company's 
determination, based on trends that became evident in the fourth 
quarter, that additional reserves were needed primarily to cover 
potentially lower collection rates from several third-party payors.

   In the second quarter of 1995, the Company took a pre-tax special 
charge of $65.0 to cover the costs of the restructuring plan related to the 
Merger.  The charge includes approximately $24.2 to reduce the workforce, 
$21.3 to reduce certain assets to their net realizable values, and $19.5 
for lease and other facility obligations.  Also in the second quarter of 
1995, the Company took a 




         LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

pre-tax special charge of $10.0 in connection with the estimated costs of 
settling various claims pending against the Company, substantially all of 
which are billing disputes, in which the Company believes it is probable 
that settlements will be made by the Company.

   In connection with the repayment of existing revolving credit and term 
loan facilities, the Company recorded an extraordinary loss of 
approximately $13.5 ($8.3 net of tax) in the second quarter of 1995, 
consisting of the write-off of deferred financing costs, related to the 
early extinguishment of debt.

   In the third quarter of 1994, the Company approved a settlement of 
previously disclosed shareholder class and derivative litigation.  In 
connection with the settlement, the Company took a pre-tax special charge 
of $15.0 and a $6.0 charge for expenses related to the settled litigation.

   In the fourth quarter of 1994, the Company took a non-recurring charge 
of approximately $3.9 for lease costs and the write-off of leasehold 
improvements related to the relocation of certain of the Company's regional 
laboratories.






