
10-K405


 



                   UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                                      FORM 10-K

        (Mark One)
          X    ANNUAL  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO  SECTION  13   OR  15(d)  OF  THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

        For the fiscal year ended            DECEMBER 31, 1994           
                                 ----------------------------------
                                          OR

        _____   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE      
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

        For the transition period from __________________ to ________________

        Commission file number                   1-11353                     
                              -----------------------------------------------

                       NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS  INC.            
        ------------------------------------------------------------------
                (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                  DELAWARE                              13-3757370           
        ------------------------------------------------------------------
        (State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer          
        incorporation or organization)              Identification No.)

        4225 Executive Square, Suite 805, La Jolla, California     92037      
        ------------------------------------------------------------------
        (Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

                                     619-657-9382                            
        ------------------------------------------------------------------
                 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
             Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

            Title of each class          Name of exchange on which registered   
        -----------------------------    ------------------------------------
        Common Stock, $0.01 par value         New York Stock Exchange

             Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

        Indicate  by check  mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has  filed  all
        reports required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
        Exchange  Act of  1934 during  the preceding  12 months  (or  for such
        shorter  period that the registrant was required to file such reports)
        and (2) has  been subject to such filing requirements  for the past 90
        days.  Yes  X  No   

        Indicate  by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
        Item 405  of Regulation S-K is  not contained herein, and  will not be
        contained, to  the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy
        or information  statements incorporated  by reference  in Part  III of
        this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  X 

        State  the  aggregate  market  value  of  the  voting  stock  held  by
        non-affiliates of the registrant,  by reference to the price  at which
        the stock was sold as  of a specified date within 60 days prior to the
        date of filing:  $904,251,320 at February 21, 1995.

        Indicate  the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
        classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date: 84,766,109
        shares at February 21, 1995, of which 20,176,729 shares are held by an
        indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Mafco Holdings Inc.


                                        PART I

          Item 1.   DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

               National Health Laboratories  Holdings Inc. ("NHL  Holdings"
          and  together   with  its   subsidiaries,   the  "Company")   was
          incorporated in Delaware  in 1994 in connection  with a corporate
          reorganization approved  by the  stockholders of National  Health
          Laboratories  Incorporated ("NHLI") on June 7, 1994.  As a result
          of  the  reorganization,  NHL  Holdings  now  owns,  through  NHL
          Intermediate  Holdings  Corp. I,  a  Delaware  corporation and  a
          wholly owned  subsidiary of NHL Holdings  ("Intermediate Holdings
          I"),  and   NHL  Intermediate  Holdings  Corp.   II,  a  Delaware
          corporation  and  a  wholly  owned   subsidiary  of  Intermediate
          Holdings I  ("Intermediate Holdings II"), all  of the outstanding
          common  stock of  the NHLI.   The  Company's principal  executive
          offices  are  located at  4225  Executive Square,  Suite  805, La
          Jolla,  California  92037,  and  its telephone  number  is  (619)
          657-9382.

               Until the initial public offering of approximately 5% of the
          Company's  common stock in July 1988, the Company was an indirect
          wholly owned subsidiary of  Revlon Holdings Inc. ("Revlon"), then
          known  as Revlon,  Inc., which,  in turn,  is an  indirect wholly
          owned subsidiary of Mafco  Holdings Inc. ("Mafco"), a corporation
          that  is 100%  owned  by  Ronald  O.  Perelman.    Following  the
          completion  of  successive  secondary  public  offerings  of  the
          Company's  common stock, a self  tender offer by  the Company and
          the purchase by the  Company of outstanding shares of  its common
          stock,  Mafco's   indirect   ownership  has   been   reduced   to
          approximately 24%.

               On  June  23, 1994,  the  Company  acquired Allied  Clinical
          Laboratories,  Inc.     ("Allied"),   then   the  sixth   largest
          independent  clinical  laboratory testing  company in  the United
          States (in terms of  net revenues), as a wholly  owned subsidiary
          for approximately $191.5  million in cash plus the  assumption of
          $24.0  million  of Allied  indebtedness  and  the recognition  of
          approximately $5.0 million of Allied net liabilities (the "Allied
          Acquisition").

               The  Company  is  one  of the  leading  clinical  laboratory
          companies  in the United States.   Through a  national network of
          laboratories,  the  Company  offers  a  broad  range  of  testing
          services  used  by  the  medical  profession  in  the  diagnosis,
          monitoring and  treatment of  disease and other  clinical states.
          Office-based  physicians  constitute  approximately  90%  of  the









          Company's  clients.   The  remainder  is  comprised primarily  of
          clinics,   nursing   homes,    hospitals   and   other   clinical
          laboratories.

               Since its founding  in 1971,  the Company has  grown into  a
          network of 23 major  laboratories, including a national reference
          laboratory  which performs  esoteric  testing and  tests for  the
          presence of drugs of  abuse, and approximately 950 service  sites
          consisting  of  sales ports,  patient  service  centers and  STAT
          laboratories, serving customers in 45 states.

          Recent Developments

               The Company has entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger
          dated as of December  13, 1994 (the "Merger Agreement")  with HLR
          Holdings   Inc.  ("HLR"),  Roche  Biomedical  Laboratories,  Inc.
          ("RBL"),  and (for  the purposes  set forth  therein) Hoffmann-La
          Roche  Inc.  ("Roche") providing  for,  among  other things,  the
          merger  of RBL with and into the  Company with the Company as the
          surviving  corporation (the  "Merger"),  and pursuant  to  which,
          subject to  certain exceptions, each outstanding  share of common
          stock,  par  value  $0.01 per  share,  of  the  Company, will  be
          converted into (i) 0.72 of a share of common stock of the Company
          and (ii) the right to receive $5.60 in cash, without interest.

               In  addition, all shares of  common stock, no  par value, of
          RBL  issued and  outstanding immediately  prior to  the effective
          time of the  Merger (other  than treasury shares,  which will  be
          canceled)  will be  converted  into, and  become, that  number of
          newly  issued shares  of Company  common stock  as would,  in the
          aggregate and after giving  effect to the Merger and  the Company
          common stock owned by HLR, RBL and their subsidiaries immediately
          after the effective time  of the Merger, equal 49.9% of the total
          number of shares of  Company common stock outstanding immediately
          after the effective
          time  of the  Merger  (after giving  effect  to the  issuance  of
          Company common stock  in respect  of the  Company employee  stock
          options in connection with the Merger).  

               In connection with the Merger, the Company currently intends
          to declare a dividend, payable to holders of record  of shares of
          Company common stock as  of the third  business day prior to  the
          date of the special  meeting of the stockholders to  consider and
          vote on the approval  and adoption of the Merger,  which dividend
          will consist of  0.16308 of  a warrant per  outstanding share  of
          Company  common   stock,   each  such   warrant   (a   "Warrant")
          representing  the right  to  purchase one  newly issued  share of
          Company common stock  for $22.00 (subject to adjustments)  on the
          fifth anniversary of the  issuance of the Warrant.   In addition,



 


          the Merger Agreement provides for the issuance to and purchase by
          Roche, for a purchase price of $51,048,900, of 8,325,000 Warrants
          to  purchase   shares  of   Company  common  stock   (the  "Roche
          Warrants"),  which Warrants will have  the terms described in the
          preceding sentence.

               The   aggregate   cash   consideration    of   approximately
          $474,700,000 to be  paid to  stockholders of the  Company in  the
          Merger  will be financed from three sources:  a cash contribution
          by the Company of  approximately $288,000,000 out of  proceeds of
          borrowings by the Company in an equal amount, a cash contribution
          to be made by HLR in the amount of approximately $135,651,100 and
          the proceeds from the issuance of the Roche Warrants.

               The Company has obtained a commitment for a credit facility,
          which  will include  a  term  loan  facility  of  not  more  than
          $800,000,000  and a  revolving credit  facility of not  more than
          $400,000,000,  to refinance  the Company's  existing indebtedness
          and  to  finance  the   Company's  portion  of  the   total  cash
          consideration  to be paid to  stockholders of the  Company in the
          Merger.  The specific terms and conditions of the credit facility
          are currently under negotiation.

               Restructuring   costs   of  approximately   $84,000,000  are
          expected  to  be recorded  by  the Company  at  the close  of the
          Merger.   These  costs  will reflect  the  write-off of  deferred
          financing  costs  related  to  the  repayment  of  the  Company's
          existing revolving credit facility and term loan facility entered
          into in connection with the Allied Acquisition financing  and the
          creation of reserves  for severance and benefit costs,  costs for
          office  facilities expected  to  be closed,  vacant space  costs,
          systems conversion costs and  other restructuring expenses of the
          Company associated with the Merger. 

          The Clinical Laboratory Industry

               Clinical laboratory tests are used  by physicians, hospitals
          and other  health care providers  to diagnose, monitor  and treat
          diseases  and other  clinical states  through the  examination of
          substances  in  blood  or  tissue samples  and  other  specimens.
          Clinical laboratory  tests are primarily  performed by  hospitals
          in-house, by  physicians in  their offices or  in physician-owned
          laboratories and  by independent  laboratory  companies like  the
          Company.  The Company  views the clinical laboratory industry  as
          highly fragmented and intensively competitive with many local and
          regional  competitors,  including  numerous  physician-owned  and
          hospital-owned laboratories as well  as several large independent
          laboratory companies. 




 


               In  recent  years,  certain  independent  laboratories  have
          engaged in acquisitions of other laboratories and taken advantage
          of opportunities for cost  efficiencies afforded by larger scale,
          automated   testing  operations.     The  Company  believes  that
          acquisition  activity will  continue in  the clinical  laboratory
          business due to legislative initiatives and increasing demand for
          quality  service  and  efficiency  at  lower  prices.    See  "--
          Competition".

          Laboratory Testing Operations and Services

               The Company has 23 major laboratories, and approximately 950
          service sites consisting of  sales ports, patient service centers
          and STAT laboratories.  A "sales port" is a central  office which
          collects  specimens  in  a region  for  shipment  to  one of  the
          Company's laboratories for testing.  Test results can be  printed
          at a  sales port  and conveniently  delivered to  the client.   A
          sales port also is  used as a base for  sales staff.  A  "patient
          service center" generally is a facility maintained by the Company
          to  serve the physicians in a medical professional building.  The
          patient service center collects the specimens as requested by the
          physician.    The specimens  are  sent,  principally through  the
          Company's  in-house  courier system  (and,  to  a lesser  extent,
          through  independent couriers),  to  one of  the Company's  major
          laboratories for testing.  Some of the Company's patient  service
          centers also function as "STAT labs", which are laboratories that
          have the  ability to  perform certain  routine tests  quickly and
          report results to the physician immediately.

               The   Company   processes   approximately  152,000   patient
          specimens  on an average day.  Patient specimens are delivered to
          the Company accompanied  by a  test request form.   These  forms,
          which  are  completed by  the client,  indicate  the tests  to be
          performed and provide the necessary billing information.

               Each  specimen  and  related  request form  is  checked  for
          completeness and then given a unique  identification number.  The
          unique identification  number assigned  to each patient  helps to
          assure  that the results  are attributed to  the correct patient.
          The test request forms are sent to a data entry  terminal where a
          file is  established for each  patient and the  necessary testing
          and  billing information is  entered.   Once this  information is
          entered into the computer system, the tests are performed and the
          results  are  entered  primarily  through computer  interface  or
          manually,  depending upon  the tests  and the  type of  equipment
          involved.  Most  of the Company's  computer testing equipment  is
          directly linked with the Company's computer system.  Most routine
          testing  is completed by early the next morning, and test results
          are   printed   and   prepared  for   distribution   by   service
          representatives  that  day.    Some clients  have  local  printer
          capability  and  have  reports  printed  out  directly  in  their


 


          offices.  Clients  who request that they be called  with a result
          are so notified  in the morning.  It is  Company policy to notify
          the  client  immediately if  at  any time  in  the course  of the
          testing process a life-threatening result is found.

               The following  discussion describes the  different types  of
          tests performed by the Company:

               Routine Clinical Testing.   The vast majority  of the number
          of tests performed by  the Company are considered by  the Company
          to be routine.   The Company performs all  such routine tests  in
          its  own  laboratories.   A routine  test  generally is  a higher
          volume,  simpler test  capable  of being  performed and  reported
          within  24 hours.   The  Company performs  many routine  clinical
          tests  with  sophisticated  and  computerized  laboratory testing
          equipment.  These tests provide information used by physicians in
          determining the existence or absence of disease or abnormalities.
          The Company performs this core group of  routine tests in each of
          its 23 major regional  laboratories for a total  of approximately
          104 million routine tests annually.

               Esoteric Clinical Testing.   Esoteric tests  are specialized
          laboratory tests  performed in cases where  information is needed
          to confirm a diagnosis or when the  physician requires additional
          information  to develop  a  plan  of  therapy for  a  complicated
          medical case.  Esoteric  tests are generally more complex  tests,
          requiring  more  sophisticated  technology  and   more  expensive
          equipment  and materials, as well as a higher degree of technical
          skill  to perform.    The number  of  esoteric tests  continually
          increases as  new  medical discoveries  are  made.   The  Company
          operates   a   state-of-the-art  national   reference  laboratory
          ("National Reference Laboratory") in Nashville, Tennessee.   This
          laboratory provides  a central location for  esoteric testing for
          all of the  Company's major laboratories.   The Company  performs
          approximately 90% of all types of tests considered by the Company
          to be  esoteric  at  this  facility,  representing  approximately
          2,300,000 tests annually.   With the operation of  this facility,
          the  Company reduces both the types and numbers of esoteric tests
          that are referred to outside laboratories to be performed.

               Cytology.    Cytology,  which  involves  both  routine   and
          esoteric anatomical testing, is the examination of  cells under a
          microscope  to  detect  abnormalities  in  composition,  form  or
          structure which are associated with disease.  Cytology is divided
          into two testing services,  Gynecologic and Non-Gynecologic.  The
          Gynecologic  (Papanicolaou  ("Pap")  Smear)  is  the most  common
          cytologic test,  accounting for approximately  99% of all  of the
          Company's testing in  this area.  The additional  cytology tests,
          Non-Gynecologic, are performed on specimens from other body sites



 


          (i.e.,   Sputums,  Breast,  Urine  and  Fine  Needle  Aspirations
          ("FNA's")).    The  Company  performs approximately  4.0  million
          Gynecologic and Non-Gynecologic tests annually.

               Anatomical Testing.   Routine and esoteric  anatomical tests
          require the examination of  a small piece of tissue  which either
          is  cut from  the body surgically  or taken  in a  biopsy.  These
          tissue specimens  are examined by a pathologist both visually and
          microscopically to detect  abnormalities in composition, form  or
          structure  which  are  associated  with  disease.    The  Company
          performs approximately 810,000 anatomical tests annually.

          Contract Management Services

               The  Company provides  management services  in a  variety of
          health  care  settings.    The  Company  generally  provides  the
          laboratory manager  and other  laboratory personnel, as  well as,
          equipment and  testing supplies  to manage  a laboratory  that is
          owned by a hospital, physician or other health care provider.  In
          addition,  the  Company maintains  a  data  processing system  to
          organize and report test results and to provide billing and other
          pertinent  information  related to  the  tests  performed in  the
          managed  laboratory.   Under  the  typical  laboratory management
          agreement,  the  laboratory  manager,  who  is  employed  by  the
          Company, reports to the hospital or clinic administration.  Thus,
          the provider  maintains control of the laboratory.  A pathologist
          designated by  the provider  serves as  medical director  for the
          laboratory.

               An  important advantage the Company offers to its clients is
          the  flexibility of  the  Company's information  systems used  in
          management contract services.   In addition to the ability  to be
          customized  for   a  particular   user's  needs,   the  Company's
          information  systems also  interface  with several  hospital  and
          clinic  systems, giving  the  user more  efficient and  effective
          information flow.

               The Company's  existing management service  contracts expire
          between  1995 and 1998.  However, each contract contains a clause
          that permits  termination prior to the  contract expiration date.
          The  termination terms vary but  they generally fall  into one of
          the  following  categories:   (i)  termination  without cause  by
          either  the  Company or  the  contracted  provider after  written
          notice  (generally 60  to  90 days  prior  to termination);  (ii)
          termination  by  the  contracted   provider  only  if  there  are
          uncorrected  deficiencies in the  Company's performance under the
          contract  after  notice  by  the contracted  provider;  or  (iii)
          termination  by the  contracted provider  if there  is a  loss of
          accreditation held  by any  Company laboratory that  services the



 


          contracted provider, which accreditation is not reinstated within
          30 days  of the  loss,  or upon  30 days'  notice if  there is  a
          decline in the  quality of services provided under  such contract
          which  remains  uncorrected after  a 15  day  period.   While the
          Company believes  that it  will maintain  and renew  its existing
          contracts, there  can  be no  assurance  of such  maintenance  or
          renewal.

               As part of its marketing efforts, and as a way to focus on a
          contract management  client's particular  needs, the Company  has
          developed  several different pricing  formulas for its management
          services agreements.  In  certain cases, profitability may depend
          on  the Company's  ability  to accurately  predict test  volumes,
          patient encounters or the number of admissions in the case  of an
          inpatient facility.

          Quality Assurance

               The  Company considers  the quality  of its  tests to  be of
          critical  importance to its growth and retention of accounts.  It
          has established a comprehensive quality assurance program for all
          of  its laboratories designed to  help assure accurate and timely
          test results.   All  regional laboratories  are certified  by the
          Health Care Financing Administration  ("HCFA") of the  Department
          of  Health and  Human Services ("HHS")  for participation  in the
          Medicare  program  and  licensed under  the  Clinical  Laboratory
          Improvement Act  of 1967, as  amended by the  Clinical Laboratory
          Improvement  Amendments of  1988  (as amended,  "CLIA") and  must
          participate in basic quality assurance programs.  In  addition to
          the  compulsory  external  inspections  and  proficiency programs
          demanded by CLIA, the Company has adopted a substantial number of
          additional quality assurance programs.   See "-- Governmental and
          Industry Regulation".

               Each  regional  laboratory  is equipped  with  sophisticated
          testing equipment which is monitored daily in accordance with the
          Company's  preventive  maintenance program.    In  addition, each
          regional  laboratory is supervised by a medical director who is a
          physician,  assisted by  a technical  director who  meets certain
          regulatory    requirements,   and   is   staffed   with   medical
          professionals.   The  primary role  of such  professionals is  to
          ensure the accuracy of the Company's tests.

               The Company employs  inspectors with  doctorate and  masters
          degrees  in the biological sciences who visit and inspect each of
          the laboratories on an unannounced basis.   Inspections are based
          on CLIA guidelines and  Company policies and, for the  most part,
          occur  on a semi-annual basis.  The Company attempts to have such
          inspections  conducted  in  the   same  manner  as  the  biennial



 


          inspections  conducted by Federal and state government officials.
          Any major deficiencies  which appear  are corrected  immediately,
          and  other  deficiencies  are corrected  promptly,  and typically
          within one month.

               As  part   of  its   commitment  to  quality,   the  Company
          established   a   state-of-the-art  Technology   Center   at  its
          headquarters in  La Jolla,  California.   The  center houses  the
          Company's  Quality Assurance  Group and  enhances its  ability to
          monitor the testing  results of the  individual laboratories.   A
          computerized data-capture  network has been  established allowing
          virtual on-line examination of test results and monitoring of the
          laboratories.

               The  Company also  participates in  a number  of proficiency
          testing  programs which,  generally, entail  submitting pretested
          samples  to a  laboratory to  verify the laboratory  test results
          against  the known  proficiency  test value.   These  proficiency
          programs are  conducted both by  the Company  on its  own and  in
          conjunction  with   groups  such  as  the   College  of  American
          Pathologists ("CAP") and state  and Federal government regulatory
          agencies.  

               The  CAP  is  an  independent  non-governmental organization
          (which has  recently been accredited by HCFA  to inspect clinical
          laboratories  to determine  CLIA  standards)  of board  certified
          pathologists  which  offers  an  accreditation  program  to which
          laboratories can  voluntarily subscribe.   The  CAP accreditation
          program involves  both on-site inspections of  the laboratory and
          participation in  the CAP's  proficiency testing program  for all
          categories in which  the laboratory is accredited by  the CAP.  A
          laboratory's receipt  of accreditation  by the CAP  satisfies the
          Medicare requirement  for  participation in  proficiency  testing
          programs administered by an external source.  See "--Governmental
          and Industry Regulation".

          Sales, Marketing and Client Service

               The  Company  places a  great  deal  of  emphasis on  sales,
          marketing and client  service since  they are and  have been  key
          ingredients in the Company's growth.

               In 1994, the  Company's net new  growth (new accounts  minus
          lost accounts) returned to previous historical levels and was 20%
          higher  than  the rate  experienced  in  1993.   The  traditional
          physician office sales force  continued to have excellent success
          in a  market  which  has  always been  the  Company's  strongest.
          Managed care revenues grew considerably from a fee-for-service as
          well as a capitated rate perspective.  



 


               The  Company believes  that  the shift  toward managed  care
          experienced in 1994 will continue for the foreseeable future.  To
          address  this, the  Company expanded  its dedicated  managed care
          sales force from 20 to 25 while maintaining its traditional sales
          force at approximately 300.  At the end of the year, managed care
          revenues were approximately 8% to  9% of total revenues  covering
          over forty million lives.   During 1994, the Company  signed over
          200   new  contracts  with  various  managed  care  organizations
          including  U.S. Health  Care,  Health Plus,  Humana, MetLife  and
          Prudential.  

               The Company believes that given the increasing complexity of
          the clinical laboratory marketplace,  training of its sales force
          is of paramount importance.  With this goal in mind,  during 1994
          the  Company enhanced  its comprehensive sales  training program.
          This project  involved a complete revision of  the sales training
          material.  Two comprehensive manuals, covering basic sales skills
          and  specialized laboratory sales,  were produced and distributed
          to  the  Company's  sales  representatives.    A  national  sales
          management  training seminar  was  held for  associate and  sales
          managers.   This seminar provided training  classes on management
          skills,  responsibilities, and in-depth technical sales sessions.
          In  addition,  a new  90  day  evaluation follow-up  program  was
          created to  determine  if a  satisfactory level  of training  was
          achieved.

               The volume  of hospital reference  and testing for  drugs of
          abuse  also  increased  in 1994.    Monthly  accession volume  at
          National Reference  Laboratory was up  over 100%  for testing  of
          drugs of abuse  and 30%  for reference laboratory  testing.   New
          accounts  sold in 1994 for these two market segments are expected
          to have annualized revenues of approximately $6 million.

               The Company  has always stressed the  importance of customer
          service  and its  contribution  to growth.    Through its  Client
          Service  Coordinators,  the  Company  continuously  monitors  and
          assesses  service  levels,  maintains  client  relationships  and
          attempts to identify and  respond to client needs.   During 1994,
          the  Company continued  to expand  the  client service  force; at
          year-end,   there   were   approximately   230   Client   Service
          Coordinators.  

          Potential New Markets

               Health  care  reform,  the  shift toward  managed  care  and
          increased  competition  by hospitals  all  had an  impact  on the
          clinical  laboratory  testing  industry  in 1994.    The  Company
          expects these trends to continue and plans to respond by shifting
          additional  sales  staff  to  support  the  managed  care  market



 


          segment.

               The  Company believes  that specialty  sales of  testing and
          related  services  for  use  in renal  dialysis,  nursing  homes,
          clinical  trials,  detection  of  drugs  of  abuse  and  hospital
          reference testing  will also continue to  offer opportunities for
          additional revenue growth in 1995.

               The  Company   views  hospitals   in  general  as   a  major
          competitive  force  in the  marketplace today.    To that  end, a
          hospital  business venture  group has  been formed  whose primary
          goal   is   to   identify  potential   hospital   joint   venture
          arrangements.     These  arrangements  are   likely  to   include
          management  agreements,  hospital laboratory  operations ventures
          and hospital laboratory purchases.  The Company views this market
          as having exceptional future potential for 1995 and beyond.

               The  Allied  Acquisition  has  provided  the   Company  with
          increased geographic coverage in Utah, Nevada, Idaho, Alabama and
          Northern  California.    This  increased  coverage  provides  for
          increased  physician   office   penetration  and   managed   care
          opportunities in these states. 

          Information Systems

               The Company  believes that  the health care  provider's need
          for data will continue  to place high demands on  its information
          systems staff.   During 1994, staffing  levels were increased  to
          help  meet this demand.  Information  systems resources were also
          expanded  during  1994  to  accommodate the  Allied  Acquisition.
          Support  for and  enhancements to  the managed  care  data system
          including Health Plan Employer Data and Information Set ("HEDIS")
          reporting  capability also  required heavy  involvement from  the
          Company's information  systems staff.   Additionally, the Company
          continued to  test and  refine its next  generation comprehensive
          billing  system.    Live  installation  of  this  new  system  is
          currently scheduled for mid-year 1995.  

          Customers

               To  date,  the Company  has  focused  its marketing  efforts
          primarily on  office-based physicians,  whose orders  account for
          approximately  90% of  its net sales.   The remaining  10% of net
          sales is derived from  hospital reference testing, nursing homes,
          clinics,  referrals from  other clinical  laboratories  and other
          clients.  The  largest client  of the Company  accounts for  less
          than 1%  of net sales.  The Company believes that the loss of any
          one  client would  not  have a  material  adverse effect  on  its
          financial condition.   Payment for the Company's services is made



 


          by  the  patients directly,  physicians  who in  turn  bill their
          patients,  or third  party payors,  including public  and private
          parties such as Medicare, Medicaid and Blue Shield.

          Employees

               At  December 31,  1994, the  Company employed  approximately
          14,000  people.   These  include  approximately 10,500  full-time
          employees  and  approximately  3,500  part-time  employees, which
          represents the equivalent of  approximately 11,800 persons  full-
          time.     Of  the   approximately  11,800   full-time  equivalent
          employees,  approximately 325 are  sales personnel, approximately
          10,200    are   laboratory   and   distribution   personnel   and
          approximately  1,275  are   administrative  and  data  processing
          personnel.   The Company has no  collective bargaining agreements
          with  any unions and believes that its overall relations with its
          employees are excellent.

          Governmental and Industry Regulation

               The clinical  laboratory industry is subject  to significant
          governmental regulation at the Federal, state and local levels.

               The  Company's major  laboratories are  certified  under the
          Federal  Medicare program (which  principally serves  patients 65
          and  older), state  Medicaid  programs  (which principally  serve
          indigent  patients) and  CLIA.   Where  applicable, licensure  is
          maintained under the laws of state or local governments that have
          clinical   laboratory  regulation  programs.    In  addition,  in
          facilities  where  radioimmunoassay  testing  is  performed,  the
          facilities  are   licensed  by  the  Federal  Nuclear  Regulatory
          Commission and,  where  applicable, by  state nuclear  regulatory
          agencies.    All  of  the  Company's  23 major  laboratories  are
          accredited  by  the  CAP.    In  addition,  the  Company's   STAT
          laboratories are also certified  or licensed, as necessary, under
          Federal, state or local programs.

               CLIA  extends federal  oversight to  virtually  all clinical
          laboratories by  requiring that laboratories be  certified by the
          government.     Many   clinical  laboratories   must  also   meet
          governmental quality and personnel standards, undergo proficiency
          testing and  be  subject to  biennial  inspection.   Rather  than
          focusing on  location, size or type of  laboratory, this extended
          oversight  is based on the  complexity of the  tests performed by
          the laboratory.

               In 1992,  HHS published regulations implementing  CLIA.  The
          quality  standards and  enforcement procedure  regulations became
          effective in  1992, although  certain personnel,  quality control



 


          and proficiency testing  requirements are currently  being phased
          in  by HHS.  The  quality standards regulations  divide all tests
          into  three categories  (waivered, moderate  complexity  and high
          complexity) and establish varying requirements depending upon the
          complexity of the testing performed.   A laboratory that performs
          high complexity tests must  meet more stringent requirements than
          a laboratory that performs  only moderate complexity tests, while
          those that perform only  one or more of eight  routine "waivered"
          tests may apply for a waiver from most requirements of CLIA.  All
          major and many smaller facilities of the Company are certified by
          CLIA  to perform high complexity testing.   The remaining smaller
          testing sites of  the Company  are certified by  CLIA to  perform
          moderate  complexity testing or have  obtained a waiver from most
          requirements of CLIA. Generally, the HHS regulations require, for
          laboratories  that perform high complexity or moderate complexity
          tests,  the implementation  of systems  that ensure  the accurate
          performance  and reporting  of  test  results,  establishment  of
          quality control systems, proficiency testing by approved agencies
          and biennial inspections.

               The sanction  for failure  to comply with  these regulations
          may  be suspension,  revocation or  limitation of  a laboratory's
          CLIA certificate necessary to conduct business, significant fines
          and criminal penalties.  The  loss of a license, imposition of  a
          fine or future changes in such Federal, state and local  laws and
          regulations  (or  in  the  interpretation  of  current  laws  and
          regulations) could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

               The  Company is  also  subject to  state  regulation.   CLIA
          provides that a  state may adopt more stringent  regulations than
          Federal  law.  For example, state law may require that laboratory
          personnel  meet certain  qualifications, specify  certain quality
          controls,  maintain  certain  records  and   undergo  proficiency
          testing.  For example, certain of the Company's laboratories  are
          subject  to   the  State   of  New  York's   clinical  laboratory
          regulations, which  contain provisions  that  are more  stringent
          than Federal law.

               The  Company is  subject to  licensing and  regulation under
          Federal, state  and  local  laws relating  to  the  handling  and
          disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and
          radioactive  materials as  well as  to the  safety and  health of
          laboratory  employees.   All  of the  Company's laboratories  are
          operated in accordance with applicable Federal and state laws and
          regulations relating to biohazardous  disposal of all  laboratory
          specimens, and the Company  utilizes outside vendors for disposal
          of  such specimens.   Although  the Company  believes that  it is
          currently  in  compliance  in  all material  respects  with  such
          Federal, state and  local laws, failure  to comply could  subject



 


          the  Company to denial of  the right to  conduct business, fines,
          criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions.

               In addition to its comprehensive regulation of safety in the
          workplace,   the   Federal   Occupational   Safety   and   Health
          Administration  ("OSHA")  has established  extensive requirements
          relating to workplace safety for health care employers, including
          clinical  laboratories, whose  workers may  be exposed  to blood-
          borne  pathogens such as  HIV and the  hepatitis B virus.   These
          regulations, among  other things, require work practice controls,
          protective clothing  and equipment, training,  medical follow-up,
          vaccinations and other measures designed to minimize exposure to,
          and  transmission of,  blood-borne  pathogens.   In addition,  in
          January 1990, OSHA established safety requirements for the use of
          chemicals as reagents and for other purposes.

               Drug testing for public sector employees is regulated by the
          Substance   Abuse  and  Mental   Health  Services  Administration
          ("SAMSHA") (formerly the National Institute on Drug Abuse), which
          has established  detailed performance and  quality standards that
          laboratories  must meet in order  to be approved  to perform drug
          testing   on  employees   of  the  Federal   government,  Federal
          government contractors and certain other entities.  To the extent
          that the Company performs  such testing, it must be  certified as
          meeting  SAMSHA  standards.    The  Company's Herndon,  Virginia;
          Nashville,  Tennessee;  Redmond,  Washington; Reno,  Nevada;  and
          Winston Salem, North Carolina laboratories are SAMSHA certified.

               The use  of controlled substances  in testing  for drugs  of
          abuse   is   regulated   by   the    Federal   Drug   Enforcement
          Administration.

               Regulations of the Department  of Transportation, the Public
          Health Service and the Postal Service apply to the transportation
          of clinical laboratory specimens.

               In  1994,  1993 and  1992, approximately  35%, 41%  and 42%,
          respectively, of  the Company's revenues were  derived from tests
          performed  for beneficiaries of  Medicare and  Medicaid programs.
          Furthermore, the conduct of  the Company's other business depends
          substantially  on  continued   participation  in  these  programs
          because  clients often want a single laboratory to perform all of
          their testing services.  In 1984, Congress established a Medicare
          fee  schedule   for  clinical laboratory  services performed  for
          patients  covered   under  Part   B  of  the   Medicare  program.
          Subsequently, Congress  imposed a national ceiling  on the amount
          that  can  be paid  under the  fee  schedule.   Laboratories must
          accept the scheduled amount as payment in full for tests that are
          subject to  reimbursement under the fee  schedule methodology and



 


          performed on behalf of  Medicare beneficiaries and must  bill the
          program  directly.   In  addition,  state  Medicaid programs  are
          prohibited from paying more than the Medicare fee schedule amount
          for   clinical  laboratory   services   furnished   to   Medicaid
          recipients.    Since  the  1984  establishment  of  Medicare  fee
          schedules,  Congress has  periodically  reduced the  ceilings  on
          Medicare reimbursement to  clinical laboratories from  previously
          authorized  levels.    In 1993,  pursuant  to  provisions  in the
          Omnibus  Budget  and Reconciliation  Act  of  1993 ("OBRA  '93"),
          Congress  reduced,   effective  January  1,  1994,  the  Medicare
          national  limitations from 88% of the 1984 national median to 76%
          of  the   1984  national  median,  which   reductions  are  being
          implemented on a phased-in  basis from 1994 through 1996  (to 84%
          in 1994, 80% in 1995 and 76%  in 1996).  OBRA '93 also eliminated
          the  provision for annual  fee schedule increases  based upon the
          consumer  price index for 1994  and 1995.   Because a significant
          portion  of  the  Company's  costs are  relatively  fixed,  these
          Medicare reimbursement reductions have a direct adverse effect on
          the Company's net  earnings and  cash flows.   Additional  future
          changes  in  Federal,  state  or  local  regulations  (or in  the
          interpretation  of  current  regulations) affecting  governmental
          reimbursement for clinical laboratory  testing or the methods for
          choosing  laboratories eligible  to  perform tests  could have  a
          material adverse effect on the Company.

               On  January 1,  1993,  numerous changes  in the  Physicians'
          Current Procedural  Terminology ("CPT") were published.   The CPT
          is  a coding  system that  is published  by the  American Medical
          Association.   It lists  descriptive terms and  identifying codes
          for  reporting  medical  and  medically related  services.    The
          Medicare  and  Medicaid  programs  require  suppliers,  including
          laboratories,  to use the CPT  codes when they  bill the programs
          for services performed.  HCFA  implemented these CPT changes  for
          Medicare and  Medicaid on August 1,  1993.  The CPT  changes have
          altered  the way the Company bills Medicare and Medicaid for some
          of its  services, thereby reducing the  reimbursement the Company
          receives  from  those programs  for some  of  its services.   For
          example, certain codes for calculations, such as LDL cholesterol,
          were deleted and are  no longer a payable service  under Medicare
          and Medicaid. 

               In November 1994, HCFA proposed changes in the policies used
          to administer Medicare payments  to clinical laboratories for the
          most  frequently performed  automated  blood chemistry  profiles.
          Among  other  things,  the  proposed changes  would  establish  a
          consistent standard  nationwide for the content  of the automated
          chemistry  profiles.   Another  change incorporated  in the  HCFA
          proposal would require laboratories performing  certain automated
          blood chemistry  profiles to obtain and  provide documentation of
          the  medical necessity of tests included in the profiles for each



 


          Medicare  beneficiary.    If  such  a   requirement  were  to  be
          established, all laboratories  would incur significant additional
          costs associated  with compliance.  In  addition, if implemented,
          such  changes   would   increase  the   losses  associated   with
          unreimbursed testing caused by the inability to obtain sufficient
          information from physicians to allow the laboratory to file valid
          claims  with Medicare.   The  HCFA proposals  may be  modified or
          replaced  with other  proposals  and no  prediction  can be  made
          regarding what proposals, if any, will ultimately be adopted.

               In November 1990, the  Company became aware of a  grand jury
          inquiry  relating to its pricing practices being conducted by the
          United  States  Attorney for  the  San Diego  area  (the Southern
          District  of California)  with the  assistance of  the Office  of
          Inspector  General (the "OIG") of HHS.  On December 18, 1992, the
          Company  announced  that  it  had entered  into  agreements  that
          concluded the investigation (the  "Government Settlement").   The
          settlement  revolved around the  government's contention that the
          Company  improperly included  its tests  for HDL  cholesterol and
          serum ferritin  (a measure  of iron in  the blood)  in its  basic
          Health Survey  Profile, without  clearly offering  an alternative
          profile that did not include these medical tests.  The government
          also contended  that, in certain instances,  physicians were told
          that these  additional  tests would  be  included in  the  Health
          Survey Profile  at no extra charge.   As a result, the government
          contended, the  Company's marketing activities  denied physicians
          the  ability  to  exercise  their  judgment  as  to  the  medical
          necessity of these tests.

               Pursuant to the  Government Settlement, the Company  pleaded
          guilty  to the  charge  of presenting  two  false claims  to  the
          Civilian  Health and  Medical Program  of the  Uniformed Services
          ("CHAMPUS")  and  paid a  $1 million  fine.   In  connection with
          pending and  threatened civil claims, the Company  also agreed to
          pay  $100 million to the Federal government, of which $89 million
          has  been  paid  and  $11  million  will  be  paid  in  quarterly
          installments  through  September  30,  1995.   Concurrently,  the
          Company settled related Medicaid  claims with states that account
          for  over 99.5%  of  its Medicaid  business  and has  paid  $10.4
          million to the settling states.  

               As  a result of these  settlements, the Company  took a one-
          time  pre-tax charge of $136.0  million in the  fourth quarter of
          1992, which reduced net  earnings for the quarter and  year ended
          December 31, 1992  by $80.3 million.  Earnings per  share for the
          fourth quarter and year were  each reduced by $0.85.  The  charge
          covered all estimated costs related to the investigation  and the
          settlement  agreements.   The  Company will  continue to  receive
          reimbursements  from all  government  third  party  reimbursement
          programs, including  Medicare, Medicaid  and  CHAMPUS, under  the
          settlement agreements.  (The  Company made changes to requisition



 


          forms, pricing  and compendia of tests  following the settlement.
          See   "--Managements'  Discussion   and  Analysis   of  Financial
          Condition and Results of Operations").

               In September  1993, the Company  was served with  a subpoena
          issued  by  the  OIG,  which  required  the  Company  to  provide
          documents  to  the  OIG   concerning  its  regulatory  compliance
          procedures.  The  Company has  provided documents to  the OIG  in
          response to the subpoena and continues to be in contact with  the
          OIG through its outside attorneys.  

               In  August 1993,  Allied received  a  subpoena from  the OIG
          requesting  a broad  range of  documents and  certain information
          relating  to its  pricing and  billing practices.   According  to
          published  reports, other independent  clinical laboratories also
          received subpoenas as  part of  what appears to  be a  nationwide
          audit and investigation.  

               The  OIG   subpoena  received  by  Allied   called  for  the
          production of documents regarding  14 blood chemistry tests which
          were  being or had been performed by certain independent clinical
          laboratories in conjunction with automated chemistry profiles and
          which  were being  or had  been filed  separately to  Medicare or
          Medicaid.  An automated chemistry profile is a  grouping of up to
          23 tests that can be performed together on a single  specimen and
          that  Medicare and  Medicaid  pay  for  under  the  Medicare  fee
          schedule.

               Based on  published reports,  the Company believes  that the
          OIG's  investigation  is   primarily  focused   on  two   alleged
          practices.   The first alleged  practice consists of offering the
          automated  chemistry  profile  as  part  of  a  "standard"  blood
          chemistry profile that also  includes one or more of the 14 tests
          referenced in the OIG subpoena in a manner which is misleading to
          the ordering  physician or which  fails to provide  the physician
          with the choice of ordering only the automated chemistry profile.
          Representatives  of  the  OIG  have  publicly  stated  that  this
          practice  may lead to the  ordering of "unnecessary"  tests.  The
          second  alleged  practice involves  the  failure  to disclose  to
          physicians  that  the prices  charged  by  those laboratories  to
          Medicare and Medicaid for  many of these tests referenced  in the
          OIG  subpoena  were  greater  than the  prices  the  laboratories
          charged to the  physicians for  those same tests  when the  tests
          were  performed  in  conjunction  with   an  automated  chemistry
          profile.   Representatives of the  OIG have publicly  stated that
          undisclosed  pricing differences may  cause physicians to believe
          incorrectly that they are ordering tests at little or no  cost to
          the  Medicare and Medicaid programs, possibly causing tests to be
          ordered which are not medically necessary.  Allied's laboratories



 


          have  included some  of  the 14  tests  in its  "standard"  blood
          chemistry  profile  and also  in  "custom"  profiles created  for
          individual  physicians at  their  request.   Tests performed  for
          Medicare and Medicaid patients are, in accordance with applicable
          laws, billed directly to the Medicare and Medicaid programs.

               In  April  1994, Allied  received  a subpoena  from  the OIG
          requesting  documents  and   certain  information  regarding  the
          Medicare  billing  practices  of  its Cincinnati,  Ohio  clinical
          laboratory with respect  to certain cancer  screening tests.   In
          connection  with Allied's assembling  of documents  responding to
          this subpoena,  representatives of the Company  and Allied became
          aware that the  nature of the  possible problems associated  with
          the  billing practices  of  that laboratory  may  have been  both
          different and greater than previously perceived by Allied and the
          Company.  As  a result, Allied and  the Company agreed  to reduce
          the acquisition  price for the Allied Acquisition from $23.00 per
          share to $21.50 per share, or an aggregate of $12.6 million.  The
          Company and  Allied are continuing to  investigate these possible
          problems and have communicated with the OIG and the United States
          Department  of Justice regarding  its subpoena and  a related qui
          tam action  commenced in  a Cincinnati,  Ohio Federal court,  and
          they are cooperating fully with the governmental investigation of
          Allied's  Cincinnati  laboratory.   The  Company  has established
          reserves which it  believes are adequate  to cover any  liability
          associated with these matters.  


               Potential sanctions in connection with the OIG investigation
          for violations of the  laws related to the Medicare  and Medicaid
          programs may  include significant fines, recovery  of the amounts
          paid  to the clinical laboratory  for the tests  involved and, in
          the case of a criminal  conviction, mandatory exclusion from  the
          Medicare  and Medicaid  programs for  a period  of at  least five
          years.    If  the  OIG asserts  a  claim  against  Allied  and is
          successful in pursuing  such a claim, the  Company's business and
          financial  condition  could  be  adversely  affected.    Although
          neither  the   Government  Settlement  nor,  based  on  published
          reports, any settlement agreements with OIG entered into by other
          major clinical laboratory companies,  provided for exclusion from
          participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, there can be
          no  assurance that Allied  will be  able to  negotiate settlement
          agreements  with  similar terms  if  the  government asserts  (or
          threatens to assert) a claim.  In addition, a criminal conviction
          or  the successful prosecution of  a civil fraud  or false claims
          action  could result in the  exclusion of the  defendant from the
          Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Any such exclusion  would likely
          have  a material adverse effect on the Company's non-Medicare and
          non-Medicaid testing business.  No claim has been asserted by the



 


          OIG against Allied, however, no prediction  can be made as to the
          outcome of the investigation or the impact of such outcome on the
          Company's financial condition or results of operations.

               The  Medicare  and   Medicaid  anti-kickback  laws  prohibit
          intentionally paying anything of  value to influence the referral
          of Medicare and Medicaid business.  HHS has published safe harbor
          regulations which specify certain business activities that do not
          violate  the  Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback  laws.   Failure to
          fall within  a safe harbor does not constitute a violation of the
          anti-kickback laws; rather, the arrangement would  remain subject
          to scrutiny by HHS.

               In  March  1992,  HCFA  published  proposed  regulations  to
          implement  the  Medicare  statute's  prohibition   (with  certain
          exceptions)  on referrals  by physicians  who have  an investment
          interest in or a compensation arrangement with laboratories.  The
          prohibition on  referrals also applies where  an immediate family
          member of a physician has an  investment interest or compensation
          arrangement with  a laboratory.   The proposed  regulations would
          define remuneration that gives rise to a compensation arrangement
          as including discounts granted by a laboratory to a physician who
          sends  testing  business  to  the laboratory  and  who  pays  the
          laboratory for such services.  If that definition of remuneration
          were to have become effective, it could have had an impact on the
          way the Company prices  its services to physicians.   However, in
          August 1993, the referenced Medicare  statute was amended by OBRA
          '93.   One  of these  amendments makes  it clear  that day-to-day
          transactions between laboratories and their customers, including,
          but  not limited to,  discounts granted by  laboratories to their
          customers,  are not  affected  by  the  compensation  arrangement
          provisions of  the Medicare statute.   Thus, the  Company expects
          the  definition of  remuneration in  HCFA's proposed  regulations
          will  be  changed  to  reflect  this  amendment  to  the Medicare
          statute.   Currently,  these proposed  regulations have  not been
          finalized.

               In October 1994, the OIG issued a Special Fraud Alert, which
          set  forth a number of practices allegedly engaged in by clinical
          laboratories  and health  care  providers that  the OIG  believes
          violate  the   anti-kickback  laws.     These  practices  include
          providing  employees  to  collect patient  samples  at  physician
          offices  if  the   employees  perform  additional   services  for
          physicians  that  are   typically  the   responsibility  of   the
          physicians' staff;  selling laboratory services to renal dialysis
          centers at prices that are below fair market  value in return for
          referrals  of Medicare  tests  which are  billed  to Medicare  at
          higher  rates;  providing  free  testing  to  a  physician's  HMO
          patients  in situations  where the  referring physician  benefits



 


          from such lower utilization;  providing free pick-up and disposal
          of bio-hazardous  waste for physicians  for items unrelated  to a
          laboratory's  testing services;  providing facsimile  machines or
          computers  to  physicians  which  are  not  exclusively  used  in
          connection with the laboratory  services performed; and providing
          free testing for health care providers, their  families and their
          employees (professional  courtesy testing).  The  OIG stressed in
          the  Fraud Alert that when one  purpose of the arrangements is to
          induce  referral of  program-reimbursed laboratory  testing, both
          the clinical laboratory and the health care provider or physician
          may be liable under  the anti-kickback laws and may be subject to
          criminal  prosecution and  exclusion  from  participation in  the
          Medicare and Medicaid programs.

               According to the  1995 work  plan of the  OIG, its  recently
          established Office of Civil Fraud and Administrative Adjudication
          ("OCFAA")  will  be  responsible for  protecting  the government-
          funded health  care programs and deterring  fraudulent conduct by
          health care providers through  the negotiations and imposition of
          civil  monetary penalties,  assessments  and program  exclusions.
          The  OCFAA works very closely with the Department of Justice, the
          Office of  General Counsel  and the  OIG investigative and  audit
          offices in combatting fraud and abuse.   In addition, the OIG has
          stated in its 1995 work plan that it will determine the extent to
          which  laboratories supply physicians' offices with phlebotomists
          (blood-drawing technicians), offer management services or medical
          waste pick-up  to physicians,  provide training to  physicians or
          engage in other financial  arrangements as well as the  extent to
          which such arrangements might be unlawful.

               The health care industry is undergoing significant change as
          third party payers,  such as Medicare and  Medicaid and insurers,
          increase  their  efforts to  control  the  cost, utilization  and
          delivery of health  care services.  In an effort  to address this
          problem  of increasing  health care  costs, legislation  has been
          proposed  or  enacted at  both the  Federal  and state  levels to
          regulate   health   care  delivery   in   general   and  clinical
          laboratories  in  particular.    Some of  the  proposals  include
          managed   competition,  global  budgeting   and  price  controls.
          Although the Clinton Administration's health care reform proposal
          was not enacted  by the  103rd Congress, such  proposal or  other
          proposals  may be considered in  the future.   In particular, the
          Company  believes that  reductions in reimbursement  for Medicare
          services  will continue  to  be implemented  from  time to  time.
          Reductions in the reimbursement rates of other third party payers
          may occur as well.  The Company cannot  predict the effect health
          care  reform, if enacted, would  have on its  business, and there
          can be no assurance that such reforms, if enacted, would not have
          a  material   adverse  effect  on  the   Company's  business  and



 


          operations.

               In  addition  to general  health  care  reform, the  Federal
          government  has  been  examining  the  rapid  growth  of  Federal
          expenditures for  clinical laboratory services.   Several Federal
          agencies   are  responsible  for   investigating  allegations  of
          fraudulent  and   abusive  conduct  by  health   care  providers,
          including  the Federal Bureau of  Investigation and the  OIG.  In
          its  published work  plan for  1992-1993, the  OIG indicated  its
          intention    to   target   certain   laboratory   practices   for
          investigation  and prosecution.    Pursuant to  one such  project
          described  in such  work  plan,  entitled "Laboratory  Unbundle,"
          laboratories  that  offer packages  of  tests  to physicians  and
          "unbundle" them  into several "tests to  get higher reimbursement
          when  billing  Medicare  and  Medicaid" will  be  identified  and
          "suitable  cases  will  be  presented for  prosecution."    Under
          another project  described in such work  plan, laboratories "that
          link  price  discounts  to  the volume  of  physician  referrals,
          "unbundle"  tests in  order to  bill Medicare  at a  higher total
          rate, and conduct  unnecessary tests . . .  will be identified to
          coordinate investigations throughout the country." 

          Compliance Program

               Because  of evolving interpretations  of regulations and the
          national debate  over health care, compliance  with all Medicare,
          Medicaid  and other government-established  rules and regulations
          has  become   a  significant   factor  throughout   the  clinical
          laboratory  industry.  The Company began  the implementation of a
          new  compliance program  in   late  1992  and  early 1993.    The
          objective of the  program is to  develop aggressive and  reliable
          compliance safeguards.  Emphasis is placed on developing training
          programs  for   personnel  to   attempt  to  assure   the  strict
          implementation of  all rules and regulations.   Further, in-depth
          reviews of procedures, personnel  and facilities are conducted to
          assure  regulatory  compliance  throughout  the  Company.    Such
          sharpened  focus  on  regulatory  standards and  procedures  will
          continue to be priority for the Company in the future.

               The  Company  believes that  it  is  in  compliance  in  all
          material  respects  with  all  statutes,  regulations  and  other
          requirements  applicable to  its clinical  laboratory operations.
          The clinical laboratory testing  industry is, however, subject to
          extensive regulation, and many  of these statutes and regulations
          have  not been  interpreted  by  the courts.    There  can be  no
          assurance  therefore that  applicable  statutes  and  regulations
          might  not   be  interpreted  or  applied   by  a  prosecutorial,
          regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that would adversely
          affect  the Company.  Potential  sanctions for violation of these



 


          statutes and  regulations include significant fines  and the loss
          of various licenses, certificates and authorizations.

          Competition

               The  clinical   laboratory   testing  business   is   highly
          fragmented  and intensively  competitive.   The Company  believes
          that there are many clinical laboratory companies which provide a
          broad range  of laboratory testing  services in the  same markets
          serviced  by   the  Company.     Among  the   Company's  national
          competitors  are  MetPath Inc.  (a  subsidiary  of Corning,  Inc.
          ("Corning")),  RBL  (see  "Recent  Developments")  and SmithKline
          Beecham Clinical Laboratories, Inc.  According to HCFA, there are
          over 151,000 federally regulated  clinical laboratories, of which
          approximately   5,700  are   independent  laboratories   and  the
          remainder  were  hospital-based laboratories  and physician-owned
          laboratories. 

               In  recent  years,  certain  independent  laboratories  have
          engaged in acquisitions of other laboratories and taken advantage
          of opportunities for cost  efficiencies afforded by larger scale,
          automated testing operations.  In June 1994, the Company acquired
          Allied.  Also  in 1994, Corning, Inc.  acquired Nichols Institute
          in  exchange for Corning common stock.  In 1993, Corning acquired
          the  stock of Damon Corporation.   In December  1994, the Company
          entered  into the  Merger  Agreement providing  for, among  other
          things, the merger of RBL with and into the Company.  The Company
          believes that acquisition activity  will continue in the clinical
          laboratory business.   Several  factors are contributing  to this
          activity, including legislative initiatives such  as restrictions
          on physician  referrals and ownership of laboratories, increasing
          demand  for higher  quality services  and more  stringent service
          requirements, the  growth of  managed health care  entities which
          require low-cost testing services  and, generally, the demands by
          health  care providers  and payers  for faster reporting  of test
          results and lower prices.

               The  Company competes primarily on the  basis of the quality
          of   its  testing,  reporting   and  information   services,  its
          reputation in the  medical community, the pricing of its services
          and its  ability to employ  qualified laboratory personnel.   The
          Company  believes that its ability to compete also depends on its
          ability   to  make   investments  in  equipment   and  management
          information  systems  and  offer  testing  services  on  a  broad
          regional geographic basis.





 


          Item 2.   PROPERTIES

               The  principal  properties of  the  Company  are its  leased
          corporate headquarters located in La Jolla,  California, Allied's
          corporate  offices  located  in   Nashville,  Tennessee  and  the
          following major laboratory facilities:

                                  Approximate
                                      Area               Nature of
                Location        (in square feet)         Occupancy        
          -------------------   ---------------  ------------------------
          Birmingham, Alabama         20,854     Lease expires 1997; one 
                                                  4 year renewal option
          Phoenix, Arizona            43,024     Lease expires 2001; one
                                                  5 year renewal option
          San Diego, California       40,167     Lease expires 2000
          Denver, Colorado            19,982     Lease expires 2001; two
                                                  5 year renewal options
          Hollywood, Florida          46,500     Lease expires 1997; three
                                                  5 year renewal options
          St. Petersburg, Florida     26,667     Lease expires 1995; two
                                                  5 year renewal options
          Tampa, Florida              26,600     Lease expires 2002; one
                                                  5 year renewal option
          Chicago, Illinois           40,065     Lease expires 2003; two
                                                  5 year renewal options
          Louisville, Kentucky        60,000     Lease expires 2002; three
                                                  5 year renewal options
          Detroit, Michigan           32,000     Lease expires 2004; two
                                                  5 year renewal options
          Reno, Nevada 
          (888 Willow Street)         12,000     Owned
          (704 Mill Street)           12,000     Lease expires 1998; one 
                                                  2 year renewal option; 
                                                  and
          (704 Mill Street)            1,645     Lease expires 2003; one
                                                  2 year renewal option
          Cranford, New Jersey        80,900     Lease expires 2009
          Uniondale, New York        108,000     Lease expires 2007; two
                                                  5 year renewal options
          Cincinnati, Ohio            30,000     Lease expires 2002; one
                                                  10 year renewal option
          Winston-Salem, 
            North Carolina            73,500     Lease expires 2004; one
                                                  5 year renewal option
          Chattanooga, Tennessee
          (863 McCallie Avenue)       18,300     Owned
          (1501 Riverside Drive)      30,000     Lease expires 2012




 


                                  Approximate
                                      Area               Nature of
                Location        (in square feet)         Occupancy        
          -------------------   ---------------   -----------------------
          Nashville, Tennessee
            NRL I                     52,165     Lease expires 2000; two
                                                  5 year renewal options
            NRL II                    25,640     Lease expires 2000; two
                                                  5 year renewal options
          Dallas, Texas               53,694     Lease expires 2004; one
                                                  5 year renewal option
          Houston, Texas              32,368     Lease expires 1997
          San Antonio, Texas          44,000     Lease expires 2004; two
                                                  5 year renewal options
          Salt Lake City, Utah        20,000     Lease expires 2002; two
                                                  5 year renewal options
          Herndon, Virginia           64,172     Lease expires 2004; one
                                                  5 year renewal option
          Seattle, Washington         34,900     Lease expires 2000; two
                                                  5 year renewal options

               Construction  of  a   new  laboratory  to   consolidate  the
          Company's Tampa  and St. Petersburg, Florida  facilities began in
          the fourth quarter of 1994 and is expected to be completed in the
          third quarter of 1995.

               All of  the major laboratory  facilities have been  built or
          improved for the single  purpose of providing clinical laboratory
          testing services.  The Company believes that these facilities are
          suitable and adequate and have sufficient production capacity for
          its  currently  foreseeable level  of  operations.   The  Company
          believes  that  if it  were  to  lose the  lease  on  any of  the
          facilities it presently leases, it could find  alternate space at
          competitive market  rates and readily relocate  its operations to
          such new locations without material disruption to its operations.

















 


          Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

               The  Company is involved in certain claims and legal actions
          arising  in the ordinary course  of business.   In the opinion of
          management,  based  upon  the  advice of  counsel,  the  ultimate
          disposition  of these matters  will not  have a  material adverse
          effect  on the financial position or results of operations of the
          Company.

               In  1994, the  Company approved  a settlement  of previously
          disclosed  shareholder  class  and  derivative  litigation. As
          previously disclosed, the  litigation consisted of two consolidated
          class action suits  filed in December  1992 and November 1993 and
          a consolidated shareholder derivative action brought in Federal
          and state courts in San Diego, California.  The settlement involved
          no admission of wrongdoing.  In connection with the settlement,
          the Company took a pre-tax special charge of $15.0 million and a
          $6.0 million charge for expenses related to the settled litigation.
          Insurance payments and payments from other defendants aggregate
          $55.0 million plus expenses.

               During  1994,  the Company  learned  of the  existence  of a
          federal  qui  tam  action  regarding  Allied's  Medicare  billing
          practices  at  its  Cincinnati,  Ohio facility.    As  previously
          disclosed, Allied also received  a subpoena from the OIG  in 1994
          regarding  these practices.    The Company  has been  cooperating
          fully with the governmental investigation of Allied's  Cincinnati
          facility.  The Company has established reserves which it believes
          are  adequate  to  cover  any  liability  associated  with  these
          matters.  

          Item 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

               No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during
          the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.



















 


                                       PART II 

          Item 5.   MARKET  FOR  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON  EQUITY  AND  RELATED
                    STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

               On April 24, 1991, the common stock commenced trading on the
          New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "NH".  Prior to
          such time, the  common stock  was quoted on  the National  Market
          System of  the National  Association of Securities  Dealers, Inc.
          Automated Quotation System ("NASDAQ") under the symbol "NHLI".

               The  following table  sets  forth for  the calendar  periods
          indicated  the high  and low  sales prices  for the  common stock
          reported  on the  NYSE  Composite Tape,  and  the cash  dividends
          declared per share of common stock.

                                                               Dividends
                                                               Declared
                                           High        Low     Per Share
          --------------------------------------------------------------
            First Quarter                $18 1/4    $12 7/8      $0.08
            Second Quarter                19 1/2     16 1/8       0.08
            Third Quarter                 18 1/2     14 1/2       0.08
            Fourth Quarter                16 3/8     12           0.08

            First Quarter                 15 1/4     12 7/8       0.08
            Second Quarter                13 3/4     10 5/8         --
            Third Quarter                 13 3/8     10 7/8         --
            Fourth Quarter                15 3/4     11 3/8         --

            First Quarter (through
              February 21, 1995)          14 1/2     12 5/8         --

               On February 9, 1995, there were approximately 574 holders of
          record of the common stock.

               The Company, in connection with the Allied Acquisition,  has
          discontinued its dividend payments for the foreseeable future  in
          order to  increase  its  flexibility  with respect  to  both  its
          acquisition  strategy and  stock repurchase  plan.   In addition,
          Intermediate  Holdings  II's   revolving  credit  facility   (the
          "Revolving Credit Facility")  and term loan  facility (the  "Term
          Facility" and,  together with the Revolving  Credit Facility, the
          "Bank Facility") entered into in June 1994 contains, among  other
          provisions, a covenant prohibiting the declaration or payment  of
          cash dividends  to stockholders if,  after giving effect  to such
          action, a default (as defined by  the terms of the Bank Facility)
          shall occur and be continuing. 



 


          Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

               The  selected  financial  data  presented  below  under  the
          captions "Statement of Earnings Data" and "Balance Sheet Data" as
          of  and for  each of  the  years in  the  five-year period  ended
          December  31,  1994  are  derived  from  consolidated   financial
          statements of  the Company, which financial  statements have been
          audited by  KPMG Peat  Marwick LLP, independent  certified public
          accountants.   This data should  be read in  conjunction with the
          accompanying   notes,   the   Company's  consolidated   financial
          statements  and  the  related  notes  thereto, and  "Management's
          Discussion  and Analysis  of Financial  Condition and  Results of
          Operations", all included elsewhere herein.













 


          Item 7.   MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS   OF  FINANCIAL
                    CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

               The Company derives  approximately 35% of its net sales from
          tests  performed  for  beneficiaries  of  Medicare  and  Medicaid
          programs.  Several changes have been made  which adversely affect
          the reimbursement the  Company receives from  such programs.   On
          January 1, 1993, numerous changes in the CPT were published which
          became  effective on  August 1,  1993.   These changes  adversely
          affect  the  reimbursement the  Company receives  on some  of its
          services  that are billed to the  Medicare and Medicaid programs.
          For  example,  certain  codes   for  calculations,  such  as  LDL
          cholesterol, were  deleted and  are no  longer a payable  service
          under Medicare and  Medicaid.  Had such  changes been implemented
          as  of January 1, 1993, the Company estimates that 1993 net sales
          would have been reduced by approximately $7 million.

               During  1993, provisions  were  included in  OBRA '93  which
          reduced  Medicare  reimbursement schedules  by  lowering payments
          under the fee schedule  methodology from 88%  to 84% of the  1984
          national median, effective January 1, 1994 and from 84% to 80% of
          the  national median,  effective January  1, 1995.    The Company
          estimates that  the change effective  January 1, 1995  would have
          decreased 1994 net sales by approximately $11 million had it been
          implemented  as of  January  1, 1994.    A further  reduction  in
          payments to 76% of the 1984 national median will become effective
          on January 1, 1996.  OBRA '93 also eliminated, for 1994 and 1995,
          the provision for  annual fee schedule  increases based upon  the
          consumer price index.

               In the  latter part  of 1993,  the Company held  discussions
          with HCFA concerning the  reimbursement policy for serum ferritin
          and HDL  cholesterol  tests.   HCFA expressed  concerns that  the
          incidence  of orders  of these tests  by physicians  remained too
          high despite changes in  the Company's requisition forms, pricing
          and  compendia   of  tests   instituted   after  the   Government
          Settlement.   As  a  result  of  a  HCFA  directive  to  Medicare
          carriers,  the  Company  began   to  receive  denials  of  claims
          submitted  in   September  1993   for  serum  ferritin   and  HDL
          cholesterol  tests   ordered  by  physicians  and   performed  in
          conjunction with  automated chemistry  panels.  Such  denials and
          related suspended  billings reduced the Company's  1993 net sales
          by approximately $18.6 million.

               The  Company has  undertaken actions  with regard  to HCFA's
          concerns.  The  Company has  removed the serum  ferritin and  HDL
          cholesterol tests from all standard chemistry profiles offered on
          its   test  requisition  forms.    These  tests  may  be  ordered
          separately or as part of a custom designed profile where specific
          authorization  is  provided by  the  requesting  physician.   The



 


          Company estimates that  the effect of  these changes reduced  net
          sales in 1994 by approximately $60 million.

               The health care industry is undergoing significant change as
          third party payers,  such as Medicare and  Medicaid and insurers,
          increase  their  efforts to  control  the  cost, utilization  and
          delivery of health care  services.  In an effort to  address this
          problem  of increasing  health care  costs, legislation  has been
          proposed  or  enacted at  both the  Federal  and state  levels to
          regulate   health   care   delivery  in   general   and  clinical
          laboratories  in  particular.    Some of  the  proposals  include
          managed   competition,  global  budgeting   and  price  controls.
          Although the Clinton Administration's health care reform proposal
          was not enacted  by the  103rd Congress, such  proposal or  other
          proposals  may be considered in  the future.   In particular, the
          Company believes that  reductions in  reimbursement for  Medicare
          services  will continue  to  be implemented  from  time to  time.
          Reductions in the reimbursement rates of other third party payers
          may occur as well.  The Company cannot predict  the effect health
          care  reform, if enacted, would  have on its  business, and there
          can be no assurance that such reforms, if enacted, would not have
          a  material   adverse  effect  on  the   Company's  business  and
          operations.

          Year Ended December  31, 1994 compared  with Year Ended  December
          -----------------------------------------------------------------
          31, 1993
          --------

               Net sales increased by  $112.0 million to $872.5  million in
          1994, an increase  of 14.7% over 1993.   The inclusion of  Allied
          since  June 23, 1994  increased net sales  by approximately $96.8
          million  or  12.7%.   Revenues  generated  by  new  accounts  and
          numerous  acquisitions  of  small clinical  laboratory  companies
          increased   net   sales   by  approximately   9.6%   and   11.4%,
          respectively.  In addition, a price increase, effective April  1,
          1994,  increased net  sales for  1994 by  approximately 1.8%.   A
          reduction in Medicare's fee schedules from 88% to 84% of the 1984
          national median effective  on January  1, 1994,  plus changes  in
          reimbursement policies of various third party payors, reduced net
          sales  by  approximately  3.1%.    Other  factors,  in  order  of
          decreasing magnitude,  comprised the  remaining reduction  in net
          sales  as follows:  declines in  the level of HDL cholesterol and
          serum ferritin testing, lower  utilization of laboratory testing,
          price erosion  in the industry as whole and severe weather in the
          first quarter of 1994.   The Company believes that the decline in
          utilization  was  due  to  fewer patient  visits  to  physicians'
          offices since the  number of tests  ordered per patient  remained
          relatively constant.   Revenues derived from  tests performed for
          beneficiaries   of   Medicare   and   Medicaid    programs   were
          approximately  35% and  41%  of  net  sales  in  1994  and  1993,
          respectively.

 


               Cost of  sales,  which  primarily  includes  laboratory  and
          distribution  costs, increased  to  $597.0 million  in 1994  from
          $444.5  million  in  1993.    Of  the  $152.5  million  increase,
          approximately  $66.6 million was due to the inclusion of the cost
          of  sales of  Allied  since June  23,  1994, approximately  $62.3
          million was a result of higher testing  volume, and approximately
          $7.0 million was  due to  an increase in  phlebotomy staffing  to
          improve client  service and meet  competitive demand.   Rental of
          premises  increased  approximately   $2.7  million  due  to   the
          expansion and/or relocation of existing facilities to accommodate
          increased volume and the full year impact of expanding the number
          of patient service  centers by  50% during 1993.   The  remaining
          increase   resulted  primarily   from  higher   compensation  and
          insurance expenses.  As a percentage of net sales, cost  of sales
          increased to 68.4% in 1994  from 58.4% in 1993.  The  increase in
          the cost of sales percentage primarily resulted from a  reduction
          in  net sales  due  to a  reduction  in Medicare  fee  schedules,
          pricing pressures and utilization declines, each of which provide
          little corresponding reduction in costs.  

               Selling,  general and  administrative expenses  increased to
          $149.3 million in 1994  from $121.4 million in 1993,  an increase
          of $27.9  million.  Approximately  $21.7 million of  the increase
          was   due  to  the   inclusion  of   the  selling,   general  and
          administrative  expenses   of   Allied  since   June  23,   1994.
          Approximately $3.9 million of the increase was a result of a non-
          recurring  charge in the fourth  quarter of 1994  for lease costs
          and  the  write-off  of  leasehold improvements  related  to  the
          relocation of  certain of  the  Company's regional  laboratories.
          The remaining  increase was  primarily due to  expansion of  data
          processing and billing departments due to increased volume and to
          improve client service.   As a percentage of net  sales, selling,
          general and  administrative expenses  increased to 17.1%  in 1994
          compared  with 16.0%  in  1993.   The  increase in  the  selling,
          general and  administrative percentage primarily resulted  from a
          reduction in net sales, as  discussed above, that provided little
          corresponding reduction in costs.

               Management  expects net  sales to  continue to  grow through
          strategic acquisitions and the addition of new accounts, although
          there can be no  assurance that the Company will  experience such
          growth.  Reductions in Medicare  fee schedules, pursuant to  OBRA
          '93, to 80%  of the  1984 national median,  effective January  1,
          1995, followed by an  additional reduction to 76% of  such median
          on  January 1, 1996, are expected to negatively impact net sales,
          cost of sales as a  percentage of net sales and selling,  general
          and administrative expenses as  a percentage of net sales  in the
          future.  Management does  not expect future increases in  cost of
          sales  as  a percentage  of net  sales  and selling,  general and



 


          administrative  expenses  as a  percentage  of net  sales  of the
          magnitude  experienced  in  the  year ended  December  31,  1994.
          Management  cannot   predict  if  price  erosion  or  utilization
          declines will continue or  their ultimate effect on net  sales or
          results  of operations.   It  is the  objective of  management to
          partially offset the increase in cost of sales as a percentage of
          net sales and selling, general, and administrative expenses as  a
          percentage  of  net sales  through  comprehensive cost  reduction
          programs at each of the Company's regional laboratories, although
          there can be no assurance of the success of such programs.

               The increase in amortization of intangibles and other assets
          to  $16.3 million  in 1994  from $9.1  million in  1993 primarily
          resulted  from  the  acquisition  of  Allied  and  several  small
          clinical laboratory companies during 1994 and 1993.

               In  the third  quarter  of  1994,  the  Company  approved  a
          settlement   of  previously   disclosed  shareholder   class  and
          derivative litigation.  As previously disclosed, the litigation
          consisted of two consolidated class action suits and a consolidated
          shareholder derivative action brought in Federal and state courts
          in San  Diego, California.  The settlement involved no admission
          of wrongdoing.  In connection with the settlement, the Company
          took a pre-tax special charge of $15.0 million and a $6.0 million
          charge for expenses related to the settled litigation.  Insurance
          payments and payments from other defendants aggregate $55.0 million
          plus expenses.

               Other   gains   and  expenses   in   1993  include   expense
          reimbursement and  termination fees of $21.6  million received in
          connection  with   the  Company's   attempt  to  purchase   Damon
          Corporation, less  related expenses and the  write-off of certain
          bank  financing costs  aggregating $6.3  million, resulting  in a
          one-time pre-tax gain of $15.3 million.

               Net interest expense  was $33.5 million in  1994 compared to
          $9.7  million  in 1993.    The increase  resulted  primarily from
          increased borrowings  used to  finance the Allied  Acquisition in
          June 1994, the acquisition of numerous small laboratory companies
          during both 1994 and 1993 and repurchases of the Company's common
          stock in 1993.  Higher average interest rates also contributed to
          the increase in net interest expense.

               The provision for income  taxes as a percentage of  earnings
          before  income taxes  increased to  45.7% in  1994 from  41.0% in
          1993,  primarily  due to  a higher  effective  tax rate  for both
          Federal and state income taxes.





          Year Ended December  31, 1993 compared  with Year Ended  December
          -----------------------------------------------------------------
          31, 1992
          --------

               Net  sales increased by  $39.1 million to  $760.5 million in
          1993, an increase of  5.4% over 1992.  Revenues  generated by new
          accounts  increased  net  sales  by  approximately  12.0%.    The
          acquisition  of thirty-four  small clinical  laboratory companies
          increased  the growth  in net  sales by  approximately 3.5%.   In
          addition, net sales for 1993 increased approximately 2.7% because
          of the Company's annual price  increases (effective in January of
          1993).  Changes in Medicare's reimbursement policy for LDL tests,
          coupled with changes in various state Medicaid fee  schedules and
          reimbursement methodologies partially offset  the increase in net
          sales by approximately 1.0%.  Medicare's denial of claims for HDL
          cholesterol and  serum ferritin  tests, which began  in September
          1993  and continued through  December 20,  1993 when  the Company
          introduced new  test forms and procedures,  and related suspended
          billings also offset the  increase in net sales by  approximately
          2.6%.  Additionally,  a decline in the  utilization of laboratory
          services,  and, to a lesser  extent, severe weather  in the first
          three months of the year further offset the increase in net sales
          by  approximately  7.3%.   Improved  accuracy  in estimating  the
          difference  between  amounts  billed  and  amounts  received  for
          services provided under third party payor programs, primarily due
          to the wider use  of specific fee schedules for  individual third
          party  carriers, resulted  in an  increase in  the growth  in net
          sales  of 1.6%.  The  aggregate impact of  various other factors,
          including  discounts granted  to  meet competitive  pressure  and
          movement between payor mix categories, reduced  the growth in net
          sales  by  approximately  3.5%.    Revenues  derived  from  tests
          performed  for  beneficiaries of  Medicare and  Medicaid programs
          were  approximately 41% and  42% of net  sales in 1993  and 1992,
          respectively.

               The Company actively pursued acquisitions of small  clinical
          laboratory  companies during  1993.   The laboratory  industry is
          consolidating  rapidly as  smaller, less  efficient organizations
          are experiencing decreasing  profitability in the current  health
          care   environment.     The   purchase   of   thirty-four   small
          laboratories, primarily in the second half of 1993, increased net
          sales for the  year by approximately $25  million.  Had all  such
          acquisitions occurred as of the  beginning of 1993, the aggregate
          contribution to net sales is estimated to have been approximately
          $81 million.  

               Cost of sales primarily includes laboratory and distribution
          costs, a substantial portion of which varies directly with sales.
          Cost of sales  increased to  $444.5 million in  1993 from  $395.1
          million  in 1992.   As a percentage  of net sales,  cost of sales
          increased to  58.4% in  1993 from  54.8% in  1992.   Labor  costs

 


          increased approximately 2.7% of net sales,  primarily as a result
          of  an increase in phlebotomy staffing  to improve client service
          and meet  competitive  demands.   Rental  of premises  also  grew
          approximately  0.3% of net sales  due to expanding  the number of
          patient  service centers  by  50% during  1993.   Higher  capital
          spending led to increased depreciation expenses of  approximately
          0.3% of net  sales.  Also,  several expense categories  increased
          slightly,  aggregating  approximately 0.3%  of  net  sales.   The
          Company continued to focus on cost savings as part of an  ongoing
          program  to  improve  its  cost structure.    Internal  operating
          reviews were  completed in 15  of the  Company's 16  laboratories
          which were in operation during 1993.  

               Selling,  general and  administrative expenses  increased to
          $121.4 million in 1993  from $117.9 million in 1992,  an increase
          of $3.5 million.   As a percentage of net sales, selling, general
          and administrative  expenses decreased slightly to  16.0% in 1993
          compared  with  16.3% in  1992.    This was  primarily  due  to a
          reduction  in the  provision  for  doubtful accounts,  reflecting
          improvements in the collection of delinquent accounts, and also a
          result  of  reduced  spending   for  the  relocation  of  Company
          employees and for legal services.  These changes more than offset
          an  increase in labor costs related to staffing added during 1993
          to  improve billing  customer  service and  expand the  Company's
          information systems group.

               The increase in amortization of intangibles and other assets
          to  $9.1  million in  1993 from  $8.3  million in  1992 primarily
          resulted   from  the   acquisition  of  several   small  clinical
          laboratory companies during 1993.

               Other  gains and expenses  include expense reimbursement and
          termination fees of $21.6 million received in connection with the
          Company's  attempt to  purchase  Damon Corporation,  less related
          expenses  and  the  write-off  of certain  bank  financing  costs
          aggregating $6.3 million, resulting in a one-time pre-tax gain of
          $15.3 million.

               Investment  income decreased  to $1.2  million in  1993 from
          $2.2  million in  1992 and  interest expense  increased  to $10.9
          million in 1993 from $4.2 million  in 1992.  During 1993, cash in
          excess of  operating requirements  and increased  borrowings were
          used   to  finance   acquisitions  of  numerous   small  clinical
          laboratory companies and to  finance purchases by the Company  of
          its common stock.

               The  provision for income taxes as  a percentage of earnings
          before  income taxes  increased to  41.0% in  1993 from  34.6% in
          1992, primarily due  to the  increase in the  U.S. corporate  tax


 


          rates and as a result of a higher effective rate for state income
          taxes.

          Liquidity and Capital Resources

               The Company has entered into the Merger  Agreement with HLR,
          RBL, and (for  the purposes  set forth in  the Merger  Agreement)
          Roche providing for, among  other things, the merger of  RBL with
          and  into  the   Company  with  the  Company   as  the  surviving
          corporation,   and  pursuant   to  which,   subject   to  certain
          exceptions,  each outstanding  share of  common stock,  par value
          $0.01 per share, of the Company,  will be converted into (i) 0.72
          of a share of  common stock of the Company and (ii)  the right to
          receive $5.60 in cash, without interest.

               In  addition, all shares of  common stock, no  par value, of
          RBL  issued and  outstanding immediately  prior to  the effective
          time of the  Merger (other  than treasury shares,  which will  be
          canceled)  will  be converted  into, and  become, that  number of
          newly  issued shares  of Company  common stock  as would,  in the
          aggregate and after giving  effect to the Merger and  the Company
          common stock owned by HLR, RBL and their subsidiaries immediately
          after the effective time of the  Merger, equal 49.9% of the total
          number of shares of  Company common stock outstanding immediately
          after the effective time of the Merger (after giving effect to the
          issuance of Company common stock in respect of the Company employee
          stock options in connection with the Merger).  

               In connection with the Merger, the Company currently intends
          to declare a dividend, payable to holders of record of shares  of
          Company common  stock as of the  third business day  prior to the
          date of the special  meeting of the stockholders to  consider and
          vote on the approval  and adoption of the Merger,  which dividend
          will consist of  0.16308 of  a warrant per  outstanding share  of
          Company common stock, each such warrant representing the right to
          purchase  one  newly issued  share  of Company  common  stock for
          $22.00  (subject to adjustments) on the  fifth anniversary of the
          issuance of  the  Warrant.   In  addition, the  Merger  Agreement
          provides  for  the  issuance to  and  purchase  by  Roche, for  a
          purchase price of  $51.0 million, of 8,325,000  Roche Warrants to
          purchase shares of Company common stock, which warrants will have
          the terms described in the preceding sentence.

               The aggregate  cash  consideration of  approximately  $474.7
          million to be paid to  stockholders of the Company in the  Merger
          will be financed from three sources:  a cash contribution  by the
          Company  of  approximately  $288.0  million out  of  proceeds  of
          borrowings by the Company in an equal amount, a cash contribution


 


          to be made  by HLR in the amount of  approximately $135.7 million
          and the proceeds from the issuance of the Roche Warrants.

               The Company has obtained a commitment for a credit facility,
          which will include a term loan  facility of not more than  $800.0
          million and a revolving  credit facility of not more  than $400.0
          million, to refinance the  Company's existing indebtedness and to
          finance the  Company's portion of the total cash consideration to
          be paid  to  stockholders of  the  Company in  the  Merger.   The
          specific  terms  and  conditions   of  the  credit  facility  are
          currently under negotiation.
               Restructuring  costs  of  approximately  $84.0  million  are
          expected to  be  recorded by  the  Company at  the close  of  the
          Merger.   These  costs  will reflect  the  write-off of  deferred
          financing  costs  related  to  the  repayment  of  the  Company's
          existing revolving credit facility and term loan facility entered
          into in  connection with the Allied Acquisition financing and the
          creation of reserves  for severance and benefit  costs, costs for
          office  facilities expected  to  be closed,  vacant space  costs,
          systems conversion costs and  other restructuring expenses of the
          Company associated with the Merger. 

               The  Company  has  generated  cash flow  in  excess  of  its
          operating  requirements in each  of the three  past fiscal years.
          Cash from operations was $14.7 million, $57.2 million and  $102.4
          million for the  years ended  December 31, 1994,  1993 and  1992,
          respectively.    Cash used  for  capital  expenditures was  $48.9
          million,  $33.6  million and  $34.9 million  for the  years ended
          December 31,  1994, 1993, and  1992, respectively.   The  Company
          expects capital  expenditures to be approximately  $45.0 to $55.0
          million in 1995 to  accommodate expected growth, further automate
          laboratory  processes, improve  efficiency and  further integrate
          the Company and Allied.

               On  May  3,  1994, the  Company  entered  into  a definitive
          agreement to acquire Allied.   Pursuant to the agreement,  on May
          9,  1994, a  subsidiary of  the Company  commenced a  cash tender
          offer for all  shares of Allied common  stock for $23  per share.
          The agreement provided that any shares not tendered and purchased
          in the offer were to be exchanged for $23 per share in cash  in a
          second-step merger.  On June 7, 1994, the Company entered into an
          agreement whereby the price payable in such cash tender offer and
          such  second-step merger was reduced  to $21.50 per  share, or an
          aggregate of  approximately $12.6 million.   A subsidiary  of the
          Company  acquired Allied as a wholly owned subsidiary on June 23,
          1994,  for   approximately  $191.5  million  in   cash  plus  the
          assumption  of  $24.0  million  in Allied  indebtedness  and  the
          recognition  of   approximately  $5.0  million   of  Allied   net
          liabilities. 


 


               During  1994,  the   Company  acquired  11   small  clinical
          laboratory companies  in various  locations of the  United States
          for  an  aggregate  amount of  $46.4  million  in  cash plus  the
          recognition of $32.9 million of liabilities.  These laboratories,
          on  an  annual  basis,  are expected  to  generate  approximately
          $49 million in  net  sales.   During 1993,  the Company  acquired
          thirty-four clinical laboratory companies for an aggregate amount
          of $78.2 million in cash plus the recognition of  $0.7 million of
          liabilities.

               On June 21, 1994, Intermediate Holdings II, a  subsidiary of
          the Company, entered into  the Credit Agreement dated as  of such
          date  (the "Credit Agreement") with  the banks named therein (the
          "Banks"), Citicorp USA, Inc.,  as administrative agent (the "Bank
          Agent"),  and  certain   co-agents  named  therein,   which  made
          available to Intermediate Holdings II the Term Facility of $400.0
          million and the Revolving Credit Facility of $350.0 million.  The
          Bank Facility provided funds for  the Allied Acquisition, for the
          refinancing of certain existing  debt of Allied and NHLI,  to pay
          related  fees and expenses and for  general corporate purposes of
          Intermediate  Holdings  II and  its  subsidiaries,  in each  case
          subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein.

               The  Credit Agreement provides  that the Banks  and the Bank
          Agent  will  receive  from  Intermediate  Holdings  II  customary
          facility   and   administrative    agent   fees,    respectively.
          Intermediate Holdings II will pay a commitment fee on the average
          daily  unused portion  of the  Bank Facility  of 0.5%  per annum,
          subject to a reduction  to 0.375% per annum if  certain financial
          tests are met.  Availability of funds under the  Bank Facility is
          conditioned  on certain  customary  conditions,  and  the  Credit
          Agreement  contains  customary  representations,  warranties  and
          events  of  default.    The Credit  Agreement  also  requires the
          Company to maintain certain financial ratios and tests, including
          minimum debt service coverage ratios and net worth tests.

               The  Revolving Credit  Facility matures  in June  1999, with
          semi-annual   reductions  of   availability  of   $50.0  million,
          commencing  in  December 1997.    The  Term  Facility matures  in
          December 2000, with  repayments in each quarter prior to maturity
          based on  a specified amortization  schedule.  The  Bank Facility
          bears interest, at the option of Intermediate Holdings II, at (i)
          Citibank, N.A.'s Base Rate (as defined in the Credit  Agreement),
          plus a margin of up to  0.75% per annum, based upon variations in
          certain financial tests or (ii) the Eurodollar rate for one, two,
          three or six month interest periods  (as selected by Intermediate
          Holdings II), plus a  margin varying between 1.25% and  2.00% per
          annum  based  upon  the  Company's  financial  performance.    At
          December 31, 1994 the effective rate was 8.157%.  

 


               Aggregate  maturities on  long-term debt are  $39.0 million,
          $48.7 million, $58.5 million, $68.2 million and $77.9 million for
          the years 1995 through 1999, respectively.

               The Bank  Facility is guaranteed by  Intermediate Holdings I
          and  certain  subsidiaries of  Intermediate  Holdings  II and  is
          secured by  pledges of  stock  and other  assets of  Intermediate
          Holdings II and its subsidiaries.

               On June 21,  1994, $400.0 million  available under the  Term
          Facility  was borrowed by Intermediate Holdings  II and loaned to
          NHLI and was used by NHLI to repay in full its existing revolving
          credit facilities  and for working capital  and general corporate
          purposes.   On June 23,  1994, Intermediate Holdings  II borrowed
          $185.0 million of the amount available under the Revolving Credit
          Facility to consummate the Allied Acquisition.

               In  connection  with  the  Allied  Acquisition, the  Company
          announced  that it  terminated  its 10  million share  repurchase
          program,   under  which   7,795,800   common  shares   had   been
          repurchased, and established a new $50.0 million stock repurchase
          program through which the  Company will acquire additional shares
          of  the Company's  common stock  from time  to time  in the  open
          market.  As of December 31, 1994, there were no repurchases under
          the new stock repurchase program.

               During  1993,   the  Company  purchased   9,485,800  of  its
          outstanding  common  stock  for  an aggregate  amount  of  $154.2
          million.   The  purchase  was financed  by  borrowings under  the
          revolving credit facilities in existence at such time and cash on
          hand.  In connection with the corporate reorganization on June 7,
          1994, all of  the 14,603,800  treasury shares held  by NHLI  were
          cancelled.  As  a result,  the $286.1 million  value assigned  to
          such treasury shares was eliminated with corresponding  decreases
          in  the  par  value,  additional  paid-in  capital  and  retained
          earnings  of  $0.2 million,  $72.3  million  and $213.6  million,
          respectively.  The Company announced, also in connection with the
          Allied  Acquisition,   that  it  is  discontinuing  its  dividend
          payments  for the  foreseeable future  in  order to  increase its
          flexibility  with respect  to both  its acquisition  strategy and
          stock repurchase plan.

               Pursuant   to   the  settlement   of   previously  disclosed
          shareholder  class and  derivative  litigation, a  total of  $6.0
          million was  paid for such  settlement and other  expenses during
          1994.  The remaining amount due as  part of the settlement was
          paid on February 15, 1995.

               Pursuant  to the  Government  Settlement, a  total of  $23.8

 


          million was paid for the Government Settlement and other expenses
          during 1994,  including aggregate cash payments  of $16.0 million
          made to the  Federal government.   The remaining  amount due  the
          Federal  government, $11.0  million,  will be  paid in  quarterly
          installments  through  September  1995,  which  installments  are
          expected  to be paid with cash generated from operations.  During
          1993, the  Company paid $55.8 million for  settlement and related
          expenses, including $38.0 million to the Federal government.

               During 1991, the Company  guaranteed a $9.0 million,  5 year
          loan to a  third party  for construction of  a new laboratory  to
          replace  one of the Company's existing facilities.  Following its
          completion  in  November 1992,  the  building was  leased  to the
          Company by this third party.  Under the terms of  this guarantee,
          as  modified, the  Company is  required to  maintain 105%  of the
          outstanding  loan  balance, including  any  overdue  interest, as
          collateral in a custody account established and maintained at the
          lending  institution.   As  of December  31,  1994 and  1993, the
          Company had placed  $9.5 million  of investments  in the  custody
          account.

          Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

               Reference is made to the Index on Page  F-1 of the Financial
          Report included herein.

          Item 9.   CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH   ACCOUNTANTS  ON
                    ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

               Not Applicable. 






















 


                                       PART III


          Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

               The following table sets  forth as of February 15,  1995 the
          executive officers and directors of the Company:


                 Name                             Position            
          ------------------                 ---------------------------
          Ronald O. Perelman                 Chairman of the Board and
                                               Director
          James R. Maher                     President, Chief Executive 
                                               Officer and Director
          David C. Flaugh                    Senior Executive Vice 
                                               President, Chief Operating
                                               Officer and Acting Chief
                                               Financial Officer and
                                               Treasurer
          Timothy J. Brodnik                 Executive Vice President
          Larry L. Leonard                   Executive Vice President
          John F. Markus                     Executive Vice President and
                                               Corporate Compliance Officer
          James G. Richmond                  Executive Vice President and
                                               General Counsel
          W. David Slaunwhite, Ph.D.         Executive Vice President
          Bernard E. Statland, M.D., Ph.D.   Executive Vice President and
                                               Chief Executive Officer of
                                               National Reference
                                               Laboratory
          Robert E. Whalen                   Executive Vice President
          Saul J. Farber, M.D.               Director
          Howard Gittis                      Director
          Ann Dibble Jordan                  Director
          David J. Mahoney                   Director
          Paul A. Marks, M.D.                Director
          Linda Gosden Robinson              Director
          Samuel O. Thier, M.D.              Director

               Ronald O. Perelman (52)  has been Chairman of the  Board and
          Director  of the  Company  since 1988.    Mr. Perelman  has  been
          Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of MacAndrews &
          Forbes  Holdings Inc.  ("M&F Holdings")  and Mafco  Holdings Inc.
          ("Mafco" and  together with M&F Holdings,  "MacAndrews & Forbes")
          for more than the past five years.  Mr. Perelman also is Chairman
          of  the Board  of Andrews  Group Incorporated  ("Andrews Group"),
          Consolidated Cigar Corporation ("Consolidated Cigar"),  New World
          Communications Group Incorporated  ("New World  Communications"),



 


          Mafco   Worldwide   Corporation   ("Mafco   Worldwide"),   Marvel
          Entertainment Group, Inc. ("Marvel") and Revlon Consumer Products
          Corporation ("Revlon Products").   Mr. Perelman is a  Director of
          the  following corporations  which file  reports pursuant  to the
          Securities  Exchange Act  of 1934:   Andrews  Group, The  Coleman
          Company,   Inc.  ("Coleman"),  Coleman   Holdings  Inc.,  Coleman
          Worldwide  Corporation,  Consolidated  Cigar,   First  Nationwide
          Holdings Inc. ("FNH"),  Mafco Worldwide, Marvel,  Marvel Holdings
          Inc. ("Marvel Holdings"), Marvel (Parent)  Holdings Inc. ("Marvel
          Parent"),  Marvel III  Holdings  Inc. ("Marvel  III"), New  World
          Communications, New World  Television Incorporated ("NWTV"), NWCG
          Holdings  Corporation  ("NWCG  Holdings"),  Revlon  Products  and
          Revlon Worldwide Corporation.  Mr. Perelman is also a Director of
          First Nationwide Bank, a Federal Savings Bank.

               James  R. Maher  (45)  has been  President, Chief  Executive
          Officer and a  Director of the Company since December  1992.  Mr.
          Maher was Vice Chairman of The First Boston Corporation from 1990
          to 1992 and  Managing Director  of The  First Boston  Corporation
          from 1982 to 1992.  Mr. Maher also is a  Director of First Brands
          Corporation.

               David C.  Flaugh (47) has  been Chief Operating  Officer and
          Senior  Executive Vice President of  the Company since  1993.  He
          has been  Acting Chief  Financial  Officer and  Treasurer of  the
          Company since  July 1994.  Mr. Flaugh was Vice President-Managing
          Director, Chief  Financial Officer  and Treasurer of  the Company
          from 1991  to 1993.    From 1988  to 1991,  Mr.  Flaugh was  Vice
          President-Finance.   From  1984  to  1988, Mr.  Flaugh  was  Vice
          President and Controller. 

               Timothy J.  Brodnik (47) joined the Company in 1971.  He was
          appointed Executive Vice President of the Company in 1993 and was
          Senior  Vice  President from  1991  to 1993  and  Vice President-
          Division  Manager  commencing 1979.    Mr.  Brodnik oversees  the
          Company's sales  operations and  major  regional laboratories  in
          Florida and North Carolina.

               Larry   L.  Leonard  (53),  who  holds  a  Ph.D.  degree  in
          microbiology,  joined  the Company  in  1978.   He  was appointed
          Executive  Vice President of the  Company in 1993  and was Senior
          Vice  President from  1991  to 1993  and Vice  President-Division
          Manager  commencing 1979.   Dr.  Leonard oversees  major regional
          laboratories in Arizona, Texas and Colorado.

               John  F. Markus (43)  joined the  Company in  1990.   He was
          appointed Executive Vice President  and Director of Compliance in
          1993  and was Vice President-Managing Director from 1990 to 1993.
          Previously, Mr. Markus was an attorney  in the law firm of  Akin,


 


          Gump,  Strauss, Hauer and Feld  in Washington D.C.  for more than
          five years and was a partner in such firm since 1989.

               James G.  Richmond  (50)  joined  the  Company  in  1992  as
          Executive Vice  President and  General Counsel.   Previously, Mr.
          Richmond  was  Managing Partner  of  the  law firm  of  Coffield,
          Ungaretti & Harris in Chicago from  1991 to 1992.  Prior thereto,
          he  was Special  Counsel to  the Deputy  Attorney General  of the
          United States from 1990 to 1991  and from 1985 to 1991 was United
          States Attorney for the Northern District of Indiana.

               W. David Slaunwhite, Ph.D. (49) joined the Company  in 1981.
          He was  appointed  Executive Vice  President  in 1993,  was  Vice
          President-Managing   Director  from   1991   to  1993   and  Vice
          President-Division Manager from 1989  to 1991.  Prior to  that he
          held positions of increasing importance with the Company.  

               Bernard E.  Statland, M.D., Ph.D. (53) joined the Company in
          1990.  He was appointed Executive Vice  President in 1993 and was
          Vice President-Managing Director from 1990 to 1993.  In addition,
          Dr. Statland is Chief Executive Officer of the National Reference
          Laboratory.  Dr. Statland  was named a Scientific Advisor  on the
          Company's Board of  Consultants in  1989.  Prior  to joining  the
          Company, he was Director of  Pathology and Laboratory Medicine at
          Methodist Hospital of Indiana for four years  and previously held
          a similar position at Boston University Hospital.

               Robert E. Whalen  (52) joined the Company  in 1976.   He was
          named Executive Vice  President of  the Company in  1993 and  was
          Senior   Vice   President   from    1991   to   1993   and   Vice
          President-Administration commencing 1985.   From 1979 to 1985, he
          was  Vice President-Division Manager of  the Company.  Mr. Whalen
          oversees human resources, information systems, client service and
          major regional laboratories in California, Washington, Nevada and
          Utah.

               Saul J. Farber, M.D. (77) has been a Director of the Company
          since 1988.  He  has been Chairman of the  Department of Medicine
          of  the  New  York  University  School  of  Medicine since  1966,
          Frederick  H. King Professor of  Medicine since 1978  and Dean of
          the School of Medicine since 1987.

               Howard  Gittis (60) has been a Director of the Company since
          1988.   He has been Vice Chairman  and a Director of MacAndrews &
          Forbes  and various affiliates since 1985.   Mr. Gittis also is a
          Director of Andrews Group,  Consolidated Cigar, Mafco  Worldwide,
          Revlon  Products, Revlon  Worldwide,  New  World  Communications,
          NWTV, First Nationwide Holdings  and NWCG Holdings, Jones Apparel
          Group, Inc. and Loral Corporation.  Mr. Gittis is also a Director
          of First Nationwide Bank, a Federal Savings Bank.


 


               Ann  Dibble Jordan (60) has  been a Director  of the Company
          since 1990.   She is a  consultant and was previously  Field Work
          Assistant  Professor,  School of  Social  Service Administration,
          University of  Chicago from 1970 to  1987.  Ms. Jordan  also is a
          Director of  Johnson & Johnson  Corporation, Capital Cities--ABC,
          Inc.,  The  Traveler's  Companies, Salant  Corp.,  The  Hechinger
          Company and Automatic Data Processing, Inc. 

               David J. Mahoney  (71) has  been a Director  of the  Company
          since  1988.   He has  been President  of David  Mahoney Ventures
          since 1983 and  was Chairman of Norton Simon, Inc.  for more than
          five  years prior to 1983.  Mr. Mahoney also is a Director of The
          Dreyfus Corporation and Bionaire Inc.

               Paul A. Marks,  M.D. (68) has been a Director of the Company
          since 1991.  He has been President and Chief Executive Officer of
          Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center since 1980.  He has been a
          Professor of Medicine at Cornell University Medical College since
          1982 and  a Professor at  Cornell University  Graduate School  of
          Medical Sciences  since 1983.   He  is a member  of the  National
          Academy of Sciences  and American Academy  of Arts and  Sciences.
          Dr. Marks also  is a  Director of Pfizer,  Inc., several  Dreyfus
          Mutual Funds, Life Technologies, Inc. and Tularik, Inc.

               Linda  Gosden  Robinson  (42) has  been  a  Director  of the
          Company since 1990.   She has been President and  Chief Executive
          Officer  of Robinson Lake Sawyer Miller since 1986 and was Senior
          Vice    President,   Corporate    Affairs,   of    Warner   Cable
          Communications,  Inc. from 1983 to 1986.   Ms. Robinson also is a
          Director  of Bozell, Jacobs,  Kenyon & Eckhardt,  Inc.  She  is a
          Trustee of New York University Medical Center.

               Samuel  O. Thier,  M.D.  (57) has  been  a Director  of  the
          Company  since 1992.    Dr.  Thier  became  President  and  Chief
          Executive Officer of Massachusetts General  Hospital in 1994.  He
          was  President of Brandeis University  from 1991 to  1994 and was
          President of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of
          Sciences from 1985 to 1991.   From 1966 to 1985 Dr.  Thier served
          on the faculties  of the medical  schools at Harvard  University,
          University  of  Pennsylvania  and   Yale  University.    At  Yale
          University, Dr. Thier was Chairman of the  Department of Internal
          Medicine from  1975 through  1985.   Dr. Thier is  a Director  of
          Merck & Co., Inc. and Shawmut National Corp.








 


          Board of Directors and its Committees

               The  Board of Directors has an Executive Committee, an Audit
          Committee, an Employee Benefits  Committee, an Ethics and Quality
          Assurance Committee and a Nominating Committee.

               The Executive Committee consists of Messrs. Perelman, Gittis
          and Maher.  The  Executive Committee may exercise all  the powers
          and authority  of the Board,  except as otherwise  provided under
          the corporation law of Delaware.  The Audit Committee, consisting
          of Dr. Farber, Ms. Jordan and Dr. Marks, makes recommendations to
          the Board  regarding the engagement of  the Company's independent
          auditors,  reviews  the plan,  scope  and results  of  the audit,
          reviews with  the auditors and management  the Company's policies
          and procedures with respect  to internal accounting and financial
          controls and  reviews changes in accounting policy  and the scope
          of the non-audit services which may be performed by the Company's
          independent auditors.  The Ethics and Quality Assurance Committee
          consists of  Mr. Gittis, Dr.  Farber and Ms. Jordan.   The Ethics
          and Quality Assurance Committee  is responsible for ensuring that
          the  Company adopts  and implements  procedures that  require the
          Company's  employees  to  act  in accordance  with  high  ethical
          standards  and deliver  high quality  services.   The Ethics  and
          Quality  Assurance Committee was  formed in  February 1994.   The
          Employee  Benefits Committee, consisting  of Dr.  Farber, Messrs.
          Gittis   and  Mahoney,   Ms.  Robinson   and  Dr.   Thier,  makes
          recommendations to the Board regarding compensation, benefits and
          incentive  arrangements for  officers  and  other key  managerial
          employees of  the Company.   The Employee Benefits  Committee may
          consider  and recommend awards  of options to  purchase shares of
          common stock pursuant to the Company's 1988 Stock Option Plan and
          the 1994 Stock Option Plan.  The Nominating Committee, consisting
          of  Mr. Perelman, Ms. Jordan,  Ms. Robinson and  Dr. Thier, makes
          recommendations  to the  Board  regarding the  qualifications for
          directors and procedures for  identifying possible nominees.  The
          Nominating  Committee  also reviews  the  performance of  current
          directors and  evaluates the appropriate size  and composition of
          the Board. 

               During 1994, the Board of Directors held eleven meetings and
          the Executive Committee acted fourteen times by unanimous written
          consent of  all  members thereof,  each  in accordance  with  the
          Company's  by-laws  and the  corporation  law of  Delaware.   The
          Employee  Benefits  Committee   held  two  meetings,  the   Audit
          Committee  held  three  meetings   and  the  Ethics  and  Quality
          Assurance Committee held  one meeting  in 1994.   The  Nominating
          Committee  did  not  meet in  1994.    During  1994, no  director
          attended  fewer than  75% of  the meetings of  the board  and the
          committees of which he or she is a member other  than Mr. Mahoney


 


          and Dr. Thier.

          Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

               The compensation paid by the  Company to its Chief Executive
          Officer  and each of  the Company's four  most highly compensated
          executive officers  for services  during the year  ended December
          31, 1994 was as follows:

 Stock Option Transactions in 1994

     During 1994, the following grants were made under the 1988  Stock Option
Plan and  the 1994 Stock Option Plan  for the executive officers  named in the
Summary Compensation Table:


































               The following chart  shows, for  1994, the  number of  stock
          options exercised and the 1994 year-end value of the options held
          by  the  executive officers  named  in  the Summary  Compensation
          Table:













 


          Retirement Benefits and Savings Plan  

               The  following  table  sets   forth  the  estimated   annual
          retirement benefits payable  at age 65  to persons retiring  with
          the indicated  average direct compensation and  years of credited
          service, on a straight life  annuity basis after Social  Security
          offset,  under  the  Company's  Employees'  Retirement  Plan,  as
          supplemented by the Company's Pension Equalization Plan.

                                  Pension Plan Table

   Five year 
   average
Compensation(1) 10 Years(2) 15 Years(2) 20 Years(2) 25 Years(2) 30 Years(2)
- --------------- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------
  $ 50,000        $ 6,898      $10,346    $ 13,795    $ 17,244   $ 20,693
   100,000         16,242       24,364      32,485      40,606     48,727
   150,000         25,602       38,404      51,204      64,006     76,807
   200,000         34,962       52,444      69,924      87,406    104,887
   250,000         44,322       66,484      88,644     110,806    132,967
   300,000         53,682       80,524     107,364     134,206    161,047

                              
(1) Highest consecutive five year average base compensation during final ten
    years. Compensation considered for this  five year average is  reflected
    in the Summary Compensation Table under the heading "salary."  Under the
    Equalization Plan, a maximum  of $300,000 final average compensation  is
    considered for benefit calculation.  No bonuses are considered.

(2) Under the plans, the normal form of benefit for an unmarried participant
    is  a life  annuity  with a  guaranteed  minimum payment  of ten  years.
    Payments in other optional  forms, including the 50% joint  and survivor
    normal form for married participants,  are actuarially equivalent to the
    normal form for an unmarried participant.  The above table is determined
    with regard  to a life only  form of payment; thus, payment  using a ten
    year guarantee would produce a lower annual benefit.

               The  Retirement Plan,  which  is intended  to qualify  under
          Section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
          "Code"), is a defined benefit pension plan designed to provide an
          employee  having 30  years of  credited service  with  an annuity
          equal  to 52% of final average compensation less 50% of estimated
          individual Social Security benefits.  Credited service is defined
          generally  as  all periods  of  employment  with National  Health
          Laboratories  Incorporated, a  participating  subsidiary or  with
          Revlon prior to 1992,  after attainment of age 21  and completion
          of one year of service.  Final average compensation is defined as
          average annual  base salary during the  five consecutive calendar
          years in  which base salary was highest out of the last ten years
          prior  to  normal retirement  age  or earlier  termination.   The


 


          Employment Retirement  Income Security  Act of 1974,  as amended,
          places  certain  maximum  limitations  upon  the  annual  benefit
          payable  under  all qualified  plans of  an  employer to  any one
          individual.   Such limitation  for defined benefit  pension plans
          was $118,800 for  1994 (except to the extent a larger benefit had
          accrued as of December 31, 1982)  and $120,000 for 1995, and will
          be subject to  cost of living adjustments  for future years.   In
          addition,  the  Tax  Reform Act  of  1986  limits  the amount  of
          compensation that can  be considered in determining  the level of
          benefits under qualified plans.  The applicable limit is adjusted
          annually; for 1994 the  limit was $150,000.   For 1995 the  limit
          will remain at $150,000.  The Company believes that, with respect
          to  certain employees,  annual  retirement benefits  computed  in
          accordance  with the  Retirement  Plan's benefit  formula may  be
          greater than such qualified plan limitation.   The Company's non-
          qualified, unfunded, Equalization Plan is designed to provide for
          the payment of the difference, if any, between the amount of such
          maximum limitation and  the annual benefit that  would be payable
          under the Retirement Plan but for such limitation.

               As  of December 31,1994, credited years of service under the
          retirement plans for the following individuals are for Mr. Maher-
          1  year,  Mr.  Flaugh-22  years,  Dr.  Slaunwhite 12  years,  Dr.
          Statland 3 years and Mr. Brodnik 21 years.

          Compensation of Directors

               Directors who  are not  currently receiving  compensation as
          officers or employees of the Company or any of its affiliates are
          paid  an   annual  $25,000  retainer  fee,   payable  in  monthly
          installments, and a  fee of $1,000 for each  meeting of the Board
          of Directors or any committee thereof they attend.

          Compensation Plans and Arrangements

               The Company has an employment agreement with Mr. Maher which
          provides for his  employment as  Chief Executive  Officer of  the
          Company  through  December 31,  1995   at  an  annual  salary  of
          $1,000,000  and an  annual bonus  of  $500,000 and  an additional
          discretionary  bonus as may be  awarded at the  discretion of the
          Board of Directors.  If the employment agreement is terminated by
          Mr. Maher  for  certain  specified reasons,  including,  but  not
          limited to, (i) the  assignment of duties materially inconsistent
          with Mr. Maher's status as Chief Executive Officer of the Company
          or  resulting in  an  adverse alteration  in  the nature  of  his
          responsibilities, (ii) a reduction  by the Company in  the annual
          salary or  annual bonus or  a failure by  the Company to  pay any
          such amount  when  due, (iii)  the  relocation of  the  Company's
          principal executive offices to a location more than 50 miles from


 


          La Jolla, California or the Company's failure to permit Mr. Maher
          to maintain  his  principal  places  of employment  at  both  the
          Company's principal executive offices in La Jolla, California and
          in  New York,  New York  or (iv)  the occurrence  of a  change in
          control  of the  Company which,  for such  purpose, is  deemed to
          occur if  Mr. Perelman ceases beneficially  to own 5% or  more of
          the   combined  voting   power  of   the  Company's   outstanding
          securities, then the Company  will be required to pay  Mr. Maher,
          within five days  following the  date of such  termination, in  a
          lump sum in cash, the  sum of (i) any amounts due to Mr. Maher as
          annual salary and annual bonus, but unpaid, and  (ii) $3,000,000.
          In connection with  the Merger, the Company will pay  Mr. Maher a
          special bonus  of $1,000,000,  subject to certain  conditions, in
          recognition for his efforts on behalf of the Company with respect
          to  the Merger.   The special bonus  is in addition  to any other
          payments Mr. Maher  may become entitled  to under his  employment
          agreement with the Company in connection with the Merger.

               The  Company has  an amended  employment agreement  with Mr.
          Flaugh which provides for his employment as Senior Executive Vice
          President  and Chief  Operating  Officer of  the Company  through
          December 31, 1996 at  an annual salary of $500,000 with an annual
          bonus  of  50%  of  the  annual salary  then  in  effect  and  an
          additional  discretionary   bonus  as  may  be   awarded  at  the
          discretion of the Board of Directors.  Pursuant to his employment
          agreement,  Mr. Flaugh  received a  $150,000 lump sum  payment in
          December 1994.   The employment agreement also  provides that the
          duties  assigned to Mr. Flaugh will be performed primarily at the
          offices of the Company  in San Diego County, California.   If the
          employment  agreement is  terminated  by Mr.  Flaugh for  certain
          specified  reasons  including  (i)   the  assignment  of   duties
          materially  inconsistent  with  Mr.  Flaugh's  status  as  Senior
          Executive  Vice President, (ii) a reduction by the Company in the
          annual salary or annual bonus or a failure by the  Company to pay
          any such amount when due or (iii) a material breach of any of the
          terms  of  the employment  agreement  by  the Company,  then  the
          Company will be required to pay, in monthly installments, (i) the
          annual salary Mr. Flaugh would have otherwise received during the
          remainder of the  employment period and (ii) for a  period of one
          year following the date of the expiration of the employment term,
          in consideration  of the performance  of specified noncompetition
          obligations, an amount equal to one-half the annual salary at the
          rate in effect on the date of expiration of the employment term.

               The  Company   has  an  amended  employment  agreement  with
          Mr. Brodnik which provides for him to be employed as an Executive
          Vice President through December  31, 1996 at an annual  salary of
          $325,000 with an annual  bonus equal to 50% of  the annual salary
          then  in effect and an  additional discretionary bonus  as may be


 


          awarded at the discretion of the Board of Directors.  Pursuant to
          his employment  agreement, Mr.  Brodnik received a  $100,000 lump
          sum  payment in  December 1994.    The employment  agreement also
          provides  that  the  duties  assigned  to  Mr.  Brodnik  will  be
          performed  primarily at  the offices  of the  Company in  Fairfax
          County, Virginia.  If the  employment agreement is terminated  by
          Mr.  Brodnik for  certain specified  reasons, including,  (i) the
          assignment of  duties materially inconsistent with  the status of
          the  office  of  Executive  Vice  President  of  the  Company  or
          resulting  in  an  adverse  alteration  in   the  nature  of  the
          responsibilities  associated therewith, (ii)  a reduction  by the
          Company in  the annual salary or annual bonus or a failure by the
          Company to  pay  any such  amount when  due or  (iii) a  material
          breach of any  of the terms  of the employment  agreement by  the
          Company, then the  Company will  be required to  pay, in  monthly
          installments, (i) the annual salary and annual bonus Mr.  Brodnik
          would  have  otherwise  received  during  the  remainder  of  his
          employment period and (ii) for a period of one year following the
          date of expiration  of his employment  term, in consideration  of
          the  performance  of  specified  noncompetition  obligations,  an
          amount equal  to one-half the annual salary at the rate in effect
          on the date of expiration of his employment term.

               The  Company has  an amended  employment agreement  with Dr.
          Slaunwhite  which provides for him to be employed as an Executive
          Vice President through December  31, 1996 at an annual  salary of
          $325,000 with an annual bonus equal  to 50% of the annual  salary
          then  in effect and an  additional discretionary bonus  as may be
          awarded at the discretion of the Board of Directors.  Pursuant to
          his  employment agreement,  Dr.  Slaunwhite received  a lump  sum
          payment  of  $120,000  in  December  1994.    If  the  employment
          agreement is  terminated by Dr. Slaunwhite  for certain specified
          reasons,  including,  (i)  the assignment  of  duties  materially
          inconsistent with  the status  of  the office  of Executive  Vice
          President of the Company or resulting in an adverse alteration in
          the nature  of the responsibilities associated  therewith, (ii) a
          reduction  by the Company in the annual salary or annual bonus or
          a failure by the Company to pay any such amount when due or (iii)
          a material breach of any of the terms of the employment agreement
          by the Company,  then the  Company will  be required  to pay,  in
          monthly installments, (i) the annual  salary and annual bonus Dr.
          Slaunwhite would have otherwise  received during the remainder of
          his employment period and (ii) for a period of one year following
          the date of expiration  of his employment term, in  consideration
          of the  performance of  specified noncompetition obligations,  an
          amount equal to one-half the annual salary at  the rate in effect
          on the date of expiration of his employment term.

               The  Company has  an amended  employment agreement  with Dr.


 


          Statland  which provides  for  his employment  as Executive  Vice
          President of the Company and Chief Executive Officer  of National
          Reference  Laboratory  through December  31,  1995  at an  annual
          salary of  $325,000 with an annual  bonus of equal to  50% of the
          annual  salary then  in  effect and  an additional  discretionary
          bonus  as may  be  awarded  at the  discretion  of  the Board  of
          Directors.   Pursuant to  his employment agreement,  Dr. Statland
          received a  $90,000 lump sum  payment in December  1994.   If the
          employment agreement  is terminated  by Dr. Statland  following a
          material breach of any  of the terms of the  employment agreement
          by the  Company, then  the Company  will be  required to pay,  in
          monthly installments,  (i) the  annual salary Dr.  Statland would
          have otherwise  received during  the remainder of  the employment
          period and  (ii) for a period  of one year following  the date of
          the  expiration of the  employment term, in  consideration of the
          performance  of specified  noncompetition obligations,  an amount
          equal to one-half the annual salary  at the rate in effect on the
          date of expiration of the employment term.

          Employee Benefits Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation

               The members  of the Employee Benefits  Committee are Saul J.
          Farber,  M.D.,  Howard Gittis,  David  J.  Mahoney, Linda  Gosden
          Robinson  and Samuel  O. Thier,  M.D. No  member of  the Employee
          Benefits Committee is an officer or employee of the Company. 

               Certain  Director  Relationships.    Robinson   Lake  Sawyer
          Miller, the  corporate communications firm of  which Ms. Robinson
          is President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  performs  corporate
          communications  services  for   MacAndrews  &   Forbes  and   its
          affiliates, including  the Company.   The amount  of compensation
          paid to  Robinson, Lake for services  to the Company  in 1994 was
          $233,670.   On September 17,  1993, the Company  purchased 66% of
          the common stock of  a newly-formed corporation, Health Partners,
          Inc. ("Health  Partners").  Robinson  purchased 2% of  the common
          stock of Health Partners.  In 1994, the Company sold its interest
          in Health Partners for an amount equal to the original cost.  Ms.
          Robinson is the wife of the principal of J.D. Robinson Inc. which
          performs consulting services for MacAndrews & Forbes and receives
          $250,000  per annum from MacAndrews & Forbes for such services to
          MacAndrews  & Forbes.  The  principal of J.D.  Robinson Inc. also
          serves as a Director of a subsidiary of MacAndrews & Forbes.

               Ms. Jordan  is the  wife of  a director  of a subsidiary  of
          MacAndrews & Forbes who is  a partner in a law firm that has on a
          regular basis in the past provided services and that continues to
          provide  services  to MacAndrews  &  Forbes  and its  affiliates,
          including the Company.   No services were performed by  such firm
          in 1994 for the Company.


 


               Dr. Farber  was on  the Company's Scientific  Advisory board
          through June 30, 1994 and was paid $7,500 for such services.


          Employee Benefits Committee Report on Executive Compensation

               The Employee  Benefits Committee  of the Board  of Directors
          (the "Committee")  is comprised of  Saul J. Farber,  M.D., Howard
          Gittis, David J.  Mahoney, Linda  Gosden Robinson  and Samuel  O.
          Thier, M.D.  The Committee's duties include determination  of the
          Company's  compensation and  benefit policies  and practices  for
          executive officers  and key managerial employees.   The Committee
          also  considers and  awards  options to  purchase  shares of  the
          Company's  common  stock pursuant  to  the  Company's 1994  Stock
          Option  Plan.    In  accordance  with  rules  established  by the
          Commission, the Company is  required to provide certain data  and
          information  in  regard  to  the  compensation  provided  to  the
          Company's Chief Executive Officer and the  four other most highly
          compensated executive  officers.  The Committee  has prepared the
          following report for inclusion in this Annual Report.

               Compensation Policies.   The Company's  current compensation
          arrangements for  senior executives are significantly affected by
          the  Company's long history as  a private company  until the 1988
          initial  public  offering,  after   which  an  Employee  Benefits
          Committee was established.   The overall compensation program for
          officers historically emphasized a strong base salary position in
          relation to  competitive practice and a  competitive annual bonus
          opportunity dependent upon  the operating  income performance  of
          the corporation.  In contrast to the Company's highly competitive
          cash  compensation policy,  the Company  did not  offer long-term
          incentive  opportunities  as  an  executive  compensation element
          until 1989  when the first  stock option  awards were made.   The
          Committee   understands   that   the  combination   of   strongly
          competitive   cash  compensation  and  modest  use  of  long-term
          incentives  is  typical of  private  companies  with professional
          management leadership;  and this historical approach continued to
          influence  the Company's programs  as a public  company from 1989
          into 1992.  Late in 1992, with the appointment of  James R. Maher
          as  President   and  Chief  Executive   Officer,  the   Company's
          compensation  philosophy changed  to  make a  greater portion  of
          executive compensation dependent on the Company's long-term stock
          performance.

               Beginning in late 1992  and in 1993 and 1994,  the Company's
          compensation philosophy reflected a greater emphasis on grants of
          stock options.  In 1994, the Committee granted options in varying
          amounts  to 159 senior and mid-level managers.  The option awards



 


          at all levels of  management were part of the  Committee's desire
          to  make  a  growing  and  more  significant  portion  of  senior
          executive compensation  directly dependent on the Company's long-
          term  share price appreciation.  The number of options granted in
          1994  to each  of the  four senior  executives named in  the cash
          compensation  table  was  determined  considering  the  Company's
          relatively low  historical option grants, the  Committee's desire
          to  make   a  greater   proportion  of  the   senior  executives'
          compensation equity-based, an analysis  of the potential value of
          the options  over the term of  the option and a  review of option
          grants  at the  peer  companies listed  in the  stock performance
          graph.

               In 1992,  after consultations with Mr.  Maher, the Committee
          decided to raise the  senior executive base salary levels  and to
          restructure the annual bonus opportunity as the combination of  a
          cash year-end retention  bonus equal to 50% of base  salary and a
          performance  bonus  opportunity.   The  general  effect of  these
          salary and bonus actions was to set the overall cash compensation
          opportunity for senior executives at or below 1992  levels, while
          strengthening the retentive elements of the compensation package.
          When these arrangements were  established it was anticipated that
          the  performance  bonus would  be  based  on achieving  operating
          income  growth and the  contribution of each  senior executive as
          evaluated by  the Chief  Executive  Officer and  approved by  the
          Committee. 

               The Committee believes  that each  of the  four most  highly
          compensated  senior executives  of the Company  have demonstrated
          superior  performance   in  1994  during  a   period  of  general
          uncertainty in the medical services marketplace.  Notwithstanding
          such performance,  however,  given industry  conditions  and  the
          effects  of the changes in the industry on the Company's results,
          the Committee believed,  as it did  at the end  of 1993, that  it
          would  not be appropriate to award any discretionary bonus nor to
          increase any  compensation levels  for senior executives  at this
          time.  Each of such executives also agreed in 1994 to a reduction
          in  the year-end  retention  bonus in  an  amount equal  to  five
          percent of their base salary.

               Compensation of  Chief Executive Officer.   The compensation
          arrangement  with the  Company's  President  and Chief  Executive
          Officer  was entered  into in December  1992.  At  that time, the
          Committee  considered  the salary  and  incentive  pay levels  at
          public  companies  whose  financial  characteristics  and  market
          capitalization were similar  to those  of the  Company and  whose
          workforce skills  requirements and  customer bases  were similar.
          The  Committee also  considered  the Company's  circumstances and
          special leadership challenges in  the aftermath of the settlement



 


          with the Federal government.  In  the Committee's judgment, these
          circumstances  required  stable   new  direction  at  the   chief
          executive officer level  to help ensure sustained quality  of the
          Company's  services  and  continued  employee  commitment to  the
          Company's objectives. 

               Based on  these considerations  and the  Company's strategic
          direction  for  executive  compensation,  it  was  determined  to
          provide a  cash compensation arrangement for  the Chief Executive
          consisting  of  an  annual  salary  of  $1  million,  a  year-end
          retention  bonus of $500,000 for  each year of  the contract term
          and an  annual discretionary performance bonus  opportunity.  The
          Committee also determined  that it was important to structure the
          Chief Executive  Officer's total compensation package  to reflect
          the policy of creating  strong financial incentives for executive
          officers to achieve a high level of long-term shareholder return.
          Accordingly,  the  Chief  Executive Officer  was  awarded 100,000
          shares  of the  Company's  common stock  and  granted options  to
          purchase  300,000 shares  at the  then fair  market value  of the
          shares,  which options  vest  during the  term of  the three-year
          contract.   The Committee views the common stock and stock option
          awards  as the primary means by which the Chief Executive Officer
          would be rewarded for the Company's business success and believes
          it is important for  the Chief Executive Officer to  maintain and
          increase his  equity interest  in  the Company.   Accordingly  in
          1994,  Mr. Maher  was granted  options to purchase  an additional
          350,000 shares.   The annual discretionary  bonus opportunity was
          adopted as a special recognition vehicle appropriate for years in
          which the  Company  achieves  superior  performance  as  measured
          against  industry  results for  growth  in  operating income  and
          revenues.  The Committee  decided that with respect to  1994, Mr.
          Maher,  like  the  other  senior  executives,  would  receive  no
          discretionary  cash bonus  in  excess of  his year-end  retention
          bonus.   Mr. Maher, like the other senior executives, also agreed
          in  1994 to a  reduction in  the year-end  retention bonus  in an
          amount equal to five percent of his base salary.

               Limit on Deductibility of  Compensation.  The Omnibus Budget
          Reconciliation Act of 1993  ("OBRA") limits the tax deductibility
          of compensation paid to  the chief executive officer and  each of
          the four highest paid employees of public companies to $1 million
          for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 1994.   Certain
          types of compensation, however, including qualifying performance-
          based  compensation and  compensation  arrangements entered  into
          prior to February 17, 1993 are excluded from the limitation.  The
          Company's general policy is to preserve  the tax deductibility of
          compensation  paid to  its executive  officers.   OBRA recognizes
          stock  option  plans  as  performance-based if  such  plans  meet
          certain  requirements.    The   Company's  1994  Option  Plan  is


 


          structured  to meet the requirements  of OBRA.   In future years,
          the Compensation Committee will consider taking such steps  as it
          deems necessary to qualify  compensation so as not to  be subject
          to the limit on deductibility.

                                        THE EMPLOYEE BENEFITS COMMITTEE

                                             Saul J. Farber, M.D.
                                             Howard Gittis
                                             David J. Mahoney
                                             Linda Gosden Robinson
                                             Samuel O. Thier, M.D.










































          Common Stock Performance

               The  Commission  requires a  five-year  comparison  of stock
          performance for the Company with stock performance of appropriate
          similar companies.  The  Company's common stock is traded  on the
          NYSE.   Set  forth  below is  a line  graph comparing  the yearly
          percentage change  in the cumulative total  shareholder return on
          the Company's common stock and the cumulative total return on the
          S&P Composite-500 Stock Index and a peer group of companies.  The
          peer group  of companies  includes sixteen companies  selected by
          the Company.  One of  these is a medical service laboratory  like
          the Company  - Unilab Corporation.  (Other  direct competitors of
          the  Company   are  subsidiaries   of  much   larger  diversified
          corporations  which  were not  believed  appropriate  to be  peer
          companies.)   The  remaining fifteen  companies are  all publicly
          traded medical  service and  medical supply companies  with sales
          ranging  from  approximately  $500  million  to  $2.5  billion  -
          Continental  Medical  Systems, Inc.,  Universal  Health Services,
          Inc., Charter  Medical Corporation,  Allergan, Inc., C.  R. Bard,
          Inc.,  Pall  Corporation,  Thermo  Electron  Corporation,  United
          States   Surgical  Corporation,   Bausch  &   Lomb  Incorporated,
          Millipore   Corporation,   Amsco  International,   Inc.,  Beckman
          Instruments,  Inc.,  FHP  International  Corporation  and  Fisher
          Scientific International, Inc.  (Nichols Institute which had been
          included  in the Company's peer group in the 1994 Proxy Statement
          is no  longer a public company  and is therefore not  included in
          the  peer group.  Also,  Columbia Hospital Corporation, which had
          been  included  in the  Company's peer  group  in the  1994 Proxy
          Statement, merged  with Hospital  Corporation of America  in 1994
          and is no longer within the sales range as defined above.)







          Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL HOLDERS

               The  following table sets forth as of February 15, 1994, the
          total number of  shares of common  stock beneficially owned,  and
          the percent  so owned, by each  director of the Company  who is a
          beneficial  owner of any shares  of common stock,  by each person
          known  to the Company to be the  beneficial owner of more than 5%
          of the outstanding  common stock,  by the officers  named in  the
          summary compensation table and by all directors and officers as a
          group.    The  number of  shares  owned  are those  "beneficially
          owned," as determined under the rules of the Commission, and such
          information is not necessarily indicative of beneficial ownership
          for any other  purpose.  Under  such rules, beneficial  ownership
          includes any  shares as  to  which a  person has  sole or  shared
          voting power or investment  power and any shares of  common stock
          which the person  has the right to acquire within 60 days through
          the exercise  of any option, warrant or right, through conversion
          of  any security,  or pursuant  to the  automatic termination  of
          power of  attorney or revocation of  trust, discretionary account
          or similar arrangement.


            Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

               The Company was included  in the consolidated federal income
          tax returns, and in  certain state income tax returns,  of Mafco,
          M&F Holdings, Revlon Group Incorporated and Revlon Holdings Inc.,
          formerly known  as Revlon Inc.   As a result of  the reduction of
          MacAndrews  & Forbes' ownership interest in the Company on May 7,
          1991, the Company is no longer a member of the Mafco consolidated
          tax  group.  For  periods subsequent to May  7, 1991, the Company
          files  its  own separate  Federal,  state  and local  income  tax
          returns.  Nevertheless, the Company will remain  obligated to pay
          to  M&F Holdings (or other  members of the  consolidated group of
          which  M&F Holdings  is a  member) any  income taxes  the Company
          would have  had to pay (in  excess of those which  it has already
          paid) if it  had filed  separate income tax  returns for  taxable
          periods  beginning on  or  after January  1,  1985 (but  computed
          without regard to (i) the effect of timing differences (i.e., the
          liability or benefit  that otherwise could  be deferred will  be,
          instead,  includible  in  the  determination of  current  taxable
          income) and (ii) any gain recognized on the sale of any asset not
          in  the ordinary course of  business).  In  addition, despite the
          reduction  of  MacAndrews &  Forbes'  indirect  ownership of  the
          Company, the Company  will continue to be  subject under existing
          federal  regulations to  several liability  for the  consolidated
          federal income taxes for any consolidated return year in which it
          was  a member  of  any consolidated  group  of which  Mafco,  M&F
          Holdings, Revlon Group or Revlon was the common parent.  However,
          Mafco,  M&F Holdings,  Revlon  Group and  Revlon  have agreed  to
          indemnify  the Company for  any federal income  tax liability (or
          any  similar state or local  income tax liability)  of Mafco, M&F
          Holdings,  Revlon  Group, Revlon  or  any  of their  subsidiaries
          (other than  that which is attributable to  the Company or any of
          its subsidiaries) that the Company could be required to pay.  

               In   connection  with  the   settlement  of  the  litigation
          described  under  Item  3.  Legal Proceedings,  an  affiliate  of
          MacAndrews &  Forbes agreed  to contribute  to the  settlement by
          reimbursing the Company $15 million, with $5 million reimbursable
          to the  Company upon  demand  and the  remainder reimbursable  no
          later than the earlier  of the consummation of the Merger and six
          months  from the  date of  payment by  the Company.   Under  such
          agreement,  the  Company  also   will  receive  interest  at  the
          Company's  cost of  funds  from the  date  of payment  until  the
          reimbursement.

               The Company  and National  Health Care Group,  Inc. ("NHCG")

 


          are parties to a Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration
          Rights Agreement")  pursuant to  which the Company  is obligated,
          upon  the  request  of  NHCG,  to  file  registration  statements
          ("demand  registration statements")  from time  to time  with the
          Commission  covering the sale of any shares of common stock owned
          by  NHCG.  Such demand registration statements may also cover the
          resale from time to time of any shares of common  stock that NHCG
          may purchase in the open market at a time when it is deemed to be
          an  affiliate (as such term  is defined under  Rule 144 under the
          Securities  Act  of 1933,  as  amended),  and certain  securities
          issued   in   connection   with   a   combination    of   shares,
          recapitalization, reclassification, merger  or consolidation,  or
          other pro rata distribution.  NHCG also has  the right to include
          such  common  stock  and  other securities  in  any  registration
          statement  filed  by  the  Company for  the  underwritten  public
          offering  of shares  of  common stock  (whether  or not  for  the
          Company's account),  subject to certain reductions  in the amount
          of such common stock and  securities if the managing underwriters
          of  such  offering determine  that  the  inclusion thereof  would
          materially  interfere with the offering.   The Company has agreed
          not to  effect  any  public  or  private  sale,  distribution  or
          purchase  of  any of  its securities  which  are the  same  as or
          similar  to the  securities  covered by  any demand  registration
          statement during the 15-day  period prior to, and during  the 45-
          day period beginning  on, the closing  date of each  underwritten
          offering under such registration statement and NHCG has agreed to
          a similar  restriction with respect to  underwritten offerings by
          the  Company.    NHCG's  rights  under  the  Registration  Rights
          Agreement are transferable.

               The  Company  has  agreed  (for  certain  stated  purposes),
          pursuant to the  Sharing and  Call Option Agreement  dated as  of
          December 13, 1994, among NHCG, Mafco, the Company, HLR and RBL to
          use its best efforts to cause the registration statement filed in
          connection  with the  Merger  (the  "Registration Statement")  to
          include a resale prospectus that would permit NHCG (or any pledge
          of  the Merger Shares (as defined below) under a bona fide pledge
          arrangement with NHCG) to sell shares of common stock received by
          NHCG in the Merger (the "Merger Shares") without restriction and,
          after the filing of the Registration Statement, will use its best
          efforts to prepare  and file with the  Commission such amendments
          and post-effective  amendments to  the Registration  Statement as
          may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement continuously
          effective for a  period ending  on the third  anniversary of  the
          date of the  Sharing and  Call Option Agreement  and during  such
          period will use its  best efforts to cause the  resale prospectus
          to be  supplemented by any  required prospectus supplement.   The
          Company  has  agreed to  pay  all  of  the Registration  Expenses
          arising from exercise of the registration rights set forth in the
          Sharing and Call Option Agreement.




                                       PART IV


          Item 14.  EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
                    FORM 8-K

          (a)  List of documents filed as part of this Report:

                (1) Consolidated  Financial   Statements  and   Independent
                    Auditors' Report included herein:

                    See Index on page F-1

                (2) Financial Statement Schedules:

                    See Index on page F-1

                    All   other   schedules   are  omitted   as   they  are
                    inapplicable or the  required information is  furnished
                    in  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  or  notes
                    thereto.

                (3) Index to and List of Exhibits

                    (a)  Exhibits:*

                    Exhibits 10.2 through  10.4 and 10.6 through  10.46 are
                    management   contracts   or   compensatory   plans   or
                    arrangements.

                   2.1   -  Agreement and Plan of Merger among the Company,
                            NHL    Sub    Acquisition   Corp.    and   NHLI
                            (incorporated  herein  by   reference  to   the
                            Company's  Registration  Statement on  Form S-4
                            filed with  the Securities and Exchange 
                            Commission (the "Commission") on March  14, 1994,
                            File No. 33-52655 (the "1994 S-4")).
                   2.2   -  Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 3,
                            1994   of   NHLI   and   N   Acquisition  Corp.
                            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (c)(1) of
                            Schedule 14D-1 and Schedule 13D ("Schedule 14D-
                            1 and Schedule 13D") filed with the  Commission
                            on May 9, 1994). 
                   2.3   -  Agreement  dated as  of June  7, 1994,  among N
                            Acquisition   Corp.,  the   Company  and   NHLI
                            (incorporated  herein  by reference  to Exhibit
                            (c)(7) of amendment No. 2 to Schedule 14D-1 and
                            Schedule  13D of  NHLI and  N Acquisition  Corp
                            filed with the Commission on June 8, 1994). 





 


                   2.4*  -  Agreement  and  Plan  of  Merger  dated  as  of
                            December  13,  1994   among  the  Company,  HLR
                            Holdings  Inc., Roche  Biomedical Laboratories,
                            Inc.  and (for  the  purposes  stated  therein)
                            Hoffman-La Roche  Inc. (schedules omitted - the
                            Company  agrees  to  furnish  a  copy  of   any
                            schedule to the Commission upon request).  
                   2.5*  -  Stock  Purchase  Agreement  dated December  30,
                            1994   between   Reference  Pathology   Holding
                            Company, Inc. and Allied Clinical Laboratories,
                            Inc. ("Allied"). 

                   3.1   -  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of the  Company
                            (incorporated  herein  by   reference  to   the
                            Company's 1994 S-4).
                   3.2   -  By-laws  of the Company (incorporated herein by
                            reference to the Company's 1994 S-4).

                  10.1   -  Laboratory  Agreement  dated  February 4,  1983
                            between the  Company and Humana  of Texas, Inc.
                            d/b/a/    Medical    City    Dallas    Hospital
                            (incorporated  herein  by   reference  to   the
                            Company's  Registration  Statement on  Form S-1
                            filed with the Commission  on May 5, 1988, File
                            No. 33-21708).
                  10.2   -  National   Health   Laboratories   Incorporated
                            Employees'   Savings    and   Investment   Plan
                            (incorporated  herein  by   reference  to   the
                            Company's  Annual Report  on Form 10-K  for the
                            year  ended  December 31,  1991 filed  with the
                            Commission on  February 13,  1992, File No.  1-
                            10740** (the "1991 10-K")).
                  10.3   -  National   Health   Laboratories   Incorporated
                            Employees' Retirement Plan (incorporated herein
                            by reference to the  Company's Annual Report on
                            Form 10-K for the  year ended December 31, 1992
                            filed with the  Commission on  March 26,  1993,
                            File No. 1-10740 (the "1992 10-K")). 
                  10.4   -  National   Health   Laboratories   Incorporated
                            Pension Equalization  Plan (incorporated herein
                            by reference to the 1992 10-K).
                  10.5   -  Settlement  Agreement  dated December  18, 1992
                            between  the Company  and the United  States of
                            America  (incorporated  herein by  reference to
                            the 1992 10-K).
                  10.6   -  Employment  Agreement  dated December  21, 1992
                            between   the  Company   and  James   R.  Maher
                            (incorporated  herein by reference  to the 1992
                            10-K).



 


                  10.7   -  Employment  Agreement dated May 1, 1991 between
                            the  Company  and  Robert Whalen  (incorporated
                            herein by reference to the 1991 10-K).
                  10.8   -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 6,
                            1991  between  the  Company and  Robert  Whalen
                            (incorporated  herein by reference  to the 1991
                            10-K).
                  10.9   -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January
                            1, 1993 between  the Company and Robert  Whalen
                            (incorporated herein by  reference to the  1992
                            10-K).
                  10.10  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January
                            1, 1994  between the Company  and Robert Whalen
                            (incorporated  herein  by   reference  to   the
                            Company's  Annual Report  on Form 10-K  for the
                            year  ended  December 31,  1993 filed  with the
                            Commission on  March 25, 1994, File No. 1-10790
                            (the "1993 10-K")).  
                  10.11  -  Amendment to Employment  Agreement dated  March
                            1, 1994  between the Company  and Robert Whalen
                            (incorporated  herein by reference  to the 1993
                            10-K).
                  10.12  -  Employment Agreement dated  May 1, 1991 between
                            the Company and Larry L.  Leonard (incorporated
                            herein by reference to the 1991 10-K).
                  10.13  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 6,
                            1991 between  the Company and  Larry L. Leonard
                            (incorporated herein by  reference to the  1991
                            10-K).
                  10.14  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January
                            1,  1993  between  the  Company  and  Larry  L.
                            Leonard  (incorporated  herein by  reference to
                            the 1992 10-K).
                  10.15  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January
                            1,  1994  between  the  Company  and  Larry  L.
                            Leonard  (incorporated  herein by  reference to
                            the 1993 10-K).
                  10.16  -  Amendment to Employment  Agreement dated  March
                            1,  1994  between  the  Company  and  Larry  L.
                            Leonard  (incorporated  herein by  reference to
                            the 1993 10-K).
                  10.17  -  Employment Agreement dated May 1,  1991 between
                            the Company and  Timothy Brodnik  (incorporated
                            herein by reference to the 1991 10-K).
                  10.18  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 6,
                            1991  between the  Company and  Timothy Brodnik
                            (incorporated herein  by reference to  the 1991
                            10-K).



 


                  10.19  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January
                            1, 1993 between the Company and Timothy Brodnik
                            (incorporated  herein by reference  to the 1992
                            10-K).
                  10.20  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January
                            1, 1994 between the Company and Timothy Brodnik
                            (incorporated herein by  reference to the  1993
                            10-K).
                  10.21  -  Amendment to Employment  Agreement dated  March
                            1, 1994 between the Company and Timothy Brodnik
                            (incorporated herein  by reference to  the 1993
                            10-K).
                  10.22  -  Employment  Agreement  dated December  31, 1990
                            between  the Company  and  Bernard E.  Statland
                            (incorporated  herein  by   reference  to   the
                            Company's Annual Report  on Form  10-K for  the
                            year  ended December  31, 1990  filed  with the
                            Commission  on  March  14,  1991,  File No.  1-
                            10740** (the "1990 10-K")).
                  10.23  -  Amendment to Employment  Agreement dated  April
                            1,  1991 between  the  Company  and Bernard  E.
                            Statland (incorporated herein  by reference  to
                            the 1991 10-K).
                  10.24  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 6,
                            1991  between  the   Company  and  Bernard   E.
                            Statland (incorporated herein  by reference  to
                            the 1991 10-K).
                  10.25  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January
                            1,  1993  between the  Company  and Bernard  E.
                            Statland (incorporated herein  by reference  to
                            the 1992 10-K).
                  10.26  -  Employment  Agreement  dated  January  1,  1991
                            between   the  Company  and   David  C.  Flaugh
                            (incorporated herein by  reference to the  1990
                            10-K).
                  10.27  -  Amendment to Employment  Agreement dated  April
                            1, 1991 between the Company and David C. Flaugh
                            (incorporated herein  by reference to  the 1991
                            10-K).
                  10.28  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 6,
                            1991 between  the Company and  David C.  Flaugh
                            (incorporated  herein by reference  to the 1991
                            10-K).
                  10.29  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January
                            1, 1993 between the Company and David C. Flaugh
                            (incorporated herein by  reference to the  1992
                            10-K).
                  10.30* -  Amendment to Employment  Agreement dated  April
                            1,  1994  between  the  Company  and  David  C.


 


                            Flaugh.  
                  10.31  -  Employment  Agreement  dated  January  1,  1991
                            between the  Company  and W.  David  Slaunwhite
                            (incorporated herein by reference to the 1990 -
                            10-K).
                  10.32  -  Amendment to Employment  Agreement dated  April
                            1,   1991   between  the   Company   and  David
                            Slaunwhite (incorporated herein by reference to
                            the 1991 10-K).
                  10.33  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 6,
                            1991 between  the Company and  David Slaunwhite
                            (incorporated  herein by reference  to the 1991
                            10-K).
                  10.34  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January
                            1,  1993  between  the  Company  and  W.  David
                            Slaunwhite (incorporated herein by reference to
                            the 1992 10-K).
                  10.35  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January
                            1,  1994  between  the  Company  and  W.  David
                            Slaunwhite (incorporated herein by reference to
                            the 1993 10-K).
                  10.36  -  Amendment to Employment  Agreement dated  March
                            1,  1994  between  the  Company  and  W.  David
                            Slaunwhite (incorporated herein by reference to
                            the 1993 10-K).
                  10.37  -  Employment  Agreement  dated  January  1,  1991
                            between   the   Company    and   John    Markus
                            (incorporated herein by  reference to the  1990
                            10-K).
                  10.38  -  Amendment to Employment  Agreement dated  April
                            1,  1991 between  the Company  and  John Markus
                            (incorporated herein  by reference to  the 1991
                            10-K).
                  10.39  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 6,
                            1991  between  the   Company  and  John  Markus
                            (incorporated  herein by reference  to the 1991
                            10-K).
                  10.40  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January
                            1, 1993 between the  Company and John F. Markus
                            (incorporated herein by  reference to the  1992
                            10-K).
                  10.41  -  Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January
                            1, 1994 between the  Company and John F. Markus
                            (incorporated herein  by reference to  the 1993
                            10-K).
                  10.42  -  Amendment to Employment  Agreement dated  March
                            1, 1994 between the  Company and John F. Markus
                            (incorporated  herein by reference  to the 1993
                            10-K).


 


                  10.43  -  Employment  Agreement  dated  October  1,  1992
                            between  the  Company  and  James  G.  Richmond
                            (incorporated  herein by reference  to the 1992
                            10-K).
                  10.44* -  Employment Agreement dated as  of June 23, 1994
                            between  the Company  and Haywood  D. Cochrane,
                            Jr.
                  10.45  -  National Health Laboratories 1988  Stock Option
                            Plan,  as  amended   (incorporated  herein   by
                            reference to the 1990 S-1).
                  10.46  -  National Health Laboratories 1994  Stock Option
                            Plan  (incorporated herein by  reference to the
                            Company's  Registration  Statement on  Form S-8
                            filed with  the Commission on August  12, 1994,
                            File No. 33-55065).
                  10.47  -  Tax Allocation Agreement  dated as of June  26,
                            1990 between MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc.,
                            Revlon Group Incorporated, New  Revlon Holdings
                            Inc. and  the subsidiaries of Revlon  set forth
                            on Schedule  A thereto (incorporated  herein by
                            reference   to   the   Company's   Registration
                            Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-35782) filed with
                            the Commission  on July  9, 1990 (the  "1990 S-
                            1")).
                  10.48  -  Revolving Credit Agreement  dated as of  August
                            27,  1993  among  National Health  Laboratories
                            Incorporated, Citicorp USA, Inc., as  agent and
                            arranger,  and the  group of  lenders specified
                            therein  (incorporated  herein by  reference to
                            the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                            the quarter ended September 30, 1993 filed with
                            the  Commission on November  15, 1993, File No.
                            1-10740).
                  10.49  -  Credit  Agreement dated  as  of June  21, 1994,
                            among NHL  Intermediate Holdings Corp.  II, the
                            banks named  therein,  Citicorp USA,  Inc.,  as
                            administrative agent, and  the co-agents  named
                            therein  (incorporated  herein by  reference to
                            the Company's Current Report on Form  8-K dated
                            June 23, 1994 filed with the Commission on July
                            7, 1994, File No. 1-11353).
                  10.50  -  Loan Agreement  dated August 1, 1991  among the
                            Company,  Frequency  Property  Corp. and  Swiss
                            Bank Corporation, New York Branch (incorporated
                            herein by reference to the 1991 10-K).
                  10.51* -  Sharing  and Call Option  Agreement dated as of
                            December  13,  1994  among HLR  Holdings  Inc.,
                            Roche  Biomedical   Laboratories,  Inc.,  Mafco
                            Holdings Inc., National Health Care Group, Inc.



 


                            and(for thepurposes stated therein)the Company.

                  21.1*  -  List of Subsidiaries of the Company. 

                  23.1*  -  Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP.

                  24.1*  -  Power of Attorney of Ronald O. Perelman.
                  24.2*  -  Power of Attorney of James R. Maher.
                  24.3*  -  Power of Attorney of Saul J. Farber, M.D.
                  24.4*  -  Power of Attorney of Howard Gittis.
                  24.5*  -  Power of Attorney of Ann Dibble Jordan.
                  24.6*  -  Power of Attorney of David J. Mahoney.
                  24.7*  -  Power of Attorney of Paul A. Marks, M.D.
                  24.8*  -  Power of Attorney of Linda Gosden Robinson.
                  24.9*  -  Power of Attorney of Samuel O. Thier, M.D.
                  24.10* -  Power of Attorney of David C. Flaugh.

                  27     -  Financial Data Schedule (electronically
                            filed version only)

                  28.1   -  Form  of  Collateral  Agency   Agreement  (Bank
                            Obligations) (incorporated  herein by reference
                            to  Amendment No. 1 to the  1990 S-1 filed with
                            the  Commission  on  July 27,  1990,  File  No.
                            33-35785).

          (b)   Reports on Form 8-K

                The Company  filed a  current report on Form  8-K with  the
                Commission on December 19, 1994 reporting the entering into
                of  the Agreement and  Plan of Merger dated  as of December
                13, 1994 among the Company, HLR, RBL and (for the  purposes
                stated therein) Roche.

          _________________                         
          *     Filed herewith.
          **    Previously  filed under  File  No. 0-17031  which  has been
                corrected to File No. 1-10740.














 


                                      SIGNATURES



                Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the

          Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this

          report to be signed  on its behalf by the  undersigned, thereunto

          duly authorized.


                                   NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC.
                                                   Registrant         
             


                                  By:/s/ JAMES  R. MAHER                   
                                     ------------------------------------
                                     James R. Maher
                                     President and Chief Executive Officer


                                  By:/s/ DAVID C. FLAUGH                   
                                     ------------------------------------
                                     David C. Flaugh 
                                     Senior   Executive   Vice   President,
                                     Chief  Operating  Officer  and  Acting
                                     Chief
                                     Financial Officer 
                                     (Principal Accounting Officer)



          Dated:  March 3, 1995
















 


                          Pursuant  to the  requirements of  the Securities

          Exchange  Act of  1934,  this  report  has  been  signed  by  the

          following persons on March 3, 1995 in the capacities indicated.


          Signature                                              Title
          -----------------------                                --------

           /s/ RONALD O. PERELMAN*                               Director
          -----------------------
          (Ronald O. Perelman) 

           /s/ JAMES R. MAHER*                                   Director
          -----------------------
          (James R. Maher)

           /s/ SAUL J. FARBER, M.D.*                             Director
          -----------------------
          (Saul J. Farber, M.D.) 

           /s/ HOWARD GITTIS*                                    Director
          -----------------------
          (Howard Gittis) 

           /s/ ANN DIBBLE JORDAN*                                Director
          -----------------------
          (Ann Dibble Jordan) 

           /s/ DAVID J. MAHONEY*                                 Director
          -----------------------
          (David J. Mahoney)

           /s/ PAUL A. MARKS, M.D.*                              Director
          -----------------------
          (Paul A. Marks, M.D.) 

           /s/ LINDA GOSDEN ROBINSON*                            Director
          -----------------------
          (Linda Gosden Robinson) 

           /s/ SAMUEL O. THIER, M.D.*                            Director
          -----------------------
          (Samuel O. Thier, M.D.)







 



          ______________________

          *  David  C. Flaugh, by his signing his  name hereto, does hereby

          sign this report  on behalf  of the directors  of the  Registrant

          after whose typed  names asterisks appear, pursuant  to powers of

          attorney  duly executed  by  such directors  and  filed with  the

          Securities and Exchange Commission.


                                          By:/s/ DAVID C. FLAUGH              
                                             -------------------
                                                 David C. Flaugh
                                                 Attorney-in-fact


































 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                            INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                     AND SCHEDULE

                                                                          
          ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                     Page
                                                                     ----
          Independent Auditors' Report  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   F-2

          Financial Statements:

           Consolidated Balance Sheets as of 
             December 31, 1994 and 1993   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   F-3

           Consolidated Statements of Earnings for
             each of the years in the three-year
               period ended December 31, 1994.  . . . . . . . . . .   F-4

           Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
             Equity for each of the years in the
             three-year period ended December 31, 1994  . . . . . .   F-5

           Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
             each of the years in the three-year
             period ended December 31, 1994.  . . . . . . . . . . .   F-6

           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   . . . . . .   F-8

          Financial Statement Schedule:

           VIII - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves  .   F-28


















                                         F-1 
 



                             INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

          The Board of Directors and Stockholders
          National Health Laboratories Holdings Inc.:

                    We have  audited the consolidated  financial statements
          of National Health Laboratories Holdings Inc. and subsidiaries as
          listed  in the accompanying index.  In connection with our audits
          of the  consolidated financial  statements, we have  also audited
          the financial  statement schedule  as listed in  the accompanying
          index.   These  consolidated  financial statements  and financial
          statement  schedule  are  the  responsibility  of  the  Company's
          management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
          consolidated   financial   statements  and   financial  statement
          schedule based on our audits.

                    We conducted  our audits  in accordance  with generally
          accepted  auditing standards.   Those  standards require  that we
          plan and perform  the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about
          whether   the   financial  statements   are   free  of   material
          misstatement.   An  audit includes  examining, on  a test  basis,
          evidence supporting the amounts  and disclosures in the financial
          statements.   An  audit  also includes  assessing the  accounting
          principles used and significant  estimates made by management, as
          well as evaluating the overall financial statement  presentation.
          We believe that  our audits  provide a reasonable  basis for  our
          opinion.

                    In our opinion,  the consolidated financial  statements
          referred to above  present fairly, in all  material respects, the
          financial position of National  Health Laboratories Holdings Inc.
          and  subsidiaries as  of  December 31,  1994  and 1993,  and  the
          results of their operations and their cash flows  for each of the
          years  in  the three-year  period  ended  December 31,  1994,  in
          conformity with generally  accepted accounting principles.   Also
          in our  opinion, the  related financial statement  schedule, when
          considered  in  relation  to  the  basic  consolidated  financial
          statements taken  as a  whole, presents  fairly, in all  material
          respects, the information set forth therein.


                                                KPMG Peat Marwick LLP



          San Diego, California
          February 13, 1995




                                         F-2 
 


                                         F-3





                                         F-4 
 





                                        F-5


                                           F-7 
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                (Dollars in Millions)

          1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

          Basis of Presentation:

               The  consolidated financial statements  include the accounts
          of   National   Health   Laboratories  Holdings   Inc.   and  its
          subsidiaries  ("Company")  after   elimination  of  all  material
          intercompany accounts  and transactions.   On June  7, 1994,  the
          stockholders   of   National  Health   Laboratories  Incorporated
          ("NHLI") approved a proposed corporate reorganization of NHLI, as
          a  result of  which  National Health  Laboratories Holdings  Inc.
          ("NHL Holdings"),  a Delaware corporation, now  owns, through NHL
          Intermediate  Holdings  Corp. I,  a  Delaware  corporation and  a
          wholly  owned subsidiary of  NHL Holdings ("Intermediate Holdings
          I"),  and   NHL  Intermediate  Holdings  Corp.   II,  a  Delaware
          corporation  and  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary  of   Intermediate
          Holdings I  ("Intermediate Holdings II"), all  of the outstanding
          common stock of the NHLI.  

               Until May 7, 1991,  the Company was a direct  majority owned
          subsidiary of National Health Care Group, Inc. ("NHCG") which  is
          a  wholly owned  subsidiary of  Revlon Holdings  Inc. ("Revlon"),
          then known as Revlon, Inc., and MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc.
          ("MacAndrews  & Forbes").  MacAndrews & Forbes is wholly owned by
          Mafco Holdings Inc. ("Mafco").

               As a result  of an initial public offering  in July 1988 and
          subsequent secondary  public offerings  in August 1990,  May 1991
          and  February 1992, the  Company's self  tender offer  in January
          1992 and the purchase by the Company of outstanding shares of its
          common  stock, Mafco's  indirect  ownership has  been reduced  to
          approximately 24%.

          Cash Equivalents:

               Cash  equivalents (primarily  investments  in  money  market
          funds,  time deposits  and commercial  paper which  have original
          maturities of three  months or less at the  date of purchase) are
          carried at cost which approximates market.

          Inventories:

               Inventories,  consisting  primarily of  laboratory supplies,
          are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market.




                                         F-8 
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                                (Dollars in Millions)

          Property, Plant and Equipment:

               Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost.  The cost
          of properties held under capital leases is equal to the lower  of
          the net present value of  the minimum lease payments or  the fair
          value  of  the leased  property at  the  inception of  the lease.
          Depreciation and amortization expense  is computed on all classes
          of assets  based on  their estimated  useful lives, as  indicated
          below, using principally the straight-line method.

                                                                 Years

                 Buildings and building improvements               40
                 Machinery and equipment                         3-10
                 Furniture and fixtures                             8

               Leasehold  improvements and assets held under capital leases
          are  amortized over the shorter  of their estimated  lives or the
          period of  the  related leases.    Expenditures for  repairs  and
          maintenance charged against earnings in 1994, 1993 and 1992  were
          $16.5, $10.8 and $10.7, respectively.

          Intangibles:

               Intangibles, consisting of goodwill, net  of  amortization
          of  $417.0  and  $231.2 at December  31, 1994 and 1993,
          respectively, and other  intangibles (i.e., customer lists
          and non-compete  agreements), net of amortization,  of $134.9 and
          $50.3 at  December 31,  1994  and 1993,  respectively, are  being
          amortized on a straight-line basis over a period  of 40 years and
          3-25 years,  respectively.   Total  accumulated amortization  for
          goodwill, rights to names  and other intangibles aggregated $60.8
          and  $46.4  at December  31, 1994  and  1993, respectively.   The
          Company  assesses  the  recoverability  of  intangible assets  by
          determining whether the amortization  of the intangibles' balance
          over  its remaining  life can  be recovered  through undiscounted
          future operating  cash  flows of  the acquired  operations.   The
          amount of intangible asset impairment, if any, is measured  based
          on projected undiscounted future operating cash flows.  

          Fair Value of Financial Instruments:

               Statement   of  Financial  Accounting   Standards  No.  107,
          "Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments", requires
          that fair values be disclosed for most of the Company's financial



                                         F-9 
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                                (Dollars in Millions)

          instruments.  The carrying amount  of cash and cash  equivalents,
          accounts  receivable, accounts  payable,  accrued  expenses,  the
          revolving  credit  and  long-term   debt  are  considered  to  be
          representative of their respective fair values.

          Concentration of Credit Risk:

               Concentrations  of  credit  risk  with  respect  to accounts
          receivable  are limited  due to  the diversity  of the  Company's
          clients  as  well  as  their  dispersion  across  many  different
          geographic regions.

          Revenue Recognition:

               Sales are recognized on  the accrual basis at the  time test
          results  are  reported,  which  approximates  when  services  are
          provided.   Services are provided  to certain patients covered by
          various  third-party  payor programs  including the  Medicare and
          Medicaid programs.  Billings for services under third-party payor
          programs are included in sales net of allowances for  differences
          between the amounts billed and estimated program payment amounts.
          Adjustments  to  the estimated  payment  amounts  based on  final
          settlement with the programs are recorded upon settlement.  In
          1994, 1993 and 1992, approximately 35%, 41% and 42%, respectively,
          of the Company's revenues were derived from tests performed for
          beneficiaries of Medicare and Medicaid programs.

          Income Taxes:

               Effective January  1,  1992, the  Company adopted  Financial
          Accounting  Standards  Board  Statement  of  Financial Accounting
          Standards  No. 109,  "Accounting  for Income  Taxes"  ("Statement
          109").  Statement 109 requires the use of the asset and liability
          method  of  accounting for  income taxes.    Under the  asset and
          liability  method  of  Statement  109, deferred  tax  assets  and
          liabilities  are  recognized  for  the  future  tax  consequences
          attributable  to  differences  between  the  financial  statement
          carrying  amounts of  existing assets  and liabilities  and their
          respective tax  bases.  Deferred  tax assets and  liabilities are
          measured  using enacted tax  rates expected  to apply  to taxable
          income in  the years  in  which those  temporary differences  are
          expected  to be recovered or  settled.  Under  Statement 109, the
          effect on deferred tax assets and  liabilities of a change in tax
          rates is recognized  in income  in the period  that includes  the
          enactment date.





                                         F-10 
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                     (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

          Earnings per Common Share:

               For  the  years  ended December  31,  1994,  1993  and 1992,
          earnings per  common share  is calculated  based on  the weighted
          average   number   of   shares  outstanding   during   each  year
          (84,754,183, 89,438,764 and 94,468,022 shares, respectively).

          Reclassifications:

               Certain amounts  in the  prior  years' financial  statements
          have been reclassified to conform with the 1994 presentation.

          2.   ACQUISITIONS

               On May  3,  1994,  the  Company entered  into  a  definitive
          agreement  to   acquire   Allied  Clinical   Laboratories,   Inc.
          ("Allied").    Pursuant  to the  agreement,  on  May  9, 1994,  a
          subsidiary of the Company  commenced a cash tender offer  for all
          shares of Allied common stock  for $23 per share.  The  agreement
          provided  that any shares not tendered and purchased in the offer
          were to be  exchanged for $23 per share in  cash in a second-step
          merger.  In connection with  the Company's acquisition of Allied,
          the  Company and  Allied  became aware  that  the nature  of  the
          possible problems associated  with billing practices  of Allied's
          Cincinnati, Ohio clinical laboratory, concerning which Allied had
          received a subpoena on April 5, 1994 from the Office of Inspector
          General  of the  Department  of Health  and  Human Services  (the
          "OIG")  requiring   Allied  to  produce  certain   documents  and
          information  regarding the  Medicare  billing practices  of  such
          laboratory with  respect to  certain cancer screening  tests, may
          have been both different and greater than previously perceived by
          the Company  and Allied.    As a  result, on  June  7, 1994,  the
          Company entered  into an agreement  whereby the price  payable in
          such  cash tender offer  and such second-step  merger was reduced
          from  $23  per share  to  $21.50 per  share, or  an  aggregate of
          approximately $12.6.   The Company  and Allied are  continuing to
          investigate these  possible problems  and have  communicated with
          the OIG and the United States Department of Justice regarding its
          subpoena  and a related qui tam action commenced in a Cincinnati,
          Ohio  Federal court,  and  they are  cooperating  fully with  the
          governmental  investigation  of  Allied's Cincinnati  laboratory.
          The  Company  has  established  reserves which  it  believes  are
          adequate to cover any liability associated with these matters. 





                                         F-11 
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                     (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

               A  subsidiary of  the Company  acquired Allied  as a  wholly
          owned  subsidiary on June  23, 1994, for  approximately $191.5 in
          cash,  $185.0  of which  was  borrowed under  a  revolving credit
          facility, plus the assumption of $24.0 of Allied indebtedness and
          the recognition  of approximately $5.0 of  Allied net liabilities
          (the "Allied Acquisition").  The Allied Acquisition was accounted
          for using  the purchase method  of accounting; as  such, Allied's
          assets  and liabilities were recorded at their fair values on the
          date  of acquisition.  The purchase price exceeded the fair value
          of acquired  net tangible  assets by approximately  $220.5, which
          consists of goodwill of $167.7 and other intangible assets of
          $52.8.   These items  are being amortized over periods between
          3 and 40 years on a straight-line basis.  Allied's results of
          operations have been included in the Company's results of 
          operations beginning June 23, 1994.

               The following  table provides unaudited pro  forma operating
          results of the Company giving effect to the Allied Acquisition as
          if  it had  been  completed  at  the  beginning  of  the  periods
          presented.   The  pro forma  information  has been  prepared  for
          comparative purposes  only and does not purport  to be indicative
          of future operating results.

                                                       Years Ended         
                                             December 31,      December 31,
                                                 1994              1993    
                                             -----------       -----------
          Net sales                            $ 962.8           $ 923.5
          Net earnings                            26.1             104.0
          Earnings per common share            $  0.31           $  1.16

               During  1994, the  Company also  acquired 11  small clinical
          laboratory companies  for an  aggregate purchase price  of $79.3.
          During  1993 and 1992, the Company  acquired thirty-four and five
          laboratories,  respectively, for an  aggregate purchase  price of
          $106.9 and  $3.0, respectively.  The acquisitions  were accounted
          for  as purchase transactions.  The  excess of cost over the fair
          value  of net tangible assets acquired during 1994, 1993 and 1992
          was  $72.1, $100.1,  and  $3.0, respectively,  which is  included
          under the  caption "Intangible  assets, net" in  the accompanying
          consolidated  balance  sheets.   The  consolidated  statements of
          earnings  reflect the  results of  operations of  these purchased
          businesses from their dates of acquisition.





                                         F-12 
 

          
             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                     (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

          3.  ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET

                                             December 31,      December 31,
                                                 1994              1993    
                                             -----------       -----------
          Gross accounts receivable            $ 270.7           $ 170.0
          Less contractual allowances and
            allowance for doubtful accounts      (65.3)            (51.0)
                                               -------           -------
                                               $ 205.4           $ 119.0
                                               =======           =======

          4.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET

                                             December 31,      December 31,
                                                 1994              1993    
                                             -----------       -----------
          Land                                 $   1.3           $   0.4
          Buildings and building improvements      1.8               1.9
          Machinery and equipment                154.2             117.9
          Leasehold improvements                  44.2              27.2
          Furniture and fixtures                  22.0              14.5
          Buildings under capital leases           9.6               9.6
                                               -------           -------
                                                 233.1             171.5
          Less accumulated depreciation
            and amortization                     (93.0)            (71.4)
                                               -------           -------
                                               $ 140.1           $ 100.1
                                               =======           =======
          5.  ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER

                                             December 31,      December 31,
                                                 1994              1993    
                                             -----------       -----------
          Employee compensation and benefits   $  38.8           $  27.9
          Taxes other than federal taxes 
            on income                              7.3               7.5
          Deferred acquisition related 
            payments                              15.9              11.4
          Acquisition related reserves            21.8               1.9
          Other                                    9.0               6.9
                                               -------           -------
                                               $  92.8           $  55.6
                                               =======           =======


                                         F-13
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                     (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

          6.  OTHER LIABILITIES

                                             December 31,      December 31,
                                                 1994              1993    
                                             -----------       -----------
          Deferred acquisition related 
            payments                           $  19.2           $  15.4
          Acquisition related reserves            31.9                --
          Other                                    8.4               6.1
                                               -------           -------
                                               $  59.5           $  21.5
                                               =======           =======

          7.  LITIGATION SETTLEMENT

               In  the  third quarter  of  1994,  the  Company  approved  a
          settlement   of  previously   disclosed  shareholder   class  and
          derivative litigation (the "Litigation Settlement"). The litigation
          consisted  of  two   consolidated  class  action   suits  and   a
          consolidated shareholder derivative action brought in federal and
          state  courts in San Diego,  California.  The settlement involved
          no admission of wrongdoing. In connection with the settlement, the
          Company took a pre-tax special charge of $15.0 and a $6.0 charge
          for expenses related to the settled litigation.  Insurance payments
          and payments from other defendants aggregate $55.0 plus expenses.

          8. GOVERNMENT SETTLEMENT

               In November 1990, the  Company became aware of a  grand jury
          inquiry relating to its pricing practices being conducted by the 
          United  States Attorney  for  the San  Diego  area (the  Southern
          District of  California)  with the  assistance of  the Office  of
          Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services.
          On December 18, 1992,  the Company announced that it  had entered
          into agreements that concluded the investigation (the "Government
          Settlement").  As a result of this settlement, the Company took a
          one-time  pre-tax charge of $136.0 in the fourth quarter of 1992.
          The   charge  covered   all  estimated   costs  related   to  the
          investigation  and the  settlement agreements.   At  December 31,
          1994  and  1993,  the  remaining  liability  for  the  Government
          Settlement   and  related  expenses  totalled  $11.7  and  $33.1,
          respectively, and is  reflected in the accompanying  consolidated
          balance sheets under the captions "Accrued Settlement Expenses".


                                         F-14 
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                                (Dollars in Millions)

          9.   LONG-TERM DEBT

               On June  21, 1994, Intermediate  Holdings II entered  into a
          credit agreement dated as of  such date (the "Credit Agreement"),
          with the banks named  therein (the "Banks"), Citicorp  USA, Inc.,
          as administrative agent (the "Bank Agent"), and certain co-agents
          named therein, which made available to Intermediate Holdings II a
          term  loan  facility  of  $400.0  (the  "Term  Facility")  and  a
          revolving  credit  facility  of  $350.0  (the  "Revolving  Credit
          Facility"  and,  together  with  the  Term  Facility,  the  "Bank
          Facility").   The Bank  Facility  provided funds  for the  Allied
          Acquisition,  for the  refinancing  of certain  existing debt  of
          Allied and NHLI, to pay related fees and expenses and for general
          corporate   purposes  of   Intermediate  Holdings   II  and   its
          subsidiaries, in  each case subject  to the terms  and conditions
          set forth therein.

               The Credit  Agreement provides that  the Banks and  the Bank
          Agent  will  receive  from  Intermediate  Holdings  II  customary
          facility   and   administrative    agent   fees,    respectively.
          Intermediate Holdings II will pay a commitment fee on the average
          daily  unused portion  of the  Bank Facility  of 0.5%  per annum,
          subject to a reduction  to 0.375% per annum if  certain financial
          tests are met.  Availability of funds  under the Bank Facility is
          conditioned  on  certain  customary  conditions, and  the  Credit
          Agreement  contains  customary  representations,  warranties  and
          events  of  default.   The  Credit  Agreement also  requires  the
          Company to maintain certain financial ratios and tests, including
          minimum debt service coverage ratios and net worth tests.

               The  Revolving Credit  Facility matures  in June  1999, with
          semi-annual reductions of  availability of  $50.0, commencing  in
          December 1997.  The Term Facility matures in December 2000, with
          repayments in each quarter prior to maturity based on a specified
          amortization schedule.  The Bank  Facility bears interest, at the
          option of Intermediate Holdings II, at (i)  Citibank, N.A.'s Base
          Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement), plus a margin of up to
          0.75% per  annum, based upon the  Company's financial performance
          or (ii)  the Eurodollar  rate for  one, two,  three or  six month
          interest periods (as selected  by Intermediate Holdings II), plus
          a margin varying between 1.25% and 2.00% per annum based upon the
          Company's  financial  performance.   At  December  31, 1994,  the
          effective interest rate was 8.157%.




                                         F-15 
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                                (Dollars in Millions)

               The Bank  Facility is guaranteed by  Intermediate Holdings I
          and  certain  subsidiaries of  Intermediate  Holdings  II and  is
          secured  by pledges  of stock  and other  assets of  Intermediate
          Holdings II and its subsidiaries.

               Aggregate  maturities on  long-term debt  are $39.0,  $48.7,
          $58.5,  $68.2  and   $77.9  for  the  years  1995  through  1999,
          respectively.

          10.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

               In connection  with the corporate reorganization  on June 7,
          1994 discussed above, all of the  14,603,800 treasury shares held
          by NHLI  were cancelled.   As a result,  the $286.1 cost  of such
          treasury shares  was eliminated  with corresponding  decreases in
          the par  value, additional paid-in capital  and retained earnings
          accounts of $0.2, $72.3 and $213.6, respectively.

               In  connection  with  the  Allied  Acquisition, the  Company
          announced  that it  terminated  its 10  million share  repurchase
          program under which 7,795,800  common shares had been repurchased
          and established a new  $50.0 stock repurchase plan  through which
          the  Company  will acquire  additional  shares  of the  Company's
          common stock  from  time to  time  in the  open  market.   As  of
          December  31, 1994, there were no stock repurchases under the new
          stock repurchase program.

          11.  INCOME TAXES

               As discussed  in Note 1,  the Company adopted  Statement 109
          effective January 1, 1992.   The cumulative effect of  the change
          in the method of accounting for income taxes was not material and
          is  therefore  not  presented  separately  in   the  accompanying
          consolidated statements of earnings.  













                                         F-16 
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                                (Dollars in Millions)

               The  provisions   for  income  taxes  in   the  accompanying
          consolidated statements of earnings consist of the following:

                                                 Years Ended December 31,
                                                 1994      1993     1992
                                                -----     -----     -----
          Current:
            Federal                             $16.2     $48.9     $52.3
            State and local                       3.0      10.4       9.0
                                                -----     -----     -----
                                                 19.2      59.3      61.3
                                                -----     -----     -----
          Deferred:
            Federal                               4.9      14.9     (32.3)
            State and local                       1.2       4.2      (7.5)
                                                -----     -----     -----
                                                  6.1      19.1     (39.8)
                                                -----     -----     -----
                                                $25.3     $78.4     $21.5
                                                =====     =====     =====

               The  effective tax rates on earnings  before income taxes is
          reconciled to statutory federal income tax rates as follows:

                                                 Years Ended December 31, 
                                                 1994      1993     1992
                                                ------    ------   ------
          Statutory federal rate                 35.0%     35.0%    34.0%
          State and local income taxes,
            net of federal income tax benefit     4.9       4.9      1.5
          Other                                   5.8       1.1     (0.9)
                                                ------    ------   ------
          Effective rate                         45.7%     41.0%    34.6%
                                                ======    ======   ======

               The  significant components of  deferred income  tax expense
          are as follows:

                                                 Years Ended December 31, 
                                                 1994      1993     1992
                                                ------    ------  ------
          Settlement and related expenses      $  2.5     $ 22.2  $(34.8)
          Reserve for doubtful accounts           0.9        0.4    (2.1)
          Other                                   2.7       (3.5)   (2.9)
                                               ------     ------  ------
                                               $  6.1     $ 19.1  $(39.8)
                                               ======     ======  ======


                                         F-17 
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                                (Dollars in Millions)

               The tax effects  of temporary differences that  give rise to
          significant portions of the deferred tax assets  and deferred tax
          liabilities at December 31, 1994 and 1993 are as follows:

                                                            December 31, 
                                                           1994     1993
                                                          -----   ------
          Deferred tax assets:
            Settlement and related expenses, principally
              due to accrual for financial reporting
              purposes                                     $10.7   $13.2
            Accounts receivable, principally due to
              allowance for doubtful accounts                8.4     5.5
            Self insurance reserves, principally due
              to accrual for financial reporting purposes    2.4     0.9
            Compensated absences, principally due to 
              accrual for financial reporting purposes       2.8     2.0
            Acquisition related reserves, principally
              due to accrual for financial reporting
              purposes                                       8.0      --
            Other                                            4.4     6.6
                                                          ------  ------
              Total gross deferred tax assets               36.7    28.2
                                                          ------  ------
          Deferred tax liabilities:
            Intangible assets, principally due to 
              differences in amortization                  (22.1)   (3.7)
            Property, plant and equipment, principally
              due to differences in depreciation            (0.8)   (4.3)
            Other                                           (5.0)   (1.7)
                                                          ------  ------
              Total gross deferred tax liabilities         (27.9)   (9.7)
                                                          ------  ------
          Net deferred tax asset                           $ 8.8   $18.5
                                                          ======  ======

               A valuation allowance was deemed unnecessary at December 31,
          1994 and 1993.   Based on the Company's history of taxable income
          and its projection  of future  earnings, it believes  that it  is
          more  likely  than not  that  sufficient taxable  income  will be
          generated in the  foreseeable future to realize  the deferred tax
          asset.

          12.  STOCK OPTIONS

               In 1988, the  Company adopted  the 1988  Stock Option  Plan,
          reserving 2,000,000 shares of  common stock for issuance pursuant
          to  options and  stock appreciation  rights  that may  be granted
          under the plan.   The Stock  Option Plan was  amended in 1990  to
          limit the number of options to be issued under the Stock Option
          Plan to

                                         F-18
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                     (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

          550,000  in  the  aggregate  (including  all  options  previously
          granted).   In 1991, the number of shares authorized for issuance
          under  the Stock  Option Plan  was increased  to an  aggregate of
          2,550,000.

               In 1994,  the Company  adopted the 1994  Stock Option  Plan,
          reserving 3,000,000 shares of  common stock for issuance pursuant
          to  options and  stock appreciation  rights that  may be  granted
          under the plan.

               The  following  table  summarizes  grants  of  non-qualified
          options made by  the Company  to officers and  key employees  for
          both plans.  For each grant, the exercise price was equivalent to
          the fair market price per share on the date of  grant.  Also, for
          each  grant, one-third of the  shares of common  stock subject to
          such  options vested on the date of  grant and one-third vests on
          each  of the first and second anniversaries of such date, subject
          to their earlier expiration or termination.

                                          Exercise
                 Date         Options      Price           Date of
                of Grant      Granted    per Share        Expiration     
             -------------   ---------   ---------     ----------------
             February 1989     240,000     $ 7.750     February 8, 1999
             July 1990         100,000      13.500     July 9, 2000
             October 1991      500,000      20.250     October 8, 2001
             October 1992       25,000      20.000     October 2, 2002
             December 1992     300,000      16.625     December 21, 2002
             January 1993      775,000      16.625     January 18, 2003
             July 1993          43,500      17.875     July 6, 2003
             February 1994   1,097,500      13.875     February 10, 2004
             June 1994         147,000       7.690     June 23, 2004
             July 1994         797,500      11.750     July 12, 2004














                                         F-19
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                                (Dollars in Millions)

              Changes during  1992, 1993  and 1994  in options  outstanding
          under the plans were as follows:
                                              Number        Exercise Price  
                                            of Options        per Option     
                                            ----------    -----------------
          Outstanding at January 1, 1992      636,900     $ 7.750 - $20.250

              Granted                         325,000     $16.625 - $20.000
              Exercised                       (30,662)    $ 7.750 - $20.250
              Canceled or expired             (67,167)    $13.500 - $20.250
                                            ----------
          Outstanding at December 31, 1992    864,071     $ 7.750 - $20.250

              Granted                         818,500     $16.625 - $17.875
              Exercised                       (33,400)    $ 7.750
              Canceled or expired             (84,835)    $16.625 - $20.250
                                            ----------
          Outstanding at December 31, 1993  1,564,336     $ 7.750 - $20.250

              Granted                       2,042,000     $ 7.690 - $13.875
              Exercised                       (11,125)    $ 7.690 -  $ 7.750
              Canceled or expired             (70,001)    $13.875 - $20.250
                                            ----------
          Outstanding at December 31, 1994  3,525,210     $ 7.690 - $20.250
                                            ==========
          Exercisable at December 31, 1994  2,014,025     $ 7.690 - $20.250
                                            ==========

          13.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

               The Company  is involved in certain claims and legal actions
          arising in the  ordinary course of  business.  In the  opinion of
          management,  based  upon  the  advice of  counsel,  the  ultimate
          disposition of  these matters will  not have  a material  adverse
          effect  on the financial position or results of operations of the
          Company.

               For  all  insurance  coverages  prior to  May  7,  1991, the
          Company paid Revlon a predetermined amount each year, based  upon
          the  Company's  historical  loss  experience and  other  relevant
          factors, in  respect of the  Company's share of  the self-insured
          risks and risks  insured by outside  insurance carriers, in  each
          case applicable  to Revlon and  its subsidiaries.   Regardless of
          the Company's  and Revlon's  actual loss experience,  the Company
          will not  be required  to pay  Revlon amounts  in  excess of  the
          Company's  predetermined  share  of  such  liability  for  losses
          incurred before May 7, 1991.


                                         F-20
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                                (Dollars in Millions)

               Under the Company's present  insurance programs, coverage is
          obtained  for  catastrophic  exposures  as well  as  those  risks
          required to  be  insured by  law  or contract.    The Company  is
          responsible for the uninsured  portion of losses occurring  on or
          after May 7, 1991 related primarily to general, product and vehicle 
          liability and workers' compensation. The self-insured retentions are
          on a per occurrence basis without any  aggregate annual limit.  
          Provisions for losses expected under these programs are  recorded 
          based upon the  Company's estimates  of the  aggregated liability 
          of claims incurred. At December 31, 1994 and 1993, the Company had
          provided letters  of  credit aggregating  approximately $4.9  and
          $3.7,   respectively,  in   connection  with   certain  insurance
          programs.

               During 1991, the Company guaranteed a $9.0, 5 year loan to a
          third party for construction  of a new laboratory to  replace one
          of the  Company's existing facilities.   Following its completion
          in November of  1992, the building  was leased to the  Company by
          this third party.  Such transaction is treated as a capital lease
          for  financial reporting  purposes.   The  associated lease  term
          continues for a period of 15 years, expiring in 2007.   Under the
          terms  of this guarantee, as modified, the Company is required to
          maintain  105%  of the  outstanding  loan  balance including  any
          overdue interest  as collateral in a  custody account established
          and  maintained at the lending  institution.  As  of December 31,
          1994 and 1993, the  Company had placed $9.5 of investments in the
          custody account.  Such investments are included under the caption
          "Other  assets, net"  in  the  accompanying consolidated  balance
          sheets.

               The  Company does  not  anticipate incurring  any loss  as a
          result of this loan  guarantee due to protection provided  by the
          terms of the  lease.   Accordingly, the Company,  if required  to
          repay  the  loan  upon  default of  the  borrower  (and  ultimate
          lessor), is entitled to a rent abatement equivalent to the amount
          of repayment made by  the Company on the borrower's  behalf, plus
          interest thereon at a rate equal to 2% over the prime rate.

               The Company has  a contract  for the  purchase of  telephone
          services through  1999.  The  total purchase commitment  is $30.0
          with minimum purchases of $6.0 per year.






                                       F-21
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                                (Dollars in Millions)

               The Company  leases various  facilities and  equipment under
          non-cancelable   lease  arrangements.     Future  minimum  rental
          commitments for leases  with noncancelable terms  of one year  or
          more from December 31, 1994 are as follows:

                                            Operating       Capital
                                            ---------       -------
               1995                          $ 19.5          $ 1.2
               1996                            16.4            1.3
               1997                            14.1            1.4
               1998                            12.1            1.5
               1999                            11.0            1.6
               Thereafter                      40.4           16.9
                                            ---------       -------
               Total minimum lease payments   113.5           23.9
               Less amount representing 
                 interest                        --           14.1
                                            ---------       -------
               Total minimum operating 
                 lease payments and   
                 present value of minimum 
                 capital lease payments      $113.5          $ 9.8
                                            =========       =======

               Rental  expense,  which  includes  rent  for  real   estate,
          equipment  and automobiles  under operating  leases, amounted  to
          $34.6, $29.9 and  $27.0 for  the years ended  December 31,  1994,
          1993 and 1992,  respectively.

          14.  RETIREMENT PLANS

               The Company  maintains a defined  contribution pension  plan
          for all  eligible employees.   Eligible employees are  defined as
          individuals who are age 21 or older and have been employed by the
          Company for at least  six consecutive months and  completed 1,000
          hours of service.  Company contributions to the plan are based on
          a  percentage of employee contributions.   The cost  of this plan
          was $3.6, $3.0, and $2.5 in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.  

               In addition, substantially all employees of NHLI are covered
          by  a defined benefit retirement plan (the "Plan").  The benefits
          to be paid under the Plan  are based on years of credited service
          and  average  final compensation.    Employees  of Allied  become
          eligible under the Plan effective January 1, 1995.

               Effective  December 31,  1994,  the Company  adopted certain
          amendments   to  the  Plan  which   resulted  in  a  decrease  of
          approximately $9.5 million in the projected benefit obligation.  

                                         F-22
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                                (Dollars in Millions)

               Under the requirements of  Statement of Financial Accounting
          Standards  No.  87,  "Employers  Accounting  for  Pensions",  the
          Company   recorded  an   additional  minimum   pension  liability
          representing  the excess accumulated benefit obligation over plan
          assets  at  December  31,  1993.    A  corresponding  amount  was
          recognized as an intangible  asset to the extent  of unrecognized
          prior  service cost,  with  the balance  recorded  as a  separate
          reduction  of  stockholders' equity.    The  Company recorded  an
          additional  liability of $3.0, an intangible asset of $0.6, and a
          reduction of  stockholders' equity  of $2.4.   Such  amounts were
          eliminated  as a result of  the amendments to  the Plan effective
          December 31, 1994.

               The components  of net periodic pension  cost are summarized
          as follows:

                                                            Years ended  
                                                            December 31, 
                                                          --------------
                                                           1994     1993
                                                          -----    -----
               Service cost                               $ 5.5    $ 3.7
               Interest cost                                3.5      2.6
               Actual return on plan assets                 0.1     (1.3)
               Net amortization and deferral               (1.4)     0.4
                                                          ------   -----
               Net periodic pension cost                  $ 7.7    $ 5.4
                                                          ======   =====



















                                         F-23
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                     (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

          The status of the Plan is as follows:
                                                            December 31, 
                                                           1994     1993
                                                          -----    -----
               Actuarial present value of 
                 benefit obligations:
                   Vested benefits                        $26.6    $25.0
                   Non-vested benefits                      3.5      4.0
                                                          -----    -----
               Accumulated benefit obligation              30.1     29.0
               Effect of projected future salary
                 increases                                  1.9     13.9
                                                          -----    -----
               Projected benefit obligation                32.0     42.9
               Fair value of plan assets                   31.6     24.2
                                                          -----    -----
               Unfunded projected benefit obligation       (0.4)   (18.7)
               Unrecognized prior service cost             (9.7)     0.5
               Unrecognized net loss                        8.4     16.3
               Additional minimum liability                  --     (3.0)
                                                          -----    -----
               Accrued pension cost                       $(1.7)   $(4.9)
                                                          =====    =====

          Assumptions used in the accounting for the Plan were:

                                                           1994     1993
                                                          ------   ------
               Weighted average discount rate               8.5%     7.0%

               Weighted average rate of increase     
                 in future compensation levels              4.0%     5.5%

               Weighted average expected long-term
                 rate of return                             9.0%     9.0%











                                         F-24
 


             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                     (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

          15.  SALE OF SUBSIDIARY

               On December  30, 1994,  the  Company completed  the sale  of
          Reference  Pathology Laboratory,  Inc. and subsidiary  ("RPL"), a
          wholly  owned subsidiary  of  Allied, for  cash of  approximately
          $10.1  and  a note  receivable  of $0.5.    No gain  or  loss was
          recognized on the sale.  The net cash proceeds from the sale were
          used to  repay a portion of  long-term debt.  In  connection with
          the  agreement of sale, the  Company will refer  certain tests to
          RPL in an amount not less than $2.3 per year for five years based
          on agreed upon fees.

          16.  DIVIDENDS         

               On  December  15, 1993,  the  Company  declared a  quarterly
          dividend in the aggregate amount of approximately $6.8 ($0.08 per
          share), which was paid on  January 25, 1994 to holders  of record
          of common  stock at  the close  of business  on January 4,  1994.
          Such dividend was paid entirely with cash on hand.

          17.  QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)

                The following is a summary of unaudited quarterly data:

                                     Year Ended December 31, 1994       
                            -------------------------------------------
                               1st      2nd      3rd      4th
                             Quarter  Quarter  Quarter  Quarter   Total 
                            -------- -------- -------- -------- -------
          Net sales          $185.0   $203.9   $248.7   $234.9   $872.5
          Gross profit         52.7     67.4     81.0     74.4    275.5
          Net earnings          8.1     14.1      0.2      7.7     30.1
          Earnings per 
            common share       0.10     0.16       --     0.10     0.36


                                     Year Ended December 31, 1993       
                             ------------------------------------------
                               1st      2nd      3rd      4th
                             Quarter  Quarter  Quarter  Quarter   Total 
                             ------- -------- -------- -------- -------
          Net sales          $199.8   $197.0   $194.8   $168.9   $760.5
          Gross profit         90.7     89.2     85.2     50.9    316.0
          Net earnings         33.6     33.2     38.2      7.7    112.7
          Earnings per 
            common share       0.36     0.37     0.43     0.10     1.26



                                         F-25
 

          
             NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                     (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

               In  the  third  quarter  of  1994,  the Company  approved  a
          settlement   of  previously   disclosed  shareholder   class  and
          derivative litigation.   In  connection with the  settlement, the
          Company took a pre-tax special charge of $15.0 and a $6.0  charge
          for expenses related to the settled litigation.

               In  the  fourth quarter  of 1994,  the  Company took  a non-
          recurring charge of  approximately $3.9 for  lease costs and  the
          write-off of leasehold improvements  related to the relocation of
          certain of the Company's regional laboratories.

               Expense  reimbursement  and  termination  fees  received  in
          connection   with  the  Company's   attempt  to   purchase  Damon
          Corporation, less  related expenses and the  write-off of certain
          bank  financing costs,  resulted  in a  one-time pre-tax  gain of
          $15.3 in the third quarter of 1993.

               Medicare's  denial of  claims  for ferritin  and HDL  tests,
          which began in September 1993 and continued  through December 20,
          1993 when  the Company introduced new test  forms and procedures,
          and related suspended billings reduced net sales and gross profit
          by $18.6 in the fourth quarter of 1993.

          18.  MERGER AGREEMENT

               The Company has entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger
          dated  as of December  13, 1994 (the"Merger  Agreement") with HLR
          Holdings   Inc.  ("HLR"),  Roche  Biomedical  Laboratories,  Inc.
          ("RBL"),  and (for  the purposes  set forth  therein) Hoffmann-La
          Roche  Inc.  ("Roche") providing  for,  among  other things,  the
          merger  of RBL with and into the  Company with the Company as the
          surviving  corporation  (the  "Merger"), and  pursuant  to which,
          subject to  certain exceptions, each outstanding  share of common
          stock,  par  value  $0.01 per  share,  of  the  Company, will  be
          converted into (i) 0.72 of a share of common stock of the Company
          and (ii) the right to receive $5.60 in cash, without interest.

               In  addition, all shares of common stock, no par value, of RBL
          issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of
          the Merger (other than treasury shares, which will be canceled)
          will be converted into, and become, that number of newly issued
          shares of Company common stock as would, in the aggregate and after
          giving effect to the Merger and the Company common stock owned by
          HLR, RBL and their subsidiaries immediately after the effective
          time of the Merger, equal 49.9% of the total number of shares of



                                        F-26
     

               NATIONAL HEALTH LABORATORIES HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
                     (Dollars in Millions, except per share data)

          Company common stock outstanding immediately after the effective
          time  of the  Merger  (after giving  effect  to the  issuance  of
          Company common  stock in  respect of  the Company  employee stock
          options in connections with the Merger).

               In connection with the Merger, the Company currently intends
          to declare a dividend, payable to holders of record of shares of
          Company common stock  as of the  third business day prior  to the
          date of the special  meeting of the stockholders to  consider and
          vote on  the Merger, which dividend will consist of  0.16308 of a
          warrant per outstanding share of Company common stock, each such 
          warrant (a "Warrant") representing the right to purchase one newly
          issued share of Company common stock for $22.00 (subject to
          adjustments) on the fifth anniversary of the issuance of the Warrant.
          In addition, the Merger Agreement provides for the issuance to and
          purchase  by  Roche,  for   a  purchase  price  of  approximately
          $51,048,900, of 8,325,000 Warrants  to purchase shares of Company
          common stock (the "Roche Warrants"), which Warrants will have the
          terms described in the preceding sentence.

               The aggregate cash consideration  of approximately $474.7 to
          be paid to  stockholders of  the Company  in the  Merger will  be
          financed  from three sources:  a cash contribution by the Company
          of  approximately $288.0  out of  proceeds of  borrowings  by the
          Company in an equal amount, a cash contribution to be made by HLR
          in the amount of  approximately $135.7 and the proceeds  from the
          issuance of the Roche Warrants.

               The Company has obtained a commitment for a credit facility,
          which will include a  term loan facility of not  more than $800.0
          and  a  revolving credit  facility of  not  more than  $400.0, to
          refinance the Company's existing  indebtedness and to finance the
          Company's  portion of the total cash consideration to the paid to
          stockholders  of the Company in  the Merger.   The specific terms
          and  conditions  of  the  credit  facility  are  currently  under
          negotiation.  

               Restructuring  costs  of  approximately  $84.0  million  are
          expected to  be  recorded by  the  Company at  the close  of  the
          Merger.   These  costs  will reflect  the  write-off of  deferred
          financing  costs  related  to  the  repayment  of  the  Company's
          existing revolving credit facility and term loan facility entered
          into in connection with the Allied  Acquisition financing and the
          creation  of reserves for severance and  benefit costs, costs for
          office  facilities expected  to  be closed,  vacant space  costs,
          systems conversion costs and  other restructuring expenses of the
          Company associated with the Merger. 

                                        F-27



