
10-K



               UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
  X    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
- ----
       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended      DECEMBER 31, 1999
                         -------------------------------------------------
                                      OR
- ----    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from      __________________ to ________________
Commission file number                   1-11353
                      ----------------------------------------------------
                    LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
         DELAWARE                                  13-3757370
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)             Identification No.)

 358 SOUTH MAIN STREET, BURLINGTON, NORTH CAROLINA            27215
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
      (Address of principal executive offices)               (Zip Code)

                                336-229-1127
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

      Title  of  each  class               Name of exchange on which registered
- ---------------------------------          ------------------------------------
Common Stock, $0.01 par value              New York Stock Exchange
Common Stock Purchase Warrants             Currently not listed
Preferred Stock, $.10 par value-Series A   New York Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock, $.10 par value-Series B   New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate  by  check  mark whether the registrant (1)  has  filed  all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the  preceding 12 months (or for such shorter  period  that  the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X  No
                                              ----   ----
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to  the
best  of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated  by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any  amendment  to
this Form 10-K.
               -----
State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant, by reference to the price at which the stock was sold as of  a
specified  date  within 60 days prior to the date of filing:  $277,984,512  at
March 14, 2000.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's  classes
of  common stock, as of the latest practicable date: 129,851,617 shares as  of
March  14, 2000, of which 61,329,256 shares are held by indirect wholly  owned
subsidiaries  of  Roche  Holdings Ltd. The number of warrants  outstanding  to
purchase  shares of the issuer's common stock is 22,151,308 as  of  March  14,
2000,  of  which 8,325,000 are held by an indirect wholly owned subsidiary  of
Roche Holdings Ltd.


                             PART I

Item 1.   DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

      Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (the "Company"),
headquartered  in  Burlington,  North  Carolina,  is  the  second
largest  independent clinical laboratory company  in  the  United
States based on 1999 net revenues.  Through a national network of
laboratories,  the  Company  offers  more  than  2,000  different
clinical   laboratory  tests  which  are  used  by  the   medical
profession  in  routine testing, patient diagnosis,  and  in  the
monitoring and treatment of disease.  Since its founding in 1971,
the Company has grown into a network of 25 major laboratories and
approximately 1,200 service sites consisting of branches, patient
service  centers  and STAT laboratories, serving  clients  in  50
states.

       The   Company  was  formerly  known  as  National   Health
Laboratories Holdings Inc. ("NHL").  In conjunction with a merger
("Merger")  in  1995  with  Roche Biomedical  Laboratories,  Inc.
("RBL"),   an   indirect  subsidiary  of  Roche  Holdings,   Inc.
("Roche"), the Company changed its name to Laboratory Corporation
of America Holdings.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

      See  "General"  section  of  "Management's  Discussion  and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations".

THE CLINICAL LABORATORY TESTING INDUSTRY

      Laboratory  tests  and  procedures are  used  generally  by
hospitals,  physicians  and  other  health  care  providers   and
commercial  clients  to  assist  in  the  diagnosis,  evaluation,
detection, monitoring and treatment of diseases and other medical
conditions  through the examination of substances in  the  blood,
tissues  and  other  specimens.  Clinical laboratory  testing  is
generally  categorized  as  either  clinical  testing,  which  is
performed on body fluids including blood and urine, or anatomical
pathology  testing,  which  is  performed  on  tissue  and  other
samples,   including  human  cells.   Clinical   and   anatomical
pathology  procedures are frequently ordered as part  of  regular
physician  office  visits and hospital admissions  in  connection
with  the diagnosis and treatment of illnesses.  Certain of these
tests  and  procedures  are  used principally  as  tools  in  the
diagnosis  and treatment of a wide variety of medical  conditions
such as cancer, AIDS, endocrine disorders, cardiac disorders  and
genetic  disease.   The most frequently requested  tests  include
blood  chemistry  analyses, urinalyses, blood  cell  counts,  PAP
smears,  AIDS  tests, microbiology cultures  and  procedures  and
alcohol and other substance-abuse tests.

     The clinical laboratory industry consists primarily of three
types of providers: hospital-based laboratories, physician-office
laboratories and independent clinical laboratories, such as those


owned by the Company.

      The Company believes that in 1999 approximately 50% of  the
clinical  testing revenues in the United States were  derived  by
hospital-based  laboratories, approximately 13% were  derived  by
physicians  in  their offices and laboratories and  approximately
37%  were  derived  by  independent clinical  laboratories.   The
Health  Care Financing Administration ("HCFA") of the  Department
of  Health and Human Services ("HHS") has estimated that in  1999
there  were over 5,000 independent clinical laboratories  in  the
United States.

EFFECT OF MARKET CHANGES ON THE CLINICAL LABORATORY BUSINESS

       Many  market-based  changes  in  the  clinical  laboratory
business  have occurred over the past three to five  years,  most
involving   the  shift  away  from  traditional,  fee-for-service
medicine to managed-cost health care.  The growth of the  managed
care  sector presents various challenges to the Company and other
independent  clinical laboratories.  Managed  care  organizations
typically contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories
and  negotiate discounts to the fees charged by such laboratories
in  an effort to control costs.  Such discounts have historically
resulted  in  price  erosion  and have  negatively  impacted  the
Company's   operating   margins.  In   addition,   managed   care
organizations have used capitated payment contracts in an attempt
to  fix  the  cost  of  laboratory  testing  services  for  their
enrollees.   Under  a  capitated payment contract,  the  clinical
laboratory  and  the managed care organization  agree  to  a  per
member,  per  month payment to cover all laboratory tests  during
the month, regardless of the number or cost of the tests actually
performed.   Such  contracts also shift the risks  of  additional
testing  beyond  that  covered by the capitated  payment  to  the
clinical  laboratory.  For the year ended December 31, 1999  such
contracts accounted for approximately $84.3 million in net sales.
The increase in managed care and insurance companies attempts  to
control utilization of medical services overall has also resulted
in declines in the utilization of laboratory testing services.

      In  addition, Medicare (which principally services patients
65  and  older),  Medicaid  (which  principally  serves  indigent
patients) and insurers have increased their effort to control the
cost, utilization and delivery of health care services.  Measures
to   regulate  health  care  delivery  in  general  and  clinical
laboratories in particular have resulted in reduced prices, added
costs  and decreased test utilization for the clinical laboratory
industry  by increasing complexity and adding new regulatory  and
administrative  requirements.  From time to  time,  Congress  has
also  considered  changes  to  the  Medicare  fee  schedules   in
conjunction  with  certain budgetary bills. The Company  believes
that  reductions  in  reimbursement for  Medicare  services  will
continue to be implemented from time to time.  Reductions in  the
reimbursement  rates of other third-party payors  are  likely  to
occur as well.


      The Company believes that the volume of clinical laboratory
testing   will  be  positively  influenced  by  several  factors,
including  primarily:   an expanded base of scientific  knowledge
which   has   led   to  the  development  of  more  sophisticated
specialized  tests and increased the awareness of  physicians  of
the  value  of  clinical laboratory testing as  a  cost-effective
means of prevention, early detection of disease and monitoring of
treatment.   Additional factors which may lead to  future  volume
growth  include:  an increase in the number and  types  of  tests
which  are,  due  to  advances in technology and  increased  cost
efficiencies,  readily available on a more  affordable  basis  to
physicians; expanded substance-abuse testing by corporations  and
governmental agencies; increased testing for sexually transmitted
diseases such as AIDS; and the general aging of the population in
the United States.  The impact of these factors is expected to be
partially  offset by declines in volume as a result of  increased
controls  over the utilization of laboratory services by Medicare
and   other   third-party  payors,  particularly   managed   care
organizations.

LABORATORY TESTING OPERATIONS AND SERVICES

      The  Company  has 25 major laboratories, and  approximately
1,200  service  sites  consisting of  branches,  patient  service
centers  and  STAT laboratories.  A "branch" is a central  office
which  collects specimens in a region for shipment to one of  the
Company's laboratories for testing.  Test results can be  printed
at  a  branch and conveniently delivered to the client.  A branch
also  is  used  as  a base for sales staff.  A  "patient  service
center"  generally  is a facility maintained by  the  Company  to
serve  the physicians in a medical professional building or other
strategic  location.   The patient service  center  collects  the
specimens as requested by the physician.  The specimens are sent,
principally  through the Company's in-house courier system  (and,
to  a lesser extent, through independent couriers), to one of the
Company's  major laboratories for testing.  Some of the Company's
patient  service centers also function as "STAT labs", which  are
laboratories  that  have the ability to perform  certain  routine
tests  quickly  and report results to the physician  immediately.
The Company processed an average of approximately 239,000 patient
specimens  per day in 1999.  Patient specimens are  delivered  to
the  Company  accompanied by a test request form.   These  forms,
which  are  completed by the client, indicate  the  tests  to  be
performed and provide the necessary billing information.

      Each  specimen  and  related request form  is  checked  for
completeness and then given a unique identification number.   The
unique  identification number assigned to each specimen helps  to
assure  that  the results are attributed to the correct  patient.
The test request forms are sent to a data entry terminal where  a
file  is  established for each patient and the necessary  testing
and  billing  information is entered.  Once this  information  is
entered into the computer system, the tests are performed and the
results  are  entered


primarily through  computer  interface  or manually,  depending
upon the tests and the  type  of  equipment involved.   Most of
the Company's computerized testing  equipment is  directly linked
with the Company's information systems.  Most routine testing is
completed by early the next morning, and  test results  are  printed
and prepared for distribution  by  service representatives  that  day.
Some  clients  have  local   printer capability  and  have  reports
printed  out  directly  in  their offices.   Clients who request that
they be called with a  result are  so  notified in the morning.
It is Company policy to notify the  client immediately if a
life-threatening result is found  at any point during the course
of the testing process.

TESTING SERVICES

     Routine Testing

      The  Company currently offers over 2,000 different clinical
laboratory  tests  or procedures. Several hundred  of  these  are
frequently  used  in  general  patient  care  by  physicians   to
establish  or  support  a  diagnosis,  to  monitor  treatment  or
medication  or to search for an otherwise undiagnosed  condition.
The   most  frequently  requested  routine  tests  include  blood
chemistry analyses, urinalyses, blood cell counts, pap smears and
AIDS  tests.   These routine procedures are most  often  used  by
practicing  physicians  in  their  outpatient  office  practices.
Physicians  may  elect to send such procedures to an  independent
laboratory or they may choose to establish an in-house laboratory
to perform some of the tests.

      The  Company performs this core group of routine  tests  in
each  of its 25 major regional laboratories, which constitutes  a
majority  of  the testing performed by the Company.  The  Company
generally performs and reports most routine procedures within  24
hours,  utilizing  a  variety of sophisticated  and  computerized
laboratory testing instruments.

     Specialty and Niche Testing

      While the information provided by many routine tests may be
used  by  nearly  all physicians, regardless of  specialty,  many
other  procedures are more specialized in nature.  Certain  types
of  unique  testing capabilities and/or client requirements  have
been  developed into specialty or niche businesses by the Company
which have become a primary growth strategy for the Company.   In
general, the specialty and niche businesses are designed to serve
two  market  segments: (i) markets which are not  served  by  the
routine clinical testing laboratory and therefore are subject  to
less stringent regulatory and reimbursement constraints; and (ii)
markets  which  are served by the routine testing laboratory  and
offer  the possibility of adding related services from  the  same
supplier.    The   Company's  research  and   development   group
continually  seeks  new  and  improved  technologies  for   early
diagnosis.   For  example,  the Company's  Center  for  Molecular
Biology  and  Pathology is a leader in


molecular diagnostics  and polymerase  chain reaction technologies
which are often  able  to provide  earlier  and  more reliable
information  regarding  HIV, genetic  diseases,  cancer  and many
other  viral  and  bacterial diseases. Management believes these
technologies may represent  a significant  savings to managed care
organizations by  increasing the  detection of early stage (treatable)
diseases. The following are  specialty  and niche businesses in which
the Company  offers testing and related services:

  Infectious  Disease.  The Company provides complete viral  load
  testing  as  well  as  HIV  genotyping  and  phenotyping.   The
  Company's  use of this leading-edge technology puts it  in  the
  forefront  of  HIV  drug  resistance testing-one  of  the  most
  important issues surrounding the treatment of HIV.

  Allergy  Testing.   The Company offers an  extensive  range  of
  allergen testing services as well as computerized analysis  and
  a  treatment  program that enables primary care  physicians  to
  diagnose and treat many kinds of allergic disorders.

  Clinical  Research  Testing.   The Company  regularly  performs
  clinical   laboratory  testing  for  pharmaceutical   companies
  conducting  clinical  research  trials  on  new  drugs.    This
  testing   often   involves   periodic   testing   of   patients
  participating in the trial over several years.

  Diagnostic   Genetics.    The   Company   offers   cytogenetic,
  biochemical and molecular genetic tests.

  Identity  Testing.   The  Company  provides  forensic  identity
  testing  used  in  connection  with  criminal  proceedings  and
  parentage evaluation services which are used to assist  in  the
  resolution  of disputed parentage in child support  litigation.
  Parentage testing involves the evaluation of immunological  and
  genetic  markers  in  specimens obtained from  the  child,  the
  mother  and the alleged father. Management believes it  is  now
  the  largest  provider  of  identity testing  services  in  the
  United States.

  Oncology  Testing.  The Company offers an extensive  series  of
  testing  technologies  that  aid in diagnosing  and  monitoring
  certain   cancers  and  predicting  the  outcome   of   certain
  treatments.

  Occupational  Testing  Services.  The  Company  provides  urine
  testing  for  the detection of drugs of abuse for  private  and
  government customers, and also provides blood testing  services
  for  the  detection  of drug abuse and alcohol.  These  testing
  services  are  designed  to  produce  "forensic"  quality  test
  results   that   satisfy   the   rigorous   requirements    for
  admissibility  as evidence in legal proceedings.   The  Company
  also  provides  other  analytical  testing  and  a  variety  of
  management support services.


      The  specialized or niche testing services noted above,  as
well   as  other  complex  procedures,  are  sent  to  designated
facilities  where  the  Company  has  concentrated  the   people,
instruments and related resources for performing such  procedures
so that quality and efficiency can be most effectively monitored.
The  Company's  Center  for Molecular Biology  and  Pathology  in
Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, also specializes  in  new
test development and education and training related thereto.

CLIENTS

      The  Company provides testing services to a broad range  of
health care providers.  During the year ended December 31,  1999,
no  client  or group of clients under the same contract accounted
for  more  than  two  percent of the Company's  net  sales.   The
primary client groups serviced by the Company include:

     Independent Physicians and Physician Groups

      Physicians  requiring testing for their  patients  who  are
unaffiliated  with a managed care plan are one of  the  Company's
primary   sources  of  testing  services.   Fees   for   clinical
laboratory  testing  services rendered for these  physicians  are
billed  either to the physician, to the patient or the  patient's
third  party  payor  such  as insurance companies,  Medicare  and
Medicaid.  Billings are typically on a fee-for-service basis.  If
the  billings  are  to  the physician,  they  are  based  on  the
wholesale  or  customer fee schedule and subject to  negotiation.
Otherwise,  the patient is billed at the laboratory's  retail  or
patient fee schedule and subject to third party payor limitations
and  negotiation  by  physicians on  behalf  of  their  patients.
Medicare  and  Medicaid billings are based on government-set  fee
schedules.

     Hospitals

      The  Company  serves hospitals with services  ranging  from
routine  and  specialty testing to contract management  services.
Hospitals  generally  maintain an on-site laboratory  to  perform
immediately needed testing on patients receiving care.   However,
they  also  refer less time sensitive procedures, less frequently
needed  procedures and highly specialized procedures  to  outside
facilities,  including  independent  clinical  laboratories   and
larger  medical centers.  The Company typically charges hospitals
for  any  such tests on a fee-for-service basis which is  derived
from the Company's customer fee schedule.

     HMOs and Other Managed Care Groups

       The   Company   serves  HMOs  and   other   managed   care
organizations.    These  medical  service   providers   typically
contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories and  then
designate  the  laboratory or laboratories to be used  for  tests
ordered  by  participating


physicians.   The  majority  of   the Company's managed care testing
is negotiated on a fee-for-service basis.  Testing is sometimes
reimbursed on a capitated basis  for managed  care organizations.
Under a capitated payment contract, the  Company  agrees to cover
certain laboratory tests  during  a given month for which the managed
care organization agrees to pay a  flat  monthly fee for each covered
member.  The tests  covered under  agreements of this type are negotiated
for each  contract, but  usually include routine tests and exclude
highly specialized tests.   Many  of  the national and large regional
managed  care organizations prefer to use large independent clinical
labs  such as the Company because they can service them on a national basis.

     Other Institutions

       The   Company   serves   other   institutions,   including
governmental  agencies,  large employers  and  other  independent
clinical  laboratories  that  do not  have  the  breadth  of  the
Company's  testing capabilities.  The institutions typically  pay
on a negotiated or bid fee-for-service basis.

PAYORS

      Most testing services are billed to a party other than  the
"client" that ordered the test.  In addition, tests performed  by
a single physician may be billed to different payors depending on
the  medical benefits of a particular patient.  Payors other than
the  direct  patient, include, among others, insurance companies,
managed care organizations, Medicare and Medicaid.  Based on  the
year ended December 31, 1999 billings to the Company's respective
payors based on the total volume of accessions are as follows:

                            Accession Volume as a %       Revenue
                                    of Total                per
                                      1999               Accession
                            -----------------------      ----------
Private Patients                      3.8%                $92.56
Medicare,  Medicaid  and
  Insurance                          19.1%                $27.75
Commercial Clients                   42.5%                $22.36
Managed Care                         34.6%                $27.68



AFFILIATIONS AND ALLIANCES

      The  Company provides management services in a  variety  of
health  care  settings.   The  Company  generally  supplies   the
laboratory  manager and other laboratory personnel,  as  well  as
equipment  and testing supplies, to manage a laboratory  that  is
owned  by  a hospital, managed care organization or other  health
care  provider.   In  addition,  the  Company  maintains  a  data
processing  system  to organize and report test  results  and  to
provide  billing and other pertinent information related  to  the
tests  performed  in the managed laboratory.  Under  the  typical
laboratory management agreement, the laboratory manager,  who  is
employed  by  the  Company, reports to  the  hospital  or  clinic
administration.   Thus,  the  hospital  or  clinic   ("Provider")
maintains control of the laboratory.  A pathologist designated by
the Provider serves as medical director for the laboratory.

      An important advantage the Company offers to its clients is
the  flexibility  of the Company's information systems  used  for
contract management services.  In addition to the ability  to  be
customized   for  a  particular  user's  needs,   the   Company's
information  systems  also interface with  several  hospital  and
clinic  systems,  giving  the user more efficient  and  effective
information flow.

      The  Company's management service contracts typically  have
terms  between  three  and five years.  However,  most  contracts
contain  a clause that permits termination prior to the  contract
expiration  date.  The termination terms vary but they  generally
fall  into  one  of  the  following categories:  (i)  termination
without  cause  by either the Company or the contracted  Provider
after   written  notice  (generally  60  to  90  days  prior   to
termination); (ii) termination by the contracted Provider only if
there  are  uncorrected deficiencies in the Company's performance
under  the  contract after notice by the contracted Provider;  or
(iii)  termination by the contracted Provider if there is a  loss
of accreditation held by any Company laboratory that services the
contracted Provider, which accreditation is not reinstated within
30  days  of  the loss, or up to 30 days' notice if  there  is  a
decline  in the quality of services provided under such  contract
which  remains  uncorrected after a  15-day  period.   While  the
Company  believes  that it will maintain and renew  its  existing
contracts,  there  can  be no assurance of  such  maintenance  or
renewal.

     As part of its marketing efforts, and as a way to focus on a
contract  management client's particular needs, the  Company  has
developed  several different pricing formulas for its  management
services agreements.  In certain cases, profitability may  depend
on  the  Company's  ability to accurately predict  test  volumes,
patient encounters or the number of admissions in the case of  an
inpatient facility.

     One of the Company's primary growth strategies is to develop
an  increasing number of hospital alliances.  These alliances can
take  several  different  forms including  laboratory  management


contracts,  discussed  above, reference  agreements  and  shared-
services.  As hospitals continue to be impacted by decreasing fee
schedules from third party payors and managed care organizations,
the  Company believes that they will seek the most cost-effective
laboratory services for their patients.  Management believes  the
Company's economies of scale as well as its delivery system  will
enable  it  to  assist hospitals to achieve their  goals.   These
alliances  are generally more profitable than the Company's  core
business  due  to the specialized nature of many of  the  testing
services  offered in the alliance program.  In 1999, the  Company
added 40 alliance agreements with hospitals, physician groups and
other    health    care   provider   organizations   representing
approximately $24 million of annual sales.

SALES AND MARKETING AND CLIENT SERVICE

      The  Company  offers its services through a combination  of
direct  sales  generalists  and specialists.   Sales  generalists
market  the mainstream or traditional routine laboratory services
primarily   to  physicians,  while  specialists  concentrate   on
individual  market segments, such as hospitals  or  managed  care
organizations, or on testing niches, such as identity testing  or
genetic testing. Specialist positions are established when an in-
depth  level of expertise is necessary to effectively  offer  the
specialized  services.   When the need  arises,  specialists  and
generalists work cooperatively to address specific opportunities.
At  December  31, 1999, the Company employed 232 generalists  and
112 specialists.  The Company's sales generalists and specialists
are  compensated  through a combination of salaries,  commissions
and  bonuses,  at  levels  commensurate  with  each  individual's
qualifications  and responsibilities. Commissions  are  primarily
based  upon  the  individual's  productivity  in  generating  new
business for the Company.

      The  Company  also  employs  account  managers  ("AMs")  to
interact  with  clients  on an ongoing basis.   AMs  monitor  the
status of the services being provided to clients, act as problem-
solvers,  provide  information on new  testing  developments  and
serve  as the client's regular point of contact with the Company.
At  December  31, 1999, the Company  employed 271 AMs.   AMs  are
compensated   with   a  combination  of  salaries   and   bonuses
commensurate   with   each   individual's   qualifications    and
responsibilities.

      The  Company believes that the clinical laboratory  service
business  is  shifting  away from the  traditional  direct  sales
structure  and  into  one in which the purchasing  decisions  for
laboratory  services  are  increasingly  made  by  managed   care
organizations,  insurance plans, employers  and  increasingly  by
patients  themselves.  In view of these changes, the Company  has
adapted  its  sales and marketing structure to more appropriately
address  the  new  opportunities.  For example, the  Company  has
expanded  its  specialist sales positions  in  both  its  primary
business  and  its  niche businesses in  order  to  maximize  the
Company's  competitive  strengths  of  advanced


technology   and marketing focus.

      The  Company competes primarily on the basis of the quality
of its testing, reporting and information systems, its reputation
in  the  medical community, the pricing of its services  and  its
ability to employ qualified personnel.  During 1999, one  of  the
Company's goals has been to improve client service.  An important
factor   in  improving  client  service  includes  the  Company's
initiatives to improve its billing process.  See "-Billing."

INFORMATION SYSTEMS

       The  Company  has  developed  and  implemented  management
information systems to monitor operations and control costs.  All
financial functions are centralized in Burlington, North Carolina
including  purchasing and accounting.  Management  believes  this
provides  greater  control over spending  as  well  as  increased
supervision and monitoring of results of operations.

      The  Company believes that the health care provider's  need
for  data  will continue to place high demands on its information
systems  staff.  The Company operates several systems  to  handle
laboratory,  billing  and financial data and  transactions.   The
Company  believes  that  the efficient  handling  of  information
involving clients, patients, payors and other parties will  be  a
critical  factor in the Company's future success.  The  Company's
Corporate  Information Systems Division manages  its  information
resources  and  programs  on a consolidated  basis  in  order  to
achieve  greater efficiency and economies of scale.  In addition,
as  a  key part of its response to these challenges, the  Company
employs a Chief Information Officer, whose responsibility  is  to
integrate, manage and develop the Company's information systems.

     In 1999, information systems activities have been focused on
consolidation  of the Company's multiple laboratory  and  billing
systems  to standardized laboratory testing and billing  systems.
The  Company  has  established  regional  data  centers  to  more
effectively  handle  the  information  processing  needs  of  the
Company.  The Company believes that benefits can be derived  from
the conversion of its multiple billing systems into a centralized
system.   Implementation of the billing systems conversion  began
in  1997 and is expected to be completed over the next two years.
During  1999, the Company capitalized approximately $11.0 million
in  information  systems  development  and  implementation  costs
related  directly or indirectly to billing systems.  The  Company
anticipates  capitalizing an additional $6.0 to $7.0  million  in
such development and implementation costs during 2000.

     See "Impact of the Year 2000 Issue" section of "Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial Condition and  Results  of
Operations".


BILLING

      Billing  for  laboratory services  is  a  complex  process.
Laboratories  must bill many different payors  such  as  doctors,
patients,  hundreds  of different insurance companies,  Medicare,
Medicaid and employer groups, all of whom have different  billing
requirements.  The Company believes that a majority  of  its  bad
debt  expense  is the result of non-credit related  issues  which
slow   the   billing   process,  create  backlogs   of   unbilled
requisitions  and  generally  increase  the  aging  of   accounts
receivable.   A primary cause of bad debt expense is  missing  or
incorrect  billing  information  on  requisitions.   The  Company
believes  that this experience is similar to that of its  primary
competitors.   The  Company  performs  the  requested  tests  and
returns  back  the  test results regardless  of  whether  billing
information  has  been  provided at  all  or  has  been  provided
incorrectly.   The Company subsequently attempts  to  obtain  any
missing  information or rectify any incorrect billing information
received  from  the health care provider.  Among the  many  other
factors  complicating  the  billing process  are  more  intricate
billing   arrangements   due   to  contracts   with   third-party
administrators,  disputes  between  payors  as   to   the   party
responsible  for  payment of the bill and auditing  for  specific
compliance issues.

     The Company's bad debt expense has increased in the last few
years  principally  due to three developments that  have  further
complicated the billing process: i) increased complexities in the
billing  process due to requirements of managed care payors;  ii)
increased medical necessity and diagnosis code requirements;  and
iii)  existence  of  multiple billing information  systems.   See
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition  and
Results of Operations."

      Although there can be no assurance of success, the  Company
has  developed a number of initiatives to address the  complexity
of  the  billing process and to improve collection rates.   These
initiatives include:  i) installation of personal computer  based
products in client offices and Company locations to help with the
accuracy and completeness of billing information captured on  the
front-end;  ii)  establishment of a project  group  to  focus  on
improvements   in   order  entry;  and   iii)   development   and
implementation  of  enhanced  eligibility  checking  to   compare
information  to payor records before billing.  Additionally,  the
Company believes that it can benefit from the conversion  of  its
multiple  billing systems into a centralized system.   Currently,
60%  of  the  Company's billing is performed on this  centralized
system.   By  the  end  of  2000,  the  Company  plans  to   have
approximately  85%  of its billing performed on  the  centralized
system, with the remainder converted in 2001.


QUALITY ASSURANCE

      The  Company considers the quality of its tests  to  be  of
critical  importance,  and  it  has established  a  comprehensive
quality  assurance program for all of its laboratories and  other
facilities,  designed  to help assure accurate  and  timely  test
results.  In addition to the compulsory external inspections  and
proficiency  programs  demanded  by  HCFA  and  other  regulatory
agencies,  Company-wide systems and procedures are  in  place  to
emphasize  and  monitor quality assurance.  All of the  Company's
regional  laboratories  are subject to on-site  evaluations,  the
College  of  American  Pathologists ("CAP")  proficiency  testing
program,  state  surveys and the Company's own  internal  quality
control programs.

       External   Proficiency/   Accreditations.    The   Company
participates  in numerous externally-administered, blind  quality
surveillance  programs,  including the CAP  program.   The  blind
programs  supplement all other quality assurance  procedures  and
give  Company management the opportunity to review its  technical
and service performance from the client's perspective.

      Internal  Quality Control.  The Company regularly  performs
internal  quality  control  testing by  running  quality  control
samples  with  known  values with patient samples  submitted  for
testing.   All  quality control sample test results  are  entered
into  the  Company's national laboratory computer, which connects
the  Company's facilities nationwide to a common on-line  quality
control   database.    This   system  helps   technologists   and
technicians  check  quality control values and  requires  further
prompt verification if any quality control value is out of range.
The Company has an extensive, internally administered program  of
blind  sample  proficiency testing (i.e. the  testing  laboratory
does  not  know  the  sample being tested is  a  quality  control
sample),  as  part  of  which  the  Company's  locations  receive
specimens  from  the  Company's Quality Assurance  and  Corporate
Technical Services departments for analysis.

       The   CAP  accreditation  program  involves  both  on-site
inspections  of  the laboratory and participation  in  the  CAP's
proficiency  testing  program for all  categories  in  which  the
laboratory  is accredited by the CAP.  The CAP is an  independent
non-governmental  organization  of  board-certified  pathologists
which  offers an accreditation program to which laboratories  can
voluntarily subscribe.  The CAP has been accredited  by  HCFA  to
inspect  clinical  laboratories to  determine  adherence  to  the
Clinical  Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967,  and  the  Clinical
Laboratory  Improvement  Amendments  of  1988  (collectively,  as
amended,   "CLIA")   standards.   A   laboratory's   receipt   of
accreditation  by the CAP satisfies the Medicare requirement  for
participation in proficiency testing programs administered by  an
external  source.   All of the Company's major  laboratories  are
accredited by the CAP.

      During  1998,  the  Company's  forensic  crime  laboratory,
located  at  the  Company's  Center  for  Molecular  Biology  and
Pathology   in  Research


Triangle  Park,  North  Carolina,   was accredited by the American
Society of Crime Laboratory Directors, Laboratory  Accreditation
Board ("ASCLD/LAB") in the category  of DNA  testing.   Under the
Crime Laboratory Accreditation  Program managed  by  the  ASCLD/LAB,
a  crime  laboratory  undergoes   a comprehensive  and  in-depth
inspection to demonstrate  that  its management,  operations,
employees, procedures  and  instruments, physical plant and security,
and personnel safety procedures meet stringent  quality standards.
The Company is one  of  192  ASCLD accredited crime laboratories
worldwide, and is one of only  four private    crime    laboratories
holding   the   accreditation.  Accreditation is granted for a period
of five years provided that a laboratory continues to meet the standards
during that period.

COMPETITION

      The  clinical laboratory business is intensely competitive.
The  Company  believes  that in 1999  the  entire  United  States
clinical  laboratory testing industry had revenues exceeding  $32
billion; approximately 50% of such revenues were attributable  to
hospital-affiliated   laboratories,   approximately   37%    were
attributable    to   independent   clinical   laboratories    and
approximately  13%  were  attributable  to  physicians  in  their
offices  and  laboratories.   There are  presently  two  national
independent  clinical  laboratories:  the  Company,   and   Quest
Diagnostics Incorporated ("Quest"), which had approximately  $3.3
billion in revenues from clinical laboratory testing in 1999.

       During   1999,  Quest  acquired  the  clinical  laboratory
operations   of  SmithKline  Beecham  plc  ("SmithKline").    The
transaction was completed in August, 1999.

      In  addition to the other national clinical laboratory, the
Company  competes on a regional basis with many smaller  regional
independent  clinical laboratories as well as laboratories  owned
by  hospitals  and  physicians.  The Company  believes  that  the
following  factors, among others, are often used by  health  care
providers   in  selecting  a  laboratory:  i)  pricing   of   the
laboratory's   test  services;  ii)  accuracy,   timeliness   and
consistency  in reporting test results; iii) number and  type  of
tests  performed; iv) service capability and convenience  offered
by   the  laboratory;  and  v)  its  reputation  in  the  medical
community.  The Company believes that it competes favorably  with
its principal competitors in each of these areas and is currently
implementing strategies to improve its competitive position.  See
"-Clients" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations."

     The Company believes that consolidation will continue in the
clinical  laboratory testing business.  In addition, the  Company
believes  that  it  and  the  other  large  independent  clinical
laboratory testing companies will be able to increase their share
of the overall clinical laboratory testing market due to a number
of external factors including cost efficiencies afforded by large-
scale  automated


testing, Medicare reimbursement  reductions  and the growth of
managed health care entities which require low-cost testing services
and large service networks.  In addition,  legal restrictions   on
physician  referrals  and  the  ownership   of laboratories as well
as increased regulation of laboratories  are expected  to  contribute
to the continuing consolidation  of  the industry.

EMPLOYEES

      At  February 29, 2000, the Company had approximately 17,960
full-time  equivalent employees. A subsidiary of the Company  has
one collective bargaining agreement which covers approximately 37
employees.  The Company believes that its overall relations  with
its employees are good.

REGULATION AND REIMBURSEMENT

     General

      The  clinical laboratory industry is subject to significant
governmental regulation at the federal, state and sometimes local
levels.  As described below, these regulations concern  licensure
and  operation  of clinical laboratories, payment for  laboratory
services,   health   care   fraud   and   abuse,   security   and
confidentiality  of  health information,  and  environmental  and
occupational safety.

     Regulation of Clinical Laboratories

      The  Clinical  Laboratory Improvement  Amendments  of  1988
("CLIA")  extends  federal oversight to  virtually  all  clinical
laboratories by requiring that they be certified by  the  federal
government  or  by  a  federally-approved  accreditation  agency.
Pursuant  to  CLIA,  clinical  laboratories  must  meet   quality
assurance,  quality control and personnel standards.   Labs  also
must undergo proficiency testing and are subject to inspections.

     Standards for testing under CLIA are based on the complexity
of  the  tests  performed  by  the  laboratory,  with  all  tests
classified  as  either high complexity, moderate  complexity,  or
waived.  Laboratories categorized as high complexity are required
to  meet  more  stringent requirements than  moderate  complexity
laboratories.  Labs performing only waived tests, which are tests
determined to have a low potential for error and requiring little
or no oversight, may apply for a certificate of waiver indicating
that  they need not comply with most of the requirements of CLIA.
All   major  and  many  smaller  Company  facilities  hold   CLIA
certificates  to perform high complexity testing.  The  Company's
remaining smaller testing sites hold CLIA certificates to perform
moderate complexity testing or have a certificate of waiver.

      The  sanction for failure to comply with CLIA requirements
may  be  suspension, revocation or limitation of  a  laboratory's



CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, as well
as  significant  fines and/or criminal penalties.   The  loss  or
suspension of a license, imposition of a fine or other penalties,
or   future   changes  in  the  CLIA  law  or   regulations   (or
interpretation of the law or regulations) could have  a  material
adverse effect on the Company.

      The  Company  also is subject to state regulation  in  some
states.   CLIA  provides  that  a  state  may  adopt  regulations
different  from or more stringent than those under  federal  law,
and  a number of states do have their own lab regulatory schemes.
State  laws  may require that laboratory personnel  meet  certain
qualifications,  specify  certain quality  controls,  or  require
maintenance  of  certain  records.   For  example,  some  of  the
Company's  laboratories are subject to the State  of  New  York's
clinical  laboratory regulations, which contain  provisions  that
are more stringent than those under federal law.

      The  Company believes it is in compliance with federal  and
state  laboratory  requirements, and the  Company's  laboratories
have continuing programs to ensure that their operations meet all
applicable  regulatory requirements, but  no  assurances  can  be
given  that  the  Company's laboratories  will  pass  all  future
licensure or certification inspections.

     Reimbursement of Clinical Laboratory Services

      In 1999 and 1998, the Company derived approximately 20% and
22%,  respectively,  of its net sales from  tests  performed  for
beneficiaries  of  the  Medicare  and  Medicaid   programs.    In
addition,  the Company's other business depends significantly  on
continued  participation in these programs because clients  often
want  a  single  laboratory  to  perform  all  of  their  testing
services.  Both governmental and private sector payors have  made
efforts  to  contain  or  reduce  health  care  costs,  including
reimbursement for clinical laboratory services, in recent years.

      In  1984, Congress established a Medicare fee schedule  for
clinical laboratory services performed for patients covered under
Part B of the Medicare program.  Subsequently, Congress imposed a
national  ceiling on the amount that can be paid  under  the  fee
schedule.  Laboratories bill the program directly and must accept
the  scheduled  amount  as  payment in  full  for  covered  tests
performed  on  behalf  of Medicare beneficiaries.   In  addition,
state Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more than  the
Medicare  fee  schedule amount for clinical  laboratory  services
furnished to Medicaid recipients.

      Since 1984, Congress has  periodically reduced the ceilings
on   Medicare   reimbursement  to  clinical   laboratories   from
previously authorized levels.  In 1993, pursuant to provisions in
the  Omnibus Budget and Reconciliation Act of 1993 ("OBRA  '93"),
Congress   reduced,  effective  January  1,  1994,  the  Medicare
national limitations from 88% of the 1984 national median to  76%
of the 1984 national median, which reductions were implemented on



a  phased-in basis from 1994 through 1996 (to 84% in 1994, 80% in
1995 and 76% in 1996).  The 1996 reduction to 76% was implemented
as  scheduled  on January 1, 1996.  OBRA '93 also eliminated  the
provision  for  annual  fee  schedule increases  based  upon  the
Consumer  Price  Index for 1994 and 1995.  These reductions  were
partially  offset, however, by annual Consumer  Price  Index  fee
schedule   increases  of  3.2%  and  2.7%  in  1996   and   1997,
respectively.

     In August 1997, Congress passed and the President signed the
Balanced  Budget Act of 1997 ("BBA"), which included a  provision
that  reduced,  effective January 1, 1998, the Medicare  national
limitations from 76% of the 1984 national median to  74%  of  the
1984 national median.  An additional provision in the BBA freezes
the Consumer Price Index update for five years.

      Because  a significant portion of the Company's  costs  are
relatively fixed, Medicare reimbursement reductions have a direct
adverse effect on the Company's net earnings and cash flows.  The
Company  cannot  predict whether additional  Medicare  reductions
will be implemented.

      On  April  1,  1997, Medicare's new policy for  billing  of
automated chemistry profiles went into effect.  The policy, which
was   developed  by  the  Health  Care  Financing  Administration
("HCFA")   working   with  the  American   Medical   Association,
eliminates the old commonly used "19-22 test" automated chemistry
profile, sometimes referred to as a "SMAC" and replaces  it  with
four  new  panels of "clinically relevant" automated tests  (each
containing from four to twelve chemistry tests).  As a result  of
this  new  policy, all major laboratory companies, including  the
Company,  were  required to eliminate the old chemistry  profiles
from  their  standard test requisition forms  and  standard  test
offerings by July 1, 1998.  The Company developed and implemented
a  new "universal" test requisition and "standard test offerings"
which successfully incorporated all required changes by the  July
1,  1998 deadline.  Estimated out-of-pocket costs associated with
these  changes  are over $5 million.  The Company  is  unable  to
estimate  the  indirect  costs  associated  with  these  changes.
However,  personnel time and effort to roll-out the new forms  to
clients has been significant.

      The  new  automated  chemistry profile  billing  policy  is
intended  to reduce the number of non-Medicare covered "screening
tests"   which   Medicare  believes  have  in   the   past   been
inappropriately  billed to Medicare.  The BBA also  required  the
Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services  to  adopt   uniform
coverage, administration and payment policies for lab tests using
a  negotiated rulemaking process.  Consensus was reached  by  the
negotiated  rulemaking  committee  which,  among  other   things,
established policies limiting Medicare coverage for certain tests
to  patients  with  specified medical  conditions  or  diagnoses.
These  uniform  policies  will replace  local  Medicare  coverage
policies.    The   proposed  rules  reflecting   the   negotiated


rulemaking committee's report are expected to be published within
the  next  few  days.  However, the rules will not  be  effective
until  one  year  after publication of final  rules,  and  it  is
uncertain when final rules will be published.  Due to the variety
of  new rules (including limited coverage rules) which have  been
adopted or proposed recently to address these issues, the Company
does  not believe a meaningful estimate of the potential  revenue
impact  of  these  developments can be made at  this  time.   The
Company's   analysis  to  date  does  not  indicate  a  currently
measurable  impact  on revenues.  The Company  will  continue  to
monitor this issue going forward.

      Future changes in federal, state and local regulations  (or
in   the   interpretation   of  current  regulations)   affecting
governmental reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing  could
have a material adverse effect on the Company.  However, based on
currently available information, the Company is unable to predict
what type of legislation, if any, will be enacted into law.

     Security and Confidentiality of Health Information

      The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act  of
1996 ("HIPAA") includes provisions that affect how electronically
transmitted  patient information and claims are  to  be  handled.
The  reach of these provisions is quite broad because they  apply
to all health information that is or ever has been electronically
transmitted or electronically maintained by a health plan, health
care  provider  or health care data clearinghouse.   Pursuant  to
HIPAA,  proposed  rules have been published addressing  standards
for  electronic  data  formatting,  the  security  of  electronic
transmission   and   maintenance  of  health   information,   and
protecting  the  privacy  of  health  information.    The   final
regulations  implementing HIPAA are not expected to be  published
before  Summer 2000, and the regulations do not become  effective
until  2 years after the date of publication.  Failure to  comply
could  result in significant civil and/or criminal penalties.  As
it  will  be  for virtually all healthcare-related organizations,
complying  with the various HIPAA requirements will be  a  multi-
year,  entity-wide effort likely requiring capital  and  internal
labor   expenditures  by  the  Company,  but  until   the   final
regulations are published, the Company is unable to estimate  the
total cost of compliance.

      In  addition to the HIPAA provisions described above, which
have  not yet been implemented, there are a number of state  laws
regarding  the  confidentiality of medical information,  some  of
which  apply  to clinical laboratories.  These laws vary  widely,
and  new  laws  in this area are pending, but they most  commonly
restrict  the  use and disclosure of medical information  without
patient  consent.  Penalties for violation of these laws  include
sanctions  against  a laboratory's state licensure,  as  well  as
civil  and/or criminal penalties.  The Company believes it is  in
substantial  compliance  with applicable  state  laws  concerning
confidentiality of medical information.


     Fraud and Abuse Regulations

      Existing  federal laws governing Medicare and Medicaid,  as
well as similar state laws, impose a variety of broadly described
fraud  and  abuse prohibitions on healthcare providers, including
clinical laboratories.  These laws are interpreted liberally  and
enforced  aggressively by multiple government agencies, including
the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Department of Health and
Human  Services Office of the Inspector General ("OIG"), and  the
states.   The federal government's enforcement efforts have  been
increasing,  in part as a result of the enactment of  the  Health
Insurance  Portability and Accountability  Act  of  1996,  which,
among  other things, provided for the establishment of a  program
to  coordinate federal, state and local law enforcement programs,
and to conduct investigations, audits and inspections relating to
payment  for healthcare, and for the establishment of  a  federal
anti-fraud  and  abuse  account for enforcement  efforts,  funded
through collection of penalties and fines for violations  of  the
healthcare  anti-fraud and abuse laws.  Moreover, over  the  last
several  years,  the clinical laboratory industry  has  been  the
focus of major governmental enforcement initiatives.

      The  Medicare  and  Medicaid  anti-kickback  laws  prohibit
intentionally  providing  anything  of  value  to  influence  the
referral  of  Medicare and Medicaid business.  HHS has  published
safe harbor regulations which specify certain business activities
that,  although literally covered by the laws, will  not  violate
the Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback laws if all conditions of the
safe  harbor are met.  Failure to fall within a safe harbor  does
not constitute a violation of the anti-kickback laws; rather, the
arrangement would remain subject to scrutiny by HHS.  Most states
have  their  own Medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several  states
also  have  anti-kickback  laws that apply  to  referral  of  all
patients.

      In  October  1994,  the  Office of  the  Inspector  General
("OIG")of  HHS issued a Special Fraud Alert, which  set  forth  a
number of practices allegedly engaged in by clinical laboratories
and  health  care  providers that the OIG  believes  violate  the
federal  anti-kickback  laws. These practices  include  providing
employees to collect patient samples at physician offices if  the
employees  perform  additional services for physicians  that  are
typically  the  responsibility of the physicians' staff;  selling
laboratory services to renal dialysis centers at prices that  are
below fair market value in return for referrals of Medicare tests
which  are  billed  to Medicare at higher rates;  providing  free
testing  to  a physician's HMO patients in situations  where  the
referring   physicians  benefit  from  such  lower   utilization;
providing  free pick-up and disposal of bio-hazardous  waste  for
physicians   for  items  unrelated  to  a  laboratory's   testing
services; providing facsimile machines or computers to physicians
that  are  not exclusively used in connection with the laboratory
services  performed; and providing free testing for  health  care
providers,  their  families  and  their  employees  (professional


courtesy  testing). The OIG stressed in the Special  Fraud  Alert
that  when one purpose of the arrangements is to induce  referral
of  program-reimbursed  laboratory  testing,  both  the  clinical
laboratory  and  the  health care provider or  physician  may  be
liable  under  the  anti-kickback laws  and  may  be  subject  to
criminal  prosecution  and exclusion from  participation  in  the
Medicare and Medicaid programs.

     Recently, the OIG has provided additional guidance regarding
arrangements that may violate the anti-kickback laws.  In a  1999
Advisory  Opinion, the OIG concluded that a proposed  arrangement
whereby a laboratory would offer physicians significant discounts
on  laboratory  tests billed to the physician might  violate  the
anti-kickback  act.  The OIG reasoned that if the discounts  were
greater   than   could  otherwise  be  justified,  the   proposed
arrangement could be viewed as the laboratory providing discounts
to the physician in exchange for referral by the physician of non-
discounted  Medicare  program business.   Similarly,  in  a  1999
correspondence,  the OIG stated that if any  direct  or  indirect
link exists between a price discount that a laboratory offers  to
a skilled nursing facility ("SNF") for Prospective Payment System
("PPS")-covered  services  and  referrals  of  Medicare  Part   B
business,   the   anti-kickback  statute  would  be   implicated.
Moreover, the OIG concluded that it is continuing to monitor  the
situation  regarding potentially unlawful contracts between  SNFs
and service providers, including laboratories.

     Under another federal provision, known as the "Stark" law or
"self-referral" prohibition, physicians who have an investment or
compensation  relationship with a clinical  laboratory  may  not,
unless  a statutory exception applies, refer Medicare or Medicaid
patients for testing to the laboratory, regardless of the  intent
of the parties.  Similarly, laboratories may not bill Medicare or
Medicaid or any other party for services furnished pursuant to  a
prohibited referral.  There are federal Stark law exceptions  for
fair market value compensation to a physician for reasonable  and
necessary  services,  and for discounts to physicians  purchasing
laboratory  services.  There is also an exception  for  physician
investment in a laboratory company so long as the company's stock
is  traded  on  a  public exchange, the company  has  stockholder
equity  exceeding $75,000,000, and the physician's shares may  be
purchased on terms generally available to the public.  State self-
referral  laws  exist  as  well,  which  apply  to  all   patient
referrals, not just Medicare and Medicaid.

      There  are  a variety of other types of federal  and  state
anti-fraud  and abuse laws, including laws prohibiting submission
of  false  or  otherwise  improper claims to  federal  healthcare
programs, and laws limiting the extent of any differences between
the Company's charges to Medicare and Medicaid and its charges to
other  parties.  The Company seeks to structure its  business  to
comply  with  the  federal and state anti-fraud and  abuse  laws.
However, the Company is unable to predict how these laws will  be
applied  in the future, and no assurances can be given  that  its
arrangements  will  not  be  subject  to  scrutiny  under   them.


Sanctions for violations of these laws may include exclusion from
participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal  healthcare
programs, significant criminal and civil fines and penalties, and
loss of licensure.  Any exclusion from participation in a federal
healthcare  program, or any loss of licensure, arising  from  any
action   by  any  federal  or  state  regulatory  or  enforcement
authority, would have a material adverse affect on the  Company's
business.   Any  significant criminal or civil penalty  resulting
from such proceedings could have a material adverse affect on the
Company's business.

     Environmental and Occupational Safety

      The  Company  is subject to licensing and regulation  under
Federal,  state  and local laws and regulations relating  to  the
protection  of  the  environment and  human  health  and  safety,
including   laws  and  regulations  relating  to  the   handling,
transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious  and
hazardous  waste  and radioactive materials as  well  as  to  the
safety   and   health  of  laboratory  employees.   All   Company
laboratories are subject to applicable Federal and state laws and
regulations  relating  to biohazard disposal  of  all  laboratory
specimens  and the Company utilizes outside vendors for  disposal
of  such specimens. In addition, the Federal Occupational  Safety
and  Health Administration has established extensive requirements
relating to workplace safety for health care employers, including
clinical   laboratories,  whose  workers  may   be   exposed   to
blood-borne  pathogens  such as HIV and the  hepatitis  B  virus.
These  regulations,  among other things,  require  work  practice
controls,  protective clothing and equipment,  training,  medical
follow-up,  vaccinations and other measures designed to  minimize
exposure to, and transmission of, blood-borne pathogens. Although
the  Company  is not aware of any current material non-compliance
with  such Federal, state and local laws and regulations, failure
to  comply  could subject the Company to denial of the  right  to
conduct   business,  fines,  criminal  penalties   and/or   other
enforcement actions.

     Drug Testing

     Drug testing for public sector employees is regulated by the
Substance   Abuse  and  Mental  Health  Services   Administration
("SAMSHA") (formerly the National Institute on Drug Abuse), which
has  established detailed performance and quality standards  that
laboratories  must meet in order to be approved to  perform  drug
testing  on  employees  of  Federal  government  contractors  and
certain  other  entities.   To  the  extent  that  the  Company's
laboratories  perform  such testing, each must  be  certified  as
meeting  SAMSHA standards. The Company's Research Triangle  Park,
North Carolina; Memphis, Tennessee; Raritan, New Jersey; Seattle,
Washington;  Herndon, Virginia and Reno, Nevada laboratories  are
SAMSHA certified.


     Controlled Substances

      The  use  of controlled substances in testing for drugs  of
abuse    is   regulated   by   the   Federal   Drug   Enforcement
Administration.

SUMMARY

      The  Company seeks to structure its business to comply with
all  statutes,  regulations and other requirements applicable  to
its  clinical  laboratory  operations.  The  clinical  laboratory
testing  industry  is, however, subject to extensive  regulation,
and  many  of  these  statutes  and  regulations  have  not  been
interpreted  by the courts.  There can be no assurance  therefore
that applicable statutes and regulations might not be interpreted
or  applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial  authority
in  a  manner that would adversely affect the Company.  Potential
sanctions for violation of these statutes and regulations include
significant  fines and the loss of various licenses, certificates
and  authorizations,  which  if imposed  could  have  a  material
adverse affect on the Company's business.

COMPLIANCE PROGRAM

      Because of evolving interpretations of regulations and  the
national debate over health care fraud and abuse, compliance with
all Medicare, Medicaid and other government-established rules and
regulations  has  become  a  significant  factor  throughout  the
clinical  laboratory  industry.  The Company  has  implemented  a
comprehensive  company-wide compliance program, in part  mandated
by  a  comprehensive five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement with
the federal government.  This agreement was part of the Company's
1996  settlement of federal and state claims related to  billings
to Medicare and other federal programs for tests performed by the
Company  and  its  predecessors.  The agreement  is  similar   to
corporate  integrity  agreements arising out  of  settlements  of
similar  claims  by  a  number  of  other  clinical  laboratories
following  a broad-based government investigation and enforcement
initiative.  The objective of the Company's compliance program is
to   develop,  implement,  and  update  as  necessary  compliance
safeguards.  Emphasis is placed on developing personnel  training
programs and various monitoring procedures to attempt to  achieve
implementation of all rules and regulations.

     The Company seeks to structure its business to comply in all
material  respects  with  all statutes,  regulations,  and  other
requirements  applicable to its clinical  laboratory  operations.
The clinical laboratory testing industry is, however, subject  to
extensive  regulation, and many of these statutes and regulations
have  not  been  interpreted by the  courts.   There  can  be  no
assurance  therefore  that  applicable statutes  and  regulations
might   not   be  interpreted  or  applied  by  a  prosecutorial,
regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that would adversely
affect  the Company. Potential sanctions for violation  of  these
statutes  and regulations include significant fines and the  loss
of  various  licenses,  certificates, and  authorizations,  which
could have a material adverse affect on the Company's business.




ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

     The following table summarizes certain information as to the
Company's principal operating and administrative facilities as of
December 31, 1999.


                              Approximate
                                 Area               Nature of
Location                    (in square feet)        Occupancy
- ---------------------       ----------------       ---------------
Operating Facilities:
 Birmingham,  Alabama         100,000              Lease expires 2005
 Phoenix,  Arizona             55,000              Lease expires 2009;
                                                    two 5 year renewal
                                                    options
 San  Diego, California        72,000              Lease expires 2007
 Denver,  Colorado             20,000              Lease expires 2001;
                                                    two 5 year renewal
                                                    options
 Tampa,  Florida               95,000              Lease  expires 2009;
                                                    one 5 year renewal
                                                    option
 Chicago,  Illinois            45,000              Lease expires 2003;
                                                    two 5 year renewal
                                                    options
 Louisville,  Kentucky         60,000              Lease expires 2002;
                                                    three 5 year
                                                    renewal options
 Detroit,  Michigan            32,000              Lease  expires 2004;
                                                    one 10 year renewal
                                                    option
 Kansas City, Missouri         78,000              Owned
 Reno, Nevada                  16,000              Owned
                               14,000              Lease expires 2003;
                                                    one 2 year renewal
                                                    option
 Raritan, New Jersey          187,000              Owned
 Uniondale,  New York         108,000              Lease  expires 2007;
                                                    two 5 year renewal
                                                    options
 Burlington, North Carolina   275,000              Owned
 Charlotte,  North Carolina    25,000              Lease expires 2000;
                                                    one 1 year renewal
                                                    option
 Research  Triangle  Park,     71,000              Lease expires 2008,three
    North  Carolina                                 5 year renewal options
                              111,000              Lease expires 2011;
                                                    three 5 year renewal
                                                    options
 Memphis, Tennessee            45,000              Month to month

 Dublin, Ohio                  82,000              Owned

 Southaven, Mississippi        17,000              Owned
                                                    5 year renewal option
 Dallas, Texas                 56,000              Lease expires 2004; one
                                                    5 year renewal option
 Houston,  Texas               70,000              Lease expires 2012; two
                                                    5 year renewal options
 San  Antonio,  Texas          44,000              Lease expires 2004; one
                                                    5 year renewal option
 Salt Lake City, Utah          20,000              Lease  expires 2002; two
                                                    5 year renewal options



                                  Approximate
                                      Area           Nature of
Location                        (in square feet)     Occupancy
- ----------------------------    ----------------     ------------------
 Operating Facilities cont.:
 Chesapeake,  Virginia               21,000          Lease expires 2002;three
                                                      5 year renewal options
 Herndon,  Virginia                  80,000          Lease expires 2004; one
                                                      5 year renewal option
 Richmond,  Virginia                 57,000          Lease expires 2001; one
                                                      5 year renewal option
 Kent,   Washington                  42,000          Lease expires 2005
 Fairmont,  West  Virginia           25,000          Lease  expires 2005;three
                                                      5 year renewal options
Administrative facilities:
  Burlington, North Carolina        293,000          Owned
                                    229,000          Leases expire 2000-
                                                      2008; various options
                                                      to purchase or renew


      All  of the major laboratory facilities have been built  or
improved  for the single purpose of providing clinical laboratory
testing services.  The Company believes that these facilities are
suitable and adequate and have sufficient production capacity for
its  currently  foreseeable  level of  operations.   The  Company
believes  that  if  it  were to lose the  lease  on  any  of  the
facilities it presently leases, it could find alternate space  at
competitive  market rates and readily relocate its operations  to
such new locations without material disruption to its operations.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      The Company is involved in litigation one of which purports
to  be  a  class  action brought on behalf of  certain  patients,
private  insurers  and  benefit plans that  paid  for  laboratory
testing  services  during  the time frame  covered  by  the  1996
Government  Settlement.  The Company has  also  received  certain
similar  claims  brought  on behalf of  certain  other  insurance
companies  and individuals, some of which have been resolved  for
immaterial  amounts. These claims for private  reimbursement  are
similar  to  the government claims settled in 1996.  However,  no
amount  of damages has been specified at this time and, with  the
exception  of  the  above, no settlement discussions  have  taken
place.    The  Company  is  carefully  evaluating  these  claims.
However,  due  to  the  early stage of the claims,  the  ultimate
outcome of these claims cannot presently be predicted.

      The  Company is also involved in various claims  and  legal
actions  arising  in  the  ordinary course  of  business.   These
matters  include, but are not limited to, professional liability,
employee  related  matters, inquiries from governmental  agencies
and   Medicare  or  Medicaid  carriers  requesting   comment   on
allegations of billing irregularities that are brought  to  their
attention  through  billing audits  or  third  parties.   In  the
opinion  of  management, based upon the  advice  of  counsel  and


consideration of all facts available at this time,  the  ultimate
disposition  of  these matters will not have a  material  adverse
effect  on  the  financial  position, results  of  operations  or
liquidity of the Company.


ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during
the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.



                             PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET  FOR  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON  EQUITY  AND  RELATED
          STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

      On  May 1, 1995, the Common Stock commenced trading on  the
New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "LH".  Prior to
such  date  and since April 24, 1991, the Common Stock traded  on
the  NYSE  under the symbol "NH."  Prior to April 24,  1991,  the
Common  Stock was quoted on the NASDAQ National Market under  the
symbol "NHLI".

      The  following  table sets forth for the  calendar  periods
indicated  the  high and low sales prices for  the  Common  Stock
reported  on  the  NYSE Composite Tape, and  the  cash  dividends
declared per share of Common Stock.
                                              High           Low
                                             ------        -------
  First Quarter                              2 3/16        1 9/16
  Second  Quarter                            2 3/4         1 13/16
  Third Quarter                              2 7/16        1 1/8
  Fourth Quarter                             1 7/8         1 3/16

                                              High           Low
                                             ------        -------
  First Quarter                              2 5/16        1 1/4
  Second  Quarter                            2 15/16       1 11/16
  Third Quarter                              3 1/4         2 1/4
  Fourth Quarter                             3 7/8         2 7/16

                                              High           Low
                                             ------        -------
  First Quarter (through February 29, 2000)  4 1/4         3 1/8

      On February 29, 2000 there were 1,015 holders of record  of
the Common Stock.

      In 1994, the Company discontinued its dividend payments for
the  foreseeable future in order to increase its flexibility with
respect  to its acquisition strategy.  In addition, the Company's
credit  agreement,  as amended, places certain  restrictions,  as
defined in the credit agreement, on the payment of dividends.

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

      The  selected  financial  data presented  below  under  the
captions "Statement of Operations Data" and "Balance Sheet  Data"
as  of and for the three-year period ended December 31, 1999  are
derived  from  consolidated financial statements of the  Company,
which   have   been   audited   by  PricewaterhouseCoopers   LLP,
independent  accountants. The selected financial  data  presented
below  under  the  captions "Statement of  Operations  Data"  and
"Balance Sheet Data" as of and for each of the years in the  two-
year period ended December 31, 1996 are derived from consolidated


financial  statements of the Company, which have been audited  by
other  independent  accountants.  This data  should  be  read  in
conjunction   with   the   accompanying  notes,   the   Company's
consolidated financial statements and the related notes  thereto,
and  "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations," all included elsewhere herein.

                                            Year Ended December 31,
                               ------------------------------------------------
                                      1999             1998           1997
                               ----------------    ------------   -------------
                               (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
Statement of Operations Data:
 Net sales                        $ 1,698.7         $ 1,612.6     $ 1,579.9
 Gross profit                         629.1             563.4         499.4
 Operating income (loss)              149.7             127.6         (92.0)(g)
 Earnings (loss) before
  extraordinary loss                   65.4              68.8        (106.9)
 Extraordinary loss                      --                --            --
                                  ---------         ---------     ---------
 Net earnings (loss)              $    65.4         $    68.8     $  (106.9)
                                  =========         =========     =========

 Earnings (loss)per common share
  before extraordinary loss       $     0.12        $     0.20    $    (1.06)
 Extraordinary loss per common
  share                                   --                --            --
                                  ----------        ----------    ----------
 Net earnings (loss) per common
  share                           $     0.12        $     0.20    $    (1.06)
                                  ==========        ==========    ==========

 Dividends per common share       $      --         $      --     $      --
 Weighted average common shares
  outstanding (in thousands)        126,662           124,847       123,241

Ratio of earnings to combined
  fixed charges and preferred
  stock dividends (h)                   1.22              1.11          NA

Balance Sheet Data:
 Cash and cash equivalents        $    40.3         $    22.7     $    23.3
 Intangible assets, net               803.9             836.2         851.3
 Total assets                       1,590.2           1,640.9       1,658.5
 Long-term obligations and
  redeemable preferred stock (e)    1,041.5           1,136.1       1,200.1
 Due to affiliates (f)                  3.5               1.7           2.2
 Total shareholders' equity           175.5             154.4         129.1




                                             Year Ended December 31,
                               -----------------------------------------------
                                         1996                   1995  (a)
                               --------------------      ---------------------
                               (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
Statement of Operations Data:
 Net sales                           $ 1,676.2                $ 1,513.5
 Gross profit                            492.3                    489.2
 Operating income (loss)                (118.8)(b)                 67.2(c)
 Earnings (loss) before
  extraordinary loss                    (153.5)                    (4.0)
 Extraordinary loss                         --                     (8.3)(d)
                                     ---------                ---------
 Net earnings (loss)                 $  (153.5)               $   (12.3)
                                     =========                =========

 Earnings (loss)per common share
  before extraordinary loss          $    (1.25)              $    (0.03)
 Extraordinary loss per common
  share                                     --                     (0.08)
                                     ----------               ----------
 Net earnings (loss) per common
  share                              $    (1.25)              $    (0.11)
                                     ==========               ==========
 Dividends per common share          $      --                $      --
 Weighted average common shares
  outstanding (in thousands)            122,920                  110,579

Ratio of earnings to combined
  fixed charges and preferred
  stock dividends (h)                       NA                      1.04

Balance Sheet Data:
 Cash and cash equivalents           $    29.3                $    16.4
 Intangible assets, net                  891.1                    916.7
 Total assets                          1,917.0                  1,837.2
 Long-term obligations and
  redeemable preferred stock (e)       1,089.4                    948.6
 Due to affiliates (f)                   190.5                      0.9
 Total shareholders' equity              258.1                    411.6


(a)   In  April 1995, the Company completed a merger  with  Roche
Biomedical Laboratories, Inc. ("RBL"), an indirect subsidiary  of
Roche Holdings, Inc. ("Roche"), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan
of  Merger  dated as of December 13, 1994 (the "Merger").   RBL's
results of operations have been included in the Company's results
of  operations  since  April 28, 1995.  In  connection  with  the
Merger,  the  Company  changed  its  name  from  National  Health
Laboratories  Holdings Inc. ("NHL") to Laboratory Corporation  of
America Holdings.

(b)   In the second quarter of 1996, the Company recorded certain
pre-tax  charges  of a non-recurring nature including  additional
charges related to the restructuring of operations following  the
Merger.   The  Company recorded a restructuring  charge  totaling
$13.0  million  for  the  shutdown of its  La  Jolla,  California
administrative  facility  and  other  workforce  reductions.   In
addition,  the  Company recorded $10.0 million  in  non-recurring
charges  in the second quarter of 1996 related to the integration
of  its  operations  following  the  Merger.    As  a  result  of
negotiations  with  the Office of the Inspector  General  of  the
Department  of  Health and Human Services and the  Department  of
Justice  related to the 1996 government settlement,  the  Company
recorded  a  settlement charge of $185.0  million  in  the  third
quarter of 1996 to increase accruals for  settlements and related
expenses  of government and private claims resulting  from  these
investigations.


(c)   In 1995, following the Merger, the Company determined  that
it would be beneficial to close certain laboratory facilities and
eliminate duplicate functions in certain geographic regions where
duplicate NHL and RBL facilities or functions existed at the time
of  the  Merger.   The  Company  recorded  pre-tax  restructuring
charges  of  $65.0 million in connection with these  plans.   See
Note  2  of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  which
sets  forth the Company's restructuring activities for the  years
ended  December  31,  1999, 1998 and 1997.   Also  in  1995,  the
Company  recorded  a pre-tax special charge of $10.0  million  in
connection  with the estimated costs of settling  various  claims
pending  against  the Company, substantially all  of  which  were
billing disputes with various third party payors relating to  the
contention that NHL improperly included tests for HDL cholesterol
and  serum  ferritin  in its basic test profile  without  clearly
offering  an  alternative  profile that  did  not  include  these
medical  tests.  As of December 31, 1999, the majority  of  these
disputes have been settled.

(d)   In  connection  with  the repayment  in  1995  of  existing
revolving credit and term loan facilities in connection with  the
Merger,   the   Company   recorded  an  extraordinary   loss   of
approximately  $13.5  million  ($8.3  million,   net   of   tax),
consisting of the write-off of deferred financing costs,  related
to the early extinguishment of debt.

(e)   Long term obligations include capital lease obligations  of
$4.4  million, $4.2 million, $5.8 million, $9.8 million and  $9.6
million  at  December  31,  1999,  1998,  1997,  1996  and  1995,
respectively.   Long-term obligations also include the  long-term
portion of the expected value of future contractual amounts to be
paid  to  the  former principals of acquired laboratories.   Such
payments are principally based on a percentage of future revenues
derived from the acquired customer lists or specified amounts  to
be paid over a period of time.  At December 31, 1999, 1998, 1997,
1996 and 1995, such amounts were $0.0 million, $7.7 million, $9.6
million,  $14.8  million and $14.7 million,  respectively.   Long
term obligations exclude amounts due to affiliates.

(f)  In December 1996, Roche loaned $187.0 million to the Company
to  fund  the  1996  government  settlement  in  the  form  of  a
promissory note.  Such note bore interest at a rate of 6.625% per
annum  and  was  repaid  in June, 1997  with  proceeds  from  the
Preferred   Stock  Offering.   See  Note  9  of  the   Notes   to
Consolidated  Financial Statements. The remaining  amounts  shown
represent trade payables to affiliated companies.


(g)   During  the fourth quarter of 1997 the Company  recorded  a
provision  for  doubtful accounts of $182.0  million,  which  was
approximately $160.0 million greater than the amount recorded  in
the  fourth  quarter  of 1996 and a $22.7 million  provision  for
restructuring certain laboratory operations.

(h)   For  the  purpose of calculating the ratio of  earnings  to
combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends (i) earnings
consist  of  income before provision for income taxes  and  fixed
charges  and  (ii) fixed charges consist of interest expense  and
one-third of rental expense which is deemed representative of  an
interest factor. For the years ended December 31, 1997 and  1996,
earnings  were insufficient to cover fixed charges and  preferred
stock   dividends   by   $196.8  million  and   $188.3   million,
respectively.


ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  FINANCIAL
     CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

      GENERAL

      During 1999, the Company experienced growth as a result  of
continued  implementation  of  its strategic  plan,  rather  than
through   acquisitions.   The  Company  continues  to   emphasize
customer  satisfaction  and expanding those  laboratory  services
which offer the greatest benefit to patients, clinicians, and the
Company.   The  areas  of particular growth emphasis  are  higher
margin  esoteric testing, genetic testing, oncology  testing  and
infectious disease testing.

      Approximately  $300 million in annual  revenue  comes  from
specialty  testing  generated through the  Company's  Center  for
Esoteric  Testing  in  Burlington, and the Center  for  Molecular
Biology  and  Pathology  ("CMBP"),  in  Research  Triangle  Park.
Annual revenue for the Center for Esoteric Testing is around $180
million annually, and growing at about 6-7% per year.  The annual
revenue for CMBP is approximately $100 million, with a number  of
test categories growing at an annual rate of about 15-20%.

      Medically  advanced infectious disease testing  represented
approximately  $57  million in revenues  in  1999.   The  Company
expects medically advance infectious disease volume growth in the
near  term of 30-40% annually.  This volume growth is anticipated
to  come  primarily  from  HIV  and  hepatitus  C  testing.   HIV
resistance testing has recently received strong support from  the
FDA's   Antiretroviral  Advisory  Committee  for  use   in   drug
development.  Resistance testing has also received strong support
by the Department of Health and Human Services' Panel on Clinical
Practices  for  treatment of HIV infection for  use  in  clinical
practice.   The Company is currently the only laboratory  with  a
historical  database of multiple viral load and resistance  tests
on  the  same  patient - information that has high value  in  the
management of HIV.

      Genetic  testing  is  primarily  performed  at  CMBP,  and
represented approximately $33 million in CMBP revenue at the  end
of 1999.  The Company expects volume growth over the next several
years  to  be  about 10% annually.  Demand for molecular  genetic
tests has doubled over the past year.

      Company-wide, oncology testing, including pathology,  tumor
markers  and  molecular oncology, represented in excess  of  $200
million  in  revenue in 1999.  Oncology testing has  high  growth
potential, with increased demand for oncology testing anticipated
once  more  therapies and tests for cancer  are  available.   The
Company  will continue to add new, higher-margin tests,  such  as
those  for  cervical cancer like monolayer PAP and  HPV  testing.
The  Company's national presence, the volume of testing performed
and its expertise as a technology leader permits it to be one  of
the  first  labs  in the country to offer new tests,  helping  to
quickly increase awareness of new diagnostic tools.


      Overall, the Company expects its current performance trends
to  continue  into 2000.  Consolidated revenues are  forecast  to
increase by 4% to 5%, with operating expenses increasing  between
2%  to  3%.   The effective income tax rate is forecasted  to  be
approximately 46% for 2000.

     The Company plans to continue increasing "connectivity" with
customers  through  test ordering and result  receiving  products
such  as  the LabCorp Communication Manager software, and through
external  alliances,  such as the recently  announced  agreements
with  Healtheon/WebMD,  AHT Corporation,  and  ProxyMed,  all  e-
commerce health care companies.  Recent strategic alliances  with
Kingston  and  Benedictine Hospitals in New York  state,  McAllen
Medical  center Hospital and Edinburg regional Medical Center  in
Texas,  and  more than 170 statewide sites of the Florida  Health
Department and county clinics, are benefiting from the  Company's
state-of-the-art information network that provide clients  access
to emergin technology sooner.

     During the year, the clinical trials testing business of the
Company opened a full-service laboratory in Belgium, in order  to
service the global pharmaceutical industry.

     The  Company's  industry  continues  to  be  affected   by
significant   government  regulation,   price   competition   and
increased influence of managed care organizations.  Many  market-
based  changes in the clinical laboratory business have occurred,
most  involving  the shift away from traditional, fee-for-service
medicine to managed-cost health care.  The growth of the  managed
care  sector has presented various challenges to the Company  and
other   independent  clinical  laboratories  such  as   increased
discounts  and  the  use of capitated payment  contracts.   These
practices   have  negatively  impacted  the  Company's  operating
margins.   50%  of the U.S. population and 85% of  employees  are
members  of managed care plans.  However, recent trends  indicate
that  membership  in  restrictive  HMO  plans  has  peaked,  with
enrollment   expected   to  shift  into   plans   offering   more
patient/provider choice, such as preferred provider organizations
and  point  of  service  models.  As a  result,  the  Company  is
experiencing better pricing and improved margins on  its  managed
care business.  During 1999, the Company's revenue from capitated
payment  contracts decreased by $5.7 million, to  $84.3  million,
while total revenue from all managed care contracts increased  by
$78.3 million, to a total of $584.0 million.

IMPACT OF THE YEAR 2000 ISSUE

      The Company successfully completed its Year 2000 project in
regards  to year end items.  It has experienced only a few  minor
isolated  Year 2000 related issues.  Each issue has been  quickly
remediated, tested and validated.  The Company continues to  test
and validate for any lagging Year 2000 issues.


      The  total expenditures to complete the Year 2000 work plan
were  $17.3  million, with approximately $3.0 million charged  to
earnings  during the year ended 1998 and $7.6 million charged  to
earnings  and  an  additional $6.7 million in  related  purchases
capitalized  during  the twelve months ended December  31,  1999.
The  amounts  required  to address Year  2000  readiness  do  not
include  significant investments in new systems which  have  been
made  in  the  normal  course  of  business  and  are  Year  2000
compliant.

SEASONALITY

      Volume  of  testing generally declines  during  the  summer
months,  year-end  holiday  periods  and  other  major  holidays,
resulting in net revenues and cash flows in the third and  fourth
quarters  below the annual average. In addition, volume  declines
due  to inclement weather may reduce net revenues and cash flows.
Therefore,  comparison of the results of successive quarters  may
not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year.

      The  Company  experienced positive growth in both  its  net
revenues  and  operating cash flows during the third  and  fourth
quarters of 1999 in comparison to the prior year.  However, there
can be no assurances that this trend will extend into the future.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Year  ended  December 31, 1999 compared with Year ended  December
31, 1998.

      Net  sales  for 1999 were $1,698.7 million, an increase  of
5.3%  from  $1,612.6  million reported  in  the  comparable  1998
period.   Sales increased 3.1% due to an increase  in  price  per
accession  (which reflects actual price increases and changes  in
the  mix  of  tests  performed) and 2.2% due to  an  increase  in
volume.   These  increases  occurred  as  a  result  of  specific
initiatives in the Company's strategic plan that have created  an
improved business climate.

      Cost  of  sales,  which includes primarily  laboratory  and
distribution  costs, was $1,069.6 million for  1999  compared  to
$1,049.2 million in the corresponding 1998 period, an increase of
1.9%. Cost of sales increased approximately $23.0 million due  to
an  increase  in  volume, approximately $2.0 million  due  to  an
increase  in  medical  consulting  fees  and  approximately  $5.6
million  due to an increase in testing supplies.  These increases
were  offset  by  a decrease in salaries of $2.5 million  due  to
streamlining  of  operations, and decreases  in  insurance  ($2.6
million),  telephone  ($3.8 million) and freight  ($1.3  million)
expenses as a result of continued cost control measures.  Cost of
sales  as a percentage of net sales was 63.0% for 1999 and  65.1%
in  the  corresponding 1998 period. The decrease in the  cost  of
sales  percentage of net sales primarily resulted from  the  cost


reduction efforts mentioned above and economies of scale achieved
through volume growth.

      Selling,  general and administrative expenses increased  to
$448.2 million in 1999 from $405.0 million in the same period  in
1998   representing  an  increase  of  $43.2  million  or  10.7%.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were 26.4% and 25.1%
as a percentage of net sales in 1999 and 1998, respectively.  The
increase  in  selling,  general and  administrative  expenses  is
primarily  the  result  of  the increase  in  the  provision  for
doubtful  accounts of $27.2 million from the amount  recorded  in
1998 and increases of approximately $14.2 in sales incentives and
commissions.

     Interest expense was $41.6 million in 1999 compared to $48.7
million  in  1998.  This  decrease is related  to  the  Company's
overall  reduction in its outstanding debt.  See  "Liquidity  and
Capital Resources."

      Provision  for  income  taxes was  $40.1  million  in  1999
compared  to $12.7 million in 1998.  See "Note 10 to Consolidated
Financial Statements" for a further discussion of income taxes.

Year  ended  December 31, 1998 compared with Year ended  December
31, 1997.

      Net  sales  for 1998 were $1,612.6 million, an increase  of
approximately  2.1%  from  $1,579.9  million  reported   in   the
comparable 1997 period.  Sales increased 3.2% due to an  increase
in price per accession (which reflects actual price increases and
changes in the mix of tests performed), which was a direct result
of  the  Company's  effort to negotiate  better  pricing  on  new
contracts, raising prices on existing contracts that do not  meet
Company  profitability  targets and  other  pricing  initiatives.
This  increase was offset by a 1.2% decline in sales as a  result
of  lower testing volume, resulting from industry-wide trends  as
well   as   the  Company's  program  of  selectively  eliminating
unprofitable  accounts and carefully evaluating the acceptability
of new business.

      Cost  of  sales,  which includes primarily  laboratory  and
distribution  costs, was $1,049.2 million for  1998  compared  to
$1,080.5 million in the corresponding 1997 period, a decrease  of
2.9%. Cost of sales decreased approximately $22.4 million due  to
a  decrease in testing supplies, approximately $12.9 million  due
to  the decrease in volume, and approximately $4.6 million due to
a  decrease  in consulting fees.  These decreases were  partially
offset  by  an  increase  in salaries  due  to  scheduled  salary
increases as well as the Michigan and Delaware acquisitions.  The
reduction in testing supplies is the result of ongoing efforts by
the  Company  to consolidate suppliers and inventory item  usage.
There can be no assurance that the Company can achieve this level
of reduction in the future.  Cost of sales as a percentage of net


sales  was  65.1%  for 1998 and 68.4% in the  corresponding  1997
period. The decrease in the cost of sales percentage of net sales
primarily  resulted  from  the cost reduction  efforts  mentioned
above.

      Selling,  general and administrative expenses decreased  to
$405.0 million in 1998 from $538.1 million in the same period  in
1997   representing  a  decrease  of  $133.1  million  or  24.7%.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were 25.1% and 34.1%
as a percentage of net sales in 1998 and 1997, respectively.  The
decrease  in  selling,  general and  administrative  expenses  is
primarily  the  result  of  the decrease  in  the  provision  for
doubtful  accounts of $146.8 million from the amount recorded  in
1997.  This decrease was partially offset by increases in 1998 in
personnel  expenses  ($13.0 million),  bad  debt  expense  ($11.3
million) and telephone ($2.0 million).

      Net interest expense was $48.7 million in 1998 compared  to
$71.7 million in 1997.

      Provision for income taxes was an expense of $12.7  million
in  1998 compared to a tax benefit of $54.4 million in 1997.  See
"Note  10  to  Consolidated Financial Statements" for  a  further
discussion of income taxes.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

      Net  cash  provided  by  operating  activities  was  $180.5
million,  $125.1 million and $144.4 million, in  1999,  1998  and
1997, respectively.  The increase in cash flow from operations in
1999 primarily resulted from decreases in accounts receivable.

      Capital expenditures were $69.4 million, $58.7 million  and
$34.5  million for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The Company
expects  capital  expenditures to be between  $65.0  million  and
$75.0  million  in  2000.   These expenditures  are  intended  to
continue   to  improve  billing  systems  and  further   automate
laboratory  processes.   Such expenditures  are  expected  to  be
funded  by cash flow from operations as well as borrowings  under
the Company's credit facilities.

      The  Company's days sales outstanding (DSO) at the  end  of
1999  improved to 74 days as compared to 83 days at  the  end  of
1998.  During  the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company  decreased
its  bad debt expense in response to a fourth quarter improvement
in  cash  collection rates.  This improvement was due to  Company
wide  efforts  to increase cash collections from all  payors,  as
well as on-going improvements to claim submission processes.   In
addition,  the Company is continuing to take the steps  necessary
to improve DSO and cash collections by:

1.   Accelerating  the  conversion  of  decentralized   billing
  locations to a centralized billing system.  During 1999, the Long
  Island, northern Virginia and Michigan locations were converted.


2.   Assigning focused, cross functional billing operations teams
  to  implement  best  practices  throughout  the  Company,  with
  particular emphasis on geographic areas with higher DSO's,  and
  identifying  underlying  causes for and  solutions  to  payment
  delays.

      With  the completion of the conversion of the Long  Island,
northern Virginia and Michigan facilities, approximately  60%  of
the Company's billings are performed on the Company's centralized
system.  By the end of the year 2000, Management anticipates that
approximately  85% of billings will be performed on  that  system
with  the  remainder converted during 2001.  The  billing  system
conversions,  combined with improvements in front-end  processes,
that enhance data capture for billing, are expected to reduce DSO
to  approximately 69 days by the end of 2000 and the mid  60s  by
the end of 2001.

      The  Company expects that these conversions will lower  DSO
and  have  a  positive impact on the timing of cash  collections.
The  positive  effects of these conversions will most  likely  be
realized  some  time  after the completion  of  the  conversions.
There  can  be no assurance that the planned billing  conversions
will improve the Company's DSO and cash collections.

      During 1999, the Company repaid approximately $70.3 million
on  its  term loan facility.  There were no outstanding  balances
due on its revolving credit facility at the end of 1999 and 1998.

     Based on current and projected levels of operations, coupled
with  availability  under  its  revolving  credit  facility,  the
Company  believes it has sufficient liquidity to  meet  both  its
short-term  and  long-term cash needs.  For a discussion  of  the
Company's long-term debt and revolving credit facility, see "Note
8 to Consolidated Financial Statements."

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS
OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

      The  Private  Securities  Litigation  Reform  Act  of  1995
evidences Congress' determination that the disclosure of forward-
looking  information  is desirable for investors  and  encourages
such  disclosure  by providing a safe harbor for  forward-looking
statements   by   corporate  management.   This  Annual   Report,
including  the  Letter to Our Shareholders and  the  Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial Condition and  Results  of
Operations, contains forward-looking statements that involve risk
and  uncertainty.  In order to comply with the terms of the  safe
harbor,  the Company notes that a variety of factors could  cause
the  Company's actual results and experience to differ materially
from  the anticipated results or other expectations expressed  in
the Company's forward-looking statements.


      The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations,
performance, development, growth projections and results  of  the
Company's business include, but are not limited to, the growth of
the  economy, interest rate movements, timely development by  the
Company of technology enhancements of its operating systems,  the
impact  of  competitive services and pricing,  customer  business
requirements,  Congressional  legislation  and  similar  matters.
Readers  of this report are cautioned not to place undue reliance
on  forward-looking statements which are subject to influence  by
the  named risk factors and unanticipated future events.   Actual
results,  accordingly,  may  differ  materially  from  management
expectations.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE  AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE  ABOUT  MARKET
          RISK

          The Company has no material information to disclose.


ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

           Reference  is  made to the Index on Page  F-1  of  the
           Financial Report included herein.


ITEM 9.   CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS   ON
          ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

          Not Applicable.



                              PART III

      The information required by Part III, Items 10 through  13,
of  Form  10-K is incorporated by reference from the registrant's
definitive  proxy  statement  for  its  2000  annual  meeting  of
stockholders, which is to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A not
later than April 30, 2000.

                             PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS  ON
          FORM 8-K

(a)  List of documents filed as part of this Report:

          (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements and Independent
               Auditors' Reports included herein:

               See Index on page F-1

          (2)  Financial Statement Schedules:

               See Index on page F-1

     All other schedules are omitted as they are inapplicable  or
     the  required  information is furnished in the  Consolidated
     Financial Statements or notes thereto.

          (3)  Index to and List of Exhibits

               (a)  Exhibits:*

     Exhibits  10.1  through  10.3 and  10.6  through  10.13  are
     management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.

        2.1  -    Agreement and Plan of Merger among the Company, NHL Sub
                  Acquisition Corp. and NHLI (incorporated herein by reference
                  to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed with
                  the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on
                  March 14, 1994, File No. 33-52655 (the "1994 S-4")).
        2.2  -    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 3, 1994 of NHLI
                  and N Acquisition Corp. (incorporated herein by reference to
                  Exhibit (c)(1) of Schedule 14D-1 and Schedule 13D ("Schedule
                  14D-1 and Schedule 13D") filed with the Commission on May 9,
                  1994).
        2.3  -    Agreement dated as of June 7, 1994, among N Acquisition Corp.,
                  the Company and  NHLI (incorporated  herein  by reference  to
                  Exhibit (c)(7) of amendment No. 2 to Schedule 14D-1  and
                  Schedule  13D  of  NHLI and N  Acquisition  Corp filed with
                  the Commission on June 8, 1994).


        2.4  -    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of December 13, 1994
                  among the Company, HLR Holdings Inc., Roche Biomedical
                  Laboratories, Inc. and (for the purposes stated therein)
                  Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to
                  the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1994 filed with the Commission on March 3,
                  1995, File No. 1-11353 (the "1994 10-K")).
        2.5  -    Stock Purchase Agreement dated December 30, 1994 between
                  Reference Pathology Holding Company, Inc. and Allied Clinical
                  Laboratories, Inc. ("Allied") (incorporated herein by
                  reference to the 1994 10-K).
        3.1  -    Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (amended pursuant
                  to a Certificate of Merger filed on April 28, 1995)
                  (incorporated by reference herein to the report on Form 8-K
                  dated April 28, 1995, filed with the Commission on May 12,
                  1995, File No. 1-11353 (the "April 28, 1995 Form 8-K")).
        3.2  -    Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company (incorporated
                  herein by reference to the April 28, 1995 Form 8-K).
        4.1  -    Warrant Agreement dated as of April 10, 1995 between the
                  Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company
                  (incorporated herein by reference to the April 28, 1995 Form
                  8-K).
        4.2  -    Specimen of the Company's Warrant Certificate (included in the
                  Exhibit to the Warrant Agreement included therein as Exhibit
                  4.1 hereto) (incorporated herein by reference to the April 28,
                  1995 Form 8-K).
        4.3  -    Specimen of the Company's Common Stock Certificate
                  (incorporated herein by reference to the April 28, 1995 Form
                  8-K).
       10.1  -    National Health Laboratories Incorporated Employees' Savings
                  and Investment Plan (incorporated herein by reference to the
                  Company's Annual Report on  Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1991 filed with the Commission on February 13,
                  1992, File No. 1-10740** (the "1991 10-K")).
       10.2  -    National Health Laboratories Incorporated Employees'
                  Retirement Plan (incorporated herein by reference to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1992 filed with the Commission on March 26,
                  1993, File No. 1-10740 (the "1992 10-K")).
       10.3  -    National Health Laboratories Incorporated Pension Equalization
                  Plan (incorporated herein by reference to the 1992 10-K).
       10.4  -    Settlement Agreement dated December 18, 1992 between the
                  Company and the United States of America (incorporated herein
                  by reference to the 1992 10-K).
       10.5  -    Settlement Agreement dated November 21, 1996 between the
                  Company and the United States of America.
       10.6  -    National Health Laboratories 1988 Stock Option Plan, as
                  amended (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's
                  Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33- 35782) filed with
                  the Commission on July 9, 1990 (the "1990 S-1")).


       10.7  -    National Health Laboratories 1994 Stock Option Plan
                  (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's
                  Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed with the
                  Commission on August 12, 1994, File No. 33-55065).
       10.8  -    Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Performance Unit
                  Plan (incorporated by reference to Annex II of the Company's
                  1995 Annual Proxy Statement filed with the Commission on
                  August 17, 1995 (the "1995 Proxy")).
       10.9  -    Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Annual Bonus
                  Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Annex III of the
                  1995 Proxy).
       10.10 -    Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Master Senior
                  Executive Severance Plan (incorporated herein by reference to
                  the report on Form 8-K dated October 24, 1996 (the "October
                  24, 1996 8-K") filed with the Commission on October 24, 1996,
                  File No. 1-11353).
       10.11 -    Special Severance Agreement dated June 28, 1996 between the
                  Company and Timothy J. Brodnik (incorporated herein by
                  reference to the October 24, 1996 8-K).
      10.12  -    Special Severance Agreement dated July 12, 1996 between the
                  Company and John F. Markus (incorporated herein by reference
                  to the October 24, 1996 8-K).
      10.13  -    Special Severance Agreement dated June 28, 1996 between the
                  Company and Robert E. Whalen (incorporated herein by reference
                  to the October 24, 1996 8-K).
      10.14  -    Tax Allocation Agreement dated as of June 26, 1990 between
                  MacAndrews & Forbes Holding Inc., Revlon Group Incorporated,
                  New Revlon Holdings, Inc. and the subsidiaries of Revlon set
                  forth on Schedule A thereto (incorporated herein by reference
                  to the 1990 S-1).
      10.15  -    Loan Agreement dated August 1, 1991 among the Company,
                  Frequency Property Corp. and Swiss Bank Corporation, New York
                  Branch (incorporated herein by reference to the 1991 10-K).
      10.16  -    Sharing and Call Option Agreement dated as of December 13,
                  1994 among HLR Holdings Inc., Roche Biomedical Laboratories,
                  Inc., Mafco Holdings Inc., National Health Care Group, Inc.
                  and (for the purposes stated therein) the Company
                  (incorporated by reference herein to the 1994 10-K).
      10.17  -    Stockholder Agreement dated as of April 28, 1995 among the
                  Company, HLR Holdings Inc., Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. and Roche
                  Holdings, Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to the April
                  28, 1995 Form 8-K).
      10.18  -    Exchange Agent Agreement dated as of April 28, 1995 between
                  the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company
                  (incorporated herein by reference to the April 28, 1995 Form
                  8-K).
      10.19  -    Credit Agreement dated as of April 28, 1995, among the
                  Company, the banks named therein, and Credit Suisse (New York
                  Branch), as Administrative Agent (incorporated herein by
                  reference to the April 28, 1995 Form 8-K).
      10.20  -    First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of September 8,
                  1995 among the Company, the banks named therein, and Credit
                  Suisse (New York Branch), as Administrative Agent.


                  (incorporated by reference herein to the Company's Quarterly
                  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995
                  filed with the Commission on November 14, 1995, File No. 1-
                  11353).
      10.21  -    Second  Amendment  to  Credit Agreement dated as of February
                  16,  1996  among the   Company,  the  banks  named  therein,
                  and  Credit  Suisse (New York Branch),  as  Administrative
                  Agent  (incorporated  herein  by reference  to  the Company's
                  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K for the year ended December 31,
                  1995 filed  with  the Commission on March  29,  1996, File No.
                  1-11353).
      10.22  -    Third  Amendment  and   Second  Waiver to Credit Agreement
                  dated as of July  10, 1996  among the Company, the banks named
                  therein and   Credit   Suisse  (New  York   Branch)   as
                  Administrative  Agent  (incorporated  herein  by  reference
                  to the Company's quarterly report  on Form  10-Q for the
                  quarter ended June  30,  1996 filed  with the Commission on
                  August  14,  1996, File No. 1-11353).
      10.23  -    Fourth Amendment to the Credit Agreement dated as of September
                  23, 1996 among the Company, the banks named therein and Credit
                  Suisse (New York Branch), as Administrative Agent
                  (incorporated herein by reference to the report in Form 8-K
                  dated September 23, 1996, filed with the Commission on
                  September 30, 1996, File No. 1-11353).
      10.24  -    Third Waiver to the Credit Agreement dated as of November 4,
                  1996 among the Company, the banks named therein and Credit
                  Suisse (New York Branch), as  Administrative Agent
                  (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's quarterly
                  report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996
                  filed with the Commission on November 14, 1996, File No.
                  1-11353).
      10.25  -    Fifth Amendment and Fourth Waiver to the Credit Agreement
                  dated as of December 23, 1996 among the Company, the banks
                  named therein and Credit Suisse (New York Branch), as
                  Administrative Agent (incorporated herein by reference to
                  the report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on January 6,
                  1997, File No. 1-11353(the "January 6, 1997 8-K")).
      10.26  -    Fifth Waiver to the Credit Agreement dated as of January 27,
                  1997 among the Company, the banks named therein and Credit
                  Suisse (New York Branch) as Administrative Agent.
      10.27  -    Sixth Amendment and Waiver to the Credit Agreement dated as of
                  March 31, 1997 among the Company, the banks named therein and
                  Credit Suisse First Boston as Administrative Agent.
      10.28  -    Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 31,
                  1997 among the Company, the banks named therein and Credit
                  Suisse First Boston as Administrative Agent.
      10.29  -    Second Amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit
                  Agreement dated as of February 25, 1998 among the Company, the
                  banks named therein and Credit Suisse First Boston as
                  Administrative Agent.
      10.30  -    Third Amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
                  dated as of May 7, 1999 among the Company, the banks named
                  therein and Credit Suisse First Boston as Administrative Agent
                  (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's quarterly
                  report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1999 filed
                  with the Commission on August 16, 1999, File No. 1-11353).


      10.31  -    Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings 1995 Stock Plan for
                  Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference herein to
                  the report of Form S-8 dated September 26, 1995, filed with
                  the Commission on September 26, 1995).
      10.32  -    Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings 1997 Employee Stock
                  Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference herein to Annex I of
                  the Company's 1996 Annual Proxy Statement filed with the
                  Commission on October 25, 1996.
      10.33  -    Amendments to the Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings
                  1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference
                  herein to Annex II of the Company's 1999 Annual Proxy
                  Statement filed with the Commission on June 16, 1999).
      10.34  -    Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings Amended and
                  Restated 1999 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference
                  herein to Annex I of the Company's 1999 Annual Proxy Statement
                  filed with the Commission of June 16, 1999).
      10.35  -    Promissory note dated December 30, 1996 between the Company
                  and Roche Holdings Inc. (incorporated herein by reference
                  to the January 6, 1997 8-K).
      10.36  -    First Amendment to promissory note given by the Company to
                  Roche Holdings Inc.
      10.37  -    Support Agreement between Roche Biomedical Laboratories, Inc.
                  and Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., dated as of April 27, 1995.
      10.38  -    First Amendment to Support Agreement between Roche Biomedical
                  Laboratories, Inc. and Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., dated as of
                  July 26, 1995.
      10.39  -    Second Amendment to Support Agreement between Laboratory
                  Corporation of America Holdings, Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche
                  Molecular Systems, Inc. and Roche Diagnostic Systems, Inc.,
                  dated as of January 1, 1997.
      10.40  -    Third Amendment to Support Agreement between Laboratory
                  Corporation of America Holdings, Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche
                  Molecular Systems, Inc. and Roche Diagnostic Systems, Inc.,
                  dated as of October 1, 1997.
      10.41  -    Consulting Agreement between Laboratory Corporation of America
                  Holdings  and its  subsidiaries and affiliates  and  Larry  L.
                  Leonard, dated as of September 1, 1998.
      12.1*  -    Statement regarding Computation of Ratio of Earnings to
                  Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.

      21*    -    List of Subsidiaries of the Company

      23.1*  -    Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

      24.1*  -    Power of Attorney of Jean-Luc Belingard
      24.2*  -    Power of Attorney of Wendy E. Lane
      24.3*  -    Power of Attorney of Robert E. Mittelstaedt, Jr.


      24.4*  -    Power of Attorney of James B. Powell, M.D.
      24.5*  -    Power  of  Attorney   of David B. Skinner
      24.6*  -    Power  of  Attorney   of Andrew G. Wallace, M.D.

      27     -    Financial    Data     Schedule
                 (electronically filed version only).

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

          (1)   A  current report on Form 8-K dated November  18,
                1999  was  filed on December 1, 1999, by the registrant
                along  with  Healthworks Alliance, Inc., in  connection
                with    the  press  release  dated  November  18,  1999
                announcing  that the Company would utilize Healthworks'
                connectivity  tools  to electronically  receive  orders
                from  (and  transmit  results to) the  Company's  joint
                venture hospital partners.

          (2)   A  current report on Form 8-K dated November  22,
                1999  was filed on December 1, 1999, by the registrant,
                in  connection  with  the press release dated  November
                22,  1999  announcing a contract  to  be  the  national
                provider  of laboratory services for CIGNA HealthCare's
                traditional  indemnity, preferred-provider organization
                and  HMO products in select markets.  The Company  also
                announced   that   its  Board  of  Directors   declared
                dividends  on  the  Company's  8 1/2 percent  Series  A
                Convertible  Exchangeable  Preferred  Stock   and   the
                Company's  8 1/2 percent Series B Convertible Pay-in-Kind
                Preferred Stock.

          (3)   A  current report on Form 8-K dated December  13,
                1999 was filed on December 22, 1999, by the registrant,
                in connection with the press release dated December 13,
                1999   announcing  that  an  agreement  with   Humana's
                Employers Health Insurance Company (EHI) was finalized.
                Under  this  agreement, the Company will service  EHI's
                1.4  million covered lives throughout the country  and,
                in   the  future,  will  be  a  cornerstone  laboratory
                services provider for Humana's ChoiceCare Network.

          (4)   A  current report on Form 8-K dated December  16,
                1999 was filed on December 22, 1999, by the registrant,
                in connection with the press release dated December 16,
                1999  announcing that it was awarded a contract by  the
                Commonwealth  of Virginia Department of Mental  Health,
                Mental  Retardation  and Substance  Abuse  Services  to
                perform clinical laboratory testing services.



*    Filed herewith.
**   Previously  filed  under  File No. 0-17031  which  has  been
     corrected to File No. 1-10740.



                           SIGNATURES


Pursuant  to  the  requirements of Section 13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this
report  to  be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

                       LABORATORY  CORPORATION  OF  AMERICA HOLDINGS
                                      Registrant


                              By:/s/ THOMAS P. MAC MAHON
                                 --------------------------------
                                 Thomas P. Mac Mahon
                                 Chairman of the Board, President
                                 and Chief Executive Officer






Dated:  March 15, 2000




      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of  1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on
March 15, 2000 in the capacities indicated.

     Signature                          Title
- ---------------------------             -------------------------


/s/ THOMAS P. MAC MAHON
- --------------------------------        Chairman of the Board,
Thomas P. Mac Mahon                     President and Chief
                                        Executive Officer
                                        (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/WESLEY R. ELINGBURG
- --------------------------------         Executive Vice President,
Wesley  R. Elingburg                     Chief Financial  Officer
                                         and Treasurer (Principal
                                         Financial Officer and Principal
                                         Accounting Officer)

/s/ JEAN-LUC BELINGARD*
- --------------------------------         Director
Jean-Luc Belingard

/s/ WENDY E. LANE*
- --------------------------------         Director
Wendy E. Lane

/s/ ROBERT E. MITTELSTAEDT, JR.*
- --------------------------------         Director
Robert E. Mittelstaedt, Jr.

/s/ JAMES B. POWELL, M.D.*
- --------------------------------         Director
James B. Powell, M.D.

/s/ DAVID B. SKINNER, M.D.*
- --------------------------------         Director
David B. Skinner, M.D.

/s/ ANDREW G. WALLACE, M.D.*
- --------------------------------         Director
Andrew G. Wallace, M.D.


*  Bradford T. Smith, by his signing his name hereto, does hereby
sign  this  report on behalf of the directors of  the  Registrant
after  whose typed names asterisks appear, pursuant to powers  of
attorney  duly  executed by such directors  and  filed  with  the
Securities and Exchange Commission.



By:/s/ BRADFORD T. SMITH
_________________________________
   Bradford T. Smith
   Attorney-in-fact



     LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES

           INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                          AND SCHEDULE



                                                           Page

Report of Independent Accountants                          F-2

Consolidated Financial Statements:

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
   December 31, 1999 and 1998                              F-3

Consolidated Statements of Operations for
   the three-year period ended December 31, 1999.          F-4

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders'
   Equity for the three-year period ended
   December 31, 1999                                       F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
   three-year period ended December 31, 1999.              F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                 F-8

Financial Statement Schedule:

 II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves       F-29




                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
of Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings

      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed
in   the  accompanying  index  present  fairly,  in  all  material
respects,  the  financial  position of Laboratory  Corporation  of
America  Holdings and its subsidiaries (the Company)  at  December
31,  1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations and  their
cash  flows  for  each  of the three years  in  the  period  ended
December   31,  1999  in  conformity  with  accounting  principles
generally  accepted  in the United States.  In  addition,  in  our
opinion,   the   financial  statement  schedule  listed   in   the
accompanying index presents fairly, in all material respects,  the
information set forth therein, when read in conjunction  with  the
related   consolidated  financial  statements.   These   financial
statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility
of  the Company's management; our responsibility is to express  an
opinion  on  these  financial statements and  financial  statement
schedule  based on our audits.  We conducted our audits  of  these
statements   in  accordance  with  auditing  standards   generally
accepted  in  the United States, which require that  we  plan  and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An  audit
includes  examining,  on  a test basis,  evidence  supporting  the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting  principles  used  and significant  estimates  made  by
management,   and  evaluating  the  overall  financial   statement
presentation.   We  believe that our audits provide  a  reasonable
basis for the opinion expressed above.



PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Charlotte, North Carolina
February 12, 2000















  LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)


1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION:

       Laboratory  Corporation  of  America  Holdings   and   its
subsidiaries  ("Company")  is  one  of  the  largest  independent
clinical  laboratory company in the United States based  on  1999
net  revenues.   Through a national network of laboratories,  the
Company  offers  a broad range of testing services  used  by  the
medical profession in the diagnosis, monitoring and treatment  of
disease  and other clinical states.  Since its founding in  1971,
the Company has grown into a network of 25 major laboratories and
approximately 1,200 service sites consisting of branches, patient
service  centers  and STAT laboratories, serving  clients  in  50
states.

      The  consolidated financial statements include the accounts
of   Laboratory   Corporation  of  America   Holdings   and   its
subsidiaries  after  elimination  of  all  material  intercompany
accounts and transactions.

     The financial statements of the Company's foreign subsidiary
are measured using the local currency as the functional currency.
Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates as of the
balance  sheet  date.  Revenues and expenses  are  translated  at
average  monthly  exchange  rates  prevailing  during  the  year.
Resulting  translation adjustments are included  in  "Accumulated
other comprehensive loss".

CASH EQUIVALENTS:

      Cash  equivalents (primarily investments  in  money  market
funds, time deposits, commercial paper and Eurodollars which have
original  maturities  of three months or  less  at  the  date  of
purchase) are carried at cost which approximates market.

INVENTORIES:

      Inventories,  consisting primarily of purchased  laboratory
supplies,  are stated at the lower of cost (first-in,  first-out)
or market.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:

     Interest rate swap agreements, which are used by the Company
in the management of interest rate exposure, are accounted for on
an  accrual  basis.   Amounts to be paid or received  under  such
agreements  are recognized as interest income or expense  in  the
periods in which they accrue.



   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)


PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT:

      Property,  plant and equipment are recorded at  cost.   The
cost  of  properties held under capital leases is  equal  to  the
lower  of the net present value of the minimum lease payments  or
the  fair  value of the leased property at the inception  of  the
lease.  Depreciation and amortization expense is computed on  all
classes  of  assets  based on their estimated  useful  lives,  as
indicated below, using principally the straight-line method.

                                                      Years
                                                      -----
       Buildings and building improvements             35
       Machinery and equipment                         3-10
       Furniture and fixtures                          5-10

      Leasehold improvements and assets held under capital leases
are  amortized over the shorter of their estimated lives  or  the
period  of  the  related leases.  Expenditures  for  repairs  and
maintenance  are charged to operations as incurred.  Retirements,
sales and other disposals of assets are recorded by removing  the
cost  and accumulated depreciation from the related accounts with
any resulting gain or loss reflected in operations.

CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE COSTS:

      The  Company capitalizes purchased software which is  ready
for  service and capitalizes software development costs  incurred
on significant projects starting from the time management commits
to  funding a project until the project is substantially complete
and  the  software is ready for its intended use.   Research  and
development  costs and other computer software maintenance  costs
related   to  software  development  are  expensed  as  incurred.
Capitalized  software costs are amortized using the straight-line
method  over the estimated useful life of the underlying  system,
generally five years.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:

      The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts
receivable,  income  taxes receivable and  accounts  payable  are
considered  to be representative of their respective fair  values
due  to  their  short-term nature.  The carrying amounts  of  the
revolving credit facility and long-term debt are considered to be
representative of their respective fair values as their  interest
rates are based on market rates.



   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)


CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK:

      Substantially all of the Company's accounts receivable  are
with  companies  and  individuals in the  health  care  industry.
However,  concentrations of credit risk are limited  due  to  the
number  of  the  Company's clients as well  as  their  dispersion
across many different geographic regions.

REVENUE RECOGNITION:

      Sales are recognized on the accrual basis at the time  test
results  are  reported,  which  approximates  when  services  are
provided.   Services are provided to certain patients covered  by
various  third-party payor programs including  the  Medicare  and
Medicaid programs.  Billings for services under third-party payor
programs  are included in sales net of allowances for contractual
discounts  and  allowances for differences  between  the  amounts
billed and estimated program payment amounts. Adjustments to  the
estimated  payment  amounts based on final  settlement  with  the
programs  are  recorded  upon  settlement  as  an  adjustment  to
revenue.  In 1999, 1998 and 1997, approximately 20%, 22% and 20%,
respectively, of the Company's revenues were derived  from  tests
performed for beneficiaries of Medicare and Medicaid programs.

INCOME TAXES:

      The  Company accounts for income taxes utilizing the  asset
and  liability method. Under this method deferred tax assets  and
liabilities  are  recognized  for  the  future  tax  consequences
attributable  to  differences  between  the  financial  statement
carrying  amounts  of existing assets and liabilities  and  their
respective  tax  bases and for tax loss carryforwards.   Deferred
tax  assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax  rates
expected  to apply to taxable income in the years in which  those
temporary  differences are expected to be recovered  or  settled.
The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change  in
tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date.  Future tax benefits, such as net operating  loss
carryforwards,  are recognized to the extent that realization  of
such benefits are more likely than not.

STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS:

      The  Company  accounts for its employee stock option  plans
using  the intrinsic method under APB Opinion No. 25 and  related
Interpretations.  Accordingly, compensation for stock options  is
measured as the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the
Company's stock at the date of grant over the amount an  employee
must pay to acquire the stock. The  Company's  employee  stock



   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

purchase plan is also accounted for under APB Opinion No. 25  and
is   treated   as   non-compensatory.    The   Company   provides
supplementary disclosures using the fair value method under  SFAS
No. 123.

     Compensation cost for restricted stock awards is recorded by
allocating  their  aggregate grant date fair value   over   their
vesting  period.

EARNINGS PER SHARE:

      Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income
(loss),  less preferred stock dividends, by the weighted  average
number of common shares outstanding.  Dilutive earnings per share
is  computed  by  dividing  net income (loss),  by  the  weighted
average  number  of  common shares outstanding  plus  potentially
dilutive  shares, as if they had been issued at the beginning  of
the  period presented.  Potentially dilutive common shares result
primarily  from  the  Company's mandatorily redeemable  preferred
stock, restricted stock awards and outstanding stock options  and
warrants.   However, the effect of conversion  of  the  Company's
redeemable  preferred  stock,  or  exercise  of  certain  of  the
Company's  stock  options or warrants was  not  included  in  the
computation of diluted earnings per common share as it would have
been  anti-dilutive  for all periods presented,  except  for  the
fourth quarter of 1998.

      Basic and diluted earnings per share were calculated  based
on the following weighted average shares:

                                              Years ended December 31,
                                          1999           1998           1997
                                      -----------------------------------------
Basic                                 126,661,882    124,846,812    123,241,222
Diluted                               128,771,593    124,846,812    123,241,222


      The  following table summarizes the potential common shares
not  included  in the computation of diluted earnings  per  share
because their impact would have been antidilutive:

                                                     December 31,
                                          1999           1998           1997
                                     ------------------------------------------
Stock Options                           8,729,212      9,714,707      4,788,718

Warrants                               22,151,308     22,151,308     22,151,308

Series A convertible exchangeable
Preferred stock                        79,330,430     79,330,430     79,330,430

Series B convertible pay-in-kind
Preferred stock                       126,762,964    116,537,120    107,136,166




   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

INVESTMENTS:

      Investments in equity securities are reported at fair value
with  unrealized  gains  or losses, net of  tax,  recorded  as  a
separate  component  of shareholders' equity.   At  December  31,
1998,   the  Company  recorded  an  unrealized  loss  on   equity
investments of $2.0, net of related deferred tax benefit of $1.3.
During 1999, the Company recorded an other than temporary loss on
its investments in equity  securities totaling $4.2.

USE OF ESTIMATES:

      The  preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally  accepted accounting principles requires management  to
make  estimates and assumptions that affect the reported  amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities  at  the  date of the financial  statements  and  the
reported  amounts  of revenues and expenses during  the  reported
periods.   Significant  estimates  include  the  allowances   for
doubtful accounts and deferred tax assets, amortization lives for
intangible assets and accruals for self-insurance reserves. Actual
results could differ  from  those estimates.

LONG-LIVED ASSETS:

      Long-lived  assets, including goodwill,  are  reviewed  for
impairment  whenever events or changes in circumstances  indicate
that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  Recoverability
of assets to be held and used is determined by the Company at the
entity level by a comparison of the carrying amount of the assets
to future undiscounted net cash flows before interest expense and
income  taxes expected to be generated by the assets. Impairment,
if any, is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of
the  assets  exceed  the  fair value  of  the  assets  (based  on
discounted cash flows).  Assets to be disposed of are reported at
the lower of the carrying amount or net realizable value.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS:

       Intangible  assets,  consisting  of  goodwill  and   other
intangibles  (i.e.,  customer lists and non-compete  agreements),
are  amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected periods
to  be  benefited,  generally ranging from 25  to  40  years  for
goodwill,  10 to 25 years for customer lists and approximately  5
years for non-compete agreements.



   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

RECLASSIFICATIONS:

      The  amounts  shown as "deferred payments on  acquisitions"
have  been  reclassified in the Consolidated Statements  of  Cash
Flows  to  Cash Flows from Investing Activities from  Cash  Flows
from Financing Activities.

2.   RESTRUCTURING AND NON-RECURRING CHARGES

     During the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company recorded pre-
tax  charges of $22.7, related primarily to the downsizing of its
Long  Island,  New York facility and the consolidation  into  its
Raritan, New Jersey facility.  This amount included approximately
$5.2  for  severance and $12.5 for future lease  obligations  and
other facilities related charges.  The net workforce reduction as
a  result  of  this  activity  was approximately  260  employees,
primarily in the laboratory's operations.

      In  the second quarter of 1997, the Company determined that
approximately  $12.6  of  existing reserves  were  excessive  due
largely  to proceeds from subleases and  asset disposals.   Also,
in the second quarter of 1997, the Company decided to consolidate
its   Winston-Salem,  North  Carolina  laboratory  and   redirect
specimen  volumes  to   other  company facilities.  Restructuring
charges  related  to the closing of the Winston-Salem  laboratory
totaled $12.6.

       The   following  represents  the  Company's  restructuring
activities for the periods indicated:
                                                           Total

 Balance at December 31, 1996                            $  34.6
   Long Island downsizing                                   22.7
  Winston-Salem closure                                     12.6
    Adjustments                                            (12.6)
  Reclassifications and non-cash items                      (1.6)
  Cash payments                                            (17.1)
                                                         -------
 Balance at December 31, 1997                               38.6
  Cash payments                                             (5.6)
                                                         -------
 Balance at December 31, 1998                               33.0
  Cash payments                                             (6.2)
                                                         -------
 Balance at December 31, 1999                            $  26.8
                                                         =======
 Current                                                    12.7
 Non-current                                                14.1
                                                         -------
                                                         $  26.8
                                                         =======

      The  cash  payments  for  all periods  presented  represent
disbursements made primarily for lease obligations  and  employee
severance.  The  balance remaining in restructuring  reserves  at
December 31, 1999, relates primarily to future lease obligations.


   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)


3.   ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET
                                               December 31,     December 31,
                                                   1999             1998
                                               ------------     ------------
Gross accounts receivable                       $  495.1         $  569.4
Less allowance for doubtful accounts              (147.1)          (194.0)
                                                --------         --------
                                                $  348.0         $  375.4
                                                ========         ========

      The provision for doubtful accounts was $191.9, $164.7  and
$311.5 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.


4.   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET
                                               December  31,    December 31,
                                                   1999             1998
                                               -------------    ------------
Land                                            $    9.4         $    9.7
Buildings and building improvements                 67.8             64.6
Machinery and equipment                            312.1            306.6
Leasehold improvements                              58.7             57.3
Furniture and fixtures                              21.4             26.1
Construction in progress                            48.8             32.7
Buildings under capital leases                       5.4              5.4
Equipment under capital leases                       3.5              4.6
                                                --------         --------
                                                   527.1            507.0
Less accumulated depreciation and
  amortization of capital lease assets            (253.9)          (247.9)
                                                --------         --------
                                                $  273.2         $  259.1
                                                ========         ========

5.   INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET
                                               December 31,     December 31,
                                                   1999             1998
                                               ------------     ------------
Goodwill                                        $  780.6         $  782.9
Other intangibles, principally customer
   lists and non-compete agreements                231.2            231.2
                                                --------         --------
                                                 1,011.8          1,014.1
Less accumulated amortization                     (207.9)          (177.9)
                                                --------         --------
                                                $  803.9         $  836.2
                                                ========         ========

     Amortization of intangible assets was $31.2, $30.8 and $30.6
in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.


   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)


6.   ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER
                                               December 31,     December 31,
                                                   1999             1998
                                               ------------     ------------
Employee compensation and benefits              $   48.9         $   45.9
Acquisition related accruals                        13.8             16.7
Restructuring reserves                              12.7             17.5
Accrued taxes                                         --             11.2
Self-insurance reserves                             20.0             22.6
Interest payable                                     3.5              5.7
Other                                                8.1              9.1
                                                --------         --------
                                                $  107.0         $  128.7
                                                ========         ========

7.   OTHER LIABILITIES
                                               December 31,     December 31,
                                                   1999             1998
                                               ------------     ------------
Acquisition related accruals                    $    8.9         $   16.8
Restructuring reserves                              14.1             15.5
Deferred income taxes                               31.2             29.4
Post-retirement benefit obligation                  35.2             32.5
Self-insurance reserves                             37.8             37.8
Other                                                0.4              0.8
                                                --------         --------
                                                $  127.6         $  132.8
                                                ========         ========

8.   LONG-TERM DEBT

      The  Company  entered into an Amended and  Restated  Credit
Agreement  dated  as  of  March 31,  1997  (the  "Amended  Credit
Agreement"),  with  the  banks named therein  (the  "Banks")  and
Credit  Suisse First Boston, as administrative agent  (the  "Bank
Agent"),  under which the Banks made available to the  Company  a
senior  term  loan  facility of $693.8 (the  "Amended  Term  Loan
Facility")  and  a  revolving  credit  facility  of  $450.0  (the
"Amended  Revolving Credit Facility" and, together with the  Term
Loan  Facility,  the  "Bank Facility")  which  includes  a  $50.0
letter  of  credit sublimit. The Bank Facility is unconditionally
and   irrevocably   guaranteed  by  certain  of   the   Company's
subsidiaries.

     Under the Amended Credit Agreement and a contractual formula
contained  therein,  maturities  under  the  Amended  Term   Loan
Facility   are   $88.3  in  2000  (to  be   paid   in   quarterly
installments), $132.0 in 2001 through 2003 and $82.4 in 2004 (all
paid  in  quarterly installments).  The Amended Revolving  Credit
Facility   expires  in  March  31,  2002.   The  Company   repaid
approximately $70.3 during the year ended December  31,  1999  on
its  Amended  Term Loan Facility.  The Company will also  make  a
special  payment  on  its Amended Term Loan Facility  during  the
second  quarter  of  2000  of  approximately  $6.7,  based  on  a
contractual formula contained in the Amended Credit Agreement.


   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

      Both  the  Amended  Term  Loan  Facility  and  the  Amended
Revolving  Credit Facility bear interest, at the  option  of  the
Company,  at  (i) the base rate (the higher of the  Bank  Agent's
base  commercial loan rate or 50 basis points above  the  Federal
Funds  Rate)  plus the applicable base rate margin  or  (ii)  the
Eurodollar rate plus the applicable Eurodollar rate margin.   The
Amended  Credit  Agreement  provides  that  in  the  event  of  a
reduction of the percentage of Common Stock held by Roche and its
affiliates  (other  than the Company and its subsidiaries)  below
25%,  the  applicable  interest  margins  and  facility  fees  on
borrowings outstanding under the Amended Credit  Agreement   will
increase.     In   addition,  pursuant  to  the  Amended   Credit
Agreement,   the  applicable  interest  margins   on   borrowings
outstanding thereunder are based upon the leverage ratio.

       The   Amended  Credit  Agreement  contains  certain   debt
covenants,  the  most  restrictive  of  which  limit  payment  of
dividends  and place a cap on business acquisitions  and  capital
expenditures.   The  covenants  also  require  that  the  Company
maintain certain leverage and interest coverage ratios as well as
minimum levels of shareholders' equity.

      At  December 31, 1999 and 1998 the Company was a  party  to
interest  rate  swap  agreements  with  certain  major  financial
institutions,  rated  A  or better by Moody's  Investor  Service,
solely  to  manage  its interest rate exposure  with  respect  to
$500.0  of  its floating rate debt.  This effectively  fixed  the
interest  rate exposure on the floating rate debt to a  weighted-
average  fixed  interest rate of 6.11% and  6.20%,  respectively.
These  swaps require that the Company pay a fixed rate amount  in
exchange for the financial institutions paying  a  floating  rate
amount.   The amounts paid by the Company in 1999 and  1998  were
$1.9  and  $0.3,  respectively.   The  notional  amounts  of  the
agreements  are  used  to  measure the interest  to  be  paid  or
received  and do not represent the amount of exposure  to  credit
loss.   The  current  agreements mature  in  September  2002  and
January  2003.  The estimated (benefit) cost at which the Company
could  have terminated these agreements as of December  31,  1999
and  1998 was approximately $(11.0) and $6.9, respectively.  This
fair  value was estimated by discounting the expected cash  flows
using  rates  currently available for interest  rate  swaps  with
similar  terms and maturities. Interest rates in effect for  both
the  long-term and revolving credit agreement as of December  31,
1999 and 1998 were 6.7% and 5.8%, respectively.

9.   ISSUANCE OF MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK

      On May 19, 1997 the Board of Directors of the Company decla
red  a  dividend  of 10,000,000 transferable subscription  rights
which were then issued pro rata to holders of its common stock on
May  29,  1997  entitling them to purchase up to an aggregate  of
$500.0 of redeemable convertible preferred stock issuable in  two
series  at  a subscription price of $50 per share (the "Preferred
Stock  Offering").   The subscription period ended  on  June  16,
1997.  On that date, rights


   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

were  exercised to purchase 4,363,202 shares of Series A  8  1/2%
Convertible  Exchangeable  Preferred  Stock   ("Series  A")   and
5,636,798  shares  of Series B  8 1/2%  Convertible   Pay-in-Kind
Preferred Stock ("Series B"), each at a subscription price of $50
per  share.  Roche exercised its basic subscription privilege  in
full  for  4,988,751 shares of Series B and other rights  holders
purchased the remaining 5,011,249 shares.

      The Series A is currently convertible at the option of  the
holder  into  common stock, will pay cash dividends and  will  be
exchangeable  on  or after June 30, 2000 at the Company's  option
for  8 1/2% Convertible Subordinated Notes due June 30, 2012. The
Series  B  will be convertible at the option of the holder  after
June 30, 2000 into common stock, will pay dividends in-kind until
June  30,  2003,  and  in  cash  thereafter,  and  will  not   be
exchangeable for notes.  The conversion rate for both  series  of
preferred  stock is 18.1818 shares of common stock per  share  of
preferred  stock.   Each  series  of  preferred  stock  will   be
mandatorily redeemable after June 30, 2012 at $50 per  share  and
will  be  redeemable at the option of the Company after  July  7,
2000  at  prices  declining from $52.83 to  $50.00  in  2006  and
thereafter. Neither series of preferred stock entitles the holder
to  any  voting  rights in the Company.  Net  proceeds  from  the
Preferred  Stock Offering were $486.9 and were used  to  repay  a
loan  from  Roche,  including accrued  interest,  and  to  reduce
amounts  outstanding under the Company's term loan and  revolving
credit facilities.

      Offering costs of $13.1 were recorded against the aggregate
preference  value of the preferred stock and will be accreted  up
to  the  date  of mandatory redemption.  Accretion for  the  year
ended December 31, 1999 was $0.8.

10.  INCOME TAXES

       The  provisions  for  income  taxes  in  the  accompanying
consolidated statements of operations consist of the following:

                                                 Years Ended December 31,
                                             --------------------------------
                                               1999         1998        1997
                                             --------     --------    --------
Current:
  Federal                                    $   0.5      $ (17.6)    $ (12.3)
  State                                          2.6          1.0         0.9
                                             -------      -------     -------
                                                 3.1        (16.6)      (11.4)
                                             -------      -------     -------
Deferred:
  Federal                                       29.1         45.2       (35.5)
  State                                          7.9        (15.9)       (7.5)
                                             -------      -------     -------
                                                37.0         29.3       (43.0)
                                             -------      -------     -------
                                             $  40.1      $  12.7     $ (54.4)
                                             =======      =======     =======


   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

      The  effective tax rates on earnings (loss)  before  income
taxes  is  reconciled to statutory federal income  tax  rates  as
follows:


                                                Years Ended December 31,
                                             -----------------------------
                                              1999        1998       1997
                                             -------     -------     ------

Statutory federal rate                         35.0%      35.0%     (35.0)%
State and local income taxes,
  net of federal income tax effect              5.1        8.5       (2.4)
Non deductible amortization of
   intangible assets                            5.7        8.6        4.3
Change in valuation allowance                  (9.5)     (33.8)       6.2
Adjustments of deferred tax balances             --         --       (6.2)
Other                                           1.7       (2.7)      (0.6)
                                             ------     ------     ------

Effective rate                                 38.0%      15.6%     (33.7)%
                                             ======     ======     ======

      The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise  to
significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred  tax
liabilities are as follows:

                                               December 31,   December 31,
                                                   1999           1998
                                               ------------   -----------
Deferred tax assets:
  Settlement and related expenses                $  13.0        $  13.0
  Accounts receivable                                2.1           23.0
  Self-insurance reserves                            4.3            6.0
  Postretirement benefit obligation                 13.9           13.7
  Acquisition and restructuring reserves            30.9           37.2
  State net operating loss carryforwards            15.3           15.7
  Other                                              8.6           22.7
                                                 -------        -------
                                                    88.1          131.3
    Less valuation allowance                        (4.5)         (14.5)
                                                 -------        -------
    Net deferred tax assets                         83.6          116.8
                                                 -------        -------
Deferred tax liabilities:
  Intangible assets                                (43.6)         (54.3)
  Property, plant and equipment                    (26.9)         (12.2)
  Other                                             (1.5)          (1.7)
                                                 -------        -------
    Total gross deferred tax liabilities           (72.0)         (68.2)
                                                 -------        -------
Net deferred tax assets                          $  11.6        $  48.6
                                                 =======        =======


      In  1996,  a  valuation allowance of $32.0 was  established
because  at  the time the realization of the deferred  tax  asset
related  to  the  state  net operating  loss  carryforwards,  the
postretirement  benefit  obligation  as  well  as  certain  other
temporary differences was considered less likely than  not.   The
increase  in  the valuation allowance of $10.0 from December  31,
1996 to December 31, 1997 was due to the uncertain realization of
the state tax effect of certain temporary differences.  Based  on
improved current and projected


   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

operating  results,  the Company reduced its valuation  allowance
applied  against its deferred tax assets relating  to  state  net
operating   loss   carryforwards  and  certain  acquisition   and
restructuring reserves by approximately $27.5 during  the  fourth
quarter of 1998 and an additional $10.0 during 1999.  These  were
reflected as a reduction in the provision for income taxes. These
adjustments  bring the Company's net deferred  tax  assets  to  a
level  where management believes that it is more likely than  not
the tax benefits will be realized.

      During 1999, the Company received a revised Revenue  Agents
Report (RAR) from the Internal Revenue Service, concluding audits
of  the tax years ended 1993, 1994, and 1995 and a RAR concluding
the  audits of the tax years 1996 and 1997.  The revised RAR  for
the  tax years 1993-1995, reflects the fact that the IRS conceded
their   previous  adjustments  for  additional  taxes  of  $14.6.
Previously,  the  Company had recorded a net  income  tax  refund
receivable  related  to  1993-1997 amended tax  returns,  coupled
with   adjustments  agreed-upon from the 1993-1995  RAR.   During
1999, an additional net income tax refund receivable was recorded
due  to the RAR being received for 1996 and 1997.  The total  net
income  tax  refund  receivable of  $17.4  is  reflected  in  the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December  31,  1999
in prepaid expenses and other.

       The   Company   has   state  tax  loss  carryforwards   of
approximately  $244.5  which expire, starting  in  2001,  through
2018.

11.  STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS

      The  Company  has  a  number of stock  option  plans  which
authorize  and  reserve  shares  of  common  stock  for  issuance
pursuant  to  options and stock appreciation rights that  may  be
granted under these plans.

      In  June 1999, the shareholders approved further amendments
to  its  1997  Stock Option Plan and the incorporation  of  these
amendments into an amended and restated version of the plan  (the
amended  and  restated  plan, the "1999  Incentive  Plan").   The
principal purpose of the amendments was to permit the issuance of
shares  of  restricted stock and authorize 3.2 million additional
shares  for issuance under the plan.  The effect of the amendment
was  to  increase to an aggregate of 9.2 million shares available
for issuance under the current plan.

      During 1999, there were 867,384 options granted to officers
and  key  employees of the Company. The exercise price for  these
options ranged from $2.75 to $2.94 per share.  Also, during  1999
1,620,000  shares  of  restricted stock  were  issued  to  senior
management under the 1999 Incentive Plan at the market  value  on
the  date  of  grant of $2.75.  Restrictions limit  the  sale  or
transfer  of  these shares  during a six-year  period   when  the
restrictions  lapse.   Upon issuance of  stock  under  the  plan,
unearned compensation of $4.5 was recorded as additional  paid-in
capital and an opposite amount was charged to shareholders'


   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

equity as unearned restricted stock compensation, which is  being
amortized  to  expense over the six-year vesting  period.  During
1999,  compensation  expense  of  $0.4  was  recorded.  The  plan
provides  for  accelerated  vesting  of  outstanding  shares   in
percentages  of  33.3%,  66.7%  or 100%,  if  certain  predefined
profitability  targets  are achieved  as of December 31, 2001. At
December  31,  1999,  there  were  1,715,033  additional   shares
available for grant under the Company's Stock Option Plans.

      The  proforma weighted average fair values at date of grant
for  options issued during 1999, 1998 and 1997 were $1.68,  $1.10
and  $1.56  respectively,  and were estimated  using  the  Black-
Scholes  option pricing model.  Weighted average assumptions  for
the expected life in years, volatility and dividend yield were  5
years, .5, and 0% for each of the three years ended December  31,
1999.  Interest rates assumptions were 6%, 4.4% and 5.6% for  the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

      The  Company has an employee stock purchase plan, begun  in
1997  and amended in 1999, with 7,500,000 shares of common  stock
for  authorized  issuance.   The plan permits  substantially  all
employees  to  purchase  a  limited  number  of  shares  of   the
Corporation  stock  at 85% of market value.  The  Company  issues
shares  to participating employee's semi annually in January  and
July of each year.  A summary of shares issued is as follows:


                       1997         1998        1999         2000
                     -------     -------      -------      -------
January                          923,335      961,122      525,873
July                 607,536     730,197      867,736


Pro-forma  compensation expense is calculated for the fair  value
of  the  employee's purchase right using the Black-Scholes model.
Assumptions include a weighted average life of approximately one-
half  year,  dividend yield of 0%, risk free interest  rates  for
each  six month period as follows:  1999 - 5.5% and 4.9%; 1998  -
5.3% and 5.1%; and 1997 - 5.2% and 5.1% and volatility rates  for
each of the following six month periods: 1999 - .5 and .4; 1998 -
 .6 and .8; and 1997 - .7 and .6.



   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

The  per  share  weighted average grant date fair  value  of  the
benefits  under the Plan for the first and second  months  is  as
follows:

                             1997           1998           1999
                            ------         ------         ------
First six months             $.39           $.50           $.90
Second six months            $.75           $.78           $.80


      The Company applies the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 in
accounting  for its plans and, accordingly, no compensation  cost
has  been  recognized  for its stock compensation  plans  in  the
financial  statements.   Had the Company determined  compensation
cost  based on the fair value method as defined in SFAS No.  123,
the  impact on the Company's net earnings (loss) on a  pro  forma
basis is indicated below:

                                                      Years ended
                                                      December 31,
                                                1999       1998       1997
                                               -------   -------    --------

  Net  earnings (loss)       As reported       $  65.4    $ 68.8    $(106.9)
                             Pro forma            62.8      66.1     (108.8)

  Net earnings (loss) per
     common  share           As reported       $  0.12    $  0.20   $  (1.06)
                             Pro forma            0.10       0.17      (1.07)


      Pro forma net earnings (loss) reflects only options granted
in   1999,  1998  and  1997.   Therefore,  the  full  impact   of
calculating  compensation cost for stock options under  SFAS  No.
123  is  not  reflected in the pro forma amounts presented  above
because compensation cost for options granted prior to January 1,
1996 is not considered.

      The  following  table  summarizes grants  of  non-qualified
options  made by the Company to officers and key employees  under
all  plans.   Stock options are generally granted at an  exercise
price equal to or greater than the fair market price per share on
the  date  of grant.  Also, for each grant, options vest  ratably
over  a period of two to three years on the anniversaries of  the
grant date, subject to their earlier expiration or termination.


   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

      Changes  in  options outstanding under the  plans  for  the
periods indicated were as follows:

                                                            Weighted-Average
                                               Number        Exercise Price
                                             of Options        per Option
                                             ----------     ---------------

Outstanding at January 1, 1997               1,298,218            $14.637

    Options granted                          4,080,000            $ 2.900
    Canceled                                  (589,500)           $ 9.508
                                             ---------

Outstanding at December 31, 1997             4,788,718            $ 4.963
   (1,769,893 exercisable)
     Granted                                 5,249,880            $ 1.939
     Canceled                                 (323,891)           $ 7.149
                                             ---------

Outstanding at December 31, 1998             9,714,707            $ 3.256
   (2,825,940 exercisable)
     Options granted                           867,384            $ 2.752
     Canceled                                 (601,234)           $ 4.273
     Exercised                                 (25,167)           $ 2.253
                                             ---------

Outstanding at December 31, 1999             9,955,690            $ 3.153
                                             =========
Exercisable at December 31, 1999             5,424,883            $ 3.990
                                             =========

      The  weighted-average remaining life of options outstanding
at December 31, 1999 is approximately 7.8 years.


       The  following  table  summarizes  information  concerning
currently outstanding and exercisable options.

                OPTIONS    OUTSTANDING                    OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
- ------------------------------------------------------  ----------------------
                                  Weighted
                                  Average     Weighted                Weighted
                                 Remaining    Average                 Average
   Range of         Number      Contractual   Exercise    Number      Exercise
Exercise Prices   Outstanding      Life        Price    Exercisable    Price
- ------------------------------------------------------  ----------------------

$ 1.938 -  3.125   9,251,365        8.0       $ 2.372     4,720,558   $ 2.584
$11.293 - 16.481     704,325        5.5       $13.416       704,325   $13.416
                   ---------                              ---------
                   9,955,690                              5,424,883
                   =========                              =========

12.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

      At  December  31, 1999 and 1998, 61,329,256 shares  of  the
Company's  outstanding  common stock, or approximately  47.6%  at
December  31, 1999 and 49.0% at December 31, 1998, were owned  by
Roche.   In  addition,  Roche  owned  6,170,140  shares  of   the
Company's


   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

redeemable convertible preferred stock at December 31,  1999,  or
approximately 54.4% and 5,672,399 shares (52.7%) at December  31,
1998.   No  voting  rights  are associated  with  the  redeemable
preferred shares.

      As  of  December 31, 1999 and 1998, the number of  warrants
outstanding   to   purchase  the  Company's  common   stock   was
22,151,308, of which 8,325,000 warrants were held by an affiliate
of  Roche.   These warrants are exercisable at a price of  $22.00
per share and expire on April 28, 2000.

      The  Company purchases certain items, primarily  laboratory
testing  supplies  from  various  affiliates  of  Roche.    Total
purchases  from these affiliates, which are recorded in  cost  of
sales,  were  $38.3,  $33.0, and $25.2 in 1999,  1998  and  1997,
respectively. In addition, the Company made royalty  payments  to
Roche  in the amounts of $2.9 in 1999, $2.9 in 1998 and  $3.7  in
1997.   Revenue received from Roche for laboratory  services  was
$0.9  in  1999, $0.5 in 1998 and $1.6 in 1997.  Amounts  owed  to
affiliates  at  December 31, 1999 and 1998 were  $3.5  and  $1.7,
respectively.

      A  member  of the Company's Board of Directors is President
and  Chief  Executive Officer of TriPath Imaging,  Inc.  and  has
ownership  of approximately 8.0% of TriPath's common stock.   The
Company's Chief Executive Officer has ownership of less  than  1%
of TriPath's common stock.

      The  Company has certain on-going arrangements with TriPath
Imaging, Inc. for the purchase by the Company of certain products
with  an aggregate value of approximately $0.4 in 1999, less than
$0.7 in 1998 and less than $0.1 in 1997.

      In 1998, TriPath leased a portion of the Company's facility
in  Elon  College, North Carolina and purchased cytology services
for total payments of less than $0.1.


13.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

     The Company is involved in litigation which purports to be a
class  action  brought  on  behalf of certain  patients,  private
insurers  and  benefit  plans that paid  for  laboratory  testing
services  during  the time frame covered by the  1996  government
settlement. The Company has also received similar claims  brought
on  behalf  of certain other insurance companies, some  of  which
have  been  resolved  for immaterial amounts.  These  claims  for
private  reimbursement  are  similar  to  the  government  claims
settled  in  1996.   However,  no  amount  of  damages  has  been
specified  at this time and, with the exception of the above,  no
settlement   discussions  have  taken  place.   The  Company   is
carefully  evaluating these claims. However,  due  to  the  early
stage  of the claims, the ultimate outcome of these claims cannot
presently be predicted.


   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

      The  Company is also involved in various claims  and  legal
actions  arising  in  the  ordinary course  of  business.   These
matters  include, but are not limited to, professional liability,
employee  related  matters, inquiries from governmental  agencies
and   Medicare  or  Medicaid  carriers  requesting   comment   on
allegations of billing irregularities that have been  brought  to
their  attention through billing audits or third parties. In  the
opinion  of  management, based upon the  advice  of  counsel  and
consideration of all facts available at this time,  the  ultimate
disposition of these matters is not expected to have  a  material
adverse  effect on the financial position, results of  operations
or liquidity of the Company.

      The  Company  believes  that it is  in  compliance  in  all
material  respects  with  all  statutes,  regulations  and  other
requirements  applicable to its clinical  laboratory  operations.
The clinical laboratory testing industry is, however, subject  to
extensive  regulation, and many of these statutes and regulations
have  not  been  interpreted by the  courts.   There  can  be  no
assurance  therefore  that  applicable statutes  and  regulations
might   not   be  interpreted  or  applied  by  a  prosecutorial,
regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that would adversely
affect  the Company.  Potential sanctions for violation of  these
statutes  and regulations include significant fines and the  loss
of various licenses, certificates and authorizations.

      Under the Company's present insurance programs, coverage is
obtained  for  catastrophic exposures  as  well  as  those  risks
required  to  be  insured  by law or contract.   The  Company  is
responsible for the uninsured portion of losses related primarily
to  general, product and vehicle liability, certain medical costs
and  workers' compensation. The self-insured retentions are on  a
per   occurrence  basis  without  any  aggregate  annual   limit.
Provisions for losses expected under these programs are  recorded
based upon the Company's estimates of the aggregated liability of
claims incurred.  At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company  had
provided  letters of credit aggregating approximately  $24.0  and
$23.0,   respectively,  primarily  in  connection  with   certain
insurance programs.

      The  Company leases various facilities and equipment  under
non-cancelable   lease  arrangements.   Future   minimum   rental
commitments for leases with noncancellable terms of one  year  or
more at December 31, 1999 are as follows:


   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)


                                     Operating       Capital
                                     ---------       -------
        2000                          $ 43.4         $  2.8
        2001                            30.9            2.9
        2002                            24.1            2.9
        2003                            18.9            2.7
        2004                            13.9            2.6
        Thereafter                      51.9            7.1
                                      ------         ------

     Total minimum lease payments      183.1           21.0
     Less:
       Amounts included in
         restructuring accruals           --           12.5
       Amount representing interest       --            3.5
                                      ------         ------
     Total minimum operating
      lease payments and
      present value of minimum
      capital  lease  payments        $183.1         $  5.0
                                      ======         ======

     Current                                         $  0.6
     Non-current                                        4.4
                                                     ------
                                                     $  5.0
                                                     ======

      Rental  expense,  which  includes  rent  for  real  estate,
equipment  and  automobiles under operating leases,  amounted  to
$67.0,  $67.5  and $67.9 for the years ended December  31,  1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively.

14.  PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT PLANS

      The  Company maintains a defined contribution pension  plan
for  all  eligible employees. Eligible employees are  defined  as
individuals who are age 21 or older and have been employed by the
Company  for at least six consecutive months and completed  1,000
hours of service.  Company contributions to the plan are based on
a  percentage of employee contributions.  The cost of  this  plan
was $7.5, $7.1 and $6.9 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

      In addition, substantially all employees of the Company are
covered  by  a  defined  benefit retirement  plan  (the  "Company
Plan").  The benefits to be paid under the Company Plan are based
on years of credited service and average final compensation.  The
Company's  policy is to fund the Company Plan with at  least  the
minimum amount required by applicable regulations.

      The  Company has a second defined benefit plan which covers
its  senior management group that provides for the payment of the
difference, if any, between the amount of any maximum  limitation
on  annual benefit payments under the Employee Retirement  Income
Security Act of 1974 and the annual benefit that would be payable
under the Company Plan but for such limitation.  This plan is  an
unfunded plan.



   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

The  components  of net periodic pension cost  for  both  of  the
defined benefit plans are summarized as follows:

                                                  Company Plan
                                             -------------------------
                                                   Years ended
                                                   December 31,
                                              1999      1998     1997
                                             ------    ------   ------

COMPONENTS OF NET PERIODIC BENEFIT COST
Service cost                                 $ 10.5    $ 10.5   $ 10.4
Interest cost                                   9.2       8.6      8.3
Expected return on plan assets                (12.1)    (11.0)    (8.7)
Net amortization and deferral                  (1.6)     (1.6)    (1.2)
                                             ------    ------   ------
Net periodic pension cost                    $  6.0    $  6.5   $  8.8
                                             ======    ======   ======


                                                     Company Plan
                                                   ---------------
                                                     December 31,
                                                    1999     1998
                                                   ---------------
CHANGE IN BENEFIT OBLIGATION
Benefit obligation at beginning of year            $140.3   $134.1
Service cost                                         10.5     10.5
Interest cost                                         9.2      8.6
Actuarial gain                                      (11.7)    (4.0)
Benefits paid                                       (10.0)    (8.9)
                                                   ------   ------
Benefit obligation at end of year                   138.3    140.3
                                                   ------   ------

CHANGE IN PLAN ASSETS
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year      135.9    118.5
Actual return on plan assets                          3.5      9.9
Employer contributions                                8.7     16.4
Benefits paid                                       (10.0)    (8.9)
                                                   ------   ------
Fair value of plan assets at end of year            138.1    135.9
                                                   ------   ------
Funded status, end of year                            0.2      4.4
Unrecognized net actuarial loss                     (10.7)   (14.3)
Unrecognized prior service cost                       8.6     10.6
                                                   ------   ------
Accrued pension liability (asset)                  $ (1.9)  $  0.7
                                                   ======   ======





Assumptions used in the accounting for the defined benefit  plans
were as follows:
                                                     Company Plan
                                                    --------------
                                                    1999      1998
                                                    --------------
Weighted-average discount rate                      7.75%    6.75%
Weighted-average rate of increase
  in future compensation levels                      4.0%     4.0%
Weighted-average expected long-
  term rate of return                                9.0%     9.0%


       The  Company  assumed  obligations  under  a  subsidiary's
postretirement  medical  plan.  Coverage  under  this   plan   is
restricted  to  a  limited number of existing  employees  of  the
subsidiary.  This plan is unfunded and the Company's policy is to


   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

fund   benefits  as  claims  are  incurred.  The  components   of
postretirement benefit expense are as follows:

                                      Year ended      Year ended
                                      December 31,    December 31,
                                         1999            1998
                                      ------------    ------------

Service cost                             $  1.0         $  1.0
Interest cost                               2.6            2.7
Net amortization and deferral              (0.1)           0.1
                                         ------         ------
Postretirement  benefit  costs           $  3.5         $  3.8
                                         ======         ======


A  summary  of  the components of the accumulated  postretirement
benefit obligation follows:

                                                     December 31,
                                                    1999     1998
                                                   ---------------

    Retirees                                       $  8.0   $  9.3
    Fully eligible active plan participants           9.3     11.5
    Other active plan participants                   14.6     18.0
                                                   ------   ------
                                                   $ 31.9   $ 38.8
                                                   ======   ======

RECONCILIATION OF THE FUNDED STATUS OF THE                     December 31,
   POSTRETIREMENT  BENEFIT PLAN AND ACCRUED  LIABILITY:       1999     1998
                                                             ---------------
Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation,
  beginning of year                                          $ 38.8   $ 40.6
Changes in benefit obligation due to:
  Service cost                                                  1.0      1.0
  Interest cost                                                 2.6      2.7
  Plan participants contributions                               0.1      0.1
  Actuarial gain                                               (9.7)    (3.7)
  Amendments                                                     --     (1.1)
  Benefits  paid                                               (0.9)    (0.8)
                                                             ------   ------
Accumulated post retirement benefit obligation,
  end of year                                                  31.9     38.8
Unrecognized   net  actuarial   loss                           (0.3)   (10.5)
Unrecognized prior service cost                                 3.6      4.2
                                                             ------   ------
Accrued postretirement benefit obligation                    $ 35.2   $ 32.5
                                                             ======   ======

      The weighted-average discount rates used in the calculation
of  the  accumulated postretirement benefit obligation were  7.8%
and  6.8%,  respectively, as of December 31, 1999 and  1998.  The
health  care  cost trend rate was assumed to be  7.0%  and  7.5%,
respectively,  declining gradually to 5.0% in the year  2006  and
thereafter.   The health care cost trend rate has  a  significant
effect  on  the  amounts reported. Increasing the assumed  health
care  cost  trend rates by a percentage point in each year  would
increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as  of
December  31,  1999  by $5.4.  The impact of a  percentage  point
increase  on the aggregate of the service cost and interest  cost
components  of  the  net  periodic  postretirement  benefit  cost
results in an increase of $0.7.



   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

15.  QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)

     The following is a summary of unaudited quarterly data:


                                     Year ended December 31, 1999
                             ------------------------------------------------
                               1st        2nd      3rd      4th        Full
                             Quarter    Quarter   Quarter  Quarter     Year
                             -------    -------   -------  -------  ---------

Net  sales                   $ 417.9    $ 429.5   $ 428.6  $ 422.7  $ 1,698.7
Gross profit                   151.4      164.3     163.4    150.0      629.1
Net earnings                    14.1       19.8      17.2     14.3       65.4
Less preferred dividends        11.0       12.5      12.9     13.2       49.6
Less accretion of mandatorily
  redeemable preferred stock     0.2        0.2       0.2      0.2        0.8
Net earnings attributable
   to  common shareholders       2.9        7.1       4.1      0.9       15.0
Basic and diluted earnings
   per  common  share            0.02       0.06      0.03     0.01       0.12


                                        Year ended December 31, 1998
                              ------------------------------------------------
                                1st       2nd      3rd       4th       Full
                              Quarter   Quarter   Quarter   Quarter    Year
                              -------   -------   -------   -------  ---------

Net  sales                    $ 387.7   $ 402.4   $ 414.7   $ 407.8  $ 1,612.6
Gross profit                    132.0     144.6     144.4     142.4      563.4
Net earnings                      9.3      12.8      11.4      35.3       68.8
Less  preferred dividends        11.0      11.3      11.1      10.2       43.6
Less accretion of mandatorily
  redeemable preferred stock      0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2        0.8
Net earnings (loss)
  attributable to common
  shareholders                   (1.9)      1.3       0.1      24.9       24.4
Basic earnings (loss) per
   common  share                 (0.01)     0.01      0.00      0.20       0.20
Diluted earnings (loss) per
   common  share                 (0.01)     0.01      0.00      0.11       0.20


       In  the  fourth quarter of 1998, the Company  reclassified
certain amounts for the three quarters ended September 30,  1998,
to  selling, general and administrative expenses from  net  sales
adjustments  to be consistent with the 1998 classification.   The
reclassified  amounts  are as follows: $14.7,  first  quarter  of
1998;  $16.3,  second quarter of 1998; $16.4,  third  quarter  of
1998.

      For  the fourth quarter of 1998, basic and diluted earnings
per  common  share  is calculated based on the  weighted  average
number  of  shares  outstanding for the quarter (125,269,903  and
318,739,501 shares, respectively).


   LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
          (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)


16.  NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

      In  June  1999, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No.  137,  "Accounting  for Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging
Activities-Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB  Statement  No.
133"  was  issued.  This Statement delays the effective  date  of
FASB  Statement  No. 133 for one year to fiscal  years  beginning
after  June  15,  2000.  FASB Statement No. 133 standardizes  the
accounting for derivative instruments by requiring that an entity
recognize  those items as assets or liabilities and measure  them
at  fair  value.   Adoption is not expected to  have  a  material
impact  on  the  Company's  financial  position  or  results   of
operations.


                                                          SCHEDULE II

         LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS AND SUBSIDIARIES

             VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
              Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
                         (Dollars in Millions)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      Balance    Charged     Other
                                        at         to       (Deduct-   Balance
                                     beginning  Costs and     ions)     at end
                                      of year    Expenses   Additions  of year
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Year ended December 31, 1999:
  Applied against asset
    accounts:

  Allowance for
  doubtful accounts                  $ 194.0     $ 191.9    $ (238.8)  $ 147.1
                                     =======     =======    ========   =======

  Valuation allowance-
   deferred  tax assets              $  14.5     $ (10.0)   $     --   $   4.5
                                     =======     =======    ========   =======

Year ended December 31, 1998:
  Applied against asset
    accounts:

  Allowance for
  doubtful accounts                  $ 195.4     $ 164.7    $ (166.1)  $ 194.0
                                     =======     =======    ========   =======

  Valuation allowance-
   deferred  tax assets              $  42.0     $ (27.5)   $     --   $  14.5
                                     =======     =======    ========   =======

Year ended December 31, 1997:
  Applied against asset
    accounts:

  Allowance for
  doubtful accounts                  $ 111.6     $ 311.5    $ (227.7)  $ 195.4
                                     =======     =======    ========   =======

  Valuation allowance-
  deferred tax assets                $  32.0     $  10.0    $     --   $  42.0
                                     =======     =======    ========   =======




