Item 1A.Risk
    Factors



You should consider carefully the following risk factors and all
    other information contained in this Annual Report onForm 10-Kand the documents we incorporate by reference in this Annual
    Report onForm 10-K.Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect
    our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial
    condition.



Current
    economic conditions and uncertain economic outlook could
    adversely affect our results of operations and financial
    condition.





A
    prolonged downturn in the aerospace and defense, process
    instrumentation or electric motor businesses could adversely
    affect our business.



Several of the industries in which we operate are cyclical in
    nature and therefore are affected by factors beyond our control.
    A prolonged downturn in the aerospace and defense, process
    instrumentation or electric motor businesses could have an
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.



Our
    growth strategy includes strategic acquisitions. We may not be
    able to consummate future acquisitions or successfully integrate
    recent and future acquisitions.



A portion of our growth has been attributed to acquisitions of
    strategic businesses. Since the beginning of 2005, through
    December 31, 2009, we have completed 24 acquisitions. We
    plan to continue making strategic acquisitions to enhance our
    global market position and broaden our product offerings.
    Although we have been successful with our acquisition strategies
    in the past, our ability to successfully effectuate acquisitions
    will be dependent upon a number of factors, including:



•Our ability to identify acceptable acquisition candidates;•The impact of increased competition for acquisitions, which may
    increase acquisition costs and affect our ability to consummate
    acquisitions on favorable terms and may result in us assuming a
    greater portion of the seller’s liabilities;•Successfully integrating acquired businesses, including
    integrating the financial, technological and management
    processes, procedures and controls of the acquired businesses
    with those of our existing operations;•Adequate financing for acquisitions being available on terms
    acceptable to us;•U.S. and foreign competition laws and regulations affecting
    our ability to make certain acquisitions;•Unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of
    acquired businesses;•Mitigating assumed, contingent and unknown liabilities; and•Challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity
    and complexity of our operations.







The process of integrating acquired businesses into our existing
    operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and
    may require additional financial resources and attention from
    management that would otherwise be available for the ongoing
    development or expansion of our existing operations.
    Furthermore, even if successfully integrated, the acquired
    business may not achieve the results we expected or produce
    expected benefits in the time frame planned. Failure to continue
    with our acquisition strategy and the successful integration of
    acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, liquidity and financial
    condition.



We may
    experience unanticipatedstart-upexpenses and production delays in opening new facilities or
    product line transfers.



Certain of our businesses are relocating or have recently
    relocated manufacturing operations to low-cost locales.
    Unanticipatedstart-upexpenses and production delays in opening new facilities or
    completing product line transfers, as well as possible
    underutilization of our existing facilities, could result in
    production inefficiencies, which would adversely affect our
    business and operations.



Our
    substantial international sales and operations are subject to
    customary risks associated with international
    operations.



International sales for 2009 and 2008 represented 49% and 48% of
    our consolidated net sales, respectively. As a result of our
    growth strategy, we anticipate that the percentage of sales
    outside the United States will increase in the future.
    International operations are subject to the customary risks of
    operating in an international environment, including:



•Potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions;•Overlap of different tax structures;•Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;•Changes in tariffs and trade barriers;•Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including
    changes in the relative value of currencies in the countries
    where we operate, subjecting us to exchange rate exposures;•Restrictions on currency repatriation;•General economic conditions;•Unstable political situations;•Nationalization of assets; and•Compliance with a wide variety of international and
    U.S. laws and regulatory requirements.



Our
    international sales and operations may be adversely impacted by
    compliance with export laws.



We are required to comply with various import, export, export
    control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our
    transactions with certain customers, business partners and other
    persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our
    employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export
    control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the
    export of certain products, services and technologies and in
    other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export
    license before exporting a controlled item. In addition, failure
    to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil
    and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions
    to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export
    products and services and damage to our reputation.





Any
    inability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of
    skilled officers and other employees could impede our ability to
    compete successfully.



If we cannot hire, train and retain a sufficient number of
    qualified employees, we may not be able to effectively integrate
    acquired businesses and realize anticipated performance results
    from those businesses, manage our expanding international
    operations and otherwise profitably grow our business. Even if
    we do hire and retain a sufficient number of employees, the
    expense necessary to attract and motivate these officers and
    employees may adversely affect our results of operations.



If we
    are unable to develop new products on a timely basis, it could
    adversely affect our business and prospects.



We believe that our future success depends, in part, on our
    ability to develop, on a timely basis, technologically advanced
    products that meet or exceed appropriate industry standards.
    Although we believe we have certain technological and other
    advantages over our competitors, maintaining such advantages
    will require us to continue investing in research and
    development and sales and marketing. There can be no assurance
    that we will have sufficient resources to make such investments,
    that we will be able to make the technological advances
    necessary to maintain such competitive advantages or that we can
    recover major research and development expenses. We are not
    currently aware of any emerging standards or new products, which
    could render our existing products obsolete, although there can
    be no assurance that this will not occur or that we will be able
    to develop and successfully market new products.



A
    shortage of or price increases in our raw materials could
    increase our operating costs.



We have multiple sources of supplies for our major raw material
    requirements and we are not dependent on any one supplier;
    however, certain items, including base metals and certain steel
    components, are available only from a limited number of
    suppliers and are subject to commodity market fluctuations.
    Shortages in raw materials or price increases therefore could
    affect the prices we charge, our operating costs and our
    competitive position, which could adversely affect our business,
    results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.



Certain
    environmental risks may cause us to be liable for costs
    associated with hazardous or toxic substanceclean-upwhich may adversely affect our financial
    condition.



clean-up

clean-up

clean-ups.

clean-up





We are
    subject to numerous governmental regulations, which may be
    burdensome or lead to significant costs.



Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state, local and
    foreign governmental laws and regulations. In addition, existing
    laws and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new
    laws and regulations, including with respect to climate change,
    may be adopted or become applicable to us or customers for our
    products. We cannot predict the form any such new laws or
    regulations will take or the impact any of these laws and
    regulations will have on our business or operations.



We may
    be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with
    alleged or actual harm caused by our products.



We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product
    liability claims in the event that the use of our products is
    alleged to have resulted in harm to others or to property. For
    example, our operations expose us to potential liabilities for
    personal injury or death as a result of the failure of, for
    instance, an aircraft component that has been designed,
    manufactured or serviced by us. We may incur a significant
    liability if product liability lawsuits against us are
    successful. While we believe our current general liability and
    product liability insurance is adequate to protect us from
    future claims, we cannot assure that coverage will be adequate
    to cover all claims that may arise. Additionally, we may not be
    able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an
    acceptable cost. Any liability not covered by insurance or for
    which third-party indemnification is not available could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.



We
    operate in highly competitive industries, which may adversely
    affect our results of operations or ability to expand our
    business.



Our markets are highly competitive. We compete, domestically and
    internationally, with individual producers, as well as with
    vertically integrated manufacturers, some of which have
    resources greater than we do. The principal elements of
    competition for our products are price, product technology,
    distribution, quality and service. EMG’s competition in
    specialty metal products stems from alternative materials and
    processes. In the markets served by EIG, although we believe EIG
    is a market leader, competition is strong and could intensify.
    In the pressure gauge, aerospace and heavy-vehicle markets
    served by EIG, a limited number of companies compete on the
    basis of product quality, performance and innovation. Our
    competitors may develop new or improve existing products that
    are superior to our products or may adapt more readily to new
    technologies or changing requirements of our customers. There
    can be no assurance that our business will not be adversely
    affected by increased competition in the markets in which it
    operates or that our products will be able to compete
    successfully with those of our competitors.



Our
    access to sources of liquidity may be limited by market
    conditions and restrictions in our revolving credit facility and
    other agreements.



In 2009, the financial markets have experienced a significant
    liquidity shortfall as a result of diverse conditions that have
    caused the failure and near failure of a number of large
    financial services companies. If the availability of funds
    remains limited, we could incur increased costs associated with
    renewal of our credit facilityand/orother
    debt instruments. In addition, it is possible that our ability
    to access the credit market may be limited by these or other
    factors, at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which
    could have an impact on our ability to refinance maturing debtand/orreact
    to changing economic and business conditions. Notwithstanding
    the foregoing, at this time, we believe that available
    short-term and long-term capital resources are sufficient to
    fund our working capital requirements, scheduled debt payments,
    interest payments, capital expenditures, benefit plan
    contributions, income tax obligations, dividends to our
    shareholders, any contemplated acquisitions and share
    repurchases for the foreseeable future.



We are
    subject to possible insolvency of financial
    counterparties.



We engage in numerous financial transactions and contracts
    including insurance policies, letters of credit, credit
    facilities, financial derivatives and investment management
    agreements involving various counterparties. We





are subject to the risk that one or more of these counterparties
    may become insolvent and, therefore, be unable to discharge its
    obligations under such contracts.



Our
    goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial
    amount of our total assets and write-off of such substantial
    goodwill and intangible assets could have a negative impact on
    our financial condition and results of operations.



Our total assets include substantial amounts of intangible
    assets, primarily goodwill. At December 31, 2009, goodwill
    and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization,
    totaled $1,799.2 million or 55% of our total assets. The
    goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess
    of cost over the fair value of the net tangible and other
    identifiable intangible assets we have acquired. At a minimum,
    we assess annually whether there has been impairment in the
    value of our intangible assets. If future operating performance
    at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly
    below current levels, we could reflect, under current applicable
    accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating earnings for
    goodwill or other intangible asset impairment. Any determination
    requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or
    other intangible assets would negatively affect our financial
    condition and results of operations.



