Item 1—Business

NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION

Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) is a financial holding company that is a leading provider of asset servicing, fund administration,
asset management, fiduciary and banking solutions for corporations, institutions, families and individuals worldwide. The Corporation conducts business through various U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries, including The Northern Trust Company (Bank). The
Corporation was originally formed as a holding company for the Bank in 1971. The Corporation has a network of offices in 18 U.S. states, Washington, D.C., and 18 international locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia Pacific
region. At December 31, 2013, the Corporation had consolidated total assets of $102.9 billion and stockholders’ equity of $7.9 billion.

The Bank is an Illinois banking corporation headquartered in Chicago and the Corporation’s principal subsidiary. Founded in 1889, the
Bank conducts its business through its U.S. operations and its various U.S. and non-U.S. branches and subsidiaries. At December 31, 2013, the Bank had consolidated assets of $102.7 billion and common bank equity capital of $7.1 billion.

The Corporation expects that, although the operations of other banking and non-banking subsidiaries will continue to be of increasing
significance, the Bank will in the foreseeable future continue to be the major source of the Corporation’s consolidated assets, revenues, and net income. Except where the context otherwise requires, the term “Northern Trust” refers to
Northern Trust Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

BUSINESS UNITS

Northern Trust focuses on servicing and managing client assets through its two primary business units: Corporate & Institutional
Services (C&IS) and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to Wealth Management and C&IS clients primarily by a third business unit, Asset Management. Northern Trust emphasizes quality through a high level of
service complemented by the effective use of technology, delivered by a fourth business unit, Operations & Technology (O&T).

Financial information regarding the Corporation and its business units is included in the Corporation’s 2013 Annual Report to
Stockholders. In particular, for a discussion of significant developments in the business of the Corporation, and the impact on the financial results of the Corporation and its business units for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, you are
urged to review the section entitled “Consolidated Results of Operations” on pages 12-20 of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Corporation’s 2013 Annual Report to
Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

The following is a brief summary of each business unit’s activities.

Corporate & Institutional Services

C&IS is a leading global provider of asset servicing, brokerage, banking and related services to corporate and public retirement funds,
foundations, endowments, fund managers, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, and other institutional investors around the globe. Asset servicing and related services encompass a full range of capabilities including but not limited to:
global master trust and custody; fund administration; investment operations outsourcing; investment risk and analytical services; securities lending; foreign exchange; cash management; treasury management; brokerage services; and transition
management services. Client relationships are managed through the Bank and the Bank’s and the Corporation’s other subsidiaries, including support from locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia Pacific region. At
December 31, 2013, total C&IS assets under custody were $5.1 trillion and assets under management were $662.7 billion.







Wealth Management

Wealth Management provides trust, investment management, custody, and philanthropic services; financial consulting; guardianship and estate
administration; family business consulting; family financial education; brokerage services; and private and business banking. Wealth Management focuses on high-net-worth individuals and families, business owners, executives, professionals, retirees,
and established privately-held businesses in its target markets. Wealth Management also includes the Global Family Office, which provides customized services to meet the complex financial needs of individuals and family offices in the United States
and throughout the world with assets typically exceeding $200 million.

Wealth Management is one of the largest providers of advisory
services in the United States, with $496.0 billion in assets under custody and $221.8 billion in assets under management at December 31, 2013. Wealth Management services are delivered by multidisciplinary teams through a network of offices in
18 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., as well as offices in London, Guernsey, and Abu Dhabi.

Asset Management

Asset Management, through the Corporation’s various subsidiaries, provides a broad range of asset management and related services and
other products to clients around the world, including clients of C&IS and Wealth Management. Clients include institutional and individual separately managed accounts, bank common and collective funds, registered investment companies, exchange
traded funds, non-U.S. collective investment funds, and unregistered private investment funds. Asset Management offers both active and passive equity and fixed income portfolio management, as well as alternative asset classes (such as private equity
and hedge funds of funds) and multi-manager advisory services and products. Asset Management’s activities also include overlay services and other risk management services. Asset Management’s business operates internationally through
subsidiaries and distribution arrangements.

Operations & Technology

O&T supports all of Northern Trust’s business activities, including the processing and product management activities of C&IS,
Wealth Management, and Asset Management. These activities are conducted principally in the operations and technology centers in Chicago, London, and Bangalore.

COMPETITION

The
businesses in which Northern Trust operates are very competitive. Competition is provided by both unregulated and regulated financial services organizations, whose products and services span the local, national, and global markets in which Northern
Trust conducts operations.

Northern Trust’s principal business strategy is to provide quality financial services to targeted market
segments in which it believes it has a competitive advantage and favorable growth prospects. As part of this strategy, Northern Trust seeks to deliver a level of service that distinguishes it from its competitors. In addition, Northern Trust
emphasizes the development and growth of recurring sources of fee-based income and is one of a select group of major bank holding companies in the United States that generates more revenues from fee-based services than from net interest income.
Northern Trust seeks to develop and expand its recurring fee-based revenue by identifying selected markets with good growth characteristics and providing a high level of individualized service to clients in those markets. Northern Trust also seeks
to preserve its asset quality through established credit review procedures and to maintain a conservative balance sheet. Finally, Northern Trust seeks to operate with a strong management team that includes senior officers having broad experience and
long tenures.

Commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions actively compete for deposits, and money
market funds and investment banking firms offer deposit-like services. These institutions, as well as consumer and commercial finance companies, national retail chains, factors, insurance companies, and pension trusts, are important competitors for
various types of loans. Issuers of commercial paper compete actively for funds and reduce demand for bank loans. For personal and corporate trust services and investment counseling services, trust companies, investment banking firms, insurance
companies, investment counseling firms, and others offer active competition.







GOVERNMENT MONETARY AND FISCAL POLICIES

The earnings of Northern Trust are affected by numerous external influences. Chief among these are general economic conditions, both domestic
and international, and actions that governments and their central banks take in managing their economies. These general conditions affect all of Northern Trust’s businesses, as well as the quality, value, and profitability of their loan and
investment portfolios.

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) is an important regulator of U.S.
economic conditions and has the general objective of promoting orderly economic growth in the United States. The Federal Reserve Board accomplishes this objective by its open market operations in United States Government securities, its setting of
the discount rate at which member banks may borrow from Federal Reserve Banks, and its changes in the reserve requirements for deposits. The policies adopted by the Federal Reserve Board may strongly influence interest rates and hence what banks
earn on their loans and investments and what they pay on their savings and time deposits and other purchased funds.

REGULATION AND
SUPERVISION

The laws and regulations that govern our activities are complex. Legislators and regulators frequently revise existing
laws and regulations and adopt new ones. It is likely that the regulatory and supervisory requirements governing our banking activities will change during the course of the year. The following describes some of the principal laws and regulations
that currently apply to the Corporation, the Bank, and our other affiliates.

Financial Holding Company Regulation

Under U.S. law, the Corporation is a bank holding company that has elected to be a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act
of 1956, as amended (BHCA). Consequently, the Corporation and its business activities throughout the world are subject to the supervision, examination, and regulation of the Federal Reserve Board. The BHCA and other federal laws subject bank and
financial holding companies to particular restrictions on the types of activities in which they may engage and to a range of supervisory requirements, including enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations. Supervision and regulation
of bank holding companies, financial holding companies, and their subsidiaries are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and other clients of banking subsidiaries, the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC), and the banking system as a whole, not for the protection of stockholders or other non-depository creditors.

Under
the BHCA, bank holding companies and their banking subsidiaries are generally limited to the business of banking and activities closely related or incidental to banking. As a financial holding company, the Corporation is permitted to engage in other
activities that the Federal Reserve Board, working with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines to be financial in nature, incidental to an activity that is financial in nature, or complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a
substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally, or to acquire shares of companies engaged in such activities. Activities defined to be financial in nature include: providing financial or
investment advice; securities underwriting and dealing; insurance underwriting; and making merchant banking investments in commercial and financial companies, subject to significant limitations. They also include activities previously determined by
the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. The Corporation may not, however, directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or control of more than 5% of any class
of voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of a bank holding company or a bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board.

In order to maintain the Corporation’s status as a financial holding company, each of the Corporation’s insured depository
institution subsidiaries must remain “well-capitalized” and “well-managed” under applicable regulations, and must have received at least a “satisfactory” rating in its most recent examination under the Community
Reinvestment Act (CRA). In addition, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act’s (as defined and discussed







further below) amendment of the BHCA, the Corporation must also be and remain “well-capitalized” and “well-managed” in order to maintain its status as a financial holding
company. Failure to meet one or more of these requirements would mean, depending on the requirements not met, that the Corporation could not undertake new activities, continue certain activities, or make acquisitions other than those permitted
generally for bank holding companies.

Subsidiary Regulation

The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the maximum authorized limit, and it is subject
to regulation by both these agencies. As an Illinois banking corporation, the Bank is also subject to Illinois state laws and regulations and to examination and supervision by the Division of Banking of the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation. The Bank is registered as a government securities dealer in accordance with the Government Securities Act of 1986. As a government securities dealer, its activities are subject to the rules and regulations of the Department
of the Treasury. The Bank is also registered as a transfer agent with the Federal Reserve Board and is therefore subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board in this area.

The Bank also is provisionally registered with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) under the Commodity Exchange Act and is
therefore subject to the rules and regulations of the CFTC applicable to swap dealers. Certain of our other affiliates are registered with the CFTC as a commodity trading advisor or commodity pool operator under the Commodity Exchange Act and are
subject to that act and the associated rules and regulations of the CFTC.

The Corporation’s nonbanking affiliates are all subject to
examination by the Federal Reserve Board. Its broker-dealer subsidiary is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, subject to the rules and regulations of both of
these bodies. Several subsidiaries of the Corporation are registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and are subject to that act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Other subsidiaries are regulated by state
banking departments in various states. The Bank and other subsidiaries of the Corporation act as investment advisers to several mutual funds and other asset managers which are subject to regulation by the SEC under the Investment Company Act of
1940.

Non-U.S. Regulation

The
increasingly important activities of the Bank’s branches and subsidiaries outside the United States are subject to regulation by a number of non-U.S. regulatory agencies. For example, branches and subsidiaries conducting banking, fund
administration and asset servicing businesses in the United Kingdom are authorized to do so pursuant to the UK Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 or are otherwise subject to regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and the
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The PRA and FCA exercise broad supervisory and disciplinary powers that include the power to temporarily or permanently revoke authorization to conduct a regulated business upon breach of the relevant regulations,
suspend registered employees, and impose censures and fines on both regulated businesses and their regulated employees.

On June 8,
2011, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union approved the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD). On July 22, 2013, the AIFMD entered into force via implementing legislation in EU member states. The AIFMD
and its implementing legislation impose new regulatory requirements on covered alternative investment fund managers that are located or market fund interests in the EU, including regulations regarding risk management and valuation functions,
leverage limits, custodial requirements, and investor disclosures. The EU is also in the process of implementing several other new regulations that may affect our operations such as the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR). EMIR came
into effect on August 16, 2012, and regulates over-the-counter derivatives markets in the EU. EMIR imposes several new regulations relating to common rules for central counterparties, reporting and clearing obligations of parties to the
over-the-counter market, and counterparty credit risk. The Bank is working diligently to comply with the AIFMD, EMIR, and other EU rules and regulations. Given the continuing implementation process of these regulations, the Bank cannot determine the
impact of such new regulations on the Bank’s operations at this time.







Our non-U.S. branches and subsidiaries are subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the
jurisdictions in which they operate. Additionally, the Bank’s and the Corporation’s subsidiary banks located outside the U.S. are subject to regulatory capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. As of
December 31, 2013, each of our non-U.S. banking subsidiaries had capital ratios above their specified minimum requirements.

Functional Regulation

Federal banking law has established a system of federal and state supervision and regulation based on functional regulation, meaning
that primary regulatory oversight for a particular activity generally resides with the federal or state regulator designated as having the principal responsibility for that activity. Banking is supervised by federal and state banking regulators,
insurance by state insurance regulators, derivatives and swaps activities by the CFTC, and securities activities by the SEC and state securities regulators.

A significant component of the functional regulation relates to the application of federal securities laws and SEC oversight of some bank
securities activities. Generally, banks may conduct securities activities without broker-dealer registration only if the activities fall within a set of activity-based exemptions designed to allow banks to conduct only those activities traditionally
considered to be primarily banking or trust activities. Securities activities outside these exemptions, as a practical matter, need to be conducted by a registered broker-dealer affiliate. The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 requires the
registration of any bank or separately identifiable division of the bank that acts as investment adviser for mutual funds.

Another
component of the functional regulation relates to the application of federal commodity and derivatives laws and CFTC oversight of some bank commodity and derivatives activities, including swap dealing activities. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act
(as defined and discussed further below), the Bank has provisionally registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer and therefore may engage in swap dealing activity above a de minimis notional threshold established for swap dealing with U.S.
counterparties.

The Dodd-Frank Act

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) is having a broad impact on the financial services industry and
imposes significant new regulatory and compliance requirements, including the imposition of increased capital, leverage, and liquidity requirements, and numerous other provisions designed to improve supervision and oversight of, and strengthen
safety and soundness within, the financial services sector. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a new framework of authority to conduct systemic risk oversight within the financial system to be distributed among new and existing federal
regulatory agencies, including the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), and the FDIC.

The following items provide a brief description of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that are most relevant to the Corporation and its
banking subsidiaries, including the Bank.

Heightened Prudential Requirements







capital adequacy in adverse economic conditions, conduct capital stress tests, implement enhanced risk management procedures, comply with a liquidity risk management framework, conduct liquidity
stress tests, and hold a buffer of liquid assets estimated to meet funding needs during a financial stress event.

Resolution Planning

Mortgage Loan Origination and Risk Retention. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new standards for mortgage loan
originations on all lenders, including banks and thrifts. Most significantly, the new standards prohibit the Corporation’s subsidiaries from making a residential mortgage loan without verifying a borrower’s ability to repay, limit the
total points and fees that the Corporation’s subsidiaries and/or a mortgage broker may charge on certain mortgage loans to 3% of the total loan amount, and prohibit certain prepayment penalty practices. Also, the Dodd-Frank Act, in conjunction
with the Federal Reserve Board’s final rule on loan originator compensation, prohibits certain compensation payments to loan originators and steering consumers to loans not in their interest because it will result in greater compensation for a
loan originator. These standards will result in a myriad of new system, pricing, and compensation controls in order to ensure compliance and to decrease repurchase requests and foreclosure defenses.

Proprietary Trading and Certain Relationships with Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds. The Dodd-Frank Act
adopts the so-called “Volcker Rule” which, subject to a two-year transition period and certain exceptions, became effective on July 21, 2012 and prohibits a banking entity from engaging in “proprietary trading,” which is
defined as engaging as principal for the “trading account” of the banking entity in securities or other instruments, as determined by federal regulators. Certain forms of proprietary trading may qualify as “permitted activities,”
and thus not be subject to the ban on proprietary trading, such as “market-making-related activities”, “risk-mitigating hedging activities”, and trading in U.S. government or agency obligations, certain other U.S., state or
municipal obligations, and the obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. Additionally, subject to a transition period and certain exceptions, the rule restricts a banking entity from sponsoring or investing in certain private funds.
While a banking entity may “organize and offer” certain private funds if certain conditions are met, it may not acquire or retain an equity partnership or other ownership interest in such private funds except for certain limited
investments. A banking entity that sponsors or invests in certain private funds is also restricted from providing credit or other support to the fund or permitting the fund to use the name of the bank.

In October 2011, the OCC, Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, and the SEC, in consultation with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC),
jointly released a notice of proposed rulemaking implementing the Volcker Rule limitations of the Dodd-Frank Act. After extensive comment from the banking industry, consumer groups, and others, on December 10, 2013, the OCC, Federal Reserve
Board, the FDIC, the SEC, and the CFTC issued the final Volcker Rule. That same day, the regulatory agencies extended the conformance period for compliance with the final rule until July 21, 2015.







The final rule bans proprietary trading subject to exceptions for market making, hedging, certain
trading activities in U.S. and foreign sovereign debt, certain trading activities of non-U.S. banking entities trading outside the United States, and trading activities related to liquidity management. The final rule also maintains the ban on
sponsoring or investing in certain “covered funds,” such as hedge funds or private equity funds. The final rule requires large banking entities, including the Corporation, to implement a detailed compliance program, and on an annual basis
requires the Chief Executive Officer of the banking entity to attest that the compliance program is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the rule. In light of the complexity of the final regulation, the uncertain implementation of the
final rule, and the possible regulatory and legislative changes to the final rule, the Corporation cannot fully assess the impact of the Volcker Rule on its business at this time.

Swaps and Other Derivatives

Consumer Financial
Protection. The Dodd-Frank Act established a new independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) within the Federal Reserve System. The CFPB is tasked with establishing and implementing rules and regulations under certain federal
consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. The CFPB has rulemaking authority over many of the statutes governing financial products and services offered to consumers. For
banking organizations with assets of $10 billion or more, including the Bank, the CFPB has exclusive rule making and examination, and primary enforcement, authority under federal consumer financial laws. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permits
states to adopt consumer protection laws and regulations that are stricter than those regulations promulgated by the CFPB. This new federal and state regulatory framework may result in significant new regulatory requirements applicable to the
Corporation and its bank subsidiaries in respect of consumer financial products and services, with potentially significant increases in compliance costs.

Incentive Compensation Arrangements. The Dodd-Frank Act requires federal regulators to prescribe regulations or
guidelines regarding incentive-based compensation practices at certain large financial institutions. On April 14, 2011, federal regulators including the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board and the SEC, issued a proposed rule which, among other
things, would require certain executive officers of covered financial institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, including the Corporation, to defer at least 50% of their annual incentive-based compensation for a minimum of
three years. No final rule has been issued to date.

The requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act will continue to be implemented pursuant to
regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with future regulatory actions, the full impact such requirements will have on the Corporation’s operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act
may impact the profitability of the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries, require changes to certain of the Corporation’s business practices, impose upon the Corporation more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage







requirements, and could adversely affect certain of the Corporation’s business activities. These changes may also require the Corporation and its subsidiaries to invest significant
management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new requirements.

Holding Company Support and
Cross-Guarantees under the FDIA

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA), when two or more insured depository institutions are
under common control, each of those depository institutions may be liable for any loss incurred, or expected to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of any of the others. Each also may be liable for any assistance the FDIC
provides to the other institutions. “Default” means the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the institution.

The
Dodd-Frank Act amends the FDIA to obligate the Federal Reserve Board to require bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies to serve as a source of financial strength for any subsidiary depository institution. The appropriate
federal banking agency for such a depository institution may require reports from companies that control the insured depository institution to assess their ability to serve as a source of strength and to enforce compliance with the
source-of-strength requirements. The term “source of financial strength” is defined as the ability of a company to provide financial assistance to its insured depository institution subsidiaries in the event of financial distress at such
subsidiaries. Under this requirement, the Corporation in the future could be required to provide financial assistance to the Bank should the Bank experience financial distress. To date no final regulations have been adopted.

This cross-guarantee liability for a loss at a commonly controlled institution would be subordinated in right of payment to deposit
liabilities, secured obligations, any other general or senior liability, and any obligation subordinated to depositors or other general creditors, other than obligations owed to any affiliate of the depository institution (with certain exceptions).

Payment of Dividends

The
Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. A significant source of funds for the Corporation is dividends from the Bank. As a result, the Corporation’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock will depend on
the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation in amounts sufficient to service its obligations. Dividend payments from the Bank are subject to Illinois law and to regulatory limitations, generally based on capital levels and current
and retained earnings, imposed by various regulatory agencies with authority over the Bank. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends is also subject to regulatory restrictions if paying dividends would impair its profitability, financial condition
or cash flow requirements.

The Federal Reserve Board has issued a policy statement with regard to the payment of cash dividends by bank
holding companies. The policy statement provides that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common stockholders has been sufficient to fully fund the
dividends, and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the holding company’s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. Accordingly, without Federal Reserve Board approval, a bank holding
company cannot pay cash dividends that exceed its net income, and cash dividends cannot be funded in ways that weaken the bank holding company’s financial health, such as by borrowing.

Various federal and state statutory provisions limit the amount of dividends the Bank can pay to the Corporation without regulatory approval.
Approval of the Federal Reserve Board is required for payment of any dividend by a state chartered bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System if the total of all dividends declared by the bank in any calendar year would exceed the total of
its retained net income (as defined by regulatory agencies) for that year combined with its retained net income for the preceding two years. In addition, a state member bank may not pay a dividend in an amount greater than its “undivided
profits,” as defined, without regulatory and stockholder approval.







The Bank is also prohibited under federal law from paying any dividends if the Bank is
undercapitalized or if the payment of the dividends would cause the Bank to become undercapitalized. In addition, the federal regulatory agencies are authorized to prohibit a bank or bank holding company from engaging in an unsafe or unsound banking
practice. The payment of dividends could, depending on the financial condition of the Bank, be deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. The Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III (as defined and discussed further below) impose additional
restrictions on the ability of banking institutions to pay dividends.

Additionally, Federal Reserve Board regulations require every bank
holding company domiciled in the U.S. that has $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including the Corporation, to submit capital plans to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis. The Federal Reserve evaluates an institution’s plans
to make capital distributions, such as dividend payments or repurchasing or redeeming stock, as part of the capital plan reviews. In some cases, such as when an institution’s capital plan has been rejected by the Federal Reserve, the
institution is required to receive approval from the Federal Reserve before making capital distributions. The Corporation submitted its capital plan as a part of the Federal Reserve’s 2013 Capital Plan Review (CapPR), and the Federal Reserve
did not object to the Corporation’s plan. The Corporation submitted its capital plan to the Federal Reserve in January 2014 as part of the Federal Reserve’s 2014 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR).

Capital Adequacy Requirements

The
regulators view capital levels as important indicators of an institution’s financial soundness. As a general matter, FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies (including the Bank and the Corporation) are required to
maintain minimum capital relative to the amount and types of assets they hold. The final supervisory determination on an institution’s capital adequacy is based on the regulator’s assessment of numerous factors.

The Federal Reserve Board has established risk-based and leverage capital guidelines for bank holding companies, including the Corporation. As
of December 31, 2013, the risk-based capital guidelines that apply to the Corporation and the Bank, commonly referred to as Basel I, are based upon the 1988 capital accord of the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel
Committee), a committee of central banks and bank supervisors, as implemented by the Federal Reserve Board. As discussed further below, the federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted new risk-based capital guidelines for “core banks,”
including the Corporation, based upon the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards (Basel II) issued by the Basel Committee in November 2005. Additionally, on July 2, 2013, the federal
bank regulatory agencies introduced new capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules designed to implement the revised standards of the Basel Committee published in December 2010 and revised in June 2011 (Basel III). These Basel
III rules will come into effect between January 1, 2014 and January 1, 2019.

Under the existing Basel I-based guidelines, the
minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets (which are primarily the credit risk equivalents of balance sheet assets and certain off-balance sheet items such as standby letters of credit, but also include a nominal market risk equivalent
balance related to foreign exchange and debt/equity trading activities) is eight percent. At least half of the total capital must be composed of tier 1 capital, which includes common stockholders’ equity (including retained earnings),
qualifying non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock (and, for bank holding companies only, a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock and a limited amount of trust preferred securities), and minority interests in the equity
accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill, other disallowed intangibles, and disallowed deferred tax assets, among other items. The Federal Reserve Board also has adopted a minimum leverage ratio for bank holding companies, requiring tier
1 capital of at least four percent (unless the institution is ranked a composite 1 under the CAMELS rating system) of average quarterly total consolidated assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), net of goodwill and certain other intangible
assets.







The federal banking regulators have also established risk-based and leverage capital guidelines
that FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, are required to meet. These regulations are generally similar to those established by the Federal Reserve Board for bank holding companies. The Bank’s risk-based and leverage capital
ratios remained strong at December 31, 2013 and were well above the minimum regulatory requirements established by U.S. banking regulators. The risk-based and leverage capital ratios for the Corporation and the Bank, together with the
regulatory minimum ratios and the ratios required for classification as “well-capitalized,” are provided in the following chart.



Risk-Based and Leverage Capital Ratios as ofDecember 31,
2013Tier 1CapitalTotalCapitalTier 1LeverageRatioNorthern Trust Corporation13.4%15.8%7.9%The Northern Trust Company11.5%14.3%6.8%Minimum required ratio4.0%8.0%3.0 or 4.0%“Well-capitalized” minimum ratio6.0%10.0%5.0%

As mentioned above, we are also subject to the Basel II framework for risk-based capital adequacy. The U.S.
bank regulatory agencies have issued final rules with respect to implementation of the Basel II framework. Under the final Basel II rules, the Corporation is one of a small number of “core” banking organizations. The rules require core
banking organizations to have rigorous processes for assessing overall capital adequacy in relation to their total risk profiles, and to publicly disclose certain information about their risk profiles and capital adequacy.

In order to implement the rules, a core banking organization, such as the Corporation, is required to (and the Corporation did) adopt an
implementation plan and must satisfactorily complete a parallel run, in which it calculates capital requirements under both the Basel II rules and regulations effective prior to the adoption of Basel II. In the U.S., the Corporation entered the
parallel run in April 2010. The Corporation’s U.K., Guernsey and Canadian entities subject to Basel II rules have already adopted the standardized approach for credit risk and the basic indicator approach for operational risk in calculating
minimum regulatory capital requirements.

On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body
of the Basel Committee, announced agreement on the calibration and phase-in arrangements for a strengthened set of capital requirements, known as Basel III. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve Board issued final rules implementing Basel
III in the United States. Under these rules, when fully phased-in, banking organizations will be required to satisfy four risk-based capital ratios:



•A common equity tier 1 capital ratio of at least 4.5%;



•A tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6.0%;



•A total capital ratio of at least 8.0%; and



•A leverage ratio of at least 4.0%. Advanced approaches institutions, such as the Corporation, will also be subject to a minimum supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0%.

Under the Federal Reserve Board’s implementation in the final Basel III rules of a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, we are subject to a
capital floor that is based on the Basel III standardized approach. We will therefore be required to calculate our risk-based capital ratios under both the standardized and advanced approaches, and will be subject to the more stringent of the
risk-based capital ratios as calculated under the standardized approach and the advanced approach in the assessment of our capital adequacy under the prompt corrective action framework.

On February 21, 2014, the Corporation was notified by the Federal Reserve Board that both the Corporation and the Bank would be permitted to
exit parallel run. Accordingly, the Corporation and the Bank are required to use the advanced approaches methodologies to calculate and publicly disclose their risk-based capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014. Current results from
the parallel run of the risk-based capital framework have demonstrated that the use of the advanced approaches methodologies, inclusive of commitments we provided to the Federal Reserve regarding our approach to the calculation of risk-weighted
assets, has not resulted in common equity tier 1 capital, tier 1 capital or total risk-based capital ratios falling below the levels required for categorization as “well-capitalized.” These results show that, as of December 31, 2013, the
Corporation’s common equity tier 1 capital ratio as calculated under the advanced approaches methodologies would have been 11.6% on a fully phased-in basis, while the Corporation’s common equity tier 1 capital ratio under the standardized
approach would have been 11.1% on a fully phased-in basis.

Basel III also introduces a capital conservation buffer, requiring banking
organizations to hold a buffer of common equity tier 1 capital above its minimum risk-based capital requirements in an amount greater than 2.5% of its total risk-weighted assets. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during
periods of







economic stress. Banking organizations with a tier 1 common equity ratio above the minimum but below the conservation buffer may face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation
based on the amount of such shortfall. Basel III also introduces a “countercyclical buffer” of 0% to 2.5% of a banking organization’s total risk-weighted assets for advanced approaches banking organizations, such as the Corporation,
which is intended to create a capital buffer for such banking organizations during expansionary economic phases in order to protect against declines in asset prices if credit conditions weaken. In general, the amount of the countercyclical capital
buffer is a weighted average of the countercyclical capital buffer established in the various jurisdictions in which the banking organization has credit exposures.

The U.S.’s implementation of Basel III has increased the minimum capital thresholds for banking organizations and tightened the standards
for what qualifies as capital. In October 2013, the U.S. banking agencies proposed a rule that would introduce quantitative liquidity requirements in the U.S. for large banking organizations, such as the Corporation and the Bank. The ultimate impact
of the U.S. implementation of the new capital and liquidity standards on the Corporation and its bank subsidiaries is currently being reviewed. At this point we cannot determine the ultimate effect these final and proposed regulations would have
upon our earnings or financial position. However, we believe our capital strength, balance sheet and business model leave us well positioned for the U.S. implementation of Basel III.

Prompt Corrective Action

As noted above, on December 20, 2011, the Federal Reserve Board requested comment on a proposed rule to implement requirements in
Section 165 and 166 of the Dodd-Frank Act to establish stricter prudential standards for U.S. bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The proposed rule incorporates the Section 166 “early
remediation requirements”. Similar to prompt corrective action, the early remediation requirements would require firms subject to the proposal to take increasingly stringent corrective measures as the firm’s financial condition
deteriorates. Triggers for remediation include capital levels, stress test results, and risk management weaknesses. No final rule implementing Section 166 has been issued to date.

Examination and Enforcement Powers of the Federal Banking Agencies

A principal objective of the U.S. bank regulatory system is to protect depositors by ensuring the financial safety and soundness of banks. To
that end, the banking regulators have broad regulatory, examination, and enforcement powers, including the power to issue cease and desist orders, impose substantial fines and other civil and criminal penalties, terminate deposit insurance and
appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory agreements could subject the Corporation and its banking subsidiaries, as well as officers, directors, and other institution-affiliated parties
of these organizations, to administrative sanctions and potentially substantial civil money penalties. The appropriate federal banking agency may appoint the FDIC as conservator or receiver for a banking institution (or the FDIC may appoint itself,
under certain circumstances) if any one or more of a number of unsafe or unsound circumstances exist.







The FDIC may terminate a depository institution’s deposit insurance upon a finding that the
institution’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution’s
regulatory agency. Engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory agreements could subject the Bank, the Corporation, and other subsidiaries of the Corporation, or their officers,
directors, and institution-affiliated parties to the remedies described above and other sanctions.

Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates and
Insiders

FDIC-insured banks, including the Corporation’s bank subsidiaries, are subject to restrictions under Sections 23A and
23B of the Federal Reserve Act (as implemented by Regulation W), which govern transactions between FDIC-insured banks and any affiliated entity, whether that entity is the bank’s parent holding company, a holding company affiliate of the bank
or a subsidiary of the bank. Regulation W restrictions apply to certain “covered transactions,” including extensions of credit, issuance of guarantees, investments or asset purchases. In general, these restrictions require that any
extensions of credit must be fully secured with qualifying collateral and are limited, as to any one of the Corporation or such non-bank affiliates, to 10% of the lending bank’s capital stock and surplus, and, as to the Corporation and all such
non-bank affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of such lending bank’s capital stock and surplus. These restrictions are also applied to transactions between banks and their financial subsidiaries. Furthermore, these transactions must be on terms
and conditions that are, or in good faith would be, offered to nonaffiliated companies (i.e., at arm’s length).

The Dodd-Frank Act
generally enhances the restrictions on transactions with affiliates under Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, including an expansion of the definition of “covered transactions” to include credit exposures related to
derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending arrangements, and an increase in the amount of time for which collateral requirements regarding covered credit transactions must be satisfied. The definition of “affiliate” was
expanded to include any investment fund to which the Corporation or an affiliate serves as an investment adviser. The ability of the Federal Reserve Board to grant exemptions from these restrictions was also narrowed, including by requiring
coordination with other bank regulators. In addition, the provision in Section 23A that had permitted a bank to engage in covered transactions with a financial subsidiary of the bank in an amount greater than 10% (but less than 20%) of the
bank’s capital and surplus has been eliminated.

The restrictions on loans to directors, executive officers, principal stockholders
and their related interests (collectively referred to herein as “insiders”) contained in the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation O apply to all federally insured institutions. These restrictions include, among others, limits on loans to one
borrower and conditions that must be met before such a loan can be made. There is also an aggregate limitation on all loans (including credit exposures related to derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending arrangements) to insiders
and their related interests. These loans cannot exceed the institution’s total unimpaired capital and surplus, and the FDIC may determine that a lesser amount is appropriate. Insiders are subject to enforcement actions for knowingly accepting
loans in violation of applicable restrictions. The Dodd-Frank Act enhanced these restrictions and also imposed restrictions on the purchase or sale of assets between banking institutions and insiders.

Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Legislation, and Office of Foreign Assets Control







The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) is responsible
for requiring that U.S. entities do not engage in transactions with certain prohibited parties, as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC publishes lists of persons, organizations and countries suspected of aiding, harboring
or engaging in terrorist acts, known as Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. If the Corporation or the Bank finds a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, the Corporation or the Bank must freeze or
block such account or transaction, file a suspicious activity report and notify the appropriate authorities.

Many other countries have
imposed similar laws and regulations that apply to the Corporation’s non-U.S. offices. The Corporation has established policies and procedures to comply with these laws and the related regulations in all relevant jurisdictions.

Deposit Insurance and Assessments

The
Bank’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the DIF of the FDIC. The Dodd-Frank Act makes permanent the general $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits.

FDIC-insured depository institutions are required to pay deposit insurance assessments to the FDIC. The amount of a particular
institution’s deposit insurance assessment is based on that institution’s risk classification under an FDIC risk-based assessment system. An institution’s risk classification is assigned based on the level of supervisory concern the
institution poses to the regulators, the institution’s capital levels and other risk measures.

The Dodd-Frank Act increased the
minimum designated reserve ratio of the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35% of the estimated amount of total insured deposits effective September 30, 2020, eliminated the upper limit for the reserve ratio designated by the FDIC each year, and eliminated
the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. On December 14, 2010, the FDIC raised the minimum designated reserve ratio of the DIF to 2%, where it remains today. The
ratio is higher than the minimum reserve ratio of 1.35% as set by the Dodd-Frank Act.

Continued action by the FDIC to replenish the DIF as well as the changes contained in the Dodd-Frank Act may result in higher assessment
rates, which could reduce the profitability of or otherwise negatively impact the Bank.







Interstate Banking and Branching

The Dodd-Frank Act amends the BHCA to require a bank holding company seeking approval to acquire shares of a bank located outside of the bank
holding company’s home state to be well-capitalized and well-managed. Similarly, the Dodd-Frank Act amends the Bank Merger Act to require that the surviving bank in an interstate merger transaction be well-capitalized and well-managed.

In addition, national banks and state banks with different home states are permitted to merge across state lines, with the approval of the
appropriate federal banking agency, unless the home state of a participating banking institution passed legislation prior to June 1, 1997 that expressly prohibits interstate mergers. The Dodd-Frank Act permits a national bank or a state bank,
with the approval of its regulator, to open a branch in any state if the law of the state in which the branch is to be located would permit the establishment of the branch if the bank were a bank chartered in that state.

Community Reinvestment Act

The Bank is
subject to the CRA. The CRA and the regulations issued thereunder are intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their service areas, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operations of
the banks. These regulations also provide for regulatory assessment of a bank’s record in meeting the needs of its service area when considering applications to establish branches, merger applications, and applications to acquire the assets and
assume the liabilities of another bank. Federal banking agencies are required to make public the rating of a bank’s performance under the CRA. In the case of a bank holding company, the CRA performance record of its bank subsidiaries is
reviewed by federal banking agencies in connection with the filing of an application to acquire ownership or control of shares or assets of a bank or thrift or to merge with any other bank holding company. An unsatisfactory record can substantially
delay or block the transaction. The Bank received an “outstanding” CRA rating from its regulator in its most recent CRA examination.

In October 2012, the Federal Reserve Board, the federal regulator responsible for monitoring the Bank’s CRA compliance, approved the
designation of the Bank as a “wholesale bank.” As a result of this redesignation, the Bank now fulfills its CRA obligations by making qualified investments for the purposes of community development, rather than retail CRA loans.

In addition, federal law requires the disclosure of agreements reached with community groups that relate to the CRA, and contains various
other provisions designed to improve the delivery of financial services to consumers while maintaining an appropriate level of safety in the financial services industry. As of December 31, 2013, the Bank is not a party to any such agreements.

Privacy and Security

Federal law
establishes a minimum federal standard of financial privacy by, among other provisions, requiring financial institutions to adopt and disclose privacy policies with respect to consumer information and setting forth certain limitations on disclosure
to third parties of consumer information. The Corporation has adopted and disseminated its privacy policies pursuant to law. Regulations adopted under the federal law set standards for protecting the security, confidentiality and integrity of client
information, and require notice to regulators, and in some cases, to clients, in the event of security breaches. A number of states have adopted their own statutes concerning financial privacy and security and requiring notification of security
breaches.

Consumer Laws and Regulations

In addition to the laws and regulations discussed above, the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries are also subject to certain consumer laws
and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with clients and monitor account
activity when taking deposits, making loans to or engaging in other types of transactions with such clients. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could lead to







substantial penalties, operating restrictions and reputational damage to the financial institution. The creation of the CFPB by the Dodd-Frank Act is likely to lead to enhanced and strengthened
enforcement of consumer financial protection laws.

Many states and local jurisdictions have consumer protection laws analogous, and in
addition, to those listed above.

Money Market Mutual Funds

On June 5, 2013, the SEC proposed a rule regarding money market mutual funds (MMMF) reform. The SEC proposal set forth two alternative
methods of reform, either requiring MMMFs to transact at a “floating” net asset value per share or imposing a liquidity fee if a MMMF’s liquidity level fell below a specified threshold and permitting a fund to temporarily suspend
redemptions. The comment period for these alternative proposals closed on September 17, 2013. No final rule has been issued to date. Because of the uncertainty as to whether the SEC will issue final rules and what the final rules will require,
the Corporation and the Bank cannot fully evaluate such reforms’ impact to their business at this time.

Future Legislation

Federal, state, local and non-U.S. legislators and regulators regularly introduce measures or take actions that would modify the regulatory
requirements applicable to banks, their holding companies and their affiliates. Such legislation may change the banking statutes and the operating environment of the Corporation and its subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. Northern
Trust cannot determine the ultimate effect that future legislation or implementing regulations might have upon its financial condition or results of operations.

STAFF

Northern Trust
employed approximately 14,800 full-time equivalent officers and staff members as of December 31, 2013.

STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES

The following statistical disclosures, included in the Corporation’s 2013 Annual Report to Stockholders,
are incorporated herein by reference.



Schedule2013AnnualReportPage(s)Ratios10Non-U.S. Outstandings42-43Nonperforming Assets and 90 Day Past Due Loans44Average Balance Sheet with Analysis of Net Interest Income120-121

Additional statistical information on a consolidated basis is set forth below. Certain reclassifications have
been made to prior periods’ financial information to conform to the current year’s presentation.







Remaining Maturity and Average Yield of Securities Held to Maturity and Available for Sale

(Yield calculated on amortized cost and presented on a taxable equivalent basis giving effect to the applicable federal and state tax rates)



December 31, 2013One Year or LessOne to Five YearsFive to Ten YearsOver Ten YearsAverageMaturity($ in Millions)BookYieldBookYieldBookYieldBookYieldSecurities Held to MaturityObligations of States and Political Subdivisions$108.64.09%$101.74.43%$14.94.97%$——%39 mos.Government Sponsored Agency10.12.5214.72.713.34.027.84.8366 mos.Other —Fixed885.20.291,134.70.917.93.9627.14.0421 mos.—Floating6.01.253.81.47————8 mos.Total Securities Held to Maturity$1,009.90.73%$1,254.91.22%$26.14.54%$34.94.22%24 mos.Securities Available for SaleU.S. Government$200.60.82%$1,717.31.23%$——%$——%28 mos.Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions——4.66.82————22 mos.Government Sponsored Agency6,706.10.568,053.40.951,753.71.181,014.81.5636 mos.Asset-Backed—Fixed1,578.20.56649.60.724.35.174.45.4910 mos.Asset-Backed—Floating88.80.8193.00.7121.60.84——23 mos.Auction Rate Securities——1.40.341.20.6396.31.3320 mos.Other —Fixed500.21.843,678.01.44589.71.76135.41.8240 mos.—Floating491.80.72869.90.65123.60.5714.90.5128 mos.Total Securities Available for Sale$9,565.70.64%$15,067.21.07%$2,494.11.29%$1,265.81.57%34 mos.



December 31, 2012One Year or LessOne to Five YearsFive to Ten YearsOver Ten YearsAverageMaturity($ in Millions)BookYieldBookYieldBookYieldBookYieldSecurities Held to MaturityObligations of States and Political Subdivisions$117.16.30%$184.46.53%$27.87.51%$——%43 mos.Government Sponsored Agency34.92.6058.42.535.43.7314.24.3047 mos.Other —Fixed1,876.50.2118.02.1512.23.6224.84.287 mos.—Floating1.01.387.31.39————15 mos.Total Securities Held to Maturity$2,029.50.60%$268.15.22%$45.46.01%$39.04.29%14 mos.Securities Available for SaleU.S. Government$750.50.29%$1,034.11.61%$——%$——%24 mos.Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions——14.16.82————34 mos.Government Sponsored Agency4,653.10.7312,345.30.731,276.81.18363.61.5230 mos.Asset-Backed—Fixed951.90.711,073.40.694.15.396.95.4416 mos.Asset-Backed—Floating161.90.64147.80.7425.10.824.80.6522 mos.Auction Rate Securities——0.70.612.00.8695.11.2065 mos.Other —Fixed66.91.03552.21.07214.61.5189.71.5156 mos.—Floating866.91.093,672.81.39215.41.6553.81.7434 mos.Total Securities Available for Sale$7,451.20.73%$18,840.40.92%$1,738.01.28%$613.91.53%30 mos.







Securities Held to Maturity and Available for Sale



December 31(In Millions)20132012201120102009Securities Held to MaturityObligations of States and Political Subdivisions$225.2$329.3$529.4$635.0$692.6Government Sponsored Agency35.9112.9156.8169.3114.6Other2,064.71,939.8113.0117.9103.1Total Securities Held to Maturity$2,325.8$2,382.0$799.2$922.2$910.3Securities Available for SaleU.S. Government$1,917.9$1,784.6$4,029.4$658.4$74.0Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions4.614.115.836.347.0Government Sponsored Agency17,528.018,638.816,771.411,970.712,325.4Asset-Backed2,439.92,375.91,768.61,860.31,495.3Auction Rate98.997.8178.3367.8427.7Other6,403.55,732.37,429.05,008.42,903.1Total Securities Available for Sale$28,392.8$28,643.5$30,192.5$19,901.9$17,272.5Average Total Securities$30,819.9$30,893.8$26,406.4$19,859.2$17,357.8Total Securities at Year-End$30,720.3$31,033.5$30,999.7$20,830.9$18,192.7

Loans and Leases by Type



December 31(In Millions)20132012201120102009CommercialCommercial and Institutional$7,375.8$7,468.5$6,918.7$5,914.5$6,312.1Commercial Real Estate2,955.82,859.82,981.73,242.43,213.2Lease Financing, net975.11,035.0978.81,063.71,004.4Non-U.S.954.71,192.31,057.51,046.2728.5Other358.6341.6417.6346.6457.5Total Commercial$12,620.0$12,897.2$12,354.3$11,613.4$11,715.7PersonalResidential Real Estate$10,271.3$10,375.2$10,708.9$10,854.9$10,807.7Private Client6,445.66,130.15,651.45,423.75,004.4Other48.6102.0349.3240.0277.9Total Personal$16,765.5$16,607.3$16,709.6$16,518.6$16,090.0Total Loans and Leases$29,385.5$29,504.5$29,063.9$28,132.0$27,805.7Total U.S.$28,430.8$28,312.2$28,006.4$27,085.8$27,077.2









Remaining Maturity of Selected Loans and Leases



December 31, 2013(In Millions)TotalOne Yearor LessOne toFiveYearsOver FiveYearsU.S. (Excluding Residential Real Estate and Private Client Loans)Commercial and Institutional$7,375.8$4,964.9$1,848.1$562.8Commercial Real Estate2,955.8589.01,810.6556.2Lease Financing, net975.1114.2391.4469.5Other-Commercial358.6252.6106.0—Other-Personal48.634.314.3—Total U.S.11,713.95,955.04,170.41,588.5Non-U.S.954.7950.63.6.5Total Selected Loans and Leases12,668.66,905.64,174.01,589.0Interest Rate Sensitivity of Loans and LeasesFixed Rate9,057.25,686.22,402.0969.0Variable Rate3,611.41,219.41,772.0620.0Total12,668.66,905.64,174.01,589.0







Average Deposits by Type



(In Millions)20132012201120102009U.S. OfficesDemand and Noninterest-BearingIndividuals, Partnerships and Corporations$12,816.4$16,736.5$10,937.7$862.2$778.6Correspondent Banks71.672.8101.286.580.5Other Noninterest-Bearing161.7118.0115.75,643.67,589.7Total Demand and Noninterest-Bearing13,049.716,927.311,154.66,592.38,448.8Interest-BearingSavings and Money Market14,533.414,101.914,297.613,049.511,162.4Savings Certificates less than $100,000252.5300.4343.0401.3478.6Savings Certificates $100,000 and more968.41,149.61,352.51,706.52,298.7Other881.11,545.11,909.91,596.81,101.8Total Interest-Bearing16,635.417,097.017,903.016,754.115,041.5Total U.S. Offices29,685.134,024.329,057.623,346.423,490.3Non-U.S. OfficesNon Interest-Bearing3,572.93,251.73,415.32,268.32,578.1Interest-Bearing42,338.337,943.839,973.529,968.427,157.6Total Non-U.S. Offices45,911.241,195.543,388.832,236.729,735.7Total Deposits$75,596.3$75,219.8$72,446.4$55,583.1$53,226.0

Average Rates Paid on Interest-Related Deposits by Type



20132012201120102009Interest-Related Deposits—U.S. OfficesSavings and Money Market0.07%0.13%0.18%0.27%0.48%Savings Certificates less than $100,0000.560.730.881.232.05Savings Certificates $100,000 and more0.730.911.031.342.05Other Time0.440.480.560.801.48Total U.S. Offices Interest-Related Deposits0.130.220.300.450.84Total Non-U.S. Offices Interest-Related Deposits0.190.310.440.420.29Total Interest-Related Deposits0.18%0.28%0.40%0.43%0.49%

Remaining Maturity of Time Deposits $100,000 or More



December 31, 2013December 31, 2012U.S. OfficesNon-U.S.OfficesU.S. OfficesNon-U.S.Offices(In Millions)Certificatesof DepositOtherTimeCertificatesof DepositOtherTime3 Months or Less$527.8$—$6,493.3$664.1$—$7,611.1Over 3 through 6 Months310.0—76.8547.7—31.3Over 6 through 12 Months564.1—19.9699.5—20.4Over 12 Months226.9—2.7262.5—4.7Total$1,628.8$—$6,592.7$2,173.8$—$7,667.5







Purchased Funds

Federal Funds Purchased

(Overnight Borrowings)



($ in Millions)201320122011Balance on December 31$965.1$780.2$815.3Highest Month-End Balance2,547.53,728.74,690.2Year – Average Balance2,255.51,619.12,250.4– Average Rate0.07%0.08%0.08%Average Rate at Year-End0.01%0.05%0.06%

Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase



($ in Millions)201320122011Balance on December 31$917.3$699.8$1,198.8Highest Month-End Balance917.3699.81,479.3Year – Average Balance594.3448.1815.8– Average Rate0.07%0.08%0.08%Average Rate at Year-End0.01%0.03%0.02%

Other Borrowings

(Includes Treasury Investment Program Balances, Term Federal Funds Purchased and Other Short-Term Borrowings)



($ in Millions)201320122011Balance on December 31$1,558.6$367.4$931.5Highest Month-End Balance2,065.31,519.72,415.5Year – Average Balance1,804.9978.71,400.6– Average Rate0.19%0.41%0.39%Average Rate at Year-End0.40%0.00%0.02%

Total Purchased Funds



($ in Millions)201320122011Balance on December 31$3,441.0$1,847.4$2,945.6Year – Average Balance4,654.73,045.94,466.8– Average Rate0.11%0.18%0.18%







Changes in Net Interest Income



2013/20122012/2011Change Due ToChange Due To(Interest on a Taxable Equivalent Basis)(In Millions)AverageBalanceRateTotalAverageBalanceRateTotalIncrease (Decrease) in Interest IncomeMoney Market AssetsFederal Funds Sold and Resell Agreements$0.3$1.1$1.4$—$0.3$0.3Time Deposits with Banks(5.4)(28.9)(34.3)17.3(33.7)(16.4)Other Interest-Bearing5.8(0.1)5.7(14.1)(0.3)(14.4)SecuritiesU.S. Government(6.8)1.3(5.5)6.6(6.2)0.4Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions(9.1)(0.3)(9.4)(12.3)(0.7)(13.0)Government Sponsored Agency(5.7)(9.1)(14.8)29.5(7.4)22.1Other20.1(18.8)1.30.99.09.9Loans and Leases(8.0)(76.9)(84.9)20.9(130.1)(109.2)Total(8.8)(131.7)(140.5)48.8(169.1)(120.3)Increase (Decrease) in Interest ExpenseDepositsSavings and Money Market$0.6$(9.2)$(8.6)$(0.4)$(7.3)$(7.7)Savings Certificates and Other Time(6.0)(1.7)(7.7)(4.7)(3.0)(7.7)Non-U.S. Offices Time13.6(50.7)(37.1)(8.9)(48.9)(57.8)Short-Term Borrowings2.9(3.3)(0.4)(2.6)—(2.6)Senior Notes(1.5)3.92.410.1(2.5)7.6Subordinated NotesLong-Term Debt(15.6)(7.6)(23.2)(31.4)(2.9)(34.3)Floating Rate Capital Debt—(0.4)(0.4)—0.40.4Total$(6.0)$(69.0)$(75.0)$(37.9)$(64.2)$(102.1)Increase (Decrease) in Net Interest Income$(2.8)$(62.7)$(65.5)$86.7$(104.9)$(18.2)

Note: Changes not due solely to average balance changes or rate changes are included in the change due to rate column.







Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses





($ in Millions)20132012201120102009

Balance at Beginning of Year$327.6$328.9$357.3$340.6$251.1

Charge-Offs

Commercial

Commercial and Institutional5.05.522.013.330.6

Commercial Real Estate11.714.434.362.922.5

Lease Financing, net—————

Non-U.S.—————

Other—————

Total Commercial16.719.956.376.253.1

Personal

Residential Real Estate37.040.355.063.757.7

Private Client5.52.85.010.221.5

Other0.1————

Total Personal42.643.160.073.979.2

Total Charge-Offs59.363.0116.3150.1132.3

Recoveries

Commercial

Commercial and Institutional3.63.115.00.82.9

Commercial Real Estate5.014.56.52.80.2

Lease Financing, net—2.7———

Non-U.S.—————

Other—————

Total Commercial8.620.321.53.63.1

Personal

Residential Real Estate9.49.87.82.31.3

Private Client1.66.63.61.02.1

Other—————

Total Personal11.016.411.43.33.4

Total Recoveries19.636.732.96.96.5

Net Charge-Offs39.726.383.4143.2125.8

Provision for Credit Losses20.025.055.0160.0215.0

Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates———(0.1)0.3

Net Change in Allowance(19.7)(1.3)(28.4)16.789.5

Balance at End of Year307.9$327.6$328.9$357.3$340.6

Allowance Assigned To:

Loans and Leases278.1$297.9$294.8$319.6$309.2

Undrawn Commitments and Standby Letters of Credit29.829.734.137.731.4

Total Allowance for Credit Losses307.9$327.6$328.9$357.3$340.6

Loans and Leases at Year-End29,385.5$29,504.5$29,063.9$28,132.0$27,805.7

Average Total Loans and Leases28,696.5$28,975.7$28,346.7$27,514.4$28,697.2

As a Percent of Year-End Loans and Leases

Net Loan Charge-Offs0.14%0.09%0.29%0.51%0.45%

Provision for Credit Losses0.070.080.190.570.77

Allowance at Year-End Assigned to Loans and Leases0.951.011.011.141.11

As a Percent of Average Loans and Leases

Net Loan Charge-Offs0.14%0.09%0.29%0.52%0.44%

Allowance at Year-End Assigned to Loans and Leases0.971.031.041.161.08







Non-U.S. Operations (Based on Obligor’s Domicile)

See also “Note 31—Business Units and Related Information” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” on
pages 112-114 of the Corporation’s 2013 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Selected Average Assets
and Liabilities Attributable to Non-U.S. Operations



(In Millions)20132012201120102009Total Assets$29,315.6$29,237.4$29,201.2$22,664.0$21,876.1Time Deposits with Banks17,785.518,580.416,906.514,592.415,357.0Loans1,164.01,091.11,301.7692.9951.5Customers’ Acceptance Liability0.50.70.30.50.3Non-U.S. Investments5,334.14,470.45,370.22,688.8977.7Total Liabilities$48,144.4$43,436.7$45,757.5$36,196.0$33,310.6Deposits$45,865.7$41,160.9$43,370.3$33,479.3$30,888.3Liability on Acceptances0.50.70.30.50.3

Percent of Non-U.S.-Related Average Assets and Liabilities to Total Consolidated Average Assets



20132012201120102009Assets31%31%32%30%29%Liabilities51%47%50%48%45%

Allowance for Credit Losses Relating to Non-U.S. Operations



(In Millions)20132012201120102009Balance at Beginning of Year$3.4$4.7$3.8$4.9$7.4Charge-Offs—————Recoveries—————Provision for Credit Losses(1.3)(1.3)0.9(1.1)(2.5)Balance at End of Year$2.1$3.4$4.7$3.8$4.9

The SEC requires the disclosure of the allowance for credit losses that is applicable to international operations. The above
table has been prepared in compliance with this disclosure requirement and is used in determining non-U.S. operating performance. The amounts shown in the table should not be construed as being the only amounts that are available for non-U.S. loan
charge-offs, since the entire allowance for credit losses assigned to loans and leases is available to absorb losses on both U.S. and non-U.S. loans. In addition, these amounts are not intended to be indicative of future charge-off trends.







Distribution of Non-U.S. Loans and Deposits by Type



December 31Loans(In Millions)20132012201120102009Commercial$497.0$498.0$335.9$874.0$626.3Non-U.S. Governments and Official Institutions250.1252.4197.8110.359.7Banks10.49.913.39.32.1Other197.2432.0510.552.640.4Total$954.7$1,192.3$1,057.5$1,046.2$728.5

Non-U.S. loans primarily include short duration advances related to the processing of custodied client investments.



December 31Deposits(In Millions)201320122011Commercial$43,638.1$36,948.8$34,824.1Non-U.S. Governments and Official Institutions6,370.55,990.43,405.6Banks306.0248.81,018.4Other Time26.437.048.3Other Demand2.58.438.2Total50,343.543,233.439,334.6







CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT

For the discussion of Credit Risk Management, see the following information that is incorporated herein by reference to the Corporation’s
2013 Annual Report to Stockholders:



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements2013Annual ReportPage(s)1.Accounting Policies60-66G. Derivative Financial Instruments61-62H. Loans and Leases62-64I. Allowance for Credit Losses64L. Other Real Estate Owned656.Loans and Leases79-847.Allowance for Credit Losses84-858.Concentrations of Credit Risk8624.Contingent Liabilities101-10225.Derivative Financial Instruments102-10727.Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments109-110

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Asset Quality and Credit Risk Management

In
addition, the following schedules on pages 22-24 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the “Asset Quality and Credit Risk Management” section:

Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses

Allowance for Credit Losses Relating to Non-U.S. Operations

Distribution of Non-U.S. Loans and Deposits by Type







INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS

For the discussion of interest rate sensitivity, see the section entitled “Market Risk Management” on pages 47-50 of
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Corporation’s 2013 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statement of Income for the Bank, The Northern Trust Company, were
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and are provided here for informational purposes. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial
statements included in the Corporation’s 2013 Annual Report to Stockholders and incorporated herein by reference on page 44 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







The Northern Trust Company

Consolidated Balance Sheet (unaudited)



December 31(In Millions)20132012AssetsCash and Due from Banks$3,006.6$3,736.7Federal Funds Sold and Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell529.660.8Interest-Bearing Deposits with Banks19,384.618,794.8Federal Reserve Deposits and Other Interest-Bearing12,897.87,606.6SecuritiesAvailable for Sale28,387.628,638.6Held to Maturity (Fair Value—$2,321.4 in 2013 and $2,394.8 in 2012)2,325.82,382.0Total Securities30,713.431,020.6Loans and LeasesCommercial12,620.012,897.2Personal16,765.516,607.3Total Loans and Leases (Net of unearned income—$286.2 in 2013 and $297.9 in 2012)29,385.529,504.5Allowance for Credit Losses Assigned to Loans and Leases(278.1)(297.9)Buildings and Equipment454.8464.9Client Security Settlement Receivables1,355.22,049.1Goodwill501.9499.0Other Assets4,707.43,699.7Total Assets$102,658.7$97,138.8LiabilitiesDepositsDemand and Other Noninterest-Bearing$18,540.6$20,552.4Savings and Money Market14,994.715,190.9Savings Certificates1,874.42,466.1Non-U.S. Offices — Noninterest-Bearing1,882.13,513.2— Interest-Bearing48,425.341,411.6Total Deposits85,717.183,134.2Federal Funds Purchased965.1780.2Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase917.3699.8Other Borrowings1,598.2392.2Senior Notes1,000.0750.0Long-Term Debt2,034.01,714.2Other Liabilities3,325.32,442.7Total Liabilities95,557.089,913.3Stockholder’s Equity7,101.77,225.5Total Liabilities and Stockholder’s Equity$102,658.7$97,138.8







The Northern Trust Company

Consolidated Statement of Income (unaudited)





For the Year Ended December 31

(In Millions)201320122011

Noninterest Income

Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees$2,404.9$2,208.2$2,034.6

Foreign Exchange Trading Income244.4206.1324.5

Treasury Management Fees69.067.472.1

Security Commissions and Trading Income14.415.68.3

Other Operating Income213.7245.787.3

Investment Security Gains (Losses), net(1.5)(1.9)(23.9)



Total Noninterest Income2,944.92,741.12,502.9



Interest Income

Loans and Leases742.8829.1938.7

Securities

—Available for Sale223.3229.9203.5

—Held to Maturity21.633.133.7



Total Securities244.9263.0237.2



Time Deposits with Banks142.1176.4192.7

Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell and Other25.418.331.4



Total Interest Income1,155.21,286.81,400.0



Interest Expense

Deposits107.6160.6233.2

Federal Funds Purchased1.51.21.9

Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase0.40.40.7

Other Borrowings3.43.65.5

Senior Notes28.826.016.5

Long-Term Debt35.660.494.6



Total Interest Expense177.3252.2352.4



Net Interest Income977.91,034.61,047.6

Provision for Credit Losses20.025.055.0



Net Interest Income after Provision for Credit Losses957.91,009.6992.6



Income before Noninterest Expense3,902.83,750.73,495.5



Noninterest Expense

Compensation1,257.11,220.51,221.5

Employee Benefits249.5250.2249.5

Outside Services480.1447.5460.9

Equipment and Software377.1366.1327.3

Occupancy169.5170.2176.2

Visa Indemnification Benefits——(23.1)

Other Operating Expense290.6267.9237.3



Total Noninterest Expense2,823.92,722.42,649.6



Income before Income Taxes1,078.91,028.3845.9

Provision for Income Taxes351.4321.4274.9



Net Income$727.5$706.9$571.0



Dividends Paid to the Corporation$880$440.0$500.0







AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Corporation’s Internet address is www.northerntrust.com. We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. Additionally, the Corporation’s corporate governance guidelines, its code of business conduct and ethics applicable to directors, officers and
employees, and the charters for its audit, business risk, business strategy, corporate governance, compensation and benefits, and executive committees are all available on the Corporation’s website. Information contained on the
Corporation’s website is not part of this report.

Supplemental Item—Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth certain information with regard to each executive officer of the Corporation.



Name and AgeCurrent Position Held with the Corporation and Effective Date First Elected to Office
IndicatedFrederick H. Waddell (60)Chairman of the Board (11/11/09) and Chief Executive Officer (1/1/08)S. Biff Bowman (50)Executive Vice President (7/17/07) and Head of Human Resources (5/2/12)Jeffrey D. Cohodes (53)Executive Vice President of the Bank (11/14/06) and Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer (3/1/11)Steven L. Fradkin (52)Executive Vice President (1/21/03) and President—C&IS (9/18/09)Jane B. Karpinski (51)Senior Vice President (1/3/06) and Controller (6/7/13)William L. Morrison (63)President and Chief Operating Officer (10/1/11), Executive Vice President (5/21/02-9/30/11) and Chief Financial Officer (9/18/09-9/30/11)Michael G. O’Grady (48)Executive Vice President (8/15/11) and Chief Financial Officer (10/1/11)Stephen N. Potter (57)Executive Vice President (10/17/06) and President—Asset Management (3/28/08)Jana R. Schreuder (55)Executive Vice President (6/30/05) and President—Wealth Management (3/1/11)Joyce M. St. Clair (55)Executive Vice President (4/1/07) and President—O&T (3/1/11)Kelly R. Welsh (61)Executive Vice President and General Counsel (7/18/00)

All of the executive officers except Michael G. O’Grady have been officers of the Corporation, or a
subsidiary of the Corporation, for more than five years. Mr. O’Grady served as Managing Director of the Financial Institutions Group of Investment Banking of Bank of America Merrill Lynch from 2000 until joining the Corporation.

The positions of Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President are elected annually by the Board of Directors at the first
meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of stockholders. The other officers are appointed annually by the Board. Officers continue to hold office until their successors are duly elected or until their death, resignation or
removal by the Board.

