Item 1—Business

NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION

Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) is a
financial holding company that is a leading provider of asset servicing, fund administration, asset management, fiduciary and banking solutions for corporations, institutions, families and individuals worldwide. The Corporation conducts business
through various U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries, including The Northern Trust Company (Bank). The Corporation was originally formed as a holding company for the Bank in 1971. The Corporation has a network of offices in 18 U.S. states, Washington,
D.C., and 16 international locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia Pacific region. At December 31, 2012, the Corporation had consolidated total assets of $97.5 billion and stockholders’ equity of $7.5 billion.

The Bank is an Illinois banking corporation headquartered in the Chicago financial district and the Corporation’s
principal subsidiary. Founded in 1889, the Bank conducts its business through its U.S. operations and its various U.S. and non-U.S. branches and subsidiaries. At December 31, 2012, the Bank had consolidated assets of $97.1 billion and common
equity capital of $7.2 billion.

The Corporation expects that, although the operations of other banking and non-banking
subsidiaries will continue to be of increasing significance, the Bank will in the foreseeable future continue to be the major source of the Corporation’s consolidated assets, revenues, and net income. Except where the context otherwise
requires, the term “Northern Trust” refers to Northern Trust Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. A complete list of the Corporation’s direct and indirect subsidiaries is filed as Exhibit 21 to this Annual Report
on Form 10-K and incorporated into this Item by reference.

BUSINESS UNITS

Under the leadership of Frederick H. Waddell, the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, Northern Trust
organizes its services globally around its two client-focused principal business units: Corporate and Institutional Services (C&IS) and Personal Financial Services (PFS). Two other business units provide services to the two principal business
units: Northern Trust Global Investments (NTGI), which provides investment management, and Operations and Technology (O&T), which provides operating and systems support.

Financial information regarding the Corporation and its business units is included in the Corporation’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2012. In particular, for a
discussion of significant developments in the business of the Corporation, and the impact on the financial results of the Corporation and its business units for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, you are urged to review the section
entitled “Consolidated Results of Operations” on pages 20 through 28 of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Corporation’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference.

The following is a brief summary of each business
unit’s activities.

Corporate & Institutional Services

C&IS is a leading global provider of asset servicing, securities lending, brokerage, banking and related services to corporate and
public retirement funds, foundations, endowments, fund managers, insurance companies, sovereign wealth and government funds. Asset servicing and related services encompass a full range of industry leading capabilities including but not limited
to: global master trust and custody, trade settlement, and reporting; fund administration; cash management; investment risk and performance analytical services; investment operations outsourcing; and transition management and commission recapture.
Client relationships are managed through the Bank and the Bank’s and the Corporation’s other subsidiaries, including support from international locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia Pacific region. C&IS also
executes related foreign exchange transactions from offices located in the United States, United Kingdom, and Singapore. At December 31, 2012, total C&IS assets under custody were $4.4 trillion and assets under management were $561.2
billion.







Personal Financial Services

PFS provides personal trust, investment management, custody, and philanthropic services; financial consulting; guardianship and estate administration; brokerage services; and private and business banking.
PFS focuses on high net worth individuals and families, business owners, executives, professionals, retirees, and established privately held businesses in its target markets. PFS also includes the Global Family Office, which provides customized
products and services to meet the complex financial needs of individuals and family offices in the United States and throughout the world with assets typically exceeding $200 million.

PFS is one of the largest providers of personal trust services in the United States, with $446.3 billion in assets under custody and
$197.7 billion in assets under management at December 31, 2012. PFS services are delivered through a network of offices in 18 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., as well as offices in London and Guernsey.

Northern Trust Global Investments

NTGI, through various subsidiaries of the Corporation, provides a broad range of asset management and related services and products to clients around the world, including clients of C&IS and PFS.
Clients include institutional and individual separately managed accounts, bank common and collective funds, registered investment companies, exchange traded funds, non-U.S. collective investment funds, and unregistered private investment funds. NTGI
offers both active and passive equity and fixed income portfolio management, as well as alternative asset classes (such as private equity and hedge funds of funds) and multi-manager advisory services and products. NTGI’s activities also include
overlay services and other risk management services. NTGI’s business operates internationally through subsidiaries and distribution arrangements.

Operations and Technology

O&T supports all of Northern Trust’s
business activities, including the processing and product management activities of C&IS, PFS, and NTGI. These activities are conducted principally in the operations and technology centers in Chicago, London, and Bangalore.

GOVERNMENT MONETARY AND FISCAL POLICIES

The earnings of Northern Trust are affected by numerous external influences. Chief among these are general economic conditions, both domestic and international, and actions that governments and their
central banks take in managing their economies. These general conditions affect all of Northern Trust’s businesses, as well as the quality, value, and profitability of their loan and investment portfolios.

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) is an important regulator of U.S. economic conditions and
has the general objective of promoting orderly economic growth in the United States. Implementation of this objective is accomplished by the Federal Reserve Board’s open market operations in United States Government securities, its setting of
the discount rate at which member banks may borrow from Federal Reserve Banks, and its changes in the reserve requirements for deposits. The policies adopted by the Federal Reserve Board may strongly influence interest rates and hence what banks
earn on their loans and investments and what they pay on their savings and time deposits and other purchased funds. Fiscal policies in the United States and abroad also affect the composition and use of Northern Trust’s resources.

COMPETITION

The businesses in which Northern Trust operates are very competitive. Competition is provided by both unregulated and regulated financial services organizations, whose products and services span the
local, national, and global markets in which Northern Trust conducts operations.

Northern Trust’s principal business
strategy is to provide quality financial services to targeted market segments in which it believes it has a competitive advantage and favorable growth prospects. As part of this strategy, Northern Trust seeks to deliver a level of service that
distinguishes it from its competitors. In addition, Northern Trust emphasizes the development and growth of recurring sources of fee-based income and is one of a select group of major bank holding companies in the United States that generates more
revenues from fee-based services than from net interest income. Northern Trust seeks to develop and expand its recurring fee-based revenue by identifying selected markets with good growth characteristics and providing a high level of individualized
service to clients in those markets. Northern Trust also seeks to preserve its asset quality through established credit review procedures and to maintain a conservative balance sheet. Finally, Northern Trust seeks to operate with a strong management
team that includes senior officers having broad experience and long tenures.







Commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions actively
compete for deposits, and money market funds and investment banking firms offer deposit-like services. These institutions, as well as consumer and commercial finance companies, national retail chains, factors, insurance companies, and pension
trusts, are important competitors for various types of loans. Issuers of commercial paper compete actively for funds and reduce demand for bank loans. For personal and corporate trust services and investment counseling services, trust companies,
investment banking firms, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, and others offer active competition.

REGULATION
AND SUPERVISION

Financial Holding Company Regulation

Under U.S. law, the Corporation is a bank holding company that has elected to be a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHCA). Consequently, the Corporation
and its business activities throughout the world are subject to the supervision, examination, and regulation of the Federal Reserve Board. The BHCA and other federal laws subject bank and financial holding companies to particular restrictions on the
types of activities in which they may engage and to a range of supervisory requirements, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations. Supervision and regulation of bank holding companies, financial holding
companies, and their subsidiaries are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and other clients of banking subsidiaries, the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the banking system as a
whole, not for the protection of stockholders or other non-depository creditors.

Under the BHCA, bank holding companies and
their banking subsidiaries are generally limited to the business of banking and activities closely related or incidental to banking. As a financial holding company, the Corporation is permitted to engage in other activities that the Federal Reserve
Board, working with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines to be financial in nature, incidental to an activity that is financial in nature, or complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and
soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally, or to acquire shares of companies engaged in such activities. Activities defined to be financial in nature include: providing financial or investment advice; securities
underwriting and dealing; insurance underwriting; and making merchant banking investments in commercial and financial companies, subject to significant limitations. They also include activities previously determined by the Federal Reserve Board to
be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. The Corporation may not, however, directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting shares, or
substantially all of the assets, of a bank holding company or a bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board.

In order to maintain the Corporation’s status as a financial holding company, the Corporation’s insured depository institution
subsidiary, the Bank, must remain “well capitalized” and “well managed” under applicable regulations, and must have received at least a “satisfactory” rating in its most recent examination under the Community
Reinvestment Act (CRA). In addition, the Corporation must also be and remain “well-capitalized” and “well managed” in order to retain its status as a financial holding company. Failure to meet one or more of these requirements
would mean, depending on the requirements not met, that the Corporation could not undertake new activities, continue certain activities, or make acquisitions other than those permitted generally for bank holding companies.

Subsidiary Regulation

The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the maximum authorized limit, and it is
subject to regulation by both these agencies. The Bank, as an Illinois banking corporation, is also subject to Illinois state laws and regulations and to examination and supervision by the Division of Banking of the Illinois Department of Financial
and Professional Regulation. The Bank is registered as a government securities dealer in accordance with the Government Securities Act of 1986. As a government securities dealer, its activities are subject to the rules and regulations of the
Department of the Treasury. The Bank is also registered as a transfer agent with the Federal Reserve Board and is therefore subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board in this area.

The Corporation’s nonbanking affiliates are all subject to examination by the Federal Reserve Board. Its broker-dealer subsidiary
is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, subject to the rules and regulations of both of these bodies. Several subsidiaries of the Corporation are registered with
the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and are subject to that act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Other subsidiaries are regulated by state banking departments in various states. The Bank and other subsidiaries of
the Corporation act as investment advisers to several mutual funds and other asset managers which are subject to regulation by the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940.







Functional Regulation

Federal banking law has established a system of federal and state supervision and regulation based on functional regulation, meaning that primary regulatory oversight for a particular activity generally
resides with the federal or state regulator designated as having the principal responsibility for that activity. Banking is supervised by federal and state banking regulators, insurance by state insurance regulators, and securities activities by the
SEC and state securities regulators.

A significant component of the functional regulation relates to the application of
federal securities laws and SEC oversight of some bank securities activities. Generally, banks may conduct securities activities without broker-dealer registration only if the activities fall within a set of activity-based exemptions designed to
allow banks to conduct only those activities traditionally considered to be primarily banking or trust activities. Securities activities outside these exemptions, as a practical matter, need to be conducted by a registered broker-dealer affiliate.
The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 requires the registration of any bank or separately identifiable division of the bank that acts as investment adviser for mutual funds. The Corporation believes that it has taken the necessary actions to comply
with these requirements of federal law.

Non-U.S. Regulation

The Dodd-Frank Act

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) is having a broad impact on the financial services industry and imposes significant new regulatory and compliance
requirements, including the designation of certain financial companies as “systemically important financial institutions” (SIFIs), the imposition of increased capital, leverage, and liquidity requirements, and numerous other provisions
designed to improve supervision and oversight of, and strengthen safety and soundness within, the financial services sector. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a new framework of authority to conduct systemic risk oversight within the
financial system to be distributed among new and existing federal regulatory agencies, including the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), and the FDIC.

The following items provide a brief description of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that are most relevant to the
Corporation and its banking subsidiaries.







Heightened Prudential Requirements

Resolution Planning

Mortgage Loan Origination and Risk Retention. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new standards for mortgage loan
originations on all lenders, including banks and thrifts. Most significantly, the new standards prohibit the Corporation’s subsidiaries from making a residential mortgage loan without verifying a borrower’s ability to repay, limit the
total points and fees that the Corporation’s subsidiaries and/or a mortgage broker may charge on conforming and jumbo loans to 3% of the total loan amount, and prohibit certain prepayment penalty practices. Also, the Dodd-Frank Act, in
conjunction with the Federal Reserve Board’s final rule on loan originator compensation prohibits certain compensation payments to loan originators and steering consumers to loans not in their interest because it will result in greater
compensation for a loan originator. These standards will result in a myriad of new system, pricing, and compensation controls in order to ensure compliance and to decrease repurchase requests and foreclosure defenses.

Proprietary Trading and Certain Relationships with Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds. The Dodd-Frank Act adopts the
so-called “Volcker Rule” which, subject to a two-year transition period and certain exceptions, became effective on July 21, 2012 and prohibits a banking entity from engaging in “proprietary trading,” which is defined as
engaging as principal for the “trading account” of the banking entity in securities or other instruments, as determined by federal regulators. Certain forms of proprietary trading may qualify as “permitted activities,” and thus
not be subject to the ban on proprietary trading, such as “market-making-related activities”, “risk-mitigating hedging activities”, and trading in U.S. government or agency obligations, certain other U.S., state or municipal
obligations, and the obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. Additionally, subject to a transition period and certain exceptions, the rule restricts a banking entity from sponsoring or investing in certain private funds. While a
banking entity may “organize and offer” certain private funds if certain conditions are met, it may not acquire or retain an equity partnership or other ownership interest in such private funds except for certain limited investments.







A banking entity that sponsors or invests in certain private funds is also restricted from providing credit or other support to the fund or permitting the fund to use the name of the bank. After
the conformance period commencing July 21, 2012, the Volcker Rule prohibitions and restrictions will apply to banking entities, including the Corporation, the Bank and their affiliates, unless an exception applies. In October 2011, the OCC,
Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, and the SEC, in consultation with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), jointly released a notice of proposed rulemaking implementing the Volcker Rule limitations of the Dodd-Frank Act. To date, no final
rule has been issued. In light of the complexity of the proposed regulation and the substantial number of comments submitted, the Corporation cannot fully assess the impact of the Volcker Rule on its business until final rules are adopted.

Swaps and Other Derivatives. Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act (Title VII) imposes a new regulatory structure on
the over-the-counter derivatives market, including requirements for clearing, exchange trading, capital, margin, reporting, and recordkeeping. In addition, certain swaps and other derivatives activities are required to be “pushed out” of
insured depository institutions and conducted in separately capitalized non-bank affiliates. Title VII also will require certain persons to register as a “major swap participant” or a “swap dealer.” The CFTC, SEC and other U.S.
regulators have adopted and are still in the process of adopting regulations to implement Title VII. It is anticipated that this rulemaking process will further clarify, among other things, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, margin and capital
requirements, the scope of registration requirements, and what swaps are required to be centrally cleared and exchange-traded. Rules will also be issued to enhance the oversight of clearing and trading entities.

Consumer Financial Protection. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes a new independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)
within the Federal Reserve System. The CFPB is tasked with establishing and implementing rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and
services. The CFPB has rulemaking authority over many of the statutes governing financial products and services offered to consumers. For banking organizations with assets of $10 billion or more, including the Bank, the CFPB has exclusive rule
making and examination, and primary enforcement, authority under federal consumer financial laws. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and regulations that are stricter than those regulations promulgated
by the CFPB. This new federal and state regulatory framework may result in significant new regulatory requirements applicable to the Corporation and its bank subsidiaries in respect of consumer financial products and services, with potentially
significant increases in compliance costs.

Incentive Compensation Arrangements. The Dodd-Frank Act requires
federal regulators to prescribe regulations or guidelines regarding incentive-based compensation practices at certain large financial institutions. On April 14, 2011, federal regulators including the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board and the SEC,
issued a proposed rule which, among other things, would require certain executive officers of covered financial institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, including the Corporation, to defer at least 50% of their annual
incentive-based compensation for a minimum of three years. No final rule has been issued to date.

The requirements of the
Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented pursuant to regulations over the course of several months or years. Given the uncertainty associated with future regulatory actions, the full impact such requirements will have on the Corporation’s operations
is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries, require changes to certain of the Corporation’s business practices, impose upon the Corporation more
stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements, and could adversely affect certain of the Corporation’s business activities. These changes may also require the Corporation and its subsidiaries to invest significant management attention
and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new requirements.

Holding Company Support and Cross-Guarantees
under the FDIA

Under the FDIA, when two or more insured depository institutions are under common control, each of those
depository institutions may be liable for any loss incurred, or expected to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of any of the others. Each also may be liable for any assistance the FDIC provides to the other institutions.
“Default” means the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the institution.

The Dodd-Frank Act amends the
FDIA to obligate the Federal Reserve Board to require bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies to serve as a source of financial strength for any subsidiary depository institution. The appropriate federal banking agency for such
a depository institution may require reports from companies that own the insured depository institution to assess their ability to serve as a source of strength and to enforce compliance with







the source-of-strength requirements. The term “source of financial strength” is defined as the ability of a company to provide financial assistance to its insured depository institution
subsidiaries in the event of financial distress at such subsidiaries. Under this requirement, the Corporation in the future could be required to provide financial assistance to the Bank should the Bank experience financial distress. The Dodd-Frank
Act statutory requirements became effective on July 21, 2011. Although the appropriate federal banking agencies were required by the Dodd-Frank Act to jointly adopt implementing regulations by July 21, 2011, to date no final regulations
have been adopted.

This cross-guarantee liability for a loss at a commonly controlled institution would be subordinated in
right of payment to deposit liabilities, secured obligations, any other general or senior liability, and any obligation subordinated to depositors or other general creditors, other than obligations owed to any affiliate of the depository institution
(with certain exceptions).

Payment of Dividends

The Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. The principal source of funds for the Corporation is dividends from the Bank. As a result, the Corporation’s ability to
pay dividends on its common stock will depend primarily on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation in amounts sufficient to service its obligations. Dividend payments from the Bank are subject to Illinois law and to regulatory
limitations, generally based on capital levels and current and retained earnings, imposed by various regulatory agencies with authority over the Bank. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends is also subject to regulatory restrictions if paying
dividends would impair its profitability, financial condition or cash flow requirements.

The Federal Reserve Board has
issued a policy statement with regard to the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies. The policy statement provides that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net
income available to common stockholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends, and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the holding company’s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial
condition. Accordingly, without Federal Reserve Board approval, a bank holding company cannot pay cash dividends that exceed its net income, and cash dividends cannot be funded in ways that weaken the bank holding company’s financial health,
such as by borrowing.

Various federal and state statutory provisions limit the amount of dividends the Bank can pay to the
Corporation without regulatory approval. Approval of the Federal Reserve Board is required for payment of any dividend by a state chartered bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System if the total of all dividends declared by the bank in any
calendar year would exceed the total of its retained net income (as defined by regulatory agencies) for that year combined with its retained net income for the preceding two years. In addition, a state member bank may not pay a dividend in an amount
greater than its “undivided profits,” as defined, without regulatory and stockholder approval.

The Bank is also
prohibited under federal law from paying any dividends if the Bank is undercapitalized or if the payment of the dividends would cause the Bank to become undercapitalized. In addition, the federal regulatory agencies are authorized to prohibit a bank
or bank holding company from engaging in an unsafe or unsound banking practice. The payment of dividends could, depending on the financial condition of the Bank, be deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. The Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III
(as described below) impose additional restrictions on the ability of banking institutions to pay dividends.

Bank holding
companies domiciled in the U.S. with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, including the Corporation, must submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve Board for review. Under the final rule, the Federal Reserve Board annually
evaluates institutions’ capital adequacy, internal capital adequacy assessment processes, and their plans to make capital distributions, such as dividend payments or stock repurchases. The Federal Reserve Board will approve dividend increases
or other capital distributions only for companies whose capital plans receive a non-objection by supervisors and are able to demonstrate sufficient financial strength to operate as successful financial intermediaries under stressed macroeconomic and
financial market scenarios, after making the desired capital distributions. The Federal Reserve Board annually issues instructions outlining the information it is seeking from the covered firms, including the Corporation, and the evaluation the
Federal Reserve Board will do of the capital plans. The level of detail and analysis expected in each institution’s capital plan varies based on the company’s size, complexity, risk profile, and scope of operations. In January 2012, the
Corporation submitted its first capital plan to the Federal Reserve Board, and its second capital plan was submitted on January 7, 2013.







Capital Adequacy Requirements

The regulators view capital levels as important indicators of an institution’s financial soundness. As a general matter,
FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies (including the Bank and the Corporation) are required to maintain minimum capital relative to the amount and types of assets they hold. The final supervisory determination on an
institution’s capital adequacy is based on the regulator’s assessment of numerous factors.

The Federal Reserve
Board has established risk-based and leverage capital guidelines for bank holding companies, including the Corporation. The current risk-based capital guidelines that apply to the Corporation and the Bank, commonly referred to as Basel I, are based
upon the 1988 capital accord of the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee), a committee of central banks and bank supervisors, as implemented by the Federal Reserve Board. As discussed further below, the federal bank
regulatory agencies have adopted new risk-based capital guidelines for “core banks,” including the Corporation, based upon the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards (Basel II)
issued by the Basel Committee in November 2005.

Basel I

Under the existing Basel I-based guidelines, the minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets (which are primarily the credit risk equivalents of balance sheet assets and certain off-balance
sheet items such as standby letters of credit, but also include a nominal market risk equivalent balance related to foreign exchange and debt/equity trading activities) is eight percent. At least half of the total capital must be composed of tier 1
capital, which includes common stockholders’ equity (including retained earnings), qualifying non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock (and, for bank holding companies only, a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock
and a limited amount of trust preferred securities), and minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill, other disallowed intangibles, and disallowed deferred tax assets, among other items. The Federal Reserve
Board also has adopted a minimum leverage ratio for bank holding companies, requiring tier 1 capital of at least three percent of average quarterly total consolidated assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), net of goodwill and certain other
intangible assets.

The federal banking regulators have also established risk-based and leverage capital guidelines that
FDIC- insured depository institutions are required to meet. These regulations are generally similar to those established by the Federal Reserve Board for bank holding companies. The risk-based and leverage capital ratios for the Corporation and the
Bank, together with the regulatory minimum ratios and the ratios required for classification as “well-capitalized,” are provided in the following chart.



Risk-Based and Leverage Ratios as ofDecember 31, 2012Tier 1CapitalTotalCapitalLeverageRatioNorthern Trust Corporation12.8%14.3%8.2%The Northern Trust Company11.913.77.6Minimum required ratio4.08.03.0“Well capitalized” minimum ratio6.010.05.0

Basel II

As mentioned above, the Corporation also is subject to the Basel II framework for risk-based capital adequacy. The U.S. bank regulatory agencies have issued final rules with respect to implementation of
the Basel II framework. Under the final Basel II rules, the Corporation is one of a small number of “core” banking organizations. As a result, the Corporation and the Bank will be required to use the advanced approaches under Basel II for
calculating risk-based capital related to credit risk and operational risk, instead of the methodology reflected in the regulations effective prior to adoption of Basel II. The rules also require core banking organizations to have rigorous processes
for assessing overall capital adequacy in relation to their total risk profiles, and to publicly disclose certain information about their risk profiles and capital adequacy.







The Corporation has for several years been preparing to comply with the advanced
approaches of the Basel II framework. In order to implement the rules, a core banking organization, such as the Corporation, was required to adopt (and the Corporation did adopt) an implementation plan and satisfactorily complete a parallel run, in
which it calculated capital requirements under both the Basel II rules and regulations effective prior to the adoption of Basel II. In the U.S., the Corporation entered the parallel run in April 2010.

The Corporation is also addressing issues related to implementation timing differences between the U.S. and other jurisdictions, to
ensure that the Corporation and its depository institution subsidiaries comply with regulatory requirements and expectations in all jurisdictions where they operate. The Corporation’s U.K., Guernsey and Canadian entities subject to Basel II
rules have already adopted the standardized approach for credit risk and the basic indicator approach for operational risk in calculating minimum regulatory capital requirements.

Basel III

On December 16, 2010, the Basel Committee released its
final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation, known as Basel III. The Basel III calibration and phase-in arrangements were previously endorsed by the Seoul G20 Leaders Summit in November 2010, and will be subject
to individual adoption by member nations, including the U.S. Under these standards, when fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, banking institutions will be required to satisfy three risk-based capital ratios:

A common equity tier 1 ratio of at least 7.0%, inclusive of 4.5% minimum common equity tier 1 ratio, net of regulatory deductions, and the
new 2.5% “capital conservation buffer” of common equity to risk-weighted assets;

A tier 1 capital ratio of at least
8.5%, inclusive of the 2.5% capital conservation buffer; and

A total capital ratio of at least 10.5%, inclusive of the 2.5%
capital conservation buffer.

The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress.
Banking institutions with a common equity tier 1 ratio above the minimum but below the conservation buffer may face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases, and compensation based on the amount of such shortfall. The Basel Committee also
announced that a “countercyclical buffer” of 0% to 2.5% of common equity or other loss-absorbing capital “will be implemented according to national circumstances” as an “extension” of the conservation buffer during
periods of excess credit growth.

Basel I and Basel II do not include a leverage requirement as an international standard.
However, Basel III introduces a non-risk adjusted tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%, based on a measure of total exposure rather than total assets and new liquidity standards.

The Basel Committee had initially planned for member nations to begin implementing the Basel III requirements by January 1, 2013, with full implementation by January 1, 2019. On November 9,
2012, U.S. regulators announced that implementation of Basel III’s first requirements would be delayed until an undetermined future date. The regulators made no indication that any other future regulatory phase-in dates would be delayed.

On November 4, 2011 the Basel Committee issued its final rule setting forth proposals to apply a new common equity tier
1 surcharge to certain designated global systemically important banks (GSIBs). GSIBs subject to the surcharge are identified by application of a quantitative “indicator-based approach” for evaluating systemic risk that weights both
categories and indicators of size, substitutability, interconnectedness, cross-jurisdictional activity, and complexity. On November 1, 2012, using the Basel Committee’s methodology, the Financial Stability Board (FSB) and the Basel
Committee identified 28 financial institutions determined to be GSIBs. The group of GSIBs is updated annually and published by the FSB each November. At this time, the Corporation has not been designated as a GSIB. The GSIBs equity surcharge
provisions, like the rest of Basel III, are subject to interpretation and implementation by U.S. regulatory authorities.

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, for SIFIs, including the Corporation, the Federal Reserve Board may increase the capital buffer. The purpose
of these new capital requirements is to ensure financial institutions are better capitalized to withstand periods of unfavorable financial and economic conditions. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the establishment of more stringent prudential
standards by requiring the federal banking agencies to adopt capital and liquidity requirements which address the risks that the activities of an institution pose to the institution and the public and private stakeholders, including risks arising
from certain enumerated activities. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act excludes trust preferred securities issued on or after May 19, 2010 from tier 1 capital. For depository institution holding companies with total consolidated assets of more
than $15 billion at December 31, 2009, trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010 will be phased-out of tier 1 capital over a three-year period.







On June 7, 2012 the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the FDIC, published three notices of proposed rulemaking related to Basel III. The proposed rules include two calculation methods: a standardized approach, applicable to all depository institutions, bank
holding companies with consolidated assets of $500 million or more, and savings and loan holding companies, and an advanced approach, generally applicable only to the largest, most internationally active banking organizations. The Corporation and
Bank will calculate their capital ratios under both the standardized and advanced approaches. Under the proposed rules, the Corporation and the Bank must maintain capital levels that exceed the adequately capitalized minimum ratios under the most
constraining of the two approaches. For advanced approaches institutions, the proposed rules state that for the capital conservation buffer, any countercyclical capital buffer applied, and any other capital surcharges that are applied, a depository
institution’s or bank holding company’s capital adequacy will be assessed using the advanced approaches.

The
ultimate impact of the new capital and liquidity standards on the Corporation and the Bank is currently being reviewed and will depend on a number of factors, including the rulemaking and implementation by the U.S. banking regulators. The
Corporation cannot determine the ultimate effect that potential legislation, or subsequent regulations, if enacted, would have upon the Corporation’s earnings or financial position. In addition, significant questions remain as to how the
capital and liquidity mandates of the Dodd-Frank Act will be integrated with the requirements of Basel III. However, as the Corporation currently understands Basel III, it believes its capital strength, balance sheet and business model leave it well
positioned for Basel III.

Prompt Corrective Action

Examination and Enforcement Powers of the Federal Banking Agencies

A principal objective of the U.S. bank regulatory system is to protect depositors by ensuring the financial safety and soundness of banks. To that end, the banking regulators have broad regulatory,
examination, and enforcement powers, including the power to issue cease and desist orders, impose substantial fines and other civil and criminal penalties, terminate deposit insurance and appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with
applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory agreements could subject the Corporation and its banking subsidiaries, as well as officers, directors, and other institution-affiliated parties of these organizations, to administrative sanctions and
potentially substantial civil money penalties. The appropriate federal banking agency may appoint the FDIC as conservator or receiver for a banking institution (or the FDIC may appoint itself, under certain circumstances) if any one or more of a
number of circumstances exist, including, without limitation, the fact that the banking institution:



•is undercapitalized and has no reasonable prospect of becoming adequately capitalized;



•fails to become adequately capitalized when required to do so;



•fails to submit a timely and acceptable capital restoration plan;



•materially fails to implement an accepted capital restoration plan; or



•fails to submit an acceptable resolution plan.







The FDIC may terminate a depository institution’s deposit insurance upon a finding
that the institution’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution’s
regulatory agency. Engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory agreements could subject the Bank, the Corporation, and other subsidiaries of the Corporation, or their officers,
directors, and institution-affiliated parties to the remedies described above and other sanctions.

Restrictions on Transactions with
Affiliates and Insiders

FDIC-insured banks, including the Corporation’s bank subsidiaries, are subject to
restrictions under Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (as implemented by Regulation W), which govern transactions between FDIC-insured banks and any affiliated entity, whether that entity is the bank’s parent holding company, a
holding company affiliate of the bank or a subsidiary of the bank. Regulation W restrictions apply to certain “covered transactions,” including extensions of credit, issuance of guarantees, investments or asset purchases. In general, these
restrictions require that any extensions of credit must be fully secured with qualifying collateral and are limited, as to any one of the Corporation or such non-bank affiliates, to 10% of the lending bank’s capital stock and surplus, and, as
to the Corporation and all such non-bank affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of such lending bank’s capital stock and surplus. These restrictions, other than the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions with any one affiliate, are also
applied to transactions between banks and their financial subsidiaries. Furthermore, these transactions must be on terms and conditions that are, or in good faith would be, offered to nonaffiliated companies (i.e., at arm’s length).

The Dodd-Frank Act generally enhances the restrictions on transactions with affiliates under Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve
Act, including an expansion of the definition of “covered transactions” to include credit exposures related to derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending arrangements, and an increase in the amount of time for which
collateral requirements regarding covered credit transactions must be satisfied. The definition of “affiliate” was expanded to include any investment fund to which the Corporation or an affiliate serves as an investment adviser. The
ability of the Federal Reserve Board to grant exemptions from these restrictions was also narrowed, including by requiring coordination with other bank regulators. In addition, the provision in Section 23A that permits a bank to engage in
covered transactions with a financial subsidiary of the bank in an amount greater than 10% (but less than 20%) of the bank’s capital and surplus has been eliminated.

The restrictions on loans to directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and their related interests (collectively referred to herein as “insiders”) contained in the Federal Reserve
Act and Regulation O apply to all federally insured institutions. These restrictions include limits on loans to one borrower and conditions that must be met before such a loan can be made. There is also an aggregate limitation on all loans
(including credit exposures related to derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending arrangements) to insiders and their related interests. These loans cannot exceed the institution’s total unimpaired capital and surplus, and the
FDIC may determine that a lesser amount is appropriate. Insiders are subject to enforcement actions for knowingly accepting loans in violation of applicable restrictions. The Dodd-Frank Act enhanced these restrictions and also imposed restrictions
on the purchase or sale of assets between banking institutions and insiders.

Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Legislation, and Office
of Foreign Assets Control







The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) is
responsible for requiring that U.S. entities do not engage in transactions with certain prohibited parties, as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC publishes lists of persons, organizations and countries suspected of
aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts, known as Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. If the Corporation or the Bank finds a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, the Corporation or the
Bank must freeze or block such account or transaction, file a suspicious activity report and notify the appropriate authorities.

Many other countries have imposed similar laws and regulations that apply to the Corporation’s non-U.S. offices. The Corporation has established policies and procedures to comply with these laws and
the related regulations in all relevant jurisdictions. Additionally, neither the Company nor any of its affiliates or subsidiaries have engaged in activities which are sanctionable under the Iran Sanctions Act or the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions,
Accountability, and Divestment Act (CISADA); engaged in transactions with the government Iran or persons whose assets are frozen pursuant to executive orders dealing with terrorism or weapons of mass destruction proliferation; or engaged in the
transfer of goods, technology, or services to Iran that are likely to be used for human rights abuses against the Iranian people.

Deposit
Insurance and Assessments

FDIC-insured depository institutions are required to pay deposit insurance assessments to the
FDIC. The amount of a particular institution’s deposit insurance assessment is based on that institution’s risk classification under an FDIC risk-based assessment system. An institution’s risk classification is assigned based on the
level of supervisory concern the institution poses to the regulators, the institution’s capital levels and other risk measures.

The Dodd-Frank Act makes permanent the general $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits. Federal deposit insurance for the full net amount of deposits in noninterest bearing transaction
accounts expired on December 31, 2012 for all insured banks.

The Dodd-Frank Act increased the minimum designated
reserve ratio of the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35% of the estimated amount of total insured deposits effective September 30, 2020, eliminated the upper limit for the reserve ratio designated by the FDIC each year, and eliminated the requirement that
the FDIC pay dividends to depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. On December 14, 2010, the FDIC raised the minimum designated reserve ratio of the DIF to 2%, where it remains today. The ratio is higher than
the minimum reserve ratio of 1.35% as set by the Dodd-Frank Act.

Continued action by the FDIC to replenish the DIF as well as the changes contained in the Dodd-Frank Act may result in higher assessment rates, which could reduce the profitability of or otherwise
negatively impact the Bank.

Interstate Banking and Branching

The Dodd-Frank Act amends the BHCA to require a bank holding company seeking approval to acquire shares of a bank located outside of the bank holding company’s home state to be well-capitalized and
well-managed. Similarly, the Dodd-Frank Act amends the Bank Merger Act to require that the surviving bank in an interstate merger transaction be well-capitalized and well-managed.







In addition, national banks and state banks with different home states are permitted to
merge across state lines, with the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, unless the home state of a participating banking institution passed legislation prior to June 1, 1997 that expressly prohibits interstate mergers. The
Dodd-Frank Act permits a national bank or a state bank, with the approval of its regulator, to open a branch in any state if the law of the state in which the branch is to be located would permit the establishment of the branch if the bank were a
bank chartered in that state.

Community Reinvestment Act

The Corporation’s banking subsidiaries are subject to the CRA. The CRA and the regulations issued thereunder are intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their service areas,
including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operations of the banks. These regulations also provide for regulatory assessment of a bank’s record in meeting the needs of its service area when considering
applications to establish branches, merger applications, and applications to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of another bank. Federal banking agencies are required to make public the rating of a bank’s performance under the CRA.
In the case of a bank holding company, the CRA performance record of its bank subsidiaries is reviewed by federal banking agencies in connection with the filing of an application to acquire ownership or control of shares or assets of a bank or
thrift or to merge with any other bank holding company. An unsatisfactory record can substantially delay or block the transaction. The Bank in its most recent CRA examination received an outstanding CRA rating from its regulator.

In addition, federal law requires the disclosure of agreements reached with community groups that relate to the CRA, and contains
various other provisions designed to improve the delivery of financial services to consumers while maintaining an appropriate level of safety in the financial services industry. As of December 31, 2012, the Bank is not a party to any such
agreements.

Privacy and Security

Federal law establishes a minimum federal standard of financial privacy by, among other provisions, requiring banks to adopt and disclose privacy policies with respect to consumer information and setting
forth certain rules with respect to the disclosure to third parties of consumer information. The Corporation has adopted and disseminated its privacy policies pursuant to law. Regulations adopted under the federal law set standards for protecting
the security, confidentiality and integrity of client information, and require notice to regulators, and in some cases, to clients, in the event of security breaches. A number of states have adopted their own statutes concerning financial privacy
and requiring notification of security breaches.

Consumer Laws and Regulations

In addition to the laws and regulations discussed above, the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries are also subject to certain consumer
laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks.

Many states and local jurisdictions
have consumer protection laws analogous, and in addition to, those listed above. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with clients and monitor account
activity when taking deposits, making loans to or engaging in other types of transactions with such clients. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could lead to substantial penalties, operating restrictions and reputational damage to the
financial institution. The creation of the CFPB by the Dodd-Frank Act is likely to lead to enhanced and strengthened enforcement of consumer financial protection laws.

Money Market Mutual Fund Regulation

After the SEC announced on
August 28, 2012 that it would not solicit public comment on potential money market mutual funds (MMMF) structural reforms, on November 3, 2012, the FSOC published for public comment three approaches to MMMF reform. The FSOC noted that the
three approaches to MMMF reform were not necessarily exclusive and could be implemented in some combination. Because of the uncertainty as to whether FSOC will issue final rules, whether the SEC will issue a proposed rule, and which or in what
combination the three approaches or others might be adopted, the Corporation cannot fully evaluate such reforms’ impact to the Corporation’s business at this time.

Future Legislation

Federal, state, local and non-U.S. legislators and
regulators regularly introduce measures or take actions that would modify the regulatory requirements applicable to banks, thrifts, their holding companies and their affiliates. Such







legislation may change the banking statutes and the operating environment of the Corporation and its subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. The Corporation cannot determine the
ultimate effect that future legislation or implementing regulations might have upon the financial condition or results of operations of the Corporation or its subsidiaries.

STAFF

Northern Trust employed approximately 14,200 full-time equivalent
officers and staff members as of December 31, 2012.

STATISTICAL DISCLOSURES

The following statistical disclosures, included in the Corporation’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 2012, are incorporated herein by reference.



Schedule2012AnnualReportPage(s)Ratios18Non-U.S. Outstandings50 – 51Nonperforming Assets and 90 Day Past Due Loans52Average Balance Sheet with Analysis of Net Interest Income124 - 125

Additional statistical information on a consolidated basis is set forth below. Certain reclassifications
have been made to prior periods’ financial information to conform to the current year’s presentation.







Remaining Maturity and Average Yield of Securities Held to Maturity and Available for Sale

(Yield calculated on amortized cost and presented on a taxable equivalent basis giving effect to the applicable federal and state tax
rates)



December 31, 2012One Year or LessOne to Five YearsFive to Ten YearsOver Ten YearsAverageMaturity($ in Millions)BookYieldBookYieldBookYieldBookYieldSecurities Held to MaturityObligations of States and Political Subdivisions$117.16.30%$184.46.53%$27.87.51%$——%43 mosGovernment Sponsored Agency34.92.6058.42.535.43.7314.24.3047 mosOther —Fixed1,876.50.2118.02.1512.23.6224.84.287 mos.—Floating1.01.387.31.39————15 mos.Total Securities Held to Maturity$2,029.50.60%$268.15.22%$45.46.01%$39.04.29%14 mos.Securities Available for SaleU.S. Government$750.50.29%$1,034.11.61%$——%$——%24 mos.Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions——14.16.82————34 mos.Government Sponsored Agency4,653.10.7312,345.30.731,276.81.18363.61.5230 mos.Asset-Backed—Fixed951.90.711,073.40.694.15.396.95.4416 mos.Asset-Backed—Floating161.90.64147.80.7425.10.824.80.6522 mos.Auction Rate Securities——0.70.612.00.8695.11.2065 mos.Other —Fixed66.91.03552.21.07214.61.5189.71.5156 mos.—Floating866.91.093,672.81.39215.41.6553.81.7434 mos.Total Securities Available for Sale$7,451.20.73%$18,840.40.92%$1,738.01.28%$613.91.53%30 mos.



December 31, 2011One Year or LessOne to Five YearsFive to Ten YearsOver Ten YearsAverageMaturity($ in Millions)BookYieldBookYieldBookYieldBookYieldSecurities Held to MaturityObligations of States and Political Subdivisions$114.56.72%$224.06.56%$189.57.01%$1.48.10%45 mos.Government Sponsored Agency39.33.17106.93.178.93.171.73.1728 mos.Other —Fixed44.41.0724.53.0017.13.6425.73.6480 mos.—Floating1.31.54——————9 mos.Total Securities Held to Maturity$199.54.73%$355.45.29%$215.56.58%$28.83.84%46 mos.Securities Available for SaleU.S. Government$——%$4,029.40.87%$——%$——%33 mos.Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions0.82.3214.86.20——0.27.5847 mos.Government Sponsored Agency3,463.00.9011,901.10.84776.51.83630.82.1828 mos.Asset-Backed—Fixed842.71.0718.05.6310.55.5415.05.5711 mos.Asset-Backed—Floating386.10.67194.80.81175.50.89126.00.7520 mos.Auction Rate Securities——178.31.43————54 mos.Other —Fixed2,884.70.791,455.01.86————14 mos.—Floating1,892.30.73763.70.59371.20.6662.10.6615 mos.Total Securities Available for Sale$9,469.60.84%$18,555.10.93%$1,333.71.41%$834.11.91%25 mos.







Securities Held to Maturity and Available for Sale



December 31(In Millions)20122011201020092008Securities Held to MaturityObligations of States and Political Subdivisions$329.3$529.4$635.0$692.6$791.2Government Sponsored Agency112.9156.8169.3114.655.0Other1,939.8113.0117.9103.192.9Total Securities Held to Maturity$2,382.0$799.2$922.2$910.3$939.1Securities Available for SaleU.S. Government$1,784.6$4,029.4$658.4$74.0$19.9Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions14.115.836.347.031.6Government Sponsored Agency18,638.816,771.411,970.712,325.411,261.4Asset-Backed2,375.91,768.61,860.31,495.31,572.6Auction Rate97.8178.3367.8427.7453.1Other5,732.37,429.05,008.42,903.1904.1Total Securities Available for Sale$28,643.5$30,192.5$19,901.9$17,272.5$14,242.7Average Total Securities$30,893.8$26,406.4$19,859.2$17,357.8$12,287.0Total Securities at Year-End$31,033.5$30,999.7$20,830.9$18,192.7$15,184.1







Loans and Leases by Type



December 31(In Millions)20122011201020092008CommercialCommercial and Institutional$7,468.5$6,918.7$5,914.5$6,312.1$8,293.4Commercial Real Estate2,859.82,981.73,242.43,213.23,014.0Lease Financing, net1,035.0978.81,063.71,004.41,143.8Non-U.S.1,192.31,057.51,046.2728.51,791.7Other341.6417.6346.6457.5909.6Total Commercial12,897.212,354.311,613.411,715.715,152.5PersonalResidential Real Estate10,375.210,708.910,854.910,807.710,381.4Private Client6,130.15,651.45,423.75,004.44,832.2Other102.0349.3240.0277.9389.3Total Personal16,607.316,709.616,518.616,090.015,602.9Total Loans and Leases29,504.5$29,063.9$28,132.0$27,805.7$30,755.4Total U.S.$28,312.2$28,006.4$27,085.8$27,077.2$28,963.7

Remaining Maturity of Selected Loans and Leases



December 31, 2012(In Millions)TotalOne Yearor LessOne toFiveYearsOver FiveYearsU.S. (Excluding Residential Real Estate and Private Client Loans)Commercial and Institutional$7,468.54,979.91,730.7757.9Commercial Real Estate2,859.8773.51,701.2385.1Lease Financing, net1,035.066.0431.7537.3Other-Commercial341.6246.195.5—Other-Personal102.073.528.5—Total U.S.11,806.96,139.03,987.61,680.3Non-U.S.1,192.31,188.34.0—Total Selected Loans and Leases12,999.27,327.33,991.61,680.3Interest Rate Sensitivity of Loans and LeasesFixed Rate8,727.35,412.62,318.1996.6Variable Rate4,271.91,914.71,673.5683.7Total12,999.27,327.33,991.61,680.3







Average Deposits by Type



(In Millions)20122011201020092008U.S. OfficesDemand and Noninterest-BearingIndividuals, Partnerships and Corporations$16,736.5$10,937.7$862.2$778.6$912.5Correspondent Banks72.8101.286.580.544.2Other Noninterest-Bearing118.0115.75,643.67,589.74,493.6Total Demand and Noninterest-Bearing16,927.311,154.66,592.38,448.85,450.3Interest-BearingSavings and Money Market14,101.914,297.613,049.511,162.47,786.5Savings Certificates less than $100,000300.4343.0401.3478.6454.8Savings Certificates $100,000 and more1,149.61,352.51,706.52,298.71,669.5Other1,545.11,909.91,596.81,101.8615.3Total Interest-Bearing17,097.017,903.016,754.115,041.510,526.1Total U.S. Offices34,024.329,057.623,346.423,490.315,976.4Non-U.S. OfficesNon Interest-Bearing3,251.73,415.32,268.32,578.13,364.5Interest-Bearing37,943.839,973.529,968.427,157.635,958.2Total Non-U.S. Offices41,195.543,388.832,236.729,735.739,322.7Total Deposits$75,219.8$72,446.4$55,583.1$53,226.0$55,299.1

Average Rates Paid on Interest-Related Deposits by Type



20122011201020092008Interest-Related Deposits—U.S. OfficesSavings and Money Market0.13%0.18%0.27%0.48%1.77%Savings Certificates less than $100,0000.730.881.232.053.21Savings Certificates $100,000 and more0.911.031.342.053.44Other Time0.480.560.801.483.28Total U.S. Offices Interest-Related Deposits0.220.300.450.842.19Total Non-U.S. Offices Interest-Related Deposits0.310.440.420.292.46Total Interest-Related Deposits0.28%0.40%0.43%0.49%2.40%

Remaining Maturity of Time Deposits $100,000 or More



December 31, 2012December 31, 2011U.S. OfficesNon-U.S.OfficesU.S. OfficesNon-U.S.Offices(In Millions)Certificatesof DepositOtherTimeCertificatesof DepositOtherTime3 Months or Less$664.1$—$7,611.1$776.0$—$7,234.8Over 3 through 6 Months547.7—31.3530.5—49.5Over 6 through 12 Months699.5—20.41,062.4—31.4Over 12 Months262.5—4.7368.7—1.1Total$2,173.8$—$7,667.5$2,737.6$—$7,316.8







Purchased Funds

Federal Funds Purchased

(Overnight Borrowings)



($ in Millions)201220112010Balance on December 31$780.2$815.3$3,691.7Highest Month-End Balance3,728.74,690.25,716.6Year – Average Balance1,619.12,250.43,779.7– Average Rate0.08%0.08%0.13%Average Rate at Year-End0.05%0.06%0.05%

Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase



($ in Millions)201220112010Balance on December 31$699.8$1,198.8$954.4Highest Month-End Balance699.81,479.3954.4Year – Average Balance448.1815.8626.8– Average Rate0.08%0.08%0.17%Average Rate at Year-End0.03%0.02%0.07%

Other Borrowings

(Includes Treasury Investment Program Balances, Term Federal Funds Purchased and Other Short-Term Borrowings)



($ in Millions)201220112010Balance on December 31$367.4$931.5$347.7Highest Month-End Balance1,519.72,415.52,174.1Year – Average Balance978.71,400.61,443.0– Average Rate0.41%0.39%0.38%Average Rate at Year-End0.00%0.02%0.03%

Total Purchased Funds



($ in Millions)201220112010Balance on December 31$1,847.4$2,945.6$4,993.8Year – Average Balance3,045.94,466.85,849.5– Average Rate0.18%0.18%0.19%







Changes in Net Interest Income



2012/20112011/2010Change Due ToChange Due To(Interest on a Taxable Equivalent Basis)(In Millions)AverageBalanceRateTotalAverageBalanceRateTotalIncrease (Decrease) in Interest IncomeMoney Market AssetsFederal Funds Sold and Resell Agreements$—$0.3$0.3$(0.1)$(0.2)$(0.3)Time Deposits with Banks17.3(33.7)(16.4)23.235.058.2Other Interest-Bearing(14.1)(0.3)(14.4)12.02.814.8SecuritiesU.S. Government6.6(6.2)0.410.811.522.3Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions(12.3)(0.7)(13.0)(7.9)0.9(7.0)Government Sponsored Agency29.5(7.4)22.124.6(38.8)(14.2)Other0.99.09.930.42.733.1Loans and Leases20.9(130.1)(109.2)28.4(22.3)6.1Total48.8(169.1)(120.3)121.4(8.4)113.0Increase (Decrease) in Interest ExpenseDepositsSavings and Money Market$(0.4)$(7.3)$(7.7)$3.4$(12.3)$(8.9)Savings Certificates and Other Time(4.7)(3.0)(7.7)(1.1)(11.5)(12.6)Non-U.S. Offices Time(8.9)(48.9)(57.8)42.08.450.4Short-Term Borrowings(2.6)—(2.6)(2.6)(0.4)(3.0)Senior Notes10.1(2.5)7.615.30.515.8Long-Term Debt(31.4)(2.9)(34.3)(15.3)(4.9)(20.2)Floating Rate Capital Debt—0.40.4———Total$(37.9)$(64.2)$(102.1)$41.7$(20.2)$21.5Increase (Decrease) in Net Interest Income$86.7$(104.9)$(18.2)$79.7$11.8$91.5

Note: Changes not due solely to average balance changes or rate changes are included in the change due to
rate column.







Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses





($ in Millions)20122011201020092008

Balance at Beginning of Year$328.9$357.3$340.6$251.1$160.2

Charge-Offs

Commercial

Commercial and Institutional5.522.013.330.67.6

Commercial Real Estate14.434.362.922.55.1

Lease Financing, net—————

Non-U.S.—————

Other—————



Total Commercial19.956.376.253.112.7



Personal

Residential Real Estate40.355.063.757.78.9

Private Client2.85.010.221.54.1

Other—————



Total Personal43.160.073.979.213.0



Total Charge-Offs63.0116.3150.1132.325.7



Recoveries

Commercial

Commercial and Institutional3.115.00.82.91.8

Commercial Real Estate14.56.52.80.20.1

Lease Financing, net2.7————

Non-U.S.—————

Other—————



Total Commercial20.321.53.63.11.9

Personal

Residential Real Estate9.87.82.31.30.3

Private Client6.63.61.02.10.3

Other—————



Total Personal16.411.43.33.40.6



Total Recoveries36.732.96.96.52.5



Net Charge-Offs26.383.4143.2125.823.2

Provision for Credit Losses25.055.0160.0215.0115.0

Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates——(0.1)0.3(0.9)



Net Change in Allowance(1.3)(28.4)16.789.590.9



Balance at End of Year$327.6$328.9$357.3$340.6$251.1



Allowance Assigned To:

Loans and Leases$297.9$294.8$319.6$309.2$229.1

Unfunded Commitments and Standby Letters of Credit29.734.137.731.422.0



Total Allowance for Credit Losses$327.6$328.9$357.3$340.6$251.1



Loans and Leases at Year-End$29,504.5$29,063.9$28,132.0$27,805.7$30,755.4



Average Total Loans and Leases$28,975.7$28,346.7$27,514.4$28,697.2$27,402.7



As a Percent of Year-End Loans and Leases

Net Loan Charge-Offs0.09%0.29%0.51%0.45%0.08%

Provision for Credit Losses0.080.190.570.770.37

Allowance at Year-End Assigned to Loans and Leases1.011.011.141.110.74

As a Percent of Average Loans and Leases

Net Loan Charge-Offs0.09%0.29%0.52%0.44%0.08%

Allowance at Year-End Assigned to Loans and Leases1.031.041.161.080.84







Non-U.S. Operations (Based on Obligor’s Domicile)

See also Note 30 – Business Units and Related Information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 117 through 119
of the Corporation’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Selected Average Assets and Liabilities Attributable to Non-U.S. Operations



(In Millions)20122011201020092008Total Assets$29,237.4$29,201.2$22,664.0$21,876.1$27,321.0Time Deposits with Banks18,580.416,906.514,592.415,357.020,547.9Loans1,091.11,301.7692.9951.51,641.7Customers’ Acceptance Liability0.70.30.50.30.2Non-U.S. Investments4,470.45,370.22,688.8977.7205.7Total Liabilities$43,436.7$45,757.5$36,196.0$33,310.6$44,022.1Deposits$41,160.9$43,370.3$33,479.3$30,888.3$40,825.6Liability on Acceptances0.70.30.50.30.2

Percent of Non-U.S.-Related Average Assets and Liabilities to Total Consolidated Average Assets



20122011201020092008Assets31%32%30%29%37%Liabilities47%50%48%45%60%Allowance for Credit Losses Relating to Non-U.S. Operations(In Millions)20122011201020092008Balance at Beginning of Year$4.7$3.8$4.9$7.4$8.8Charge-Offs—————Recoveries—————Provision for Credit Losses(1.3)0.9(1.1)(2.5)(1.4)Balance at End of Year$3.4$4.7$3.8$4.9$7.4

The SEC requires the disclosure of the allowance for credit losses that is applicable to international
operations. The above table has been prepared in compliance with this disclosure requirement and is used in determining non-U.S. operating performance. The amounts shown in the table should not be construed as being the only amounts that are
available for non-U.S. loan charge-offs, since the entire allowance for credit losses assigned to loans and leases is available to absorb losses on both U.S. and non-U.S. loans. In addition, these amounts are not intended to be indicative of future
charge-off trends.







Distribution of Non-U.S. Loans and Deposits by Type



LoansDecember 31(In Millions)20122011201020092008Commercial$498.0$335.9$874.0$626.3$351.1Non-U.S. Governments and Official Institutions252.4197.8110.359.714.8Banks9.913.39.32.132.4Other432.0510.552.640.41,393.4Total$1,192.3$1,057.5$1,046.2$728.5$1,791.7



Non-U.S. loans primarily include short duration advances related to the processing of custodied client investments.



DepositsDecember 31(In Millions)201220112010Commercial$36,948.8$34,824.1$34,835.1Non-U.S. Governments and Official Institutions5,990.43,405.62,724.1Banks248.81,018.41,406.5Other Time37.048.3377.1Other Demand8.438.2159.9Total43,233.439,334.6$39,502.7

CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT

For the discussion of Credit Risk Management, see the following information that is incorporated herein by reference to the Corporation’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 2012:



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements2012Annual ReportPage(s)1.Accounting PoliciesG. Derivative Financial Instruments69 – 70H. Loans and Leases70 – 72I. Allowance for Credit Losses72L. Other Real Estate Owned72 – 736.Loans and Leases87 – 917.Allowance for Credit Losses91 – 928.Concentrations of Credit Risk9324.Contingent Liabilities108 – 11025.Derivative Financial Instruments110 – 11426.Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments114 – 115Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsAsset Quality and Credit Risk Management47 – 55

In addition, the following schedules on pages 21 through 23 of this Form 10-K should be read in
conjunction with the “Credit Risk Management” section:

Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses

Allowance for Credit Losses Relating to Non-U.S. Operations

Distribution of Non-U.S. Loans and Deposits by Type







INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS

For the discussion of interest rate sensitivity, see the section entitled “Market Risk Management” on pages 55 through 58 of
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Corporation’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference.

The following unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statement of Income for The Northern Trust Company were prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and are provided here for informational purposes. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements
included in the Corporation’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2012 and incorporated herein by reference on page 41 of this Form 10-K.







The Northern Trust Company

Consolidated Balance Sheet (unaudited)



December 31(In Millions)20122011AssetsCash and Due from Banks$3,736.7$4,299.2Federal Funds Sold and Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell60.8121.3Interest-Bearing Deposits with Banks18,794.816,685.4Federal Reserve Deposits and Other Interest-Bearing7,606.613,442.7SecuritiesAvailable for Sale28,638.630,095.4Held to Maturity (Fair Value—$2,394.8 in 2012 and $817.1 in 2011)2,382.0799.2Total Securities31,020.630,894.6Loans and LeasesCommercial12,897.212,362.3Personal16,607.316,704.0Total Loans and Leases (Net of unearned income—$297.9 in 2012 and $374.1 in 2011)29,504.529,066.3Allowance for Credit Losses Assigned to Loans and Leases(297.9)(294.8)Buildings and Equipment464.9486.5Client Security Settlement Receivables2,049.1778.3Goodwill499.0493.2Other Assets3,699.73,858.5Total Assets$97,138.8$99,831.2LiabilitiesDepositsDemand and Other Noninterest-Bearing$20,552.4$22,885.6Savings and Money Market15,190.917,472.1Savings Certificates2,466.13,058.3Non-U.S. Offices — Noninterest-Bearing3,513.23,488.6— Interest-Bearing41,411.637,137.2Total Deposits83,134.284,041.8Federal Funds Purchased780.2815.3Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase699.81,198.8Other Borrowings392.2955.2Senior Notes750.0750.0Long-Term Debt1,714.22,425.9Other Liabilities2,442.72,752.7Total Liabilities89,913.392,939.7Total Stockholder’s Equity7,225.56,891.5Total Liabilities and Stockholder’s Equity$97,138.8$99,831.2







The Northern Trust Company

Consolidated Statement of Income (unaudited)





For the Year Ended December 31

(In Millions)201220112010

Noninterest Income

Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees$2,208.2$2,034.6$1,898.2

Foreign Exchange Trading Income206.1324.5382.2

Treasury Management Fees67.472.178.1

Security Commissions and Trading Income15.68.39.7

Other Operating Income245.787.3138.2

Investment Security Gains (Losses), net(1.9)(23.9)(20.4)



Total Noninterest Income2,741.12,502.92,486.0



Interest Income

Loans and Leases829.1938.7933.3

Securities

—Available for Sale229.9203.5172.5

—Held to Maturity33.133.740.9



Total Securities263.0237.2213.4



Time Deposits with Banks176.4192.7134.5

Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell and Other18.331.414.0



Total Interest Income1,286.81,400.01,295.2



Interest Expense

Deposits160.6233.2204.8

Federal Funds Purchased1.21.92.4

Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase0.40.71.1

Other Borrowings3.65.57.7

Senior Notes26.016.52.4

Long-Term Debt60.494.6121.8



Total Interest Expense252.2352.4340.2



Net Interest Income1,034.61,047.6955.0

Provision for Credit Losses25.055.0160.0



Net Interest Income after Provision for Credit Losses1,009.6992.6795.0



Income before Noninterest Expense3,750.73,495.53,281.0



Noninterest Expense

Compensation1,220.51,221.51,060.3

Employee Benefits250.2249.5229.2

Outside Services447.5460.9386.5

Equipment and Software366.1327.3286.3

Occupancy170.2176.2164.2

Visa Indemnification Benefits—(23.1)(33.0)

Other Operating Expense267.9237.3236.8



Total Noninterest Expense2,722.42,649.62,330.3



Income before Income Taxes1,028.3845.9950.7

Provision for Income Taxes321.4274.9313.3



Net Income$706.9$571.0$637.4



Dividends Paid to the Corporation$440.0$500.0$—









AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Corporation’s Internet address is www.northerntrust.com. We make available free of charge through our website our annual report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. Additionally, the Corporation’s corporate governance guidelines, its code of business conduct and ethics applicable to directors, officers and
employees, and the charters for its audit, business risk, business strategy, corporate governance, compensation and benefits, and executive committees are all available on the Corporation’s Internet website. Information contained on the
Corporation’s website is not part of this report.

Supplemental Item—Executive Officers of the
Registrant

The following table sets forth certain information with regard to each executive officer of the Corporation.



Name and AgeCurrent Position Held with the Corporation and Effective Date First Elected to Office
IndicatedFrederick H. Waddell (59)Chairman of the Board (11/11/09), President (2/21/06-9/30/11), and Chief Executive Officer (1/1/08)S. Biff Bowman (49)Executive Vice President (7/17/07) and Head of Human Resources (5/2/12)Jeffrey D. Cohodes (52)Executive Vice President of the Bank (11/14/06) and Executive Vice President and Head of Corporate Risk Management (3/1/11)Steven L. Fradkin (51)Executive Vice President (1/21/03) and President—C&IS (9/18/09)Richard D. Kukla (59)Senior Vice President (7/15/97) and Controller (5/1/12)Timothy P. Moen (60)Executive Vice President (4/16/02) and Chief Administrative Officer (5/2/12)William L. Morrison (62)Chief Financial Officer (9/18/09-9/30/11), Executive Vice President (5/21/02-9/30/11) and President and Chief Operating Officer (10/1/11)Michael G. O’Grady (47)Executive Vice President (8/15/11) and Chief Financial Officer (10/1/11)Stephen N. Potter (56)Executive Vice President (10/17/06) and President—NTGI (3/28/08)Jana R. Schreuder (54)Executive Vice President (6/30/05), President—O&T (10/17/06-2/28/11), and President—PFS (3/1/11)Joyce St. Clair (54)Executive Vice President (4/1/07), Head of Corporate Risk Management (4/1/07-2/28/11), and President—O&T (3/1/11)Kelly R. Welsh (60)Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Assistant Secretary (7/18/00)

All of the executive officers except Michael G. O’Grady have been officers of the Corporation, or a
subsidiary of the Corporation, for more than five years. Mr. O’Grady served as Managing Director of the Financial Institutions Group of Investment Banking of Bank of America Merrill Lynch from 2000 until joining the Corporation.

The positions of Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President are elected annually by the Board of Directors
at the first meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of stockholders. The other officers are appointed annually by the Board. Officers continue to hold office until their successors are duly elected or until their death,
resignation or removal by the Board.







