ITEM 1 – BUSINESS



Northern Trust Corporation

Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) is a financial holding company that is a leading provider of asset servicing, fund
administration, asset management, fiduciary and banking solutions for corporations, institutions, families and individuals worldwide. The Corporation conducts business through various U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries, including The Northern Trust
Company (Bank). The Corporation was originally formed as a holding company for the Bank in 1971. The Corporation has a network of offices in 19 U.S. states, Washington, D.C., and 20 international locations in Canada, Europe, the Middle East, and the
Asia-Pacific region. At December 31, 2014, the Corporation had consolidated total assets of $109.9 billion and stockholders’ equity of $8.4 billion.

The Bank is an Illinois banking corporation headquartered in Chicago and the Corporation’s principal subsidiary. Founded in 1889, the Bank conducts its business through its U.S. operations and its
various U.S. and non-U.S. branches and subsidiaries. At December 31, 2014, the Bank had consolidated assets of $109.6 billion and common bank equity capital of $7.6 billion.

The Corporation expects that the Bank will continue in the foreseeable future to be the major source of the Corporation’s
consolidated assets, revenues, and net income. Except where the context otherwise requires, references to “Northern Trust,” “we,” “us,” “our” or similar terms mean Northern Trust Corporation and its
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.



Business Overview

Northern Trust focuses on managing and servicing client assets through its two client-focused reporting segments: Corporate &
Institutional Services (C&IS) and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to C&IS and Wealth Management clients primarily by the Asset Management business. The revenue and expenses of Asset Management and
certain other support functions are allocated fully to C&IS and Wealth Management. Northern Trust also makes use of a third reporting segment, Treasury and Other, under which it reports certain income and expense items not allocated to
C&IS and Wealth Management.



CORPORATE & INSTITUTIONAL
SERVICES

C&IS is a leading global provider of asset servicing and related services to corporate and public retirement funds,
foundations, endowments, fund managers, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, and other institutional investors around the globe. Asset servicing and related services encompass a full range of capabilities including, but not limited to:
global master trust and custody; employee benefit services; fund administration; investment operations outsourcing; investment risk and analytical services; securities lending; foreign exchange; banking; cash management; treasury management;
brokerage services; and transition management services. Client relationships are managed through the Bank and the Bank’s and the Corporation’s other subsidiaries, including support from locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East,
and the Asia-Pacific region. At December 31, 2014, total C&IS assets under custody were $5.5 trillion and assets under management were $709.6 billion.



WEALTH MANAGEMENT

Wealth Management
provides trust, investment management, custody, and philanthropic services; financial consulting; guardianship and estate administration; family business consulting; family financial education; brokerage services; and private and business banking.
Wealth Management focuses on high-net-worth individuals and families, business owners, executives, professionals, retirees, and established privately-held businesses in its target markets. Wealth Management also includes the Global Family Office,
which provides customized services to meet the complex financial needs of individuals and family offices in the United States and throughout the world with assets typically exceeding $200 million.

Wealth Management is one of the largest providers of advisory services in the United States, with $515.7 billion in assets under custody
and $224.5 billion in assets under management at December 31, 2014. Wealth Management services are delivered by multidisciplinary teams through a network of offices in 18 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., as well as offices in London, Guernsey,
and Abu Dhabi.





1|2014 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS|NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION




ASSET MANAGEMENT

Asset Management, through the Corporation’s various subsidiaries, supports the C&IS and Wealth Management reporting segments by providing a broad range of asset management and related services
and other products to clients around the world. Investment solutions are delivered through separately managed accounts, bank common and collective funds, registered investment companies, exchange traded funds, non-U.S. collective investment funds,
and unregistered private investment funds. Asset Management’s capabilities include active, passive and engineered equity; active and passive fixed income; cash management; alternative asset classes (such as private equity and hedge funds of
funds); and multi-manager advisory services and products. Asset Management’s activities also include overlay services and other risk management services. Asset Management operates internationally through subsidiaries and distribution
arrangements and its revenue and expense are fully allocated to C&IS and Wealth Management.



Competition

Northern Trust faces intense competition in all aspects and areas of its
business. Competition is provided by both unregulated and regulated financial services organizations, whose products and services span the local, national, and global markets in which Northern Trust conducts operations. Our competitors include
a broad range of financial institutions and servicing companies, including other custodial banks, deposit-taking institutions, asset management firms, benefits consultants, trust companies, investment banking firms, insurance companies, and
investment counseling firms.

Northern Trust’s principal business strategy is to provide quality financial services to
targeted market segments in which it believes it has a competitive advantage and favorable growth prospects. As part of this strategy, Northern Trust seeks to deliver a level of service that distinguishes it from its competitors. In addition,
Northern Trust emphasizes the development and growth of recurring sources of fee-based income. Northern Trust seeks to develop and expand its recurring fee-based revenue by identifying select markets with attractive growth characteristics and
providing a high level of individualized service to clients in those markets. Northern Trust also seeks to preserve its asset quality through established credit review procedures and to maintain a conservative balance sheet. Finally, Northern Trust
seeks to operate with a strong management team that includes senior officers having broad experience and long tenures.



Economic Conditions And Government Policies

The earnings of Northern Trust are affected by numerous external influences. Chief among these are general economic conditions, both domestic and international, and actions that governments and their
central banks take in managing their economies. These general conditions affect all of Northern Trust’s businesses, as well as the quality, value, and profitability of their loan and investment portfolios.

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) implements monetary policy through its open market operations
in United States Government securities, its setting of the discount rate at which member banks may borrow from Federal Reserve Banks, and its changes in the reserve requirements for deposits. The policies adopted by the Federal Reserve Board
directly affect interest rates and hence what banks earn on their loans and investments and what they pay on their savings and time deposits and other purchased funds.



Supervision And Regulation

Northern Trust is subject to extensive regulation under state and federal laws in the United States, as well as the applicable laws of each of the various
jurisdictions outside the United States in which Northern Trust does business. The discussion below outlines significant elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to Northern Trust. Changes in these laws or regulations, or their
application, cannot be predicted, but may have a material effect on Northern Trust’s businesses and results of operations.





2|2014 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS|NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION




FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANY REGULATION

Under U.S. law, the Corporation is a bank holding company that has elected to be a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHCA). Consequently, the Corporation
and its business activities throughout the world are subject to the supervision, examination, and regulation of the Federal Reserve Board. The BHCA and other federal laws subject bank and financial holding companies to particular restrictions on the
types of activities in which they may engage and to a range of supervisory requirements, including enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations. Supervision and regulation of bank holding companies, financial holding companies, and
their subsidiaries are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and other clients of banking subsidiaries, the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the banking system as a whole, not for the
protection of stockholders or other non-depository creditors.

Under the BHCA, bank holding companies and their banking
subsidiaries are generally limited to the business of banking and activities closely related or incidental to banking. As a financial holding company, the Corporation is permitted to engage in other activities that the Federal Reserve Board
determines to be financial in nature, incidental to an activity that is financial in nature, or complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial
system generally, or to acquire shares of companies engaged in such activities. Activities defined to be financial in nature include: providing financial or investment advice; securities underwriting and dealing; insurance underwriting; and making
merchant banking investments in commercial and financial companies, subject to significant limitations. They also include activities previously determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling
banks as to be a proper incident thereto. The Corporation may not, however, directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of a bank holding company or a
bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board.

In order to maintain the Corporation’s status as a
financial holding company, each of the Corporation’s insured depository institution subsidiaries must remain “well-capitalized” and “well-managed” under applicable regulations, and must have received at least a
“satisfactory” rating in its most recent examination under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). In addition, as a result of the amendment of the BHCA by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), as
discussed further below, the Corporation must remain “well-capitalized” and “well-managed” in order to maintain its status as a financial holding company. Failure to meet one or more of these requirements would mean, depending on
the requirements not met, that the Corporation could not undertake new activities, continue certain activities, or make acquisitions other than those permitted generally for bank holding companies.



SUBSIDIARY REGULATION

The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the maximum authorized limit, and it is subject to
regulation by both these agencies. As an Illinois banking corporation, the Bank is also subject to Illinois state laws and regulations and to examination and supervision by the Division of Banking of the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation. The Bank is registered as a government securities dealer in accordance with the Government Securities Act of 1986. As a government securities dealer, its activities are subject to the rules and regulations of the Department
of the Treasury. The Bank is also registered as a transfer agent with the Federal Reserve Board and is therefore subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board in this area.

The Bank is registered provisionally with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) under the Commodity Exchange Act as a swap
dealer. As a provisionally registered swap dealer, the Bank is subject to significant regulatory obligations regarding swap activity and the supervision, examination and enforcement power of the CFTC and other regulators. Certain of the
Corporation’s other affiliates are registered with the CFTC as a commodity trading advisor or commodity pool operator under the Commodity Exchange Act and are subject to that act and the associated rules and regulations of the CFTC.

The Corporation’s nonbanking affiliates are all subject to examination by the Federal Reserve Board. Its broker-dealer subsidiary is
registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, subject to the rules and regulations of both of these bodies. Several subsidiaries of the Corporation are registered with
the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and are subject to that act and the rules and regulations





3|2014 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS|NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION




promulgated thereunder. Other subsidiaries are regulated by state banking departments in various states. The Bank and other subsidiaries of the Corporation act as investment advisers to several
mutual funds and other asset managers which are subject to regulation by the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Bank is registered with the SEC and Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board as a municipal securities dealer and another
subsidiary of the Corporation is registered as both a municipal securities dealer and a municipal securities advisor with the same regulators.



FUNCTIONAL REGULATION

Federal banking law
has established a system of federal and state supervision and regulation based on functional regulation, meaning that primary regulatory oversight for a particular activity generally resides with the federal or state regulator designated as having
the principal responsibility for that activity. Banking is supervised by federal and state banking regulators, insurance by state insurance regulators, derivatives and swaps activities by the CFTC, and securities activities by the SEC and state
securities regulators.

A significant component of the functional regulation relates to the application of federal securities
laws and SEC oversight of some bank securities activities. Generally, banks may conduct securities activities without broker-dealer registration only if the activities fall within a set of activity-based exemptions designed to allow banks to conduct
only those activities traditionally considered to be primarily banking or trust activities. Securities activities outside these exemptions, as a practical matter, need to be conducted by a registered broker-dealer affiliate. The Investment Advisers
Act of 1940 requires the registration of any bank or separately identifiable division of the bank that acts as investment adviser for mutual funds.

Another component of the functional regulation relates to the application of federal commodity and derivatives laws and CFTC oversight of some bank commodity and derivatives activities, including
swap-dealing activities.



THE DODD-FRANK ACT

The Dodd-Frank Act has had, and is expected to continue to have, a broad impact on the financial services industry, imposing significant new regulatory
and compliance requirements, including the imposition of increased capital, leverage, and liquidity requirements, and numerous other provisions designed to improve supervision and oversight of, and strengthen safety and soundness within, the
financial services sector. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act established a new framework of authority to conduct systemic risk oversight within the financial system to be distributed among new and existing federal regulatory agencies, including the
Financial Stability Oversight Council, the Federal Reserve Board, and the FDIC. The following items provide a brief description of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that are most relevant to the Corporation and its banking subsidiaries,
including the Bank.



Enhanced Prudential
Standards.

Resolution Planning.As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC have jointly issued a final rule
requiring the Corporation to submit periodically to regulators a resolution plan for its rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. In addition, the FDIC has issued a final rule requiring the Bank to submit
to the





4|2014 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS|NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION




FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of the Bank’s failure. The Corporation and the Bank submitted a single resolution plan that complies with these rules in December 2014. A
similar directive has been adopted for European Union credit institutions.

Orderly Liquidation Authority.

The Volcker Rule

Swaps and Other Derivatives.Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act (Title VII) imposes a new regulatory structure on the
over-the-counter derivatives market, including requirements for clearing, exchange trading, capital, margin, reporting, and recordkeeping. In addition, certain swaps and other derivatives activities are required to be “pushed out” of
insured depository institutions and conducted in separately capitalized non-bank affiliates. Title VII also will require certain persons to register as a “major swap participant,” a “swap dealer,” a “major-security-based
swap participant” or a “security-based swap dealer.” The CFTC and SEC have finalized joint rules further defining these entities, and the CFTC, SEC and other U.S. regulators are in the process of adopting regulations to implement
Title VII. The CFTC has also finalized many rules applicable to swap dealers and other swap market participants including business conduct standards for swap dealers, reporting and recordkeeping, mandatory central clearing for certain swaps,
exchange-trading rules applicable to swaps, and regulatory requirements for cross-border swap activities. The SEC has finalized rules that, among other things, enhance the oversight of clearing and trading





5|2014 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS|NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION




entities; require regulatory reporting of security-based swap information and the public dissemination of security-based swap transaction, volume, and pricing information by registered swap data
repositories; and define the scope of swap data repository registration requirements and certain regulatory requirements for cross-border swap activities. It is anticipated that the SEC will continue with its rulemaking process, which will further
clarify, among other things, recordkeeping obligations, the scope of security-based swap dealer and major-security-based swap participant registration requirements, central clearing requirements, and exchange-traded requirements for security-based
swaps. The CFTC and SEC have yet to complete the implementation of Title VII, and the complete regulatory framework for swaps and security-based swaps continues to develop.

Incentive Compensation Arrangements.The Dodd-Frank Act requires federal regulators to prescribe regulations or guidelines regarding incentive-based compensation practices at certain large
financial institutions. No final rule has been issued to date.



HOLDING COMPANY SUPPORT AND CROSS-GUARANTEES UNDER THE FDIA

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA), when two or more insured depository institutions are under common control, each of those depository institutions may be liable for any loss incurred, or
expected to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of any of the others. Each also may be liable for any assistance the FDIC provides to the other institutions. “Default” means the appointment of a conservator or receiver
for the institution. This cross-guarantee liability for a loss at a commonly controlled institution would be subordinated in right of payment to deposit liabilities, secured obligations, any other general or senior liability, and any obligation
subordinated to depositors or other general creditors, other than obligations owed to any affiliate of the depository institution (with certain exceptions).

The Dodd-Frank Act amends the FDIA to obligate the Federal Reserve Board to require bank holding companies, such as the Corporation, to serve as a source of financial strength for any subsidiary
depository institution. The term “source of financial strength” is defined as the ability of a company to provide financial assistance to its insured depository institution subsidiaries in the event of financial distress at such
subsidiaries. Under this requirement, the Corporation in the future could be required to provide financial assistance to the Bank should the Bank experience financial distress.



PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS

The Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. The Corporation may pay dividends, repurchase stock, and make other capital
distributions only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the Federal Reserve Board and as to which the Federal Reserve Board has not objected. A significant source of funds for the Corporation is dividends from the
Bank. As a result, the Corporation’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock will depend on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation in amounts sufficient to service its obligations. Dividend payments from the Bank are
subject to Illinois law and to regulatory limitations, generally based on capital levels and current and retained earnings, imposed by various regulatory agencies with authority over the Bank. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends is
also subject to regulatory restrictions if paying dividends would impair its profitability, financial condition or cash flow requirements.

Various federal and state statutory provisions limit the amount of dividends the Bank can pay to the Corporation without regulatory approval. Approval of the Federal Reserve Board is required for payment
of any dividend by a state-chartered bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System if the total of all dividends declared by the bank in any calendar year would exceed the total of its retained net income (as defined by regulatory agencies)
for that year combined with its retained net income for the preceding two years. In addition, a state member bank may not pay a dividend in an amount greater than its “undivided profits,” as defined, without regulatory and stockholder
approval.

The Bank is also prohibited under federal law from paying any dividends if the Bank is undercapitalized or if the
payment of the dividends would cause the Bank to become undercapitalized. In addition, the federal regulatory agencies are authorized to prohibit a bank or bank holding company from engaging in an unsafe or unsound banking practice. The payment of
dividends could, depending on the financial condition of the Bank, be deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. The Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III (as defined and discussed further below) impose additional restrictions on the ability of
banking institutions to pay dividends.





6|2014 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS|NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION




CAPITAL PLANNING AND STRESS TESTING

The purpose of CCAR is to ensure that these bank holding companies have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account
for their unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. The CCAR rule, consistent with prior Federal Reserve Board guidance, provides that capital plans contemplating dividend payout ratios
exceeding 30% of projected after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny. The Corporation’s common stock dividend payout ratio was 39.2% in 2014.

The Corporation submitted its capital plan to the Federal Reserve Board in January 2014 as part of the Federal Reserve Board’s 2014 CCAR exercise, and the Federal Reserve Board did not object to the
Corporation’s plan. In January 2015, the Corporation submitted its 2015 capital plan to the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it expects to publish either its objection or non-objection to the 2015 capital plan
and proposed capital actions, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, on March 11, 2015. The Corporation anticipates announcing its proposed 2015 capital plan distributions shortly thereafter.

In addition to the CCAR stress testing requirements, Federal Reserve Board regulations also include the new Dodd-Frank Act stress tests
(DFAST). The CCAR and DFAST requirements substantially overlap, and the Federal Reserve Board implements them at the bank holding company level on a coordinated basis. Under the DFAST regulations, the Corporation is required to undergo regulatory
stress tests conducted by the Federal Reserve Board annually, and to conduct internal stress tests pursuant to regulatory requirements semi-annually. The Bank also is required to conduct its own annual internal stress test (although it is permitted
to combine certain reporting and disclosure of its stress test results with the results of the Corporation). These requirements involve both company-run and supervisory-run testing of capital under various scenarios, including baseline, adverse and
severely adverse scenarios provided by the appropriate banking regulator. Results from the Corporation’s and the Bank’s annual company-run stress tests are reported to the appropriate regulators and published. Northern Trust published the
results of its company-run stress tests on March 20, 2014, and the results of its company-run mid-cycle stress tests on September 17, 2014.



CAPITAL ADEQUACY REQUIREMENTS

The
regulators view capital levels as important indicators of an institution’s financial soundness. As a general matter, FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies (including the Bank and the Corporation) are required to
maintain minimum capital relative to the amount and types of assets they hold. The final supervisory determination on an institution’s capital adequacy is based on the regulator’s assessment of numerous factors.

The Federal Reserve Board has established risk-based and leverage capital guidelines for bank holding companies, including the
Corporation. As of January 1, 2015, the risk-based capital guidelines that apply to the Corporation and the Bank are based upon the 2011 capital accord of the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee), a committee
of





7|2014 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS|NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION




central banks and bank supervisors, as implemented by the Federal Reserve Board (Basel III). The Basel III rules are currently being phased in, and will come into full effect by January 1,
2022.

The federal banking regulators also have established risk-based and leverage capital guidelines that FDIC-insured
depository institutions, such as the Bank, are required to meet. These regulations are generally similar to those established by the Federal Reserve Board for bank holding companies. The Bank’s risk-based and leverage capital ratios remained
strong at December 31, 2014 and were well above the minimum regulatory requirements established by U.S. banking regulators.

Under the final Basel III rules, the Corporation is one of a small number of “core” banking organizations. The rules require
core banking organizations to have rigorous processes for assessing overall capital adequacy in relation to their total risk profiles, and to publicly disclose certain information about their risk profiles and capital adequacy. In order to implement
the capital rules, a core banking organization, such as the Corporation, is required to satisfactorily complete a parallel run, in which it calculates capital requirements under both the Basel III rules and previously effective regulations. On
February 21, 2014, the Corporation was notified by the Federal Reserve Board that both the Corporation and the Bank would be permitted to exit parallel run. Accordingly, the Corporation and the Bank were required to use the advanced approaches
methodologies to calculate and disclose publicly their risk-based capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014.

Pursuant to the Federal Reserve Board’s implementation in the final Basel III rules of a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, the
Corporation is subject to a capital floor that is based on the Basel III standardized approach. The Corporation is therefore required to calculate its risk-based capital ratios under both the standardized and advanced approaches, and is subject
to the more stringent of the risk-based capital ratios as calculated under the standardized approach and the advanced approach in the assessment of its capital adequacy under the prompt corrective action framework (described further below).

The risk-based and leverage capital ratios for the Corporation and the Bank, together with the regulatory minimum ratios and
the ratios required for classification as “well-capitalized,” are provided in the following chart.



TABLE 1: RISK-BASED AND LEVERAGE CAPITAL RATIOS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2014



COMMON EQUITYTIER 1 CAPITALTIER 1 CAPITALTOTAL CAPITALLEVERAGE RATIOADVANCEDAPPROACHSTANDARDIZEDAPPROACHADVANCEDAPPROACHSTANDARDIZEDAPPROACHADVANCEDAPPROACHSTANDARDIZEDAPPROACHNorthern Trust Corporation12.4%12.5%13.2%13.3%15.0%15.5%7.8%The Northern Trust Company12.00%11.8%12.0%11.8%13.8%14.0%6.9%Minimum required ratio(1)4.0%4.0%5.5%5.5%8.0%8.0%4.0%“Well-capitalized” minimum ratio(2)N/AN/A6.0%6.0%10.0%10.0%5.0%



(1) Effective January 1, 2015, the
applicable minimum common equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital, and Total capital ratios are 4.5%, 6.0% and 8%, respectively.

(2)
Effective January 1, 2015, the applicable minimum common equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital, and Total capital ratios to be considered “well-capitalized” are 6.5%, 8.0% and 10.0%, respectively.



In addition to the above, beginning in 2018, advanced approaches
institutions, such as the Corporation, must comply with a supplementary leverage ratio, which the Federal Reserve Board finalized in 2014. Under the supplementary leverage ratio rule, advanced approaches institutions will be subject to a minimum
supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0%. Insured depository institution subsidiaries of advanced approaches institutions, such as the Bank, will be required to maintain at least a 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio to be considered
“well-capitalized” under the rule. The supplementary leverage ratio differs from the leverage ratio in that the leverage ratio does not take into account certain off-balance-sheet assets and exposures that are reflected in the
supplementary leverage ratio.

Basel III also introduced a capital conservation buffer, requiring banking organizations to hold
a buffer of common equity Tier 1 capital above the minimum risk-based capital requirements in an amount ranging from at least 0.625% in 2016 to at least 2.5% in 2019. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of
economic stress. Banking organizations with a common equity Tier 1 ratio above the minimum but below the conservation buffer may face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of such shortfall. Basel III also
introduced a “countercyclical buffer” of 0% to 2.5% of a banking organization’s total risk-weighted assets for advanced approaches banking organizations, such as the Corporation, which is intended to create a capital buffer for such
banking organizations during expansionary economic phases in order to protect against declines in asset prices if credit conditions weaken. In general, the





8|2014 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS|NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION




amount of the countercyclical capital buffer is a weighted average of the countercyclical capital buffer established in the various jurisdictions in which the banking organization has credit
exposures.

The U.S.’s implementation of Basel III has increased the minimum capital thresholds for banking organizations
and tightened the standards for what qualifies as capital. However, the Corporation and the Bank believe their capital strength, balance sheets and business models leave them well positioned for the continued U.S. implementation of Basel III.



LIQUIDITY STANDARDS



PROMPT CORRECTIVE ACTION

The FDIC
Improvement Act of 1991 requires the appropriate federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. While these
regulations apply only to banks, such as the Bank, the Federal Reserve Board is authorized to take appropriate action against a parent bank holding company, such as the Corporation, based on the under-capitalized status of any banking subsidiary. In
certain instances, the Corporation would be required to guarantee the performance of the capital restoration plan for its under-capitalized banking subsidiary.

As noted above, in December 2011, the Federal Reserve Board issued proposed rules to implement requirements in Section 165 and 166 of the Dodd-Frank Act to establish stricter prudential standards for
U.S. bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The proposed rule incorporates the Section 166 “early remediation requirements.” Similar to prompt corrective action, the early remediation
requirements would require firms subject to the proposal to take increasingly stringent corrective measures as the firm’s financial condition deteriorates. No final rule





9|2014 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS|NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION




implementing Section 166 has been issued to date and the final rules implementing Section 165 indicate that the Federal Reserve Board is continuing to consider the comments it received
to the proposal.



RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES AND
INSIDERS

The Corporation’s bank subsidiaries are subject to restrictions, which govern transactions between FDIC-insured banks
and any affiliated entity, whether that entity is the bank’s parent holding company, a holding company affiliate of the bank or a subsidiary of the bank. Regulation W restrictions apply to certain “covered transactions,” including
extensions of credit, issuance of guarantees, investments or asset purchases. In general, these restrictions require that any extensions of credit must be fully secured with qualifying collateral and are limited, as to any one of the Corporation or
such non-bank affiliates, to 10% of the lending bank’s capital stock and surplus, and, as to the Corporation and all such non-bank affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of such lending bank’s capital stock and surplus. These restrictions are
also applied to transactions between banks and their financial subsidiaries. Furthermore, these transactions must be on terms and conditions that are, or in good faith would be, offered to nonaffiliated companies (i.e., at arm’s length).

The Dodd-Frank Act generally enhanced the restrictions on transactions with affiliates under Sections 23A and 23B of the
Federal Reserve Act, including an expansion of the definition of “covered transactions” to include credit exposures related to derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending arrangements, and an increase in the amount of time
for which collateral requirements regarding covered credit transactions must be satisfied. The definition of “affiliate” was expanded to include any investment fund to which the Corporation or an affiliate serves as an investment adviser.
The ability of the Federal Reserve Board to grant exemptions from these restrictions was also narrowed, including by requiring coordination with other bank regulators. In addition, the provision in Section 23A that had permitted a bank to
engage in covered transactions with a financial subsidiary of the bank in an amount greater than 10% (but less than 20%) of the bank’s capital and surplus has been eliminated.

The restrictions on loans to directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and their related interests (collectively referred to
herein as “insiders”) contained in the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation O apply to all federally insured institutions. These restrictions include, among others, limits on loans to one borrower and conditions that must be met before such
a loan can be made. There is also an aggregate limitation on all loans (including credit exposures related to derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending arrangements) to insiders and their related interests. These loans cannot exceed
the institution’s total unimpaired capital and surplus, and the FDIC may determine that a lesser amount is appropriate. Insiders are subject to enforcement actions for knowingly accepting loans in violation of applicable restrictions. The
Dodd-Frank Act enhanced these restrictions and also imposed restrictions on the purchase or sale of assets between banking institutions and insiders.



ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING, ANTI-TERRORISM LEGISLATION, AND OFFICE OF FOREIGN ASSETS CONTROL

The Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which contains anti-money laundering (AML) and financial
transparency provisions and requires implementation of regulations applicable to financial services companies, including standards for verifying client identification and monitoring client transactions and detecting and reporting suspicious
activities. AML laws outside the U.S. contain similar requirements. The Corporation and its subsidiaries have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with all applicable AML laws and regulations. Compliance
with applicable AML and related requirements is a common area of review for financial regulators, and the Corporation’s and its subsidiaries’ level of compliance with these requirements could result in fines, penalties, lawsuits,
regulatory sanctions or difficulties in obtaining approvals, restrictions on their business activities or harm to their reputation.

The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) is responsible for requiring that U.S. entities do not engage in transactions with certain prohibited parties, as defined
by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC publishes lists of persons, organizations and countries suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts, known as Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. If the
Corporation or the Bank finds a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, the Corporation or the Bank must freeze or block such account or transaction, file a suspicious activity report and notify the appropriate
authorities.





10|2014 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS|NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION




Many other countries have imposed similar laws and regulations that apply to the
Corporation’s non-U.S. offices. The Corporation has established policies and procedures to comply with these laws and the related regulations in all relevant jurisdictions.



DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND ASSESSMENTS

The Bank accepts deposits, and those deposits have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limit. The current limit for FDIC insurance for deposit accounts is $250,000 for each depositor
account. Under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the insured depository institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has
violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank’s federal regulatory agency. The FDIC’s deposit insurance fund is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions. As required by the
Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC issued a final rule in February 2011 that changed the assessment base from insured deposits to average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity, and changed the assessment rate calculation effective on
April 1, 2011. Under the final rule, the FDIC concluded that certain liquid assets could be excluded from the deposit insurance assessment base of custody banks that satisfy certain institutional eligibility criteria. This has the effect of
reducing the amount of deposit insurance fund insurance premiums due from custody banks.



MONEY MARKET MUTUAL FUNDS

On July 23, 2014, the SEC approved final rules implementing
money market mutual fund reform, which, among other things, require institutional prime money market funds to maintain a floating net asset value and implement procedures that may restrict redemption in certain circumstances through the imposition
of liquidity fees and gates against investor redemptions. The implementation of these rules will occur in phases from July 2015 through October 2016. Money market mutual fund reforms also have been proposed by the European Union as part of its
approach to addressing shadow banking. The timing and content of the final EU regulation is uncertain at this time. On January 29, 2014, the EU published a legislative proposal aimed at increasing the transparency of certain transactions in the
shadow banking sector which includes provisions for enhanced transparency and reporting of securities financing transactions.



COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT

The Bank is
subject to the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). The CRA and the regulations issued thereunder are intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their service areas, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the
safe and sound operations of the banks. These regulations also provide for regulatory assessment of a bank’s record in meeting the needs of its service area when considering applications to establish branches, merger applications, and
applications to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of another bank. Federal banking agencies are required to make public the rating of a bank’s performance under the CRA. In October 2012, the Federal Reserve Board, the federal
regulator responsible for monitoring the Bank’s CRA compliance, approved the designation of the Bank as a “wholesale bank.” As a result of this designation, the Bank fulfills its CRA obligations by making qualified investments for the
purposes of community development, rather than retail CRA loans. The Bank received an “outstanding” CRA rating from the Federal Reserve Board in its most recent CRA examination.



PRIVACY AND SECURITY

Federal law establishes a minimum federal standard of financial privacy by, among other provisions, requiring financial institutions to adopt and disclose privacy policies with respect to consumer
information and setting forth certain limitations on disclosure to third parties of consumer information. The Corporation has adopted and disseminated its privacy policies pursuant to law. Regulations adopted under the federal law set standards for
protecting the security, confidentiality and integrity of client information, and require notice to regulators, and in some cases, to clients, in the event of security breaches. A number of states and the EU have adopted their own statutes
concerning financial privacy and security and requiring notification of security breaches.





11|2014 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS|NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION




CONSUMER LAWS AND REGULATIONS

The Corporation’s banking subsidiaries are subject to certain consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. These laws and regulations mandate
certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with clients and monitor account activity when taking deposits, making loans to or engaging in other types of transactions with such clients. Failure
to comply with these laws and regulations could lead to substantial penalties, operating restrictions and reputational damage to the financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act established an independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)
within the Federal Reserve System. The CFPB was tasked with establishing and implementing rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and
services. The creation of the CFPB by the Dodd-Frank Act is likely to lead to enhanced and strengthened enforcement of consumer financial protection laws.



NON-U.S. REGULATION

Northern Trust’s
non-U.S. branches and subsidiaries are subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the jurisdictions in which they operate. For example, branches and subsidiaries conducting banking, fund administration and asset servicing businesses in the
United Kingdom are authorized to do so pursuant to the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 or are otherwise subject to regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and/or the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The PRA and FCA
exercise broad supervisory and disciplinary powers that include the power to revoke temporarily or permanently authorization to conduct a regulated business upon breach of the relevant regulations, suspend registered employees, and impose censures
and fines on both regulated businesses and their regulated employees.

A number of other new regulations that may affect Northern Trust’s operations have recently been or are currently being implemented
in Europe, including the Capital Requirements Directive IV, referred to as CRD IV, and the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive. The EU and some member states also are considering bank structural reform. On January 29, 2014, the EU published a
proposal that would prohibit proprietary trading by in-scope banking groups and potentially require that trading activities only be carried out by a trading entity legally, economically and operationally separate from the deposit-taking entities
within the banking group. Northern Trust is working diligently to comply with AIFMD, EMIR, UCITS V, and other EU rules and regulations, and is also monitoring the development of EU proposals that might create challenges or opportunities for it.

Additionally, the Bank’s and the Corporation’s subsidiary banks located outside the U.S. are subject to regulatory
capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. As of December 31, 2014, each of our non-U.S. banking subsidiaries had capital ratios above their specified minimum requirements.



STAFF

Northern Trust employed approximately 15,400 full-time equivalent staff members as of December 31, 2014.





12|2014 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS|NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION




AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Through the Corporation’s website at www.northerntrust.com, it makes available free of charge its Annual Report onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all other reports and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably
practicable after it files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the SEC. The contents of the Corporation’s website, the website of the SEC or any other website referenced herein are not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES

The following statistical disclosures, included in the “Supplemental Item – Selected Statistical and Supplemental Financial Data” section
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are incorporated herein by reference.

ŸAverage Consolidated Balance Sheet with Analysis of Net Interest Income for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.

ŸChanges in Net Interest Income for the years ended December 31, 2014, and 2013.

ŸRemaining Maturity and Average Yield of Securities Held to Maturity and Available for Sale as of December 31, 2014.

ŸRemaining Maturity of Selected Loans and Leases as of December 31, 2014.

ŸDistribution of Non-U.S. Loans by Type as of December 31, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010.

ŸAllowance for Credit Losses Related to Non-U.S. Operations for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010.

ŸAnalysis of Allowance for Credit Losses for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010.

ŸAverage Deposits by Type as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.

ŸDistribution of Non-U.S. Deposits by Type as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.

ŸRemaining Maturity of Time Deposits $100,000 or More as of December 31, 2014.

ŸAverage Rates Paid on Interest-Related Deposits by Type for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.

ŸInformation about Short-Term Borrowings as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 and for the years then ended.

ŸSelected Average Assets and Liabilities Attributable to Non-U.S. Operations for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.

ŸPercent of Non-U.S.-Related Average Assets and Liabilities to Total Consolidated Average Assets for the three years ended December 31, 2014, 2013
and 2012.

ŸNon-U.S. Outstandings as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.



The following statistical disclosures, included under Items 6, 7 and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are incorporated
herein by reference.

ŸItem 6, “Selected Financial Data” includes the Corporation’s consolidated return on average common equity, return on average
assets, dividend payout ratio and ratio of average equity to average assets.

ŸThe “Securities Held to Maturity and Available for Sale” table (Item 7) provides the book values of investments in obligations of the U.S.
government, states and political subdivisions, and other held to maturity and available for sale securities as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.

ŸThe “Composition of Loan Portfolio” table (Item 7) provides loans and leases by type at the end of the year.

ŸThe “Nonperforming Assets” table (Item 7) provides information about the Corporation’s nonaccrual, past due and restructured loans
receivable.

ŸThe “Commercial Real Estate Loans” table (Item 7) provides details of loan concentrations.

ŸThe “Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses” table (Item 7) provides a breakdown of the allowance for credit losses by loan class and
illustrates the proportion of each loan class to total loans.

ŸThe “Provision and Allowance for Credit Losses” section (Item 7) provides a discussion of the factors which influenced management’s
judgment in determining the provision for credit losses.

ŸNote 6, “Loans and Leases” (Item 8) provides the Corporation’s forgone interest income on nonaccrual loans, as well as a description of
the nature of non-U.S. loans.





13|2014 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS|NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION




ŸNote 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” (Item 8) provides a discussion of Northern Trust’s policy for placing loans on
non-accrual status.

ŸFurther discussion of Northern Trust’s management of credit risk with respect to the provision and allowance for credit losses are provided in the
following information that is incorporated herein by reference to the notes to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data:”

ŸNote 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”:

ŸH. Loans and Leases

ŸI. Allowance for Credit Losses

ŸL. Other Real Estate Owned

ŸNote 6, “Loans and Leases”

ŸNote 7, “Allowance for Credit Losses”

ŸNote 8, “Concentrations of Credit Risk”

ŸNote 27, “Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments”





14|2014 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS|NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION




