ITEM 1 – BUSINESS

Northern Trust Corporation

Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) is a financial holding company that is a leading provider of asset servicing, fund administration, asset management, fiduciary and banking solutions for corporations, institutions, families and individuals worldwide. The Corporation conducts business through various U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries, including The Northern Trust Company (Bank). The Corporation was originally formed as a holding company for the Bank in 1971. The Corporation has a network of offices in 19 U.S. states, Washington, D.C., and 23 international locations in Canada, Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia-Pacific region. AtDecember 31, 2017, the Corporation had consolidated total assets of$138.6 billionand stockholders’ equity of$10.2 billion.

The Bank is an Illinois banking corporation headquartered in Chicago and the Corporation’s principal subsidiary. Founded in 1889, the Bank conducts its business through its U.S. operations and its various U.S. and non-U.S. branches and subsidiaries. AtDecember 31, 2017, the Bank had consolidated assets of$138.2 billionand common bank equity capital of$9.2 billion.

The Corporation expects that the Bank will continue in the foreseeable future to be the major source of the Corporation’s consolidated assets, revenues, and net income. Except where the context otherwise requires, references to “Northern Trust,” “we,” “us,” “our” or similar terms mean Northern Trust Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

In addition to the following information regarding Northern Trust’s business, the reporting segment and geographic area information included in Note 31, “Reporting Segments and Related Information,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference.



Business Overview

Northern Trust focuses on managing and servicing client assets through its two client-focused reporting segments: Corporate & Institutional Services (C&IS) and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to C&IS and Wealth Management clients primarily by the Asset Management business. The revenue and expenses of Asset Management and certain other support functions are allocated fully to C&IS and Wealth Management. Northern Trust reports certain income and expense items not allocated to C&IS and Wealth Management in a third reporting segment, Treasury and Other.



CORPORATE & INSTITUTIONAL SERVICES

C&IS is a leading global provider of asset servicing and related services to corporate and public retirement funds, foundations, endowments, fund managers, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, and other institutional investors around the globe. Asset servicing and related services encompass a full range of capabilities including, but not limited to: global custody; fund administration; investment operations outsourcing; investment management; investment risk and analytical services; employee benefit services; securities lending; foreign exchange; treasury management; brokerage services; transition management services; banking; and cash management. Client relationships are managed through the Bank and the Bank’s and the Corporation’s other subsidiaries, including support from locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia-Pacific region. AtDecember 31, 2017, total C&IS assets under custody/administration, assets under custody, and assets under management were$10.07 trillion,$7.44 trillion, and$871.2 billion, respectively.



WEALTH MANAGEMENT

Wealth Management focuses on high-net-worth individuals and families, business owners, executives, professionals, retirees, and established privately-held businesses in its target markets. The business also includes the Global Family Office, which provides customized services to meet the complex financial needs of individuals and family offices in the United States and throughout the world with assets typically exceeding $200 million. In supporting these targeted segments, Wealth Management provides trust, investment management, custody, and philanthropic services; financial consulting; guardianship and estate administration; family business consulting; family financial education; brokerage services; and private and business banking.

Wealth Management is one of the largest providers of advisory services in the United States, with assets under custody/administration, assets under custody, and assets under management of$655.8 billion,$645.5 billion, and$289.8 billion, respectively, atDecember 31, 2017. Wealth Management services are delivered by multidisciplinary teams through a network of offices in 18 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., as well as offices in London, Guernsey, and Abu Dhabi.





2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation1






ASSET MANAGEMENT

Asset Management, through the Corporation’s various subsidiaries, supports the C&IS and Wealth Management reporting segments by providing a broad range of asset management and related services and other products to clients around the world. Investment solutions are delivered through separately managed accounts, bank common and collective funds, registered investment companies, exchange traded funds, non-U.S. collective investment funds, and unregistered private investment funds. Asset Management’s capabilities include active, passive, and engineered equity; active and passive fixed income; cash management; alternative asset classes (such as private equity and hedge funds of funds); and multi-manager advisory services and products. Asset Management’s activities also include overlay services and other risk management services. Asset Management operates internationally through subsidiaries and distribution arrangements and its revenue and expense are fully allocated to C&IS and Wealth Management. As discussed above, Northern Trust managed$1.16 trillionin assets as ofDecember 31, 2017, including$871.2 billionfor C&IS clients and$289.8 billionfor Wealth Management clients.



Competition

Northern Trust faces intense competition in all aspects and areas of its business. Competition is provided by both regulated and unregulated financial services organizations, whose products and services span the local, national, and global markets in which Northern Trust conducts operations. Our competitors include a broad range of financial institutions and service companies, including other custodial banks, deposit-taking institutions, asset management firms, benefits consultants, trust companies, investment banking firms, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, and various financial technology companies, including software providers and data services firms. As our businesses grow and markets evolve, we may encounter increasing and new forms of competition around the world.

Northern Trust’s principal business strategy is to provide quality financial services to targeted market segments in which it believes it has a competitive advantage and favorable growth prospects. As part of this strategy, Northern Trust seeks to deliver a level of service that distinguishes it from its competitors. In addition, Northern Trust emphasizes the development and growth of recurring sources of fee-based income. Northern Trust seeks to develop and expand its recurring fee-based revenue by identifying select markets with attractive growth characteristics and providing a high level of individualized service to clients in those markets. Northern Trust also seeks to preserve its asset quality through established credit review procedures and to maintain a conservative balance sheet.



Economic Conditions And Government Policies

The earnings of Northern Trust are affected by numerous external influences. Chief among these are general economic conditions, both domestic and international, and actions that governments and their central banks take in managing their economies. These general conditions affect all of Northern Trust’s businesses, as well as the quality, value, and profitability of their loan and investment portfolios.

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) implements monetary policy through its open market operations in United States Government securities, its setting of the discount rate at which member banks may borrow from Federal Reserve Banks, and its changes in the reserve requirements for deposits. The policies adopted by the Federal Reserve Board directly affect interest rates and therefore what banks earn on their loans and investments and what they pay on their savings and time deposits and other purchased funds.



Supervision And Regulation

Northern Trust is subject to extensive regulation under state and federal laws in the United States, as well as the applicable laws of each of the various jurisdictions outside the United States in which Northern Trust does business. The discussion below outlines significant elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to Northern Trust. Changes in these laws or regulations, or their application, cannot be predicted, but may have a material effect on Northern Trust’s businesses and results of operations.



FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANY REGULATION

Under U.S. law, the Corporation is a bank holding company that has elected to be a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHCA). Consequently, the Corporation and its business activities throughout the world are subject to the supervision, examination, and regulation of the Federal Reserve Board. The BHCA and other federal laws subject bank and financial holding companies to particular restrictions on the types of activities in which they may engage and to a range of supervisory requirements, including enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations. Supervision and regulation of bank holding companies, financial holding companies, and their subsidiaries are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and other clients of banking subsidiaries, the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the banking system as a whole, not for the protection of stockholders or other nondepository creditors.



22017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation






Under the BHCA, bank holding companies and their banking subsidiaries are generally limited to the business of banking and activities closely related or incidental to banking. As a financial holding company, the Corporation is permitted to engage in other activities that the Federal Reserve Board determines to be financial in nature, incidental to an activity that is financial in nature, or complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally, or to acquire shares of companies engaged in such activities. Activities defined to be financial in nature include: providing financial or investment advice; securities underwriting and dealing; insurance underwriting; and making merchant banking investments in commercial and financial companies, subject to significant limitations. They also include activities previously determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. The Corporation may not, however, directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of a bank holding company or a bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board.

In order to maintain the Corporation’s status as a financial holding company, the Bank, as the Corporation’s sole insured depository institution subsidiary, must remain “well-capitalized” and “well-managed” under applicable regulations, and must have received at least a “satisfactory” rating in its most recent examination under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). In addition, as a result of the amendment of the BHCA by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), as discussed further below, the Corporation must remain “well-capitalized” and “well-managed” in order to maintain its status as a financial holding company. Failure to meet one or more of these requirements would mean, depending on the requirements not met, that the Corporation could not undertake new activities, continue certain activities, or make acquisitions other than those permitted generally for bank holding companies.



SUBSIDIARY REGULATION

The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its eligible deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the maximum authorized limit, and it is subject to regulation by both these agencies. As an Illinois banking corporation, the Bank is also subject to Illinois state laws and regulations and to examination and supervision by the Division of Banking of the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation. The Bank is also registered as a transfer agent with the Federal Reserve Board and is therefore subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board in this area.

The Bank is registered provisionally as a swap dealer with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) under the Commodity Exchange Act and is a member of the National Futures Association (NFA). As a provisionally registered swap dealer, the Bank is subject to significant regulatory obligations regarding swap activity and the supervision, examination and enforcement power of the CFTC, NFA, and other regulators. Certain of the Corporation’s other affiliates are registered with the CFTC as commodity trading advisors or commodity pool operators under the Commodity Exchange Act, are members of the NFA, and are subject to that act and the associated rules and regulations of the CFTC and NFA.

The Corporation’s nonbanking affiliates are all subject to examination by the Federal Reserve Board. Its broker-dealer subsidiary is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a broker-dealer and an investment adviser and is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, subject to the rules and regulations of both of these bodies. The Corporation’s broker-dealer subsidiary also is registered with the SEC and Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board as a municipal securities dealer. Several subsidiaries of the Corporation are registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and are subject to that act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Those subsidiaries also act as investment advisers to various mutual funds, exchange-traded funds and hedge funds of funds that are subject to regulation by the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Other subsidiaries are regulated by state regulators in various states.



FUNCTIONAL REGULATION

Federal banking law has established a system of federal and state supervision and regulation based on functional regulation, meaning that primary regulatory oversight for a particular activity generally resides with the federal or state regulator designated as having the principal responsibility for that activity. Banking is supervised by federal and state banking regulators, insurance by state insurance regulators, derivatives and swaps activities by the CFTC, and securities activities by the SEC and state securities regulators.

A significant component of the functional regulation relates to the application of federal securities laws and SEC oversight of some bank securities activities. Generally, banks may conduct securities activities without broker-dealer registration only if the activities fall within a set of activity-based exemptions designed to allow banks to conduct only those activities traditionally considered to be primarily banking or trust activities. Securities activities outside these exemptions, as a practical matter, need to be conducted by a registered broker-dealer affiliate. The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 requires the registration of any bank or separately identifiable division of the bank that acts as an investment adviser to a registered investment company.



2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation3






Another component of the functional regulation relates to the application of federal commodity and derivatives laws and CFTC oversight of some bank commodity and derivatives activities, including swap-dealing activities.



THE DODD-FRANK ACT



Enhanced Prudential Standards.

Resolution Planning.



42017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation






or operations, or be required to divest certain assets or operations. Separately, the European Union Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD), was adopted for European Union credit institutions, including certain of the Bank’s subsidiaries and branches, effective January 1, 2015. In accordance with applicable Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) guidance, a recovery plan for Northern Trust Global Services Limited (NTGSL), a U.K. incorporated indirect subsidiary of the Bank, has been established and will be reviewed at least annually. PRA guidance also requires institutions to produce resolution planning information. In accordance with such guidance, a resolution pack for NTGSL and the Bank’s London branch has been prepared and such information will be reviewed every two years. The Corporation and the Bank have and will continue to focus management attention and substantial resources to meet U.S. and European regulatory expectations with respect to these resolution planning requirements.

Orderly Liquidation Authority.

The Volcker Rule

Swaps and Other Derivatives.



2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation5






traded requirements for security-based swaps. Northern Trust is monitoring Title VII-related regulatory developments and will revise further its operations and/or swaps compliance program as appropriate or required.

Incentive Compensation Arrangements.The Dodd-Frank Act requires federal regulators to prescribe regulations or guidelines regarding incentive-based compensation practices at certain large financial institutions. No final rule has been issued to date.



HOLDING COMPANY SUPPORT UNDER THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE ACT

The Dodd-Frank Act amended the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA) to obligate the Federal Reserve Board to require bank holding companies, such as the Corporation, to serve as a source of financial strength for any subsidiary depository institution. The term “source of financial strength” is defined as the ability of a company to provide financial assistance to its insured depository institution subsidiaries in the event of financial distress at such subsidiaries. Under this requirement, the Corporation in the future could be required to provide financial assistance to the Bank should the Bank experience financial distress.



PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS

The Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. The Corporation may pay dividends, repurchase stock, and make other capital distributions only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the Federal Reserve Board and as to which the Federal Reserve Board has not objected. A significant source of funds for the Corporation is dividends from the Bank. As a result, the Corporation’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock will depend on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation in amounts sufficient to service its obligations and fund dividend payments. Dividend payments from the Bank are subject to Illinois law and to regulatory limitations, generally based on capital levels and current and retained earnings, imposed by various regulatory agencies with authority over the Bank. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends is also subject to regulatory restrictions if paying dividends would impair its profitability, financial condition or cash flow requirements.

Various federal and state statutory provisions limit the amount of dividends the Bank can pay to the Corporation without regulatory approval. Approval of the Federal Reserve Board is required for payment of any dividend by a state-chartered bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System if the total of all dividends declared by the bank in any calendar year (including any prospective dividend) would exceed the total of its retained net income (as defined by regulatory agencies) for that year combined with its retained net income for the preceding two years. In addition, a state member bank may not pay a dividend in an amount greater than its “undivided profits,” as defined, without regulatory and stockholder approval.

The Bank is also prohibited under federal law from paying any dividends if the Bank is undercapitalized or if the payment of the dividends would cause the Bank to become undercapitalized. In addition, the federal regulatory agencies are authorized to prohibit a bank or bank holding company from engaging in an unsafe or unsound banking practice. The payment of dividends could, depending on the financial condition of the Bank, be deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. The Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III (as defined and discussed further below) impose additional restrictions on the ability of banking institutions to pay dividends.



CAPITAL PLANNING AND STRESS TESTING



62017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation






On January 30, 2017, the Federal Reserve Board announced modifications to capital plan and stress testing rules. Under the modified final rules, the qualitative assessment of CCAR was removed for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets between $50 billion and $250 billion, irrespective of the amount of on-balance-sheet foreign exposure held by such bank holding companies. As a result, capital plans submitted by the Corporation are no longer subject to objection from the Federal Reserve Board on qualitative grounds. In lieu of the qualitative assessment of CCAR, the Corporation is subject to a horizontal capital review (HCR), focusing on specific areas of capital planning, conducted as part of the Federal Reserve Board’s normal supervisory process. Any supervisory findings resulting from the HCR are addressed through supervisory communications. Capital plans submitted by the Corporation remain subject to objection from the Federal Reserve Board on quantitative grounds.

The Corporation submitted its capital plan to the Federal Reserve Board in April 2017 as part of the Federal Reserve Board’s 2017 CCAR exercise, and the Federal Reserve Board did not object to the Corporation’s plan. The Corporation will submit its 2018 capital plan to the Federal Reserve Board by April 5, 2018. The Federal Reserve Board is expected to publish either its objection or non-objection to the 2018 capital plan and proposed capital actions, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, in mid-2018.

In addition to the CCAR stress testing requirements, Federal Reserve Board regulations include Dodd-Frank Act stress tests (DFAST). Under the DFAST regulations, the Corporation is required to undergo regulatory stress tests conducted by the Federal Reserve Board annually, and to conduct internal stress tests pursuant to regulatory requirements semi-annually. The Bank also is required to conduct its own annual internal stress test (although it is permitted to combine certain reporting and disclosure of its stress test results with the results of the Corporation). These requirements involve both company-run and supervisory-run testing of capital under various scenarios, including baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios provided by the appropriate banking regulator. Results from the Corporation’s and the Bank’s annual company-run stress tests are reported to the appropriate regulators and published. Northern Trust published the results of its company-run stress tests on June 22, 2017, and the results of its company-run mid-cycle stress tests on October 27, 2017.



CAPITAL ADEQUACY REQUIREMENTS

The regulators view capital levels as important indicators of an institution’s financial soundness. As a general matter, FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies (including the Bank and the Corporation) are required to maintain minimum capital relative to the amount and types of assets they hold. The final supervisory determination on an institution’s capital adequacy is based on the regulator’s assessment of numerous factors.

The risk-based capital guidelines that apply to the Corporation and the Bank are based upon the 2011 capital accord of the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee), a committee of central banks and bank supervisors, as implemented by the Federal Reserve Board (Basel III). The Basel III rules are currently being phased in, and will come into full effect by January 1, 2022.

To implement Basel III for bank holding companies, including the Corporation, the Federal Reserve Board established risk-based and leverage capital guidelines. The federal banking regulators also established risk-based and leverage capital guidelines that FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, are required to meet. These regulations are generally similar to those established by the Federal Reserve Board for bank holding companies. The Bank’s risk-based and leverage capital ratios remained strong atDecember 31, 2017, and were well above the minimum regulatory requirements established by U.S. banking regulators.

Under the final Basel III rules, the Corporation is one of a small number of “core” banking organizations. The rules require core banking organizations to have rigorous processes for assessing overall capital adequacy in relation to their total risk profiles, and to disclose publicly certain information about their risk profiles and capital adequacy. In order to implement the capital rules, a core banking organization, such as the Corporation, is required to complete satisfactorily a parallel run, in which it calculates capital requirements under both the Basel III rules and previously effective regulations. The Corporation and the Bank completed their parallel runs in 2014 and are required to use the advanced approaches methodologies to calculate and disclose publicly their risk-based capital ratios.

Pursuant to the Federal Reserve Board’s implementation in the final Basel III rules of a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Corporation is subject to a capital floor that is based on the Basel III standardized approach. The Corporation is therefore required to calculate its risk-based capital ratios under both the standardized and advanced approaches, and is subject to the more stringent of the risk-based capital ratios as calculated under the standardized approach and the advanced approach in the assessment of its capital adequacy.



2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation7






The risk-based and leverage capital ratios for the Corporation and the Bank, together with the regulatory minimum ratios and the ratios required for classification as “well-capitalized,” are provided in the following chart.



TABLE 1: RISK-BASED AND LEVERAGE CAPITAL RATIOS AS OFDECEMBER 31, 2017

COMMON EQUITYTIER 1 CAPITALTIER 1 CAPITALTOTAL CAPITALTIER 1 LEVERAGESUPPLEMENTARY LEVERAGEADVANCEDAPPROACHSTANDARDIZEDAPPROACHADVANCEDAPPROACHSTANDARDIZEDAPPROACHADVANCEDAPPROACHSTANDARDIZEDAPPROACHADVANCEDAPPROACHSTANDARDIZEDAPPROACHADVANCEDAPPROACHNorthern Trust Corporation13.5%12.6%14.8%13.8%16.7%15.8%7.8%7.8%6.8%The Northern Trust Company13.7%12.6%13.7%12.6%15.4%14.3%7.0%7.0%6.1%Minimum required ratio4.5%4.5%6.0%6.0%8.0%8.0%4.0%4.0%N/A“Well-capitalized” minimum ratio6.5%6.5%8.0%8.0%10.0%10.0%5.0%5.0%N/A



In addition to the above, as of January 1 2018, advanced approaches institutions, such as the Corporation and the Bank, must comply with a supplementary leverage ratio. Under the supplementary leverage ratio rule, advanced approaches institutions are subject to a minimum supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0%. Insured depository institutions that are advanced approaches institutions, such as the Bank, also are required to maintain at least a 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio to be considered “well-capitalized” under the rule. The supplementary leverage ratio differs from the leverage ratio in that the leverage ratio does not take into account certain off-balance-sheet assets and exposures that are reflected in the supplementary leverage ratio.



LIQUIDITY STANDARDS

In addition to capital adequacy standards, Basel III introduced two quantitative liquidity standards: a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) and a net stable funding ratio (NSFR). The LCR is intended to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of covered banking organizations, improve the banking industry’s ability to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stress, and improve the measurement and management of liquidity risk. In September 2014, the U.S. banking agencies finalized rules to implement the LCR in the United States for large banking organizations, such as the Corporation and the Bank. Among other things, the finalized LCR rules require covered banking organizations, which include the Corporation and the Bank, to maintain an amount of high-quality liquid assets (HQLAs) equal to or greater than 100% of the banking organization’s total net cash outflows over a thirty-calendar-day standardized supervisory liquidity stress scenario. The LCR has been fully implemented since January 1, 2017. Currently, Northern Trust is required to calculate its LCR on a daily basis. Daily calculation of the LCR has been required since July 2016. Additionally, on December 19, 2016, the Federal Reserve Board finalized rules that will require large banking organizations, such as the Corporation, to disclose publicly certain LCR information on a quarterly basis; these disclosure rules are being phased in through October 2018.

The NSFR requires banking organizations to maintain a stable funding profile in relation to the composition of their assets and off-balance-sheet activities. More specifically, the NSFR requires that the ratio of available stable funding relative to the amount of required stable funding be equal to at least 100% on an ongoing basis. The Basel Committee finalized its NSFR rules in October 2014, which were to be implemented by the Federal Reserve Board as a minimum



82017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation






standard by January 1, 2018. The Federal Reserve Board issued a proposal on May 3, 2016 to implement the NSFR, but has not adopted a final rule.

The enhanced prudential standards (discussed above) specify certain liquidity risk management practices to be followed by covered large U.S. banks and bank holding companies, including the Corporation and the Bank. These practices include an independent review of liquidity risk management and the establishment of cash flow projections, a contingency funding plan, and liquidity risk limits. The Corporation’s Board of Directors (Board) also is required to establish and maintain a liquidity buffer of unencumbered HQLAs based on the results of internal liquidity stress testing. This liquidity buffer must be tailored to Northern Trust’s business risks and is in addition to other liquidity requirements, such as the LCR and NSFR discussed above. The enhanced prudential standards also establish requirements and responsibilities for the Board of Directors and its Business Risk Committee with respect to liquidity risk management. The enhanced prudential standards require Northern Trust to engage in liquidity stress testing under multiple stress scenarios and time horizons tailored to its specific products and risk profile. The Board of Directors has approved a liquidity management policy establishing the principles and guidelines for the Corporation to govern the processes and activities for the management of its liquidity position. Among other matters, this policy includes limits and thresholds related to the enhanced prudential standards liquidity buffer and the LCR.



PROMPT CORRECTIVE ACTION

The FDIC Improvement Act of 1991 requires the appropriate federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. While these regulations apply only to banks, such as the Bank, the Federal Reserve Board is authorized to take appropriate action against a parent bank holding company, such as the Corporation, based on the under-capitalized status of any banking subsidiary. In certain instances, the Corporation would be required to guarantee the performance of the capital restoration plan for its under-capitalized banking subsidiary.

As noted above, the Federal Reserve Board has issued proposed rules to implement certain “early remediation requirements” applicable to U.S. bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more as required under Section 166 of the Dodd-Frank Act. Similar to prompt corrective action, the early remediation requirements would require firms subject to the proposal to take increasingly stringent corrective measures as the firm’s financial condition deteriorates. No final rule implementing Section 166 has been issued as of the date of this report.



RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES AND INSIDERS

As an insured depository institution, the Bank is subject to restrictions which govern transactions between FDIC-insured banks and any affiliated entity, whether that entity is the Corporation, as the Bank’s parent holding company, a holding company affiliate of the Bank or a subsidiary of the Bank. Regulation W restrictions apply to certain “covered transactions,” including extensions of credit, issuance of guarantees, investments or asset purchases. In general, these restrictions require that any extensions of credit must be secured fully with qualifying collateral and are limited, as to any one of the Corporation or such nonbank affiliates, to 10% of the Bank’s capital stock and surplus, and, as to the Corporation and all such nonbank affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of the Bank’s capital stock and surplus. These restrictions are also applied to transactions between the Bank and its financial subsidiaries. Furthermore, these transactions must be on terms and conditions that are, or in good faith would be, offered to nonaffiliated companies (i.e., at arm’s length).

The Dodd-Frank Act generally enhanced the restrictions on transactions with affiliates under Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, including an expansion of the definition of “covered transactions” to include credit exposures related to derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending arrangements, and an increase in the amount of time for which collateral requirements regarding covered credit transactions must be satisfied. The definition of “affiliate” was expanded to include any investment fund to which the Corporation or an affiliate serves as an investment adviser. The ability of the Federal Reserve Board to grant exemptions from these restrictions was also narrowed, including by requiring coordination with other bank regulators. In addition, the provision in Section 23A that had permitted the Bank to engage in covered transactions with a financial subsidiary of the Bank in an amount greater than 10% (but less than 20%) of the Bank’s capital and surplus has been eliminated.

The restrictions on loans to directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and their related interests (collectively referred to herein as “insiders”) contained in the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation O apply to all federally insured institutions, including the Bank. These restrictions include, among others, limits on loans to one borrower and conditions that must be met before such a loan can be made. There is also an aggregate limitation on all loans (including credit exposures related to derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending arrangements) to insiders and their related interests. These loans cannot exceed the institution’s total unimpaired capital and surplus, and the FDIC may determine that a lesser amount is appropriate. Insiders are subject to enforcement actions for knowingly accepting loans in violation of



2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation9






applicable restrictions. The Dodd-Frank Act enhanced these restrictions and also imposed restrictions on the purchase or sale of assets between banking institutions and insiders.



ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING, ANTI-TERRORISM LEGISLATION, AND OFFICE OF FOREIGN ASSETS CONTROL

The Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which contains anti-money laundering (AML) and financial transparency provisions and requires implementation of regulations applicable to financial services companies, including, but not limited to, standards for conducting due diligence, verifying client identification, and monitoring client transactions and detecting and reporting suspicious activities. AML laws outside the U.S. contain similar requirements. The Corporation and its subsidiaries have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with all applicable AML laws and regulations. Compliance with applicable AML laws and related requirements is a common area of review for financial regulators, and the Corporation’s and its subsidiaries’ failure to comply with these requirements could result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions or difficulties in obtaining approvals, restrictions on their business activities or harm to their reputation.

In May 2016, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) issued a new rule that requires certain financial institutions, including the Bank, to obtain certain beneficial ownership information from legal entity clients. Compliance with the new rule is not required until May 2018, and it is possible that FinCEN may issue additional guidance regarding its implementation.

The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) is responsible for requiring that U.S. entities do not engage in business with certain prohibited parties and jurisdictions, as defined by various executive orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC publishes lists of persons, organizations and countries suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts, trafficking in narcotics, proliferating weapons of mass destruction or representing other threats to national security, known as Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. If the Corporation or the Bank finds a sanctioned name or jurisdiction on any transaction or account, the Corporation or the Bank must reject or block such account or transaction as required, and notify the appropriate authorities.

Many other countries have imposed similar laws and regulations that apply to the Corporation’s non-U.S. offices. The Corporation has established policies and procedures to comply with these laws and the related regulations in all relevant jurisdictions.



DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND ASSESSMENTS





102017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation






FIDUCIARY RULE



COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT

The Bank is subject to the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). The CRA and the regulations issued thereunder are intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their service areas, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operations of the banks. These regulations also provide for regulatory assessment of a bank’s record in meeting the needs of its service area when considering applications to establish branches, merger applications, and applications to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of another bank. In October 2012, the Federal Reserve Board, the federal regulator responsible for monitoring the Bank’s CRA compliance, approved the designation of the Bank as a “wholesale bank.” As a result of this designation, the Bank fulfills its CRA obligations by making qualified investments for the purposes of community development, rather than retail CRA loans. Federal banking agencies are required to make public the rating of a bank’s performance under the CRA. The Bank received an “outstanding” CRA rating from the Federal Reserve Board in its most recent CRA examination.



PRIVACY AND SECURITY

Federal law establishes a minimum federal standard of financial privacy by, among other provisions, requiring financial institutions to adopt and disclose privacy policies with respect to consumer information and setting forth certain limitations on disclosure to third parties of consumer information. Regulations adopted under the federal law set standards for protecting the security, confidentiality and integrity of client information, and require notice of data breaches to regulators, and in some cases, to clients.

Most states, the European Union (EU) and other non-U.S. jurisdictions also have adopted their own statutes and/or regulations concerning financial privacy and security and requiring notification of data breaches. For example, a new European data protection framework - the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) - was adopted on April 8, 2016, and will become effective in all European Economic Area (EEA) member states on May 25, 2018. GDPR is designed to harmonize data privacy laws across the EEA, to protect EEA citizens’ data privacy and to reshape the way organizations across the region approach data privacy. GDPR has extraterritorial effect as its scope includes all data controllers and processors outside the EEA whose processing activities relate to the offering of goods or services to, or monitoring the behavior of, EEA individuals.

The Corporation has adopted and disseminated privacy policies, and communicates required information relating to financial privacy and data security, in accordance with applicable law.







2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation11






CONSUMER LAWS AND REGULATIONS

The Corporation’s banking subsidiaries are subject to certain consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with clients and monitor account activity when taking deposits, making loans to or engaging in other types of transactions with such clients. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could lead to substantial penalties, operating restrictions and reputational damage to the financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act established an independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) within the Federal Reserve System. The CFPB was tasked with establishing and implementing rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. The creation of the CFPB by the Dodd-Frank Act has led to enhanced enforcement of consumer financial protection laws.



NON-U.S. REGULATION

Northern Trust is subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the jurisdictions in which its non-U.S. branches and subsidiaries operate. For example, branches and subsidiaries conducting banking, fund administration and asset servicing businesses in the United Kingdom are authorized to do so pursuant to the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. They are authorized by the PRA or the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and regulated by the FCA and, in some instances, also the PRA. The PRA and FCA exercise broad supervisory and disciplinary powers that include the power to revoke temporarily or permanently authorization to conduct a regulated business upon breach of the relevant regulations, suspend registered employees, and impose censures and fines on both regulated businesses and their regulated employees.

Northern Trust’s European branches and subsidiaries are subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the EU and the member states in which they are domiciled. Moreover, Northern Trust’s non-European branches and subsidiaries conducting financial services activities also may be within the scope of these laws, given that some EU laws apply to the wider EEA, which includes not only all EU member states but also the non-EU member states Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, and because of increasing extraterritorial effect of European legislation.

The following items provide a brief description of certain recently implemented and in-progress regulatory changes in the EU and UK relevant to the Corporation and its subsidiaries, in addition to the BRRD and GDPR discussed under “The Dodd-Frank Act – Resolution Planning” and “Privacy and Security”, respectively, above.



EU Central Securities Depositories Regulation.On September 17, 2014 the EU Central Securities Depositories Regulation (CSDR) entered into force. The CSDR aims principally to ensure that transactions between buyers and sellers of dematerialized securities are settled in a safe and timely manner by introducing common securities settlement standards across the EU. Implementing provisions adopted by the EU Commission were published on March 10, 2017.

Securities Financing Transactions and Reuse of Collateral Regulation.On November 25, 2015, the EU adopted a regulation on securities financing transactions and reuse of collateral (SFTR) as part of its approach to addressing shadow banking. The regulation includes provisions for enhanced transparency and reporting of securities financing transactions. The SFTR became applicable on January 12, 2016, subject to certain transitional provisions.

Fourth EU Money Laundering Directive.On June 26, 2017, the Fourth EU Money Laundering Directive (MLD4) became effective in all EU member states. MLD4 is designed to strengthen the EU’s defenses against money laundering and terrorist financing, while also ensuring that the EU framework is aligned with the Financial Action Task Force’s February 2012 anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing standards, which are the recognized international standards. On the same day, the revised “EU regulation on information accompanying transfers of funds”, or “Wire Transfer Regulation” (WTR) became law in all EU member states. The WTR sets out the minimum requirements on information that should be included in SWIFT payment messages to ensure the traceability of transfers of funds.

EU Benchmarks Regulation.On January 1, 2018, the EU Benchmarks Regulation (BMR) entered into force. The principal objectives of the BMR are to restore investor confidence in the accuracy, robustness and integrity of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts or to measure the performance of investment funds, and the benchmark-setting process itself. The BMR aims to achieve this by ensuring that benchmarks are not subject to conflicts of interest, are used appropriately, and reflect the actual market or economic reality they are intended to measure.

Market in Financial Instruments Directive.On January 3, 2018, the recast Market in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II) was transposed into the local laws of EU member states. MiFID II, together with the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (MiFIR), repeals and recasts the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (2004/39/EC) (MiFID). Together, MiFID II and MiFIR form the EU legal framework governing the requirements applicable to investment firms, trading venues, data reporting service providers and third-country firms providing investment services or activities in the EU.



122017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation






Payment Services Directive.On January 13, 2018, the recast Payment Services Directive (PSD II) was transposed into the local laws of EU member states. PSD II provides the legal foundation for an EU single market for payments to establish safer and more innovative payment services across the EU.

EU Money Market Funds Regulation.On June 30, 2017, the EU adopted a regulation on money market funds (MMFR) with a view of making money market funds more resistant to crises and market turbulence. The MMFR will be effective July 21, 2018 for new money market funds and January 21, 2019 for existing money market funds, and it will impose detailed rules relating to the investment policies, risk management and other operational aspects of such funds. Further regulation containing the technical implementation of the MMFR has not yet been published.

European Deposit Insurance Scheme.On October 11, 2017, the EU Commission announced that it aims to complete all parts of the European Banking Union by 2018. This will require, among other things, the creation of a single European Deposit Insurance Scheme.



In addition to the above, the Bank’s and the Corporation’s subsidiary banks located outside the United States are subject to regulatory capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. As ofDecember 31, 2017, each of our non-U.S. banking subsidiaries had capital ratios above their specified minimum requirements.



Staff

Northern Trust employed approximately18,100full-time equivalent staff members as ofDecember 31, 2017.



Available Information

Through the Corporation’s website at www.northerntrust.com, the Corporation makes available free of charge its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all other reports and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after it files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the SEC. The contents of the Corporation’s website, the website of the SEC or any other website referenced herein are not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies

The following statistical disclosures, included in the “Supplemental Item – Selected Statistical and Supplemental Financial Data” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are incorporated herein by reference.

•Average Consolidated Balance Sheets with Analysis of Net Interest Income for the years endedDecember 31, 2017,2016and2015.

•Changes in Net Interest Income for the years endedDecember 31, 2017and2016.

•Remaining Maturity and Average Yield of Securities Held to Maturity and Available for Sale as ofDecember 31, 2017.

•Remaining Maturity of Selected Loans and Leases as ofDecember 31, 2017.

•Distribution of Non-U.S. Loans by Type as ofDecember 31, 2017,2016,2015,2014and2013.

•Allowance for Credit Losses Relating to Non-U.S. Operations for the years endedDecember 31, 2017,2016,2015,2014and2013.

•Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses for the years endedDecember 31, 2017,2016,2015,2014and2013.

•Average Deposits by Type as ofDecember 31, 2017,2016and2015.

•Distribution of Non-U.S. Deposits by Type as ofDecember 31, 2017,2016and2015.

•Remaining Maturity of Time Deposits $100,000 or More as ofDecember 31, 2017.

•Average Rates Paid on Interest-Related Deposits by Type for the years endedDecember 31, 2017,2016and2015.

•Selected Average Assets and Liabilities Attributable to Non-U.S. Operations for the years endedDecember 31, 2017,2016,2015,2014, and2013.

•Percent of Non-U.S.-Related Average Assets and Liabilities to Total Consolidated Average Assets for the years endedDecember 31, 2017,2016,2015,2014, and2013.

•Non-U.S. Outstandings as ofDecember 31, 2017,2016and2015.

•Purchased Funds as ofDecember 31, 2017,2016and2015.



The following statistical disclosures, included under Items 6, 7 and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are incorporated herein by reference.

•Item 6, “Selected Financial Data,” includes the Corporation’s consolidated return on average common equity, return on average assets, dividend payout ratio and ratio of average equity to average assets.

•The “Securities Portfolio” table (Item 7) provides the book values of investments in obligations of the U.S. government, states and political subdivisions, and other held to maturity and available for sale securities as ofDecember 31, 2017,2016and2015.



2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation13






•The “Composition of Loan Portfolio” table (Item 7) provides loans and leases by type as ofDecember 31, 2017,2016,2015,2014, and2013.

•The “Nonperforming Assets” table (Item 7) provides information about the Corporation’s nonaccrual, past due and restructured loans receivable as ofDecember 31, 2017,2016,2015,2014, and2013.

•The “Commercial Real Estate Loans” table (Item 7) provides details of loan concentrations as ofDecember 31, 2017and2016.

•The “Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses” table (Item 7) provides a breakdown of the allowance for credit losses by loan class and illustrates the proportion of each loan class to total loans.

•The “Allowance and Provision for Credit Losses” section (Item 7) provides a discussion of the factors which influenced management’s judgment in determining the provision for credit losses.

•Note 6, “Loans and Leases,” (Item 8) provides the Corporation’s forgone interest income on nonaccrual loans, as well as a description of the nature of non-U.S. loans as ofDecember 31, 2017and2016.

•Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” (Item 8) provides a discussion of Northern Trust’s policy for placing loans on non-accrual status.

•Further discussion of Northern Trust’s management of credit risk with respect to the provision and allowance for credit losses is provided in the following information that is incorporated herein by reference to the notes to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

•Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”:

•H. Loans and Leases.

•I. Allowance for Credit Losses.

•L. Other Real Estate Owned (OREO).

•Note 6, “Loans and Leases.”

•Note 7, “Allowance for Credit Losses.”

•Note 8, “Concentrations of Credit Risk.”

•Note 27, “Off-Balance-Sheet Financial Instruments.”





142017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation








