Item 1—Business

NORTHERN TRUST
CORPORATION

Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) is a financial holding company that is a leading provider of asset
servicing, fund administration, asset management, fiduciary and banking solutions for corporations, institutions, families and individuals worldwide. The Corporation conducts business through various U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries, including The
Northern Trust Company (Bank). The Corporation was originally formed as a holding company for the Bank in 1971. The Corporation has 78 offices in 18 U.S. states and 16 international locations outside the U.S. At December 31, 2010, the
Corporation had consolidated total assets of $83.8 billion and stockholders’ equity of $6.8 billion.

The Bank is an
Illinois banking corporation headquartered in the Chicago financial district and the Corporation’s principal subsidiary. Founded in 1889, the Bank conducts its business through its U.S. operations and its various U.S. and non-U.S. branches and
subsidiaries. At December 31, 2010, the Bank had consolidated assets of $70.4 billion and common equity capital of $5.4 billion.

The Corporation expects that, although the operations of other banking and non-banking subsidiaries will continue to be of increasing significance, the Bank will in the foreseeable future continue to be
the major source of the Corporation’s consolidated assets, revenues, and net income. Except where the context otherwise requires, the term “Northern Trust” refers to Northern Trust Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated
basis. A complete list of the Corporation’s direct and indirect subsidiaries is filed as Exhibit 21 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated into this Item by reference.

BUSINESS UNITS

Under the leadership of Frederick H. Waddell, the Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, Northern Trust organizes its services globally around its two
client-focused principal business units: Corporate and Institutional Services (C&IS) and Personal Financial Services (PFS). Two other business units provide services to the two principal business units: Northern Trust Global Investments (NTGI),
which provides investment management, and Operations and Technology (O&T), which provides operating and systems support.

Financial information regarding the Corporation and its business units is included in the Corporation’s Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010. In particular, for a discussion of significant developments in the business of the Corporation, and the impact on the financial results of the Corporation and its business units for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2010, you are urged to review the section entitled “Consolidated Results of Operations” on pages 24 through 32 of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of
the Corporation’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, which is incorporated herein by reference.

The following is a brief summary of each business unit’s activities and the activities of the Corporate Financial Management Group and the Corporate Risk Management Group.

Corporate and Institutional Services

C&IS is a leading global provider of asset servicing, asset management, securities lending, brokerage, banking and related services to corporate and public retirement funds, foundations, endowments,
fund managers, insurance companies, sovereign wealth and government funds. Asset servicing, asset management, and related services encompass a full range of industry leading capabilities including but not limited to: global master trust and
custody, trade settlement, and reporting; fund administration; cash management; investment risk and performance analytical services; and investment operations outsourcing. Client relationships are managed through the Bank and the Bank’s and the
Corporation’s other subsidiaries, including support from international locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia Pacific region. Asset servicing relationships managed by C&IS often include investment management,
transition management, and commission recapture services provided through NTGI. C&IS also provides related foreign exchange services from offices located in the U.S., U.K., and Singapore. At December 31, 2010, total C&IS assets under
custody were $3.7 trillion and assets under management were $489.2 billion.







Personal Financial Services

PFS provides personal trust, investment management, custody, and philanthropic services; financial consulting; guardianship and estate administration; brokerage services; and private and business banking.
PFS focuses on high net worth individuals and families, business owners, executives, professionals, retirees, and established privately-held businesses in its target markets. PFS also includes the Wealth Management Group, which provides customized
products and services to meet the complex financial needs of individuals and family offices in the United States and throughout the world with assets typically exceeding $200 million.

PFS is one of the largest providers of personal trust services in the United States, with $370.2 billion in assets under custody and
$154.4 billion in assets under management at December 31, 2010. PFS services are delivered through 78 offices in 18 U.S. states as well as offices in London and Guernsey.

Northern Trust Global Investments

NTGI, through various subsidiaries of
the Corporation, provides a broad range of investment management and related services and other products to U.S. and non-U.S. clients, including clients of C&IS and PFS. Clients include institutional and individual separately managed accounts,
bank common and collective funds, registered investment companies, non-U.S. collective investment funds and unregistered private investment funds. NTGI offers both active and passive equity and fixed income portfolio management, as well as
alternative asset classes (such as private equity and hedge funds of funds) and multi-manager products and advisory services. NTGI’s activities also include transition management, overlay services, and other risk management services.
NTGI’s business operates internationally through subsidiaries, joint ventures, alliances, and distribution arrangements.

Operations
and Technology

O&T supports all of Northern Trust’s business activities, including the processing and product
management activities of C&IS, PFS, and NTGI. These activities are conducted principally in the operations and technology centers in Chicago, London, and Bangalore.

Corporate Financial Management Group

The Corporate Financial Management
Group includes the Chief Financial Officer, Controller, Treasurer, and Investor Relations functions. The Group is responsible for Northern Trust’s accounting and financial infrastructure and for managing the Corporation’s financial
position.

Corporate Risk Management Group

The Corporate Risk Management Group includes the Credit Policy and other Corporate Risk Management functions. The Credit Policy function is described in the “Loans and Other Extensions of
Credit” section of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010 on pages 53-58. The Corporate Risk Management Group monitors, measures, and facilitates the management of risks across the businesses of the
Corporation and its subsidiaries.

GOVERNMENT MONETARY AND FISCAL POLICIES

The earnings of Northern Trust are affected by numerous external influences. Chief among these are general economic conditions, both
domestic and international, and actions that governments and their central banks take in managing their economies. These general conditions affect all of Northern Trust’s businesses, as well as the quality, value, and profitability of their
loan and investment portfolios.

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) is an important
regulator of U.S. economic conditions and has the general objective of promoting orderly economic growth in the United States. Implementation of this objective is accomplished by the Federal Reserve Board’s open market operations in United
States Government securities, its setting of the discount rate at which member banks may borrow from Federal Reserve Banks and its changes in the reserve requirements for deposits. The policies adopted by the Federal Reserve Board may strongly
influence interest rates and hence what banks earn on their loans and investments and what they pay on their savings and time deposits and other purchased funds. Fiscal policies in the United States and abroad also affect the composition and use of
Northern Trust’s resources.







COMPETITION

The businesses in which Northern Trust operates are very competitive. Competition is provided by both unregulated and regulated financial services organizations, whose products and services span the
local, national, and global markets in which Northern Trust conducts operations.

Northern Trust’s principal business
strategy is to provide quality financial services to targeted market segments in which it believes it has a competitive advantage and favorable growth prospects. As part of this strategy, Northern Trust seeks to deliver a level of service to its
clients that distinguishes it from its competitors. In addition, Northern Trust emphasizes the development and growth of recurring sources of fee-based income and is one of a select group of major bank holding companies in the United States that
generates more revenues from fee-based services than from net interest income. Northern Trust seeks to develop and expand its recurring fee-based revenue by identifying selected markets with good growth characteristics and providing a high level of
individualized service to its clients in those markets. Northern Trust also seeks to preserve its asset quality through established credit review procedures and to maintain a conservative balance sheet. Finally, Northern Trust seeks to operate with
a strong management team that includes senior officers having broad experience and long tenures.

Commercial banks, savings
banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions actively compete for deposits, and money market funds and investment banking firms offer deposit-like services. These institutions, as well as consumer and commercial finance companies,
national retail chains, factors, insurance companies, and pension trusts, are important competitors for various types of loans. Issuers of commercial paper compete actively for funds and reduce demand for bank loans. For personal and corporate trust
services and investment counseling services, trust companies, investment banking firms, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, and others offer active competition.

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION

Financial Holding Company Regulation

Under U.S. law, the Corporation is a bank holding company that has elected to be a financial holding company under the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956 (BHCA), as amended. Consequently, the Corporation and its business activities throughout the world are subject to the supervision, examination, and regulation of the Federal Reserve Board. The BHCA and other federal laws subject
bank and financial holding companies to particular restrictions on the types of activities in which they may engage and to a range of supervisory requirements and activities, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and
regulations. Supervision and regulation of bank holding companies, financial holding companies, and their subsidiaries are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and other clients of banking subsidiaries, the deposit insurance fund of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the banking system as a whole, not for the protection of stockholders or other creditors.

Under the BHCA, bank holding companies and their banking subsidiaries are generally limited to the business of banking and activities closely related or incidental to banking. As a financial holding
company, the Corporation is permitted to engage in other activities that the Federal Reserve Board, working with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines to be financial in nature, incidental to an activity that is financial in nature, or
complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally, or to acquire shares of companies engaged in such activities. Activities defined
to be financial in nature include: providing financial or investment advice; securities underwriting and dealing; insurance underwriting; and making merchant banking investments in commercial and financial companies, subject to significant
limitations. They also include activities previously determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. The Corporation may not, however, directly or
indirectly acquire the ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of a bank holding company or a bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board.

In order to maintain the Corporation’s status as a financial holding company, each of the Corporation’s insured depository
institution subsidiaries must remain “well capitalized” and “well managed” under applicable regulations, and must have received at least a “satisfactory” rating in its most recent examination under the Community
Reinvestment Act (CRA). Failure to meet one or more of these requirements would mean, depending on the requirements not met, that the Corporation could not undertake new activities, make acquisitions other than those permitted generally for bank
holding companies, or continue certain activities.







Subsidiary Regulation

The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the maximum authorized limit, and it is subject to regulation by both these entities, as well as by the
Division of Banking of the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation. The Bank is registered as a government securities dealer in accordance with the Government Securities Act of 1986. As a government securities dealer, its
activities are subject to the rules and regulations of the Department of the Treasury. The Bank is also registered as a transfer agent with the Federal Reserve Board and is therefore subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board
in this area. In addition, the Corporation, the Bank and the Corporation’s New York trust company subsidiary are subject to regulation by the Banking Department of the State of New York.

The Corporation’s national bank subsidiary is a member of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to regulation by the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), with deposits insured by the FDIC to the extent provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and FDIC regulations. Northern Trust Bank, FSB, a subsidiary of the Corporation, is a federal savings bank that is
not a member of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTC) and the FDIC, with its deposits insured by the FDIC. Recent changes in the law will, in the future, shift principal regulatory
jurisdiction over Northern Trust Bank, FSB, from the OTC to the OCC.

The Corporation’s nonbanking affiliates are all
subject to examination by the Federal Reserve Board. Its broker-dealer subsidiary is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, subject to the rules and regulations of
both of these bodies. Several subsidiaries of the Corporation are registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and are subject to that act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Other subsidiaries are regulated by
the Connecticut Department of Banking and the Office of the State Bank Commissioner in Delaware. Two families of mutual funds for which the Bank acts as investment adviser and one registered closed-end hedge fund of funds for which another
subsidiary serves as investment adviser are subject to regulation by the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940.

Functional
Regulation

Federal banking law has established a system of federal and state supervision and regulation based on
functional regulation, meaning that primary regulatory oversight for a particular activity generally resides with the federal or state regulator designated as having the principal responsibility for that activity. Banking is supervised by federal
and state banking regulators, insurance by state insurance regulators, and securities activities by the SEC and state securities regulators.

A significant component of the functional regulation relates to the application of federal securities laws and SEC oversight of some bank securities activities. Generally, banks may conduct securities
activities without broker-dealer registration only if the activities fall within a set of activity-based exemptions designed to allow banks to conduct only those activities traditionally considered to be primarily banking or trust activities.
Securities activities outside these exemptions, as a practical matter, need to be conducted by a registered broker-dealer affiliate. The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 requires the registration of any bank or separately identifiable division of the
bank that acts as investment adviser for mutual funds. The Corporation believes that it has taken the necessary actions to comply with these requirements of federal law.

Non-U.S. Regulation

The increasingly important activities of the
Corporation’s subsidiaries outside the United States are subject to regulation by a number of non-U.S. regulatory agencies. Subsidiaries conducting banking, fund administration and asset servicing businesses in the United Kingdom, for example,
are authorized to do so pursuant to the UK Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 or are otherwise subject to regulation by the Financial Services Authority (FSA). The FSA exercises broad supervisory and disciplinary powers that include the
power to temporarily or permanently revoke authorization to conduct a regulated business upon breach of the relevant regulations, suspend registered employees, and impose censures and fines on both regulated businesses and their regulated employees.
The non-U.S. subsidiaries of the Corporation and branches of the Bank outside the United States are subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Additionally, the Corporation’s subsidiary banks
located outside the U.S. are subject to regulatory capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. As of December 31, 2010, each of the Corporation’s non-U.S. banking subsidiaries had capital ratios above their specified
minimum requirements.







The Dodd-Frank Act

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act will have a broad impact on the financial services industry
and will impose significant new regulatory and compliance requirements, including the designation of certain financial companies as systemically significant, the imposition of increased capital, leverage, and liquidity requirements, and numerous
other provisions designed to improve supervision and oversight of, and strengthen safety and soundness within, the financial services sector. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a new framework of authority to conduct systemic risk
oversight within the financial system to be distributed among new and existing federal regulatory agencies, including the Financial Stability Oversight Council (Council), the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC, and the FDIC.

The following items provide a brief description of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that are most relevant to the Corporation and
its banking subsidiaries.





•



Heightened Prudential Requirements



•Mortgage Loan Origination and Risk Retention. The Dodd-Frank Act contains additional regulatory requirements that may affect the
Corporation’s subsidiaries operations and result in increased compliance costs. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes new standards for mortgage loan originations on all lenders, including banks and thrifts, in an effort to require steps to
verify a borrower’s ability to repay.





•



Proprietary Trading and Certain Relationships with Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds



•Swaps and Derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act requires new regulations for the over-the-counter derivatives market, including requirements
for clearing, exchange trading, capital, margin, and reporting. In addition, certain swaps and derivatives activities are required to be “pushed out” of insured depository institutions and conducted in non-bank affiliates. Rulemaking will
also require certain persons to register as a “major swap participant” or a “swap







dealer”, and will further clarify what swaps are required to be centrally cleared and settled. Rules will also be issued to enhance the oversight of payment, clearing and settlement
entities.



•Expanded FDIC Resolution Authority. While insured depository institutions have long been subject to the FDIC’s resolution process,
the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new mechanism for the FDIC to conduct the orderly liquidation of certain “covered financial companies,” including bank holding companies and systemically significant non-bank financial companies. Upon certain
findings being made, the FDIC may be appointed receiver for a covered financial company, and would be tasked to conduct an orderly liquidation of the entity. The FDIC liquidation process is modeled on the existing Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(FDIA) bank resolution regulations, and generally gives the FDIC more discretion than in the traditional non-bank bankruptcy context.



•Consumer Financial Protection. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) within the
Federal Reserve System. The CFPB is tasked with establishing and implementing rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. The CFPB
has rulemaking authority over many of the statutes governing financial products and services offered to consumers. For banking organizations with assets of $10 billion or more, the CFPB has exclusive rule making and examination, and primary
enforcement, authority under federal consumer financial laws. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and regulations that are stricter than those regulations promulgated by the CFPB. This new federal and
state regulatory framework may result in significant new regulatory requirements applicable to the Corporation and its bank subsidiaries in respect of consumer financial products and services, with potentially significant increases in compliance
costs and litigation risks.



•Limitation on Federal Preemption. The Dodd-Frank Act reduces the ability of national banks and federal thrifts to rely upon federal
preemption of state consumer financial laws. Although the OCC will have the ability to make preemption determinations where certain conditions are met, the limitation on federal preemption has the potential to create a patchwork of federal and state
compliance obligations. This could, in turn, result in significant new regulatory requirements applicable to the Corporation and its bank subsidiaries, with potentially significant changes in their operations and increases in their compliance costs.
It could also result in uncertainty concerning compliance, with attendant regulatory and litigation risks.

Many of the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented pursuant to regulations over the course of several months or years.
Given the uncertainty associated with future regulatory actions, the full impact such requirements will have on the Corporation’s operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of the
Corporation’s banking subsidiaries, require changes to certain of the Corporation’s business practices, impose upon the Corporation more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements, and could adversely affect certain of the
Corporation’s business activities. These changes may also require the Corporation and its subsidiaries to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new requirements.

Holding Company Support and Cross-Guarantees under the FDIA

The Dodd-Frank Act amends the FDIA to obligate the Federal Reserve Board to require bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies to serve as a source of financial strength for any
subsidiary depository institution. The appropriate federal banking agency for such a depository institution may require reports from companies that own the insured depository institution to assess their ability to serve as a source of strength and
to enforce compliance with the source-of-strength requirements. The term “source of financial strength” is defined as the ability of a company to provide financial assistance to its insured depository institution subsidiaries in the event
of financial distress at such subsidiaries. By July 21, 2011, the appropriate federal banking agencies must jointly adopt implementing regulations. Under this requirement, the Corporation in the future could be required to provide financial
assistance to the Corporation’s subsidiary depository institutions should any of them experience financial distress.

Under the FDIA, when two or more insured depository institutions are under common control, each of those depository institutions may be
liable for any loss incurred, or expected to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of any of the others. Each also may be liable for any assistance the FDIC provides to the other institutions. “Default” means the
appointment of a conservator or receiver for the institution. Thus, any of the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries could be liable to the FDIC if the FDIC were to suffer a loss in connection with any of the Corporation’s other banking
subsidiaries.







This cross-guarantee liability for a loss at a commonly controlled institution would be
subordinated in right of payment to deposit liabilities, secured obligations, any other general or senior liability, and any obligation subordinated to depositors or other general creditors, other than obligations owed to any affiliate of the
depository institution (with certain exceptions).

Payment of Dividends

The Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. The principal source of funds for the Corporation is
dividends from the Bank. As a result, the Corporation’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock will depend primarily on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation in amounts sufficient to service its obligations. Dividend
payments from the Bank are subject to Illinois law and to regulatory limitations, generally based on capital levels and current and retained earnings, imposed by various regulatory agencies with authority over the Bank. The ability of the Bank to
pay dividends is also subject to regulatory restrictions if paying dividends would impair its profitability, financial condition or other cash flow requirements.

The Federal Reserve Board has issued a policy statement with regard to the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies. The policy statement provides that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank
holding company should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common stockholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends, and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the
holding company’s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. Accordingly, a bank holding company should not pay cash dividends that exceed its net income or can only be funded in ways that weaken the bank holding
company’s financial health, such as by borrowing.

Various federal and state statutory provisions limit the amount of
dividends the Bank can pay to the Corporation without regulatory approval. Approval of the Federal Reserve Board is required for payment of any dividend by a state chartered bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System if the total of all
dividends declared by the bank in any calendar year would exceed the total of its retained net income (as defined by regulatory agencies) for that year combined with its retained net income for the preceding two years. In addition, a state member
bank may not pay a dividend in an amount greater than its undivided profits, as defined, without regulatory and stockholder approval.

The Bank is also prohibited under federal law from paying any dividend that would cause it to become undercapitalized. In addition, the federal regulatory agencies are authorized to prohibit a bank or
bank holding company from engaging in an unsafe or unsound banking practice. The payment of dividends could, depending on the financial condition of the Bank, be deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. The Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III
(as described below) impose additional restrictions on the ability of banking institutions to pay dividends.

Capital Adequacy Requirements

The Federal Reserve Board has established risk-based and leverage capital guidelines for bank holding companies, including
the Corporation. The current risk-based capital guidelines that apply to the Corporation and its U.S. subsidiary banks, commonly referred to as Basel I, are based upon the 1988 capital accord of the International Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision (Basel Committee), a committee of central banks and bank supervisors, as implemented by the Federal Reserve Board. As discussed further below, the federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted new risk-based capital guidelines for
“core banks,” including the Corporation, based upon the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards (Basel II) issued by the Basel Committee in November 2005.

Under the existing Basel I-based guidelines, the minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets (which are primarily the credit
risk equivalents of balance sheet assets and certain off-balance sheet items such as standby letters of credit, but also include a nominal market risk equivalent balance related to foreign exchange and debt/equity trading activities) is eight
percent. At least half of the total capital must be composed of tier 1 capital, which includes common stockholders’ equity (including retained earnings), qualifying non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock (and, for bank holding companies only,
a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock and a limited amount of trust preferred securities), and minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill, other disallowed intangibles, and
disallowed deferred tax assets, among other items. The Federal Reserve Board also has adopted a minimum leverage ratio for bank holding companies, requiring tier 1 capital of at least three percent of average quarterly total consolidated assets (as
defined for regulatory purposes), net of the loan loss reserve, goodwill and certain other intangible assets.

The federal
banking regulators have also established risk-based and leverage capital guidelines that insured banks and thrifts are required to meet. These regulations are generally similar to those established by the Federal Reserve Board for bank holding
companies. The risk-based and leverage capital ratios for the Corporation and its U.S. banking subsidiaries,







together with the regulatory minimum ratios and the ratios required for classification as “well-capitalized,” are provided in the following chart.



Risk-Based and Leverage Ratios as ofDecember 31, 2010Tier 1CapitalTotalCapitalLeverageRatioNorthern Trust Corporation13.615.68.8The Northern Trust Company13.316.28.0Northern Trust, N.A.12.413.910.8Northern Trust Bank, FSB10.512.610.3Minimum required ratio4.08.03.0“Well capitalized” minimum ratio6.010.05.0

As mentioned above,
the Corporation also is subject to the Basel II framework for risk-based capital adequacy. The U.S. bank regulatory agencies have issued final rules with respect to implementation of the Basel II framework. Under the final Basel II rules, the
Corporation is one of a small number of “core” banking organizations. As a result, the Corporation and its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries will be required to use the advanced approaches under Basel II for calculating risk-based
capital related to credit risk and operational risk, instead of the methodology reflected in the regulations effective prior to adoption of Basel II. The rules also require core banking organizations to have rigorous processes for assessing overall
capital adequacy in relation to their total risk profiles, and to publicly disclose certain information about their risk profiles and capital adequacy.

In order to implement the rules, a core banking organization, such as the Corporation, is required to (and the Corporation did) adopt an implementation plan and must satisfactorily complete a parallel
run, in which it calculates capital requirements under both the Basel II rules and regulations effective prior to the adoption of Basel II. In the U.S., the Corporation entered the parallel run of calculations under both the old and new guidelines
in April 2010.

The Corporation has for several years been preparing to comply with the advanced approaches of the Basel II
framework. The Corporation is also addressing issues related to implementation timing differences between the U.S. and other jurisdictions, to ensure that the Corporation and the bank subsidiaries comply with regulatory requirements and expectations
in all jurisdictions where they operate. The Corporation’s U.K., Guernsey and Canadian entities subject to Basel II rules have already adopted the standardized approach for credit risk and the basic indicator approach for operational risk in
calculating minimum regulatory capital requirements.

Current results from the parallel run of the Basel II risk-based capital
framework have demonstrated that the use of the advanced approaches of the Basel II framework have not resulted in the Corporation’s or the Bank’s tier 1 capital or total risk-based capital ratios falling below the levels required for
categorization as “well capitalized.”

On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision,
the oversight body of the Basel Committee, announced agreement on the calibration and phase-in arrangements for a strengthened set of capital requirements, known as Basel III. Under these standards, when fully phased-in on January 1, 2019,
banking institutions will be required to satisfy three risk-based capital ratios:



•A tier 1 common equity ratio of at least 7.0%, inclusive of 4.5% minimum tier 1 common equity ratio, net of regulatory deductions, and the new 2.5%
“capital conservation buffer” of common equity to risk-weighted assets;



•A tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8.5%, inclusive of the 2.5% capital conservation buffer; and



•A total capital ratio of at least 10.5%, inclusive of the 2.5% capital conservation buffer.

The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a tier 1 common
equity ratio above the minimum but below the conservation buffer may face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of such shortfall. The Basel Committee also announced that a “countercyclical
buffer” of 0% to 2.5% of common equity or other loss-absorbing capital “will be implemented according to national circumstances” as an “extension” of the conservation buffer during periods of excess credit growth.







Basel III also introduces a non-risk adjusted tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%, based on a
measure of total exposure rather than total assets and new liquidity standards. The phase-in of the new rules is to commence on January 1, 2013, with the phase-in of the capital conservation buffer commencing January 1, 2015 and the rules
to be fully phased-in by January 1, 2019.

Note that the Dodd-Frank Act also requires the establishment of more stringent prudential standards by requiring the federal banking
agencies to adopt capital and liquidity requirements which address the risks that the activities of an institution pose to the institution and the public and private stakeholders, including risks arising from certain enumerated activities. In
particular, the Dodd-Frank Act excludes trust preferred securities issued on or after May 19, 2010 from tier 1 capital. For depository institution holding companies with total consolidated assets of more than $15 billion at December 31,
2009, trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010 will be phased-out of tier 1 capital over a three-year period.

Prompt
Corrective Action

Under the FDIA, the federal banking agencies must take “prompt corrective action” against
undercapitalized U.S. depository institutions. U.S. depository institutions are assigned one of five capital categories: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly
undercapitalized,” and “critically undercapitalized,” and are subjected to differential regulation corresponding to the capital category within which the institution falls. Under certain circumstances, a well capitalized, adequately
capitalized or undercapitalized institution may be treated as if the institution were in the next lower capital category. A banking institution that is undercapitalized is required to submit a capital restoration plan. Failure to meet capital
guidelines could subject the bank to a variety of enforcement remedies by federal bank regulatory agencies, including: termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, restrictions on certain business activities, and appointment of the FDIC as
conservator or receiver. As of December 31, 2010, the Corporation and all of its U.S. banking subsidiaries exceeded the required capital ratios for classification as “well capitalized.”

Enforcement Powers of the Federal Banking Agencies

A principal objective of the U.S. bank regulatory system is to protect depositors by ensuring the financial safety and soundness of banks. To that end, the banking regulators have broad regulatory,
examination, and enforcement powers, including the power to issue cease and desist orders, impose substantial fines and other civil and criminal penalties, terminate deposit insurance and appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with
applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory agreements could subject the Corporation and its banking subsidiaries, as well as officers, directors, and other institution-affiliated parties of these organizations, to administrative sanctions and
potentially substantial civil money penalties. The appropriate federal banking agency may appoint the FDIC as conservator or receiver for a banking institution (or the FDIC may appoint itself, under certain circumstances) if any one or more of a
number of circumstances exist, including, without limitation, the fact that the banking institution:



•is undercapitalized and has no reasonable prospect of becoming adequately capitalized;



•fails to become adequately capitalized when required to do so;



•fails to submit a timely and acceptable capital restoration plan;



•materially fails to implement an accepted capital restoration plan; or



•fails to submit an acceptable resolution plan.

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution’s deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe
or unsound practices or has violated any







applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution’s regulatory agency. Engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or failing to comply with applicable laws,
regulations and supervisory agreements could subject the Bank, the Corporation, and other subsidiaries of the Corporation, or their officers, directors, and institution-affiliated parties to the remedies described above and other sanctions.

Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders

The Corporation’s bank subsidiaries are subject to restrictions under federal law, including Regulation W of the Federal Reserve Board (i.e., Section 23A and B of the Federal Reserve Act), which
limit certain transactions with the Corporation and its non-banking subsidiaries, including loans, other extensions of credit, investments or asset purchases. Such transactions by a banking subsidiary with any one affiliate are limited in amount to
10 percent of the bank’s capital and surplus and, with all affiliates together, to an aggregate of 20 percent of the bank’s capital and surplus. Furthermore, such loans and extensions of credit, as well as certain other transactions, are
required to be secured in specified amounts. These and certain other transactions with the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, including any payment of money by a banking subsidiary, must be on terms and conditions that are, or in good faith
would be, offered to nonaffiliated companies.

The Dodd-Frank Act generally enhances the restrictions on transactions with
affiliates under Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, including an expansion of the definition of “covered transactions” to include credit exposures related to derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending
arrangements, and an increase in the amount of time for which collateral requirements regarding covered credit transactions must be satisfied. The definition of “affiliate” was expanded to include any investment fund to which the
Corporation or an affiliate serves as an investment adviser. The ability of the Federal Reserve Board to grant exemptions from these restrictions was also narrowed, including by requiring coordination with other bank regulators.

The restrictions on loans to directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and their related interests (collectively referred to
herein as “insiders”) contained in the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation O apply to all federally insured institutions. These restrictions include limits on loans to one borrower and conditions that must be met before such a loan can be
made. There is also an aggregate limitation on all loans (including credit exposures related to derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending arrangements) to insiders and their related interests. These loans cannot exceed the
institution’s total unimpaired capital and surplus, and the FDIC may determine that a lesser amount is appropriate. Insiders are subject to enforcement actions for knowingly accepting loans in violation of applicable restrictions. The Dodd
Frank Act enhanced these restrictions and also imposed restrictions on the purchase or sale of assets between banking institutions and insiders.

Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Legislation, and Office of Foreign Assets Control

The
Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) is responsible for requiring that U.S. entities do not engage in transactions with certain prohibited parties, as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC publishes lists of persons,
organizations and countries suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts, known as Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. If the Corporation or the Bank finds a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is
on an OFAC list, the Corporation or the Bank must freeze or block such account or transaction, file a suspicious activity report and notify the appropriate authorities.

Many other countries have imposed similar laws and regulations that apply to the Corporation’s non-U.S. offices. The Corporation has established policies and procedures to comply with these laws and
the related regulations in all relevant jurisdictions.







Deposit Insurance and Assessments

FDIC-insured depository institutions are required to pay deposit insurance assessments to the FDIC. The amount of a particular
institution’s deposit insurance assessment is based on that institution’s risk classification under an FDIC risk-based assessment system. An institution’s risk classification is assigned based on the level of supervisory concern the
institution poses to the regulators, and the institution’s capital levels and other risk measures. The FDIC recently raised assessment rates to increase funding for the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF), which is currently under-funded.

The Dodd Frank Act makes permanent the general $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits. In addition, federal deposit
insurance for the full net amount of deposits in noninterest bearing transaction accounts was extended to January 1, 2013 for all insured banks.

The Dodd-Frank Act changes the deposit insurance assessment framework, primarily by basing assessments on an institution’s total assets less tangible equity (subject to risk-based adjustments that
would further reduce the assessment base for custodial banks) rather than domestic deposits, which is expected to shift a greater portion of the aggregate assessments to large banks. The Dodd-Frank Act also increases the minimum designated reserve
ratio of the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35% of the estimated amount of total insured deposits by September 30, 2020, eliminates the upper limit for the reserve ratio designated by the FDIC each year, and eliminates the requirement that the FDIC pay
dividends to depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds.

On December 14, 2010, the FDIC
raised the minimum designated reserve ratio of DIF to 2%. The ratio is higher than the minimum reserve ratio of 1.35% as set by the Dodd-Frank Act.

Continued action by the FDIC to replenish the DIF as well as the
changes contained in the Dodd Frank Act are likely to result in higher assessment rates, which would reduce the profitability of the Corporation’s depository institution subsidiaries.

In addition to its insurance assessment, each insured bank is subject in 2011 to quarterly debt service assessments in connection with
bonds issued by a government corporation that financed the federal savings and loans bailout. The first quarter 2011 debt service assessment is .0102%.

Control Acquisitions

Banking laws impose notice, approval, and ongoing
regulatory requirements on any shareholder or other party that seeks to acquire direct or indirect “control” of an FDIC-insured depository institution. Among other things, these laws require regulatory filings by a shareholder or other
party that seeks to acquire direct or indirect “control” of an FDIC-insured depository institution. The determination whether an investor “controls” a depository institution is based on all of the facts and circumstances
surrounding the investment. As a general matter, a party is deemed to control a depository institution or other company if the party owns or controls 25% or more of any class of its voting stock. Subject to rebuttal, a party may be presumed to
control a depository institution or other company if the investor owns or controls 10% or more of any class of its voting stock. Ownership by affiliated parties, or parties acting in concert, is typically aggregated for these purposes. If a
party’s ownership of the Corporation were to exceed certain thresholds, the investor could be deemed to “control” the Corporation for regulatory purposes. This could subject the investor to regulatory filings or other regulatory
consequences.







Interstate Banking and Branching

Federal law permits an adequately capitalized and adequately managed bank holding company, with Federal Reserve Board approval, to acquire
banking institutions located in states other than the bank holding company’s home state without regard to whether the transaction is prohibited under state law. In addition, national banks and state banks with different home states are
permitted to merge across state lines, with the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, unless the home state of a participating banking institution passed legislation prior to June 1, 1997 that expressly prohibits interstate
mergers. The Dodd Frank Act permits a national bank or a state bank, with the approval of its regulator, to open a branch in any state if the law of the state in which the branch is to be located would permit the establishment of the branch if the
bank were a bank chartered in that state. Thrift institutions (like Northern Trust Bank, FSB) may freely engage in de novo branching on an interstate basis. National banks, such as Northern Trust, NA, may provide trust services in any state to the
same extent as a trust company chartered by that state.

Community Reinvestment Act

The Corporation’s banking subsidiaries are subject to the CRA. The CRA and the regulations issued thereunder are intended to
encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their service areas, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operations of the banks. These regulations also provide for regulatory assessment of a
bank’s record in meeting the needs of its service area when considering applications to establish branches, merger applications, and applications to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of another bank. The federal banking agencies are
required to make public the rating of a bank’s performance under the CRA. In the case of a bank holding company, the CRA performance record of its bank subsidiaries is reviewed by federal banking agencies in connection with the filing of an
application to acquire ownership or control of shares or assets of a bank or thrift or to merge with any other bank holding company. An unsatisfactory record can substantially delay or block the transaction. Each of the Corporation’s banking
subsidiaries, including the Bank, received at least a satisfactory CRA rating from its regulator in its most recent CRA examination.

In addition, federal law requires the disclosure of agreements reached with community groups that relate to the CRA, and contains various other provisions designed to improve the delivery of financial
services to consumers while maintaining an appropriate level of safety in the financial services industry.

Privacy and Security

Federal law establishes a minimum federal standard of financial privacy by, among other provisions, requiring banks to
adopt and disclose privacy policies with respect to consumer information and setting forth certain rules with respect to the disclosure to third parties of consumer information. The Corporation has adopted and disseminated its privacy policies
pursuant to law. Regulations adopted under the federal law set standards for protecting the security, confidentiality and integrity of customer information, and require notice to regulators, and in some cases, to customers, in the event of security
breaches. A number of states have adopted their own statutes concerning financial privacy and requiring notification of security breaches.

Consumer Laws and Regulations

In addition to the laws and regulations discussed above, the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries are also subject to certain consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in
transactions with banks. While the following list is not exhaustive, these laws and regulations include:



•Truth in Lending Act;



•Truth in Savings Act;



•Electronic Funds Transfer Act;



•Expedited Funds Availability Act;



•Equal Credit Opportunity Act;



•Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act;



•Fair Housing Act;







•Fair Credit Reporting Act;



•Fair Debt Collection Act;



•Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act;



•Home Mortgage Disclosure Act;



•Right to Financial Privacy Act;



•Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act;



•laws regarding unfair and deceptive acts and practices; and



•usury laws.

Many states and local jurisdictions have consumer protection laws analogous, and in addition, to those listed above. These laws and
regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers and monitor account activity when taking deposits, making loans to or engaging in other types of transactions with
such customers. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could lead to substantial penalties, operating restrictions and reputational damage to the financial institution. The creation of the CFPB by the Dodd-Frank Act is likely to lead to
enhanced and strengthened enforcement of consumer financial protection laws.

Future Legislation

Federal, state and local legislators and regulators regularly introduce measures or take actions that would modify the regulatory
requirements applicable to banks, thrifts, their holding companies and their affiliates. Such legislation may change the banking statutes and the operating environment of the Corporation and its subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways.
The Corporation cannot determine the ultimate effect that future legislation or implementing regulations might have upon the financial condition or results of operations of the Corporation or its subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes substantial
changes to the regulatory framework applicable to the Corporation and its subsidiaries. The majority of these changes will be implemented over time by various regulatory agencies. The full effect that these changes will have on the Corporation and
its subsidiaries remains uncertain at this time and may have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or results of operations of the Corporation or its subsidiaries.







STAFF

Northern Trust employed 12,800 full-time equivalent officers and staff members as of December 31, 2010.

STATISTICAL DISCLOSURES

The following statistical disclosures, included
in the Corporation’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, are incorporated herein by reference.



Schedule2010AnnualReportPage(s)Ratios22Non-U.S. Outstandings55-56Nonperforming Assets and 90 Day Past Due Loans56-57Average Statement of Condition with Analysis of Net Interest Income128-129

Additional
statistical information on a consolidated basis is set forth below. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior periods’ financial information to conform to the current year’s presentation.







Remaining Maturity and Average Yield of Securities Held to Maturity and Available for Sale

(Yield calculated on amortized cost and presented on a taxable equivalent basis giving effect to the applicable federal and state tax
rates)





December 31, 2010

One Year or LessOne to Five YearsFive to Ten YearsOver Ten YearsAverageMaturity

($ in Millions)BookYieldBookYieldBookYieldBookYield

Securities Held to Maturity

Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions$76.56.96%$263.86.62%$288.56.91%$6.27.93%53 mos.

Government Sponsored Agency30.93.36129.73.276.53.502.23.4932 mos.

Other —Fixed97.42.98152.94.96102.74.7829.03.8369 mos.

—Floating——1.31.35————21 mos.



Total Securities Held to Maturity$204.84.52%$547.75.35%$397.76.30%$37.44.49%55 mos.



Securities Available for Sale

U.S. Government26.3.12632.11.73————56 mos.

Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions20.75.2815.16.77——.57.5831 mos.

Government Sponsored Agency4,823.8.956,526.0.77465.91.27155.01.2923 mos.

Asset-Backed—Fixed641.21.6119.95.6613.45.6315.85.6512 mos.

Asset-Backed—Floating670.2.67448.3.7445.1.756.4.4814 mos.

Auction Rate Securities——367.81.48————46 mos.

Other —Fixed1,911.5.63501.51.99——42.66.0010 mos.

—Floating1,007.2.531,544.5.5943.7.71143.0—25 mos.



Total Securities Available for Sale$9,100.9.87%$10,055.2.91%$568.11.29%$363.31.52%22 mos.





December 31, 2009

One Year or LessOne to Five YearsFive to Ten YearsOver Ten YearsAverageMaturity

($ in Millions)BookYieldBookYieldBookYieldBookYield

Securities Held to Maturity

Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions$40.26.05%$249.76.70%$381.06.84%$21.77.54%65 mos.

Government Sponsored Agency70.24.0229.74.1210.64.144.14.1435 mos.

Other —Fixed74.13.04146.45.0195.04.8637.34.2071 mos.

—Floating.15.731.31.47————31 mos.



Total Securities Held to Maturity$184.64.07%$427.15.92%$486.66.40%$63.15.34%64 mos.



Securities Available for Sale

U.S. Government$74.0.30%$——%$——%$——%3 mos.

Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions11.81.2521.55.8213.16.77.67.5835 mos.

Government Sponsored Agency5,610.4.956,178.21.11359.32.12177.51.7219 mos.

Asset-Backed—Fixed81.14.0538.05.6511.95.625.85.6520 mos.

Asset-Backed—Floating539.5.52797.6.5213.8.397.6.3918 mos.

Auction Rate Securities.22.19427.51.31————44 mos.

Other —Fixed81.0.44124.02.88——42.66.0049 mos.

—Floating673.0.742,025.1.71——147.0—29 mos.



Total Securities Available for Sale$7,071.0.92%$9,611.91.04%$398.12.32%$381.11.58%22 mos.







Securities Held to Maturity and Available for Sale



December 31(In Millions)20102009200820072006Securities Held to MaturityObligations of States and Political Subdivisions$635.0$692.6$791.2$848.8$863.8Government Sponsored Agency169.3114.655.013.314.6Other383.3354.2307.9282.7228.6Total Securities Held to Maturity$1,187.6$1,161.4$1,154.1$1,144.8$1,107.0Securities Available for SaleU.S. Government$658.4$74.0$19.9$5.1$1.0Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions36.347.031.632.131.7Government Sponsored Agency11,970.712,325.411,261.45,466.510,245.1Asset-Backed1,860.31,495.31,572.61,902.9767.4Auction Rate367.8427.7453.1——Other5,194.03,092.71,075.8333.7204.4Total Securities Available for Sale$20,087.5$17,462.1$14,414.4$7,740.3$11,249.6Average Total Securities$19,859.2$17,357.8$12,287.0$12,459.4$11,803.1Total Securities at Year-End$21,281.9$18,633.4$15,570.8$8,888.2$12,365.2







Loans and Leases by Type



December 31(In Millions)20102009200820072006CommercialCommercial and Institutional$5,914.5$6,312.1$8,293.4$5,556.4$4,679.1Commercial Real Estate3,242.43,213.23,014.02,350.31,836.3Lease Financing, net1,063.71,004.41,143.81,168.41,291.6Non-U.S.1,046.2728.51,791.72,274.11,733.3Other346.6457.5909.6438.8363.7Total Commercial11,613.411,715.715,152.511,788.09,904.0PersonalResidential Real Estate$10,854.9$10,807.7$10,381.4$9,171.0$8,674.4Private Client5,423.75,004.44,832.24,016.63,558.5Other240.0277.9389.3364.5472.8Total Personal16,518.616,090.015,602.913,552.112,705.7Total Loans and Leases$28,132.0$27,805.7$30,755.4$25,340.1$22,609.7Total U.S.$27,085.8$27,077.2$28,963.7$23,066.0$20,876.4

Remaining Maturity of Selected Loans and Leases



December 31, 2010(In Millions)TotalOne Yearor LessOne toFiveYearsOver FiveYearsU.S. (Excluding Residential Real Estate and Private Client Loans)Commercial and Institutional$5,914.5$3,640.9$1,552.8$720.8Commercial Real Estate3,242.41,097.91,659.0485.5Lease Financing, net1,063.759.9224.6779.2Other-Commercial346.6346.6——Other-Personal240.0240.0——Total U.S.10,807.25,385.33,436.41,985.5Non-U.S.1,046.21,038.18.1—Total Selected Loans and Leases11,853.46,423.43,444.51,985.5Interest Rate Sensitivity of Loans and LeasesFixed Rate$7,729.1$4,562.5$1,817.2$1,349.4Variable Rate4,124.31,860.91,627.3636.1Total$11,853.4$6,423.4$3,444.5$1,985.5







Average Deposits by Type



(In Millions)20102009200820072006U.S. OfficesDemand and Noninterest-BearingIndividuals, Partnerships and Corporations$862.2$778.6$912.5$864.4$899.5Correspondent Banks86.580.544.230.929.0Other Noninterest-Bearing5,643.67,589.74,493.63,789.33,682.0Total Demand and Noninterest-Bearing6,592.38,448.85,450.34,684.64,610.5Interest-BearingSavings and Money Market13,049.511,162.47,786.57,016.46,602.4Savings Certificates less than $100,000401.3478.6454.8483.8486.4Savings Certificates $100,000 and more1,706.52,298.71,669.51,536.01,207.3Other1,596.81,101.8615.3518.1419.8Total Interest-Bearing16,754.115,041.510,526.19,554.38,715.9Total U.S. Offices23,346.423,490.315,976.414,238.913,326.4Non-U.S. OfficesNon Interest-Bearing2,268.32,578.13,364.52,963.81,778.7Interest-Bearing29,968.427,157.635,958.228,587.821,853.1Total Non-U.S. Offices32,236.729,735.739,322.731,551.623,631.8Total Deposits$55,583.1$53,226.0$55,299.1$45,790.5$36,958.2

Average Rates Paid on Interest-Related Deposits by Type



20102009200820072006Interest-Related Deposits—U.S. OfficesSavings and Money Market.27%.48%1.77%3.37%2.85%Savings Certificates less than $100,0001.232.053.214.423.92Savings Certificates $100,000 and more1.342.053.444.834.33Other Time.801.483.284.744.28Total U.S. Offices Interest-Related Deposits.45.842.193.733.18Total Non-U.S. Offices Interest-Related Deposits.42.292.464.223.69Total Interest-Related Deposits.43%.49%2.40%4.10%3.55%

Remaining Maturity of Time Deposits $100,000 or More



December 31, 2010December 31, 2009U.S. OfficesU.S. Offices(In Millions)Certificatesof DepositOtherTimeNon-U.S.OfficesCertificatesof DepositOtherTimeNon-U.S.Offices3 Months or Less$1,008.1$792.4$12,406.7$1,393.2$705.9$6,834.2Over 3 through 6 Months502.7—41.4607.3—44.6Over 6 through 12 Months1,709.4—32.71,073.0—42.6Over 12 Months296.6—4.6449.9—8.9Total$3,516.8$792.4$12,485.4$3,523.4$705.9$6,930.3







Purchased Funds

Federal Funds Purchased

(Overnight Borrowings)



($ in Millions)201020092008Balance on December 31$3,691.7$6,649.8$1,783.5Highest Month-End Balance5,716.67,735.68,473.7Year – Average Balance3,779.74,902.02,598.1– Average Rate.13%.12%1.24%Average Rate at Year-End.05%.02%.03%

Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase



($ in Millions)201020092008Balance on December 31$954.4$1,037.5$1,529.1Highest Month-End Balance954.41,037.52,635.7Year – Average Balance626.8737.71,271.5– Average Rate.17%.16%1.79%Average Rate at Year-End.07%.03%.07%

Other Borrowings

(Includes Treasury Investment Program Balances, Term Federal Funds Purchased and Other Short-Term Borrowings)



($ in Millions)201020092008Balance on December 31$347.7$2,078.3$736.7Highest Month-End Balance2,174.12,202.64,229.6Year – Average Balance1,443.01,109.0739.4– Average Rate.38%.38%3.04%Average Rate at Year-End.03%.09%.06%

Total Purchased Funds



($ in Millions)201020092008Balance on December 31$4,993.8$9,765.6$4,049.3Year – Average Balance5,849.56,748.74,609.0– Average Rate.19%16%1.68%







Changes in Net Interest Income



2010/20092009/2008Change Due ToChange Due To(Interest on a Taxable Equivalent Basis)(In Millions)AverageBalanceRateTotalAverageBalanceRateTotalIncrease (Decrease) in Interest IncomeMoney Market AssetsFederal Funds Sold and Resell Agreements$(.1)(.1)(.2)$(28.3)$(8.2)$(36.5)Time Deposits with Banks(10.4)(64.6)(75.0)(252.2)(426.4)(678.6)Other Interest-Bearing1.9—1.920.0(17.7)2.3SecuritiesU.S. Government.6.3.9.5(.7)(.2)Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions(5.9)(0.2)(6.1)(1.4)(1.1)(2.5)Government Sponsored Agency(1.2)(29.9)(31.1)91.2(186.6)(95.4)Other42.5(33.8)8.762.6(81.8)(19.2)Loans and Leases(39.0)29.5(9.5)56.7(308.7)(252.0)Total$(11.6)$(98.8)$(110.4)$(50.9)$(1,031.2)$(1,082.1)Increase (Decrease) in Interest ExpenseDepositsSavings and Money Market$9.1(27.9)$(18.8)$59.8$(144.0)$(84.2)Savings Certificates(13.7)(15.5)(29.2)22.1(37.2)(15.1)Other Time7.3(10.9)(3.6)16.0(19.9)(3.9)Non-U.S. Offices Time8.337.345.6(216.5)(589.3)(805.8)Short-Term Borrowings(1.5)1.7.235.9(102.3)(66.4)Senior Notes3.8.84.628.1(22.7)5.4Long-Term Debt(10.8)(14.3)(25.1)3.0(18.9)(15.9)Floating Rate Capital Debt—(1.9)(1.9)—(7.3)(7.3)Total$2.5$(30.7)$(28.2)$(51.6)$(941.6)$(993.2)Increase (Decrease) in Net Interest Income$(14.1)$(68.1)$(82.2)$.7$(89.6)$(88.9)

Note: Changes not due
solely to average balance changes or rate changes are included in the change due to rate column.







Analysis of Reserve for Credit Losses





($ in Millions)20102009200820072006

Balance at Beginning of Year$340.6$251.1$160.2$151.0$136.0

Charge-Offs

Commercial

Commercial and Institutional13.330.67.64.5.9

Commercial Real Estate62.922.55.1—.1

Lease Financing, net—————

Non-U.S.—————

Other—————



Total Commercial76.253.112.74.51.0



Personal

Residential Real Estate63.757.78.91.1.2

Private Client10.221.54.14.1.6

Other—————



Total Personal73.979.213.05.2.8



Total Charge-Offs150.1132.325.79.71.8



Recoveries

Commercial

Commercial and Institutional.82.91.8.31.3

Commercial Real Estate2.8.2.1——

Lease Financing, net—————

Non-U.S.———.3—

Other—————



Total Commercial3.63.11.9.61.3

Personal

Residential Real Estate2.31.3.3.1.2

Private Client1.02.1.3.2.1

Other—————



Total Personal3.33.4.6.3.3



Total Recoveries6.96.52.5.91.6



Net Charge-Offs143.2125.823.28.8.2

Provision for Credit Losses160.0215.0115.018.015.0

Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates(.1).3(.9)—.2



Net Change in Reserve16.789.590.99.215.0



Balance at End of Year$357.3$340.6$251.1$160.2$151.0



Reserve Assigned To:

Loans and Leases$319.6$309.2$229.1$148.1$140.4

Unfunded Commitments and Standby Letters of Credit37.731.422.012.110.6



Total Reserve for Credit Losses$357.3$340.6$251.1$160.2$151.0



Loans and Leases at Year-End$28,132.0$27,805.7$30,755.4$25,340.1$22,609.7



Average Total Loans and Leases$27,514.4$28,697.2$27,402.7$22,817.8$20,528.5



As a Percent of Year-End Loans and Leases

Net Loan Charge-Offs.51%.45%.08%.03%—%

Provision for Credit Losses.57.77.37.07.07

Reserve at Year-End Assigned to Loans and Leases1.141.11.75.58.62

As a Percent of Average Loans and Leases

Net Loan Charge-Offs.52%.44%.08%.04%—%

Reserve at Year-End Assigned to Loans and Leases1.161.08.84.65.68







Non-U.S. Operations (Based on Obligor’s Domicile)

See also Note 31 – Business Units and Related Information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 120 of the
Corporation’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Selected Average Assets and Liabilities Attributable to Non-U.S. Operations



(In Millions)20102009200820072006Total Assets$22,664.0$21,876.1$27,321.0$21,483.2$17,971.7Time Deposits with Banks14,592.415,357.020,547.916,028.912,715.0Loans692.9951.51,641.71,709.81,377.0Customers’ Acceptance Liability.5.3.2.3.3Non-U.S. Investments2,688.8977.7205.7101.876.6Total Liabilities$36,196.0$33,310.6$44,022.1$34,469.5$25,992.9Deposits$33,479.3$30,888.3$40,825.6$32,200.2$24,048.2Liability on Acceptances.5.3.2.3.3Percent of Non-U.S.-Related Average Assets and Liabilities to Total Consolidated Average Assets20102009200820072006Assets30%29%37%35%34%Liabilities48%45%60%57%49%Reserve for Credit Losses Relating to Non-U.S. Operations(In Millions)20102009200820072006Balance at Beginning of Year$4.9$7.4$8.8$9.3$4.9Charge-Offs—————Recoveries—————Provision for Credit Losses(1.1)(2.5)(1.4)(.5)4.4Balance at End of Year$3.8$4.9$7.4$8.8$9.3

The SEC requires the disclosure of the reserve for credit losses that is applicable to international
operations. The above table has been prepared in compliance with this disclosure requirement and is used in determining non-U.S. operating performance. The amounts shown in the table should not be construed as being the only amounts that are
available for non-U.S. loan charge-offs, since the entire reserve for credit losses assigned to loans and leases is available to absorb losses on both U.S. and non-U.S. loans. In addition, these amounts are not intended to be indicative of future
charge-off trends.







Distribution of Non-U.S. Loans and Deposits by Type



December 31Loans(In Millions)20102009200820072006Commercial$874.0$626.3$351.1$482.5$815.0Non-U.S. Governments and Official Institutions110.359.714.817.056.2Banks9.32.132.414.918.8Other *52.640.41,393.41,759.7843.3Total$1,046.2$728.5$1,791.7$2,274.1$1,733.3



*Other loans include short duration advances primarily related to the processing of custodied client investments.



December 31Deposits(In Millions)201020092008Commercial$34,835.1$27,143.7$33,091.6Non-U.S. Governments and Official Institutions2,724.12,905.34,419.5Banks1,406.5939.8667.5Other Time377.1407.8642.1Other Demand159.9149.935.1Total$39,502.7$31,546.5$38,855.8

CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT

For the discussion of Credit Risk Management, see the following information that is incorporated herein by reference to the Corporation’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 2010:



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements2010Annual ReportPage(s)1.Accounting PoliciesF. Derivative Financial Instruments73-74G. Loans and Leases74-75H. Reserve for Credit Losses75-76K. Other Real Estate Owned765.Loans and Leases82-856.Reserve for Credit Losses85-867.Concentrations of Credit Risk86-8724.Contingent Liabilities104-10525.Derivative Financial Instruments105-11026.Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments110-111Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
OperationsAsset Quality and Credit Risk Management52-60

In addition, the
following schedules on pages 21 through 23 of this Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the “Credit Risk Management” section:

Analysis of Reserve for Credit Losses

Reserve for Credit Losses Relating to
Non-U.S. Operations

Distribution of Non-U.S. Loans and Deposits by Type







INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS

For the discussion of interest rate sensitivity, see the section entitled “Market Risk Management” on pages 60 through 63 of
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Corporation’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, which is incorporated herein by reference.

The following unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statement of Income for The Northern Trust Company were prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and are provided here for informational purposes. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements
included in the Corporation’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference on page 39 of this Form 10-K.







The Northern Trust Company

Consolidated Balance Sheet (unaudited)





December 31

(In Millions)20102009

Assets

Cash and Due from Banks$2,736.9$2,385.2

Federal Funds Sold and Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell341.8250.9

Time Deposits with Banks15,337.612,896.3

Federal Reserve Deposits and Other Interest-Bearing10,740.414,983.1

Securities

Available for Sale19,854.417,224.5

Held to Maturity (Fair Value—$1,170.8 in 2010 and $1,144.1 in 2009)1,152.51,121.6



Total Securities21,006.918,346.1



Loans and Leases

Commercial7,995.38,194.0

Personal7,516.17,138.9



Total Loans and Leases (Net of unearned income—$455.4 in 2010 and $487.6 in 2009)15,511.415,332.9



Reserve for Credit Losses Assigned to Loans and Leases(187.2)(200.0)

Buildings and Equipment422.8449.5

Client Security Settlement Receivables701.3794.8

Goodwill313.2318.4

Other Assets3,448.33,252.1



Total Assets$70,373.4$68,809.3



Liabilities

Deposits

Demand and Other Noninterest-Bearing$5,099.8$7,566.4

Savings and Money Market6,707.47,479.4

Savings Certificates2,528.01,080.9

Other Time805.11,113.7

Non-U.S. Offices — Noninterest-Bearing2,943.42,306.5

— Interest-Bearing36,890.429,022.9



Total Deposits54,974.148,569.8



Federal Funds Purchased4,013.77,431.8

Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase1,132.91,029.5

Other Borrowings366.12,094.7

Senior Notes—161.3

Long-Term Debt1,835.91,789.1

Other Liabilities2,696.72,957.2



Total Liabilities65,019.464,033.4



Stockholder’s Equity

Capital Stock—Par Value $13.83.6

Surplus1,156.41,155.5

Undivided Profits4,472.43,942.9

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)(278.6)(326.1)



Total Stockholder’s Equity5,354.04,775.9



Total Liabilities and Stockholder’s Equity$70,373.4$68,809.3









The Northern Trust Company

Consolidated Statement of Income (unaudited)





For the Year Ended December 31

(In Millions)201020092008

Noninterest Income

Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees$1,639.1$1,688.0$1,682.7

Foreign Exchange Trading Income382.2445.7616.2

Treasury Management Fees72.876.269.1

Security Commissions and Trading Income10.46.210.5

Gain on Visa Share Redemption——167.9

Other Operating Income120.6113.2165.7

Investment Security Gains (Losses), net(20.4)(23.4)(56.3)



Total Noninterest Income2,204.72,305.92,655.8



Interest Income

Loans and Leases464.2449.4617.5

Securities

—Available for Sale171.8196.7308.7

—Held to Maturity39.436.838.6



Total Securities211.2233.5347.3



Time Deposits with Banks134.2187.8887.6

Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell and Other16.439.390.9



Total Interest Income826.0910.01,943.3



Interest Expense

Deposits162.4132.9989.2

Federal Funds Purchased5.87.132.8

Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase1.11.324.3

Other Borrowings5.44.222.6

Senior Notes2.42.711.5

Long-Term Debt66.286.1107.6



Total Interest Expense243.3234.31,188.0



Net Interest Income582.7675.7755.3

Provision for Credit Losses47.0116.565.9



Net Interest Income after Provision for Credit Losses535.7559.2689.4



Income before Noninterest Expenses2,740.42,865.13,345.2



Noninterest Expenses

Compensation874.2867.5903.7

Employee Benefits188.9195.2180.4

Outside Services371.9353.7347.0

Equipment and Software Expense276.9250.7229.8

Occupancy Expense122.9123.7120.0

Visa Indemnification Charges(33.0)(17.8)(76.1)

Other Operating Expenses163.2107.6310.5



Total Noninterest Expenses1,965.01,880.62,015.3



Income before Income Taxes775.4984.51,329.9

Provision for Income Taxes245.6289.7521.6



Net Income$529.8$694.8$808.3



Dividends Paid to the Corporation$—$350.0$—









AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Corporation’s Internet address is www.northerntrust.com. We make available free of charge through our website our annual report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. Additionally, the Corporation’s corporate governance guidelines, its code of business conduct and ethics applicable to directors, officers and
employees, and the charters for its audit, business risk, business strategy, corporate governance, compensation and benefits, and executive committees are all available on the Corporation’s Internet website. Information contained on the
Corporation’s website is not part of this report.

Supplemental Item—Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth certain information with regard to each executive officer of the Corporation.



Name and AgeCurrent Position Held with the Corporation and Effective
Date First Elected to Office IndicatedFrederick H. Waddell (57)Chairman of the Board (11/11/09), President (2/21/06), and Chief Executive Officer (1/1/08)Sherry S. Barrat (61)Executive Vice President and President—PFS (1/1/06-2/28/11) and Vice Chairman (effective 3/1/11)Aileen B. Blake (43)Executive Vice President and Controller (3/31/05)Jeffrey D. Cohodes (50)Executive Vice President of the Bank (11/14/06) and Executive Vice President and Head of Corporate Risk Management (effective 3/1/11)Steve L. Fradkin (49)Executive Vice President (1/21/03) and President—C&IS (9/18/09)Timothy P. Moen (58)Executive Vice President and Head of Human Resources and Administration (4/16/02)William L. Morrison (60)Executive Vice President (5/21/02) and Chief Financial Officer (9/18/09)Stephen N. Potter (54)Executive Vice President (10/17/06) and President—NTGI (3/28/08)Jana R. Schreuder (52)Executive Vice President (6/30/05), President—O&T (10/17/06-2/28/11), and President—PFS (effective 3/1/11)Joyce St. Clair (52)Executive Vice President (4/1/07), Head of Corporate Risk Management (4/1/07-2/28/11), and President—O&T (effective 3/1/11)Kelly R. Welsh (58)Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Assistant Secretary (7/18/00)

All of the executive officers have been officers of the Corporation, or a subsidiary of the Corporation, for more than five years.

The positions of Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President are elected annually by the Board of Directors at the first meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting
of stockholders. The other officers are appointed annually by the Board. Officers continue to hold office until their successors are duly elected or until their death, resignation or removal by the Board.

