Item 1. Business:

International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) was incorporated in the State of New York on June 16, 1911, as
the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Co. (C-T-R), a consolidation of the Computing Scale Co. of America, the Tabulating Machine Co. and The International Time Recording Co. of
New York. Since that time, IBM has focused on the intersection of business insight and technological innovation, and its operations and aims have been international in nature. This was signaled over
85 years ago, in 1924, when C-T-R changed its name to International Business Machines Corporation. And it continues today: The company creates business value for clients and solves business problems
through integrated solutions that leverage information technology and deep knowledge of business processes. IBM solutions typically create value by reducing a client's operational costs or by enabling
new capabilities that generate revenue. These solutions draw from an industry leading portfolio of consulting, delivery and implementation services, enterprise software, systems and financing.

STRATEGY

Despite the volatility of the information technology (IT) industry over the past decade, IBM has consistently delivered excellent
performance, with a steady track record of sustained earnings per share growth. The company has shifted its business mix, exiting certain segments while increasing its presence in higher-value areas
such as services, software and integrated solutions. As part of this shift, the company has acquired over 120 companies since 2000, complementing and scaling its portfolio of products and offerings.

IBM's
clear strategy has enabled steady results in core business areas, while expanding its offerings and addressable markets. The key tenets of this strategy
are:

•Deliver value to enterprise clients through integrated business and IT innovation;•Shift the business mix to higher-value areas; and•Become the premier globally integrated enterprise

These
priorities reflect a broad shift in client spending toward integrated solutions, as companies seek higher levels of business value from their IT investments. IBM has been able to
deliver this enhanced client value thanks to its industry expertise, understanding of clients' businesses and the breadth and depth of the company's capabilities.

Consistent
with this strategy IBM is leveraging its capabilities to build and expand strong positions in targeted growth areas. IBM's growth initiatives include Smarter Planet, Growth
Markets, Business Analytics and Optimization and Cloud Computing. Each initiative represents a significant growth opportunity with attractive profit margins for IBM.

Smarter Planet

Smarter Planet is IBM's vision of a technology-enabled world that is more instrumented, interconnected, and intelligent than ever
before, enabling people and organizations to tackle significant business and societal challenges. At the heart of this vision is the opportunity for meaningful innovation—exploring and
extending the boundaries of businesses, industries and communities. It's about helping the company's clients become better at what they do for their clients. IBM's strategy is to accelerate progress
towards a "smarter planet" by equipping its clients with the advanced, integrated capabilities that they will need to thrive in this exciting new world that is unfolding before
us—capabilities such as business analytics, business process management, social business and cloud computing.

Over
the past year, IBM has steadily deepened its commitment to understanding and delivering on the promise of a smarter planet for its line of business and IT clients across a broad
range of industries. An industry-based approach is central to the strategy, since every industry confronts a










distinct
set of challenges and opportunities in today's constantly transforming world. Whether "smarter" means helping a hospital group to deliver improved healthcare, a local government to ease
traffic congestion, or a retail chain to execute a successful cross-channel campaign, IBM is aggressively developing and investing in a portfolio of industry solutions that will help these clients
achieve their goals.

Two
recently announced initiatives that are already driving significant value illustrate IBM's deep commitment to building a smarter planet: Smarter Commerce and Smarter Cities. IBM's
Smarter Commerce model integrates and transforms how companies manage and adapt their buy, market, sell and service processes, placing the customer squarely at the center of their business. IBM's
Smarter Cities initiative enables local governments to make smarter decisions, anticipate issues and coordinate resources more effectively, and deliver citizen-centric services that underpin
sustainable economic growth.

Growth Markets

The company has benefited from its investments over the past several years in growth markets. The focus now is on geographic expansion
of IBM's presence; on selected industries of the highest impact and opportunity; on countries' build-out of infrastructure aligned with their national agendas; and on creating markets and
new business models to
serve the different requirements that exist in these emerging countries. The company's efforts in developing new growth markets within the African continent is a good example of this focus. Many of
these initiatives are leading edge, both in technologies and business models and are delivering both increased revenue and margin expansion.

In
order to support this growth, IBM is continuing to invest significantly in these markets to expand capacity, to develop talent and to deepen its research and development (R&D)
capabilities on the ground. At the same time, IBM continues to leverage talent across growth markets under its globally integrated enterprise model to the benefit of both its clients and the company
globally.

Business Analytics and Optimization

Business Analytics and Optimization is core to achieving a Smarter Planet, helping leaders of this new information-centric and
insight-driven world make better and faster business decisions. As the proliferation of "big data" continues from both structured and unstructured sources, IBM is helping organizations leverage
analytics in new ways to address market uncertainty, complexity and volatility. These capabilities allow decision makers to identify patterns and gain deeper insights in a way that is unimaginable by
other means. These insights give organizations the ability to anticipate and shape better outcomes so they can grow, retain and satisfy customers. They can now dynamically plan, forecast and align
resources and manage risk, reduce fraud and ensure compliance. They can also leverage analytics to increase operational efficiency and agility.

IBM's
approach is to ensure customers have complete end-to-end solutions across industries and functional focus areas like sales, finance and risk. These
solutions are designed to help organizations: develop an information and analytics strategy that flows from the business strategy; establish a strong information foundation; make analytics skills and
capabilities pervasive; and create a culture that takes action on analytics. IBM continues to invest in its analytics capabilities to deliver real world solutions that its clients can put to work
today. These ongoing investments in both organic development and new acquisitions are complemented by IBM's focus on game-changing innovations like Watson, which is ushering in a new
generation of probabilistic analytics that can dramatically improve decision making through natural language processing, hypotheses generation and evidence-based learning. It is another unique example
of just how far organizations can go with IBM analytics.

Cloud Computing

Cloud is a new model for consuming and delivering business and IT services. It can deliver significant economies of scale, enable
higher qualities of service and even serve as a transformative










platform
for business innovation. From a business perspective, the promise of cloud computing lies in the ability to shape influential communities, launch product innovations and explore new business
models with minimal time, cost and effort. From an IT perspective, the power of the model comes from harnessing vast stores of underutilized technology with highly efficient virtualization and
management, consumer-style user interfaces and ubiquitous broadband.

IBM
has already helped thousands of its clients adopt and leverage cloud computing through its broad portfolio of IBM SmartCloud products, solutions and services. Today, IBM delivers
many line-of-business solutions via cloud-based hosting models, enabling rapid adoption and exploration of new capabilities that can drive significant business value for its
clients and their customers. For developers and IT organizations seeking to leverage cloud computing, IBM can help build out private, on-premise cloud-based environments, provide security
and integration services across private and hybrid cloud models, and/or offer its own cloud-based infrastructure and services, including advanced analytics, collaboration, and IT infrastructure such
as virtual servers, storage and tools for testing software. Across IBM's entire SmartCloud portfolio, the company offers expert consulting, breakthrough technologies and a portfolio of cloud-based
services squarely focused on the requirements of the enterprise.

BUSINESS MODEL

The company's business model is built to support two principal goals: helping clients to become more innovative, efficient and
competitive through the application of business insight and IT solutions; and providing long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been developed over time through strategic
investments in capabilities and technologies that have superior long-term growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients.

The
company's global capabilities include services, software, systems, fundamental research and related financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are combined to provide
integrated solutions to the company's clients.

The
business model is resilient, adapting to the continuously changing market and economic environment. The company continues to divest certain businesses and strengthen its position
through strategic organic investments and acquisitions in higher-value segments like business analytics, smarter planet and cloud computing. In addition, the company has transformed itself into a
globally integrated enterprise which has improved overall productivity and is driving investment and expanding participation in the world's fastest growing markets.

This
business model, supported by the company's financial model, has enabled the company to deliver strong earnings, cash flows and returns to shareholders over the long term.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND CAPABILITIES

The company's major operations consists of five business segments: Global Technology Services, Global Business Services, Software,
Systems and Technology and Global Financing.

Global Servicesis a critical component of the company's strategy of providing IT infrastructure and business insight and solutions to
clients. While solutions often include industry-leading IBM software and systems, other suppliers' products are also used if a client solution requires it. Approximately 60 percent of external Global
Services segment revenue is annuity based, coming primarily from outsourcing and maintenance arrangements. The Global Services backlog provides a solid revenue base entering each year. Within Global
Services, there are two reportable segments: Global Technology Services and Global Business Services.

Global Technology Services (GTS)primarily provides IT infrastructure services and business process services, delivering business value
through global scale, standardization and automation.










GTS
Capabilities

Strategic Outsourcing Services:comprehensive IT outsourcing services dedicated to transforming clients' existing infrastructures to consistently
deliver improved quality, flexibility, risk management and financial value. The company integrates long-standing expertise in service management and technology with the ability to exploit
the power of new technologies from IBM systems and software, such as cloud computing, analytics and virtualization, to deliver high performance, innovation and improved ability to achieve business
objectives.

Global Process Services:a range of standardized through transformational offerings including processing platforms and business process outsourcing.
These services deliver improved business results to clients through the strategic change and/or operation of the client's business processes, applications and infrastructure.

Integrated Technology Services:project-based portfolio of services that enable clients to optimize their IT environments by driving efficiency,
flexibility and productivity, while reducing costs. The standardized portfolio is built around key assets and patented software, and incorporates best practices and proven methodologies that ensure
predictive quality of delivery, security and compliance.

Maintenance:a complete line of support services from product maintenance through solution support to maintain and improve the availability of
clients' IT infrastructures.

GTS Services Delivery:responsible for the worldwide delivery of IBM's technology- and process-based services. Operating within a globally integrated
delivery model enables regional client-facing teams to utilize a global network of competencies and centers, providing industry-leading, standardized, integrated tools and processes. By leveraging
insights and experience drawn from IBM's global scale, skills and technology, with applied innovation from IBM Research, clients gain access to leading-edge, high-quality
services with improved productivity, flexibility, cost and outcomes.

Global Business Services (GBS)primarily provides professional services and application management services, delivering business value and
innovation to clients through solutions which leverage industry and business-process expertise while integrating the industry-leading portfolio of IBM and strategic partners, to define the upper end
of client-valued services.

GBS
Capabilities

Consulting and Systems Integration:delivery of value to clients through consulting services for Strategy and Transformation; Application Innovation
Services; Enterprise Applications and Business Analytics and Optimization.

Application Management Services:application development, management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as custom and
legacy applications. Value is delivered through advanced capabilities in areas such as applications testing and modernization, cloud application security, the company's highly differentiated globally
integrated capability model, industry knowledge and the standardization and automation of application development.

Softwareconsists primarily of middleware and operating systems software. Middleware software enables clients to integrate systems,
processes and applications across a standard software platform to improve their business results, solve critical problems and gain competitive advantage within their industries. IBM middleware is
designed on open standards, making it easier to integrate disparate business applications, developed by different methods and implemented at different times. Operating systems are the software engines
that run computers. Approximately two-thirds of external software segment revenue is annuity based, coming from recurring license charges and ongoing subscription and support. The
remaining one-third relates to one-time charge (OTC) arrangements in which clients pay one, up-front payment for a perpetual license. Typically, the sale of OTC
software includes one year of subscription and support. Clients can also purchase ongoing subscription and support after the first year, which includes unspecified product upgrades and technical
support.










Software
Capabilities

WebSphere Software:delivers capabilities that enable clients to integrate and manage business processes across their organizations with the
flexibility and agility they need to respond to changing conditions quickly. With a services-oriented architecture (SOA), businesses can more easily link together their fragmented data and business
processes to extract value from their existing technology. Smarter Commerce software enables seamless interaction between companies, their customers and suppliers throughout the business cycle,
resulting in better customer experience, higher sales, lower inventories, better service levels and improved response times.

Information Management Software:enables clients to integrate, manage and use their information to gain business value and improve their outcomes.
Solutions include advanced database management, enterprise content management, information integration, data warehousing, performance management business analytics and intelligence, as well as the
emerging area of big data analytics.

Tivoli Software:helps clients manage their technology and business assets by providing visibility, control and automation across their
organizations. With solutions for identity management, data security, storage management, cloud computing, enterprise mobility and the ability to provide automation and provisioning of the datacenter,
Tivoli helps build the infrastructure needed to make the world's systems—from transportation to water, energy and telecommunications—run smarter.

Lotus Software:enables businesses to connect people and processes for more effective communication and increased productivity through collaboration,
messaging and social networking software. By remaining at the forefront of collaboration tools, Lotus helps organizations reap the benefits of social networking and social business.

Rational Software:supports software development for both IT as well as complex and embedded system solutions with a suite of Collaborative Lifecycle
Management products. Jazz, Rational's technology platform, transforms the way people work together to build software, making software delivery more integrated and collaborative, while optimizing for
successful business outcomes.

Security Systems Software:provides clients with a single security intelligence platform that aligns with their business objectives and enables them
to more intelligently secure their enterprises by applying
deep analytics to better identify and prevent vulnerabilities within traditional, cyber, cloud and mobile security.

Operating Systems:software that manages the fundamental processes that make computers run.

Systems and Technologyprovides clients with business solutions requiring advanced computing power and storage capabilities. Approximately
half of Systems and Technology's server and storage sales transactions are through the company's business partners; with the balance direct to end-user clients. In addition, Systems and
Technology provides leading semiconductor technology, products and packaging solutions for IBM's own advanced technology needs and for external clients.

Systems
and Technology Capabilities

Systems:a range of general purpose and integrated systems designed and optimized for specific business, public and scientific computing needs. These
systems—System z, Power Systems and System x—are typically the core technology in data centers that provide required infrastructure for business and institutions. Also,
these systems form the foundation for IBM's integrated offerings, such as IBM Smart Analytics, IBM Netezza, IBM SmartCloud Entry and IBM BladeCenter for Cloud. IBM servers use both IBM and
non-IBM microprocessor technology and operating systems. All IBM servers run Linux, a key open-source operating system.

Storage:data storage products and solutions that allow clients to retain and manage rapidly growing, complex volumes of digital information. These
solutions address critical client requirements for information retention and archiving, security, compliance and storage optimization including data










deduplication,
availability and virtualization. The portfolio consists of a broad range of disk and tape storage systems and software, including the ultra-scalable disk storage system XIV.

Retail Store Solutions:provider of market leadership solutions that include hardware, software and services for the retail industry, including
point-of-sale and self-service systems and peripherals. Solutions leverage industry standards and interfaces enabling efficient rollouts and superior integration.

Microelectronics:semiconductor design and manufacturing primarily for use in IBM systems and storage products as well as delivering semiconductors
and related services to external clients.

Global Financingfacilitates clients' acquisition of IBM systems, software and services. Global Financing invests in financing assets,
leverages with debt and manages the associated risks with the objective of generating consistently strong returns on equity. The primary focus on the company's offerings and clients mitigates many of
the risks normally associated with a financing company. Global Financing has the benefit of both a deep knowledge of its client base and a clear insight into the products and services that are being
financed. This combination allows Global Financing to effectively manage two of the major risks (credit and residual value) that are normally associated with financing.

Global
Financing Capabilities

Client Financing:lease and loan financing to end users and internal clients for terms generally between one and seven years. Internal financing is
predominantly in support of Global Services' long-term client service contracts. Global Financing also factors a selected portion of the company's accounts receivable, primarily for cash
management purposes. All internal financing arrangements are at arm's-length rates and are based upon market conditions.

Commercial Financing:short-term inventory and accounts receivable financing to dealers and remarketers of IT products.

Remanufacturing and Remarketing:as equipment is returned at the conclusion of a lease transaction, these assets are refurbished and sold or leased
to new or existing clients both externally and internally. Externally remarketed equipment revenue represents sales or leases to clients and resellers. Internally remarketed equipment revenue
primarily represents used equipment that is sold or leased internally to Systems and Technology and Global Services. Systems and Technology may also sell the equipment that it purchases from Global
Financing to external clients.

IBM WORLDWIDE ORGANIZATIONS

The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM's delivery of value to its clients:

•Sales and Distribution•Research, Development and Intellectual Property•Enterprise Transformation•Integrated Supply Chain

Sales and Distribution

IBM has a significant global presence, operating in more than 170 countries, with an increasingly broad-based geographic distribution
of revenue. The company's Sales and Distribution organization manages a strong global footprint, with dedicated country-based operating units focused on delivering client value. Within these units,
client relationship professionals work with integrated teams of consultants, product specialists and delivery fulfillment teams to improve clients' business performance. These teams deliver value by
understanding the clients' businesses and
needs, and then bring together capabilities from across IBM and an extensive network of Business Partners to develop and implement solutions.








By
combining global expertise with local experience, IBM's geographic structure enables dedicated management focus for local clients, speed in addressing new market opportunities and
timely investments in emerging opportunities. The geographic units align industry-skilled resources to serve clients' agendas. IBM extends capabilities to mid-market client segments by
leveraging industry skills with marketing, ibm.com and local Business Partner resources.

Through
its growth markets organization, the company continues to increase its focus on the emerging markets around the world that have market growth rates greater than the global
average—countries within Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Latin America. The company's major markets include the G7 countries of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan,
the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (U.K.) plus Austria, the Bahamas, Belgium, the Caribbean region, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Malta, the Netherlands,
Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.

The
majority of IBM's revenue, excluding the company's original equipment manufacturer (OEM) technology business, occurs in industries that are broadly grouped into six
sectors:

•Financial Services: Banking, Financial Markets, Insurance•Public: Education, Government, Healthcare, Life Sciences•Industrial: Aerospace and Defense, Automotive, Chemical and Petroleum, Electronics•Distribution: Consumer Products, Retail, Travel and Transportation•Communications: Telecommunications, Media and Entertainment, Energy and Utilities•General Business: Mainly companies with fewer than 1,000 employees

Research, Development and Intellectual Property

IBM's R&D operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually invests approximately $6 billion for R&D,
focusing on high-growth, high-value opportunities.

IBM
Research works with clients and IBM business units on near-term and mid-term innovations and solutions and, in many cases, qualifies new technologies to be
transferred to IBM development organizations. It also explores the boundaries of science and technology—from nanotechnology, to systems, to analytics, to cloud, to IBM Watson, a computer
system that applied advanced analytics to defeat the all-time champions on the television quiz show, Jeopardy!

In
addition to producing world-class systems, software and technology products, IBM innovations also are a major differentiator in providing solutions for the company's clients through
its services businesses. IBM Research has the world's largest mathematics department of any public company. This unit is actively involved with many of the company's business analytics client
engagements.

In
2011, the company once again was awarded more U.S. patents than any other company, the 19th consecutive year IBM has been the patent leader. IBM's 6,180 patents in 2011 were the most
U.S. patents ever awarded to one company in a single year; more than 70 percent of the patents IBM was issued in 2011 were for software and services.

The
company continues to actively seek intellectual property protection for its innovations, while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage its intellectual property
leadership. The company's investments in R&D also result in intellectual property (IP) income of approximately $1 billion annually. Some of IBM's technological breakthroughs are used exclusively in
IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in either/both IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. While the company's various proprietary intellectual property rights are
important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or is licensed
under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products. Licenses under many of the patents owned by IBM have been and are being granted to others under reasonable terms and
conditions.








Enterprise Transformation

A key element of the company's strategy has been focused on becoming the premier globally integrated enterprise. The company has
implemented a consistent set of processes and standards worldwide to reduce inefficiencies and improve collaboration. With its processes fully integrated, the company implemented a new operating model
with work shared in global resource centers of excellence located where it made the most business sense. Since 2005, global integration has enabled the company to deliver over $6 billion in
productivity and improve service quality, speed and risk management. The company has shifted resources toward building client relationships and employees skills, while positioning the company for new
market opportunities. During this transformation, IBM pioneered this new operating model, changing from a classic "multinational," with smaller versions of the parent company replicated in countries
around the world, to a global model with one set of processes, shared services and broadly distributed decision making.

The
company has now embarked on the next generation of its transformation in which new capabilities and technologies like business analytics and cloud computing will drive performance.
The proven principles of the globally integrated enterprise will be applied to all of the company's spending to continue to drive additional productivity benefits in shared services, integrated
operations and end-to-end process transformation.

Integrated Supply Chain

IBM spends approximately $35 billion annually through its supply chain, procuring materials and services globally. In addition,
in 2011, the company managed approximately
$20 billion in procurement spending for its clients through the Global Process Services organization. The supply, manufacturing and logistics and customer fulfillment operations are integrated
in one operating unit that has optimized inventories over time. Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved sales force productivity and operational effectiveness and efficiency.
Continuous improvements to supply chain resiliency against market-place changes and risks have been particularly valuable in maintaining continuity during natural disasters and other disruptive events
that are occurring with increased frequency.

The
company's continuing efforts to derive business value from its own globally integrated supply chain provides a strategic advantage for the company to create value for clients. IBM
leverages its supply-chain expertise for clients through its supply-chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help operate clients' end-to-end
supply-chain processes, from procurement to logistics.

COMPETITION

The company is a globally-integrated enterprise, operating in more than 170 countries. The company participates in a highly competitive
environment, where its competitors vary by industry segment, and range from large multinational enterprises to smaller, more narrowly focused entities. Overall, across its business segments, the
company recognizes hundreds of competitors worldwide.

Across
its business, the company's principal methods of competition are: technology innovation; performance; price; quality; brand; its broad range of capabilities, products and
services; client relationships; the ability to deliver business value to clients; and, service and support. In order to maintain leadership, a corporation must continue to invest, innovate and
integrate. The company has been executing a strategy to transform its business, including shifting to higher value market segments and offerings and increasing its capabilities through organic
investments and strategic acquisitions. As the company executes its strategy, it enters new markets, such as smarter planet and business analytics, which exposes the company to new competitors.
Overall, the company is the leader or among the leaders in each of its business segments.








A
summary of the competitive environment for each business segment is included below:

Global Services:

The services segments, GTS and GBS, operate in a highly competitive and continually evolving global market. GTS competes in strategic
outsourcing, business process outsourcing, cloud services, and a wide range of technical and IT support services. GBS competes in consulting, system integration and application management services.
The principal competitive factors in these business segments include: technical skills and capabilities, innovative service and product offerings, industry knowledge and experience, value and speed,
price, client relationships, quality of sales and delivery, reliability, security and the availability of resources. The company's competitive advantages in the services business include its global
reach and scale, global delivery model, best-of-breed process and industry skills, extensive technology expertise, services assets, an ability to deliver integrated solutions
that can address clients' needs in any environment and a strong set of relationships with clients and strategic business partners worldwide. The company competes with broad based competitors
including: Accenture, Computer Sciences Corporation, Fujitsu and Hewlett-Packard Company (HP); India-based service providers; the consulting practices of public accounting firms; and many companies
that primarily focus on local markets or niche service areas.

Software:

The enterprise management software market is highly competitive, and the key competitive factors in this segment include:
functionality, ease of use, scalability, compliance with open standards and total cost of ownership. The company's leadership in these areas provides it with competitive advantages. The company's
software business includes middleware, operating systems and related software that provide comprehensive solutions to all industry segments worldwide. The middleware portfolio is the broadest in the
industry and it also covers both mainframe and distributed computing environments. The depth and breadth of the company's software offerings, coupled with its global sales and technical support
infrastructure differentiate the company's software business from its competitors. In addition, the company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio
contribute to this segment's leadership. The company's principal competitors in this segment include CA, Inc., Microsoft Corporation and Oracle Corporation (Oracle). In addition, the company
competes with smaller, niche competitors in specific geographic or product markets worldwide.

Systems and Technology:

The enterprise server and storage market is highly competitive and is characterized by ongoing technology innovation, with competition
focused on value, function and reliability, and new entrants leveraging technology to compete against traditional offerings. The company's principal competitors include Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco),
Dell, Inc. (Dell), EMC Corporation, HP and Oracle. The company's leadership in virtualization, power management, security, multi-operating system capabilities and the ability of its systems
platforms to leverage the entire system, from the company's custom semiconductors through the software stack to increase efficiency and lower cost, provide the company with competitive advantages in
this segment. In addition, the company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio contribute significantly to this segment's leadership.

Global Financing:

Global Financing provides client financing, commercial financing and participates in the remarketing of used equipment. The economic
crisis of 2008 and 2009 drove an increase in credit spreads and a tightening supply of credit which have subsequently eased. However, going forward credit spreads may increase and the supply of credit
may tighten based on worldwide economic conditions. Global Financing's access to capital and its ability to manage increased exposures provide a competitive










advantage
for the company. The key competitive factors include price, IT product expertise, client service, contract flexibility, ease of doing business, global capabilities and residual values. In
client and commercial financing, Global Financing competes with three types of companies in providing financial services to IT customers: other captive financing entities of companies such as Cisco
and HP and non-captive financing entities of companies such as General Electric Company and banks or financial institutions. In remarketing, the company competes with local and regional
brokers plus original manufacturers in the fragmented worldwide used IT equipment market.

Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements

The
following information is included in IBM's 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference:

Segment
information and revenue by classes of similar products or services—pages 135 to 139.

Financial
information by geographic areas—page 139.

Amount
spent during each of the last three years on R&D activities—page 117.

Financial
information regarding environmental activities—pages 108 and 109.

The
number of persons employed by the registrant—page 63.

The
management discussion overview—pages 18 to 20.

Available
information—page 145.

Also
refer to Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I of this Form.








Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 28, 2012):

AgeOfficer sinceChairman of the BoardSamuel J. Palmisano*601997President and Chief Executive OfficerVirginia M. Rometty*542005Rodney C. Adkins, Senior Vice President, Systems and Technology Group532007Colleen F. Arnold, Senior Vice President, Application Management Services542010James P. Bramante, Senior Vice President, Growth Markets532012Erich Clementi, Senior Vice President, Global Technology Services532010Michael E. Daniels, Senior Vice President and Group Executive, Services572005Bruno V. Di Leo Allen, Senior Vice President, Sales and Distribution542012Jon C. Iwata, Senior Vice President, Marketing and Communications492002James J. Kavanaugh, Vice President and Controller452008John E. Kelly III, Senior Vice President and Director, Research582000Robert J. LeBlanc, Senior Vice President, Middleware Software Group532010Mark Loughridge, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Finance and Enterprise Transformation581998J. Randall MacDonald, Senior Vice President, Human Resources632000Steven A. Mills, Senior Vice President and Group Executive, Software and Systems602000Michael D. Rhodin, Senior Vice President, Software Solutions Group512010Linda S. Sanford, Senior Vice President, Enterprise Transformation592000Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Senior Vice President, GTS Services Delivery542004Bridget A. van Kralingen, Senior Vice President, Global Business Services482012Robert C. Weber, Senior Vice President, Legal and Regulatory Affairs, and General Counsel612006

*Member
of the Board of Directors.

All
executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve until the next election of officers in conjunction with the annual meeting of the stockholders as provided in the
By-laws. Each executive officer named above has been an executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years.

