Item 1. Business:

International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) was incorporated in the State of New York on June 16, 1911, as
the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Co. (C-T-R), a consolidation of the Computing Scale Co. of America, the Tabulating Machine Co. and The International Time Recording Co. of
New York. Since that time, IBM has focused on the intersection of business insight and technological innovation, and its operations and aims have been international in nature. This was signaled over
85 years ago, in 1924, when C-T-R changed its name to International Business Machines Corporation. And it continues today: The company creates business value for clients and solves business problems
through integrated solutions that leverage information technology and deep knowledge of business processes. IBM solutions typically create value by reducing a client's operational costs or by enabling
new capabilities that generate revenue. These solutions draw from an industry leading portfolio of consulting, delivery and implementation services, enterprise software, systems and financing.

STRATEGY

Despite the volatility of the information technology (IT) industry over the past decade, IBM has consistently delivered superior
performance, with a steady track record of sustained earnings per share growth. The company has shifted its business mix, exiting commoditized segments while increasing its presence in higher-value
areas such as services, software and integrated solutions. As part of this shift, the company has acquired over 100 companies this past decade, complementing and scaling its portfolio of products and
offerings.

IBM's
clear strategy has enabled steady results in core business areas, while expanding its offerings and addressable markets. The key tenets of this strategy
are:

•Deliver value to enterprise clients through integrated business and IT innovation;•Shift the business mix to higher-value areas; and•Become the premier globally integrated enterprise

These
priorities reflect a broad shift in client spending away from "point products" and toward integrated solutions, as companies seek higher levels of business value from their IT
investments. IBM has been able to deliver this enhanced client value thanks to its industry expertise, understanding of clients' businesses and the breadth and depth of the company's capabilities.

Consistent
with this strategy IBM is leveraging its capabilities to build and expand strong positions in targeted growth areas. IBM's growth initiatives include Smarter Planet, Growth
Markets, Business Analytics and Optimization, and Cloud Computing. Each initiative represents a significant growth opportunity with attractive profit margins for IBM.

Smarter Planet

Smarter Planet is an overarching strategy that highlights IBM's differentiated capabilities and generates broad-based demand for the
company's products and services. Smarter Planet encapsulates IBM's view of enterprise IT's next major revolution: the instrumentation and integration of the world's processes and
infrastructures—from energy grids and pipelines to supply chains and traffic systems. The amount of data these systems can generate can now be captured and analyzed. This infusion of
intelligence enables more efficiency, productivity and responsiveness.

Clients
seeking these "smart" solutions value IBM's deep industry and process expertise, powerful back-end systems and data analytics, complex systems integration capability
and unique research capacity. IBM has built a series of horizontal solutions through organic development and strategic acquisitions including smarter commerce and smarter physical infrastructure.
IBM's Industry Frameworks provide a flexible software foundation for developing, acquiring and deploying these smart industry solutions. Each framework supports multiple solutions, enabling fast,
efficient and tailored










capabilities
in support of clients' business needs. These frameworks represent a proven technique for the company to engage with its clients, driving sustained growth and high business value in
support of our Smarter Planet strategy.

Growth Markets

The company has benefited from its investments over the past several years in growth markets. The focus now is on geographic expansion
of IBM's presence; on specific industry verticals of the highest impact and opportunity; on countries' build-out of infrastructure aligned with their national agendas; and on creating
markets and new business models to serve the different requirements that exist in these emerging countries.

In
order to support this growth, IBM is continuing to invest significantly in these markets to expand capacity and develop talent. At the same time, IBM is expanding and benefiting from
large teams of talent with global missions of delivery. The company continues to deepen its research and development (R&D) teams to design for the unique challenges and rapid growth facing these
markets.

Business Analytics and Optimization

Business optimization through the application of analytics across the business has emerged as another major category of business value.
It succeeds earlier generations of back-office automation, basic enterprise resource planning and traditional business intelligence. Business analytics allows clients to see patterns in
data they could not see before, understand their exposure to risk, and predict the outcomes of business decisions with greater certainty.

IBM's
approach is end-to-end, providing cross-enterprise as well as industry-based analytics solutions. IBM has established the Business Analytics and
Optimization practice, leveraging IBM consulting capabilities and software products, along with systems and research assets. IBM's breadth of expertise uniquely positions the company for revenue and
profit growth.

Cloud Computing

Cloud is a new model for consuming and delivering IT and business services. It can deliver significant economies of scale, higher
qualities of service and a new platform for business model innovation. The power of the model comes from harnessing vast stores of under-utilized technology with highly efficient virtualization and
management, consumer-style user interfaces and the ubiquitous broadband.

IBM
has helped thousands of clients adopt aspects of cloud computing. IBM is helping them build their own cloud-based infrastructures, provide security and integration services or
offering infrastructure and business services from the IBM Cloud, including advanced analytics, collaboration, and IT infrastructure including virtual servers and storage or access to tools for
testing software. IBM brings expert consulting, breakthrough technologies, and a portfolio of cloud services squarely focused on the requirements of the enterprise. IBM has also implemented the cloud
model within IBM in areas as diverse as sales analytics and research collaboration.

BUSINESS MODEL

The company's business model is built to support two principal goals: helping clients succeed in delivering business value by becoming
more innovative, efficient and competitive through the use of business insight and IT solutions; and providing
long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been developed over time through strategic investments in capabilities and technologies that have the best long-term
growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients.

The
company's global capabilities include services, software, systems, fundamental research and related financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are combined to provide
business insight and solutions for the company's clients.








The
business model is resilient, adapting to the continuously changing market and economic environment. The company continues to divest commoditizing businesses and strengthen its
position through strategic organic investments and acquisitions in higher-value segments like business analytics, smarter planet and cloud computing. In addition, the company has transformed itself
into a globally integrated enterprise which has improved overall productivity and is driving investment and expanding participation in the world's fastest growing markets. As a result, the company is
a higher performing enterprise today than it was several years ago.

This
business model, supported by the company's long-term financial model, has enabled the company to deliver consistently strong earnings, cash flows and returns to
shareholders in changing economic environments.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND CAPABILITIES

The company's major operations consists of five business segments: Global Technology Services, Global Business Services, Software,
Systems and Technology and Global Financing.

Global Servicesis a critical component of the company's strategy of providing IT infrastructure and business insight and solutions to
clients. While solutions often include industry-leading IBM software and systems, other suppliers' products are also used if a client solution requires it. Approximately 60 percent of external
Global Services segment revenue is annuity-based, coming primarily from outsourcing, maintenance and custom application management services arrangements. The Global Services backlog provides a solid
revenue base entering each year. Within Global Services, there are two reportable segments: Global Technology Services and Global Business Services.

Global Technology Services (GTS)primarily provides IT infrastructure services and business process services, delivering business value
through the company's global scale, standardization and automation.

GTS
Capabilities

Strategic Outsourcing Services.Comprehensive IT outsourcing services dedicated to transforming clients'
existing infrastructures to ensure better quality, flexibility, risk management and financial value. IBM integrates long-standing experience in service management, technology and industry
applications with new technologies, such as cloud computing and virtualization, to help clients maximize the application of technology to achieve their business objectives.

Global Process Services.A range of offerings from standardized processing platforms and business process outsourcing through
transformational offerings that deliver improved business results to clients through the strategic change and/or operation of the client's business processes, applications and infrastructure
(previously known as Business Transformation Outsourcing).

Integrated Technology Services.Project-based portfolio of services that enable clients to optimize their IT environments by driving
efficiency, flexibility and productivity, while reducing costs. The standardized portfolio is built around key assets and patented software, and incorporates best practices and proven methodologies
that ensure predictive quality of delivery, security and compliance.

Maintenance.A complete line of support services from product maintenance through solution support to maintain and improve the
availability of clients' IT infrastructures.

GTS Services Delivery.Responsible for the worldwide delivery of IBM's technology- and process-based services. In support of
technology-based services, GTS Services Delivery manages the world's largest privately owned IT infrastructure with employees in over 40 countries, supporting approximately 430 data centers. Operating
in a globally integrated delivery model enables regional client-facing teams to utilize a global network of competencies and centers. Each competency provides industry-leading, standardized,
integrated tools and processes. By leveraging insights and experience drawn from IBM's global scale, skills and technology, with applied innovation from IBM Research, clients gain access to
leading-edge, high-quality services with improved productivity, flexibility and cost.








GTS
Services Delivery also provides efficient, world-class delivery capabilities in support of IBM's process-based services, which include Business Transformation Outsourcing, Business
Process Outsourcing and Business Process Services. These delivery capabilities are available to clients through highly skilled employees and delivery centers in over 40 countries worldwide.

Global Business Services (GBS)primarily provides professional services and application management services, delivering business value and
innovation to clients through solutions which leverage industry and business-process expertise while integrating the industry-leading portfolio of IBM and strategic partners, to define the upper end
of client-valued services.

GBS
Capabilities

Consulting and Systems Integration.Delivery of value to clients through consulting services for Strategy and
Transformation; Application Innovation Services; Enterprise Applications (SAP and Oracle) and Business Analytics and Optimization.

Application Management Services.Application development, management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as
custom and legacy applications. Value is delivered through advanced capabilities in areas such as applications testing and modernization, cloud application security, the company's highly
differentiated globally integrated capability model, industry knowledge and the standardization and automation of application development.

Softwareconsists primarily of middleware and operating systems software. Middleware software enables clients to integrate systems,
processes and applications across a standard software platform. IBM middleware is designed on open standards, making it easier to integrate disparate business applications, developed by different
methods and implemented at different times. Operating systems are the software engines that run computers. Approximately two-thirds of external software segment revenue is annuity-based,
coming from recurring license charges and ongoing subscription and support. The remaining one-third relates to one-time charge (OTC) arrangements in which clients pay one,
up-front payment for a perpetual license. Typically, the sale of OTC software includes one year of subscription and support. Clients can also purchase ongoing subscription and support
after the first year, which includes product upgrades and technical support.

Software
Capabilities

WebSphere Software.Delivers capabilities that enable clients to integrate and manage business processes across
their organizations with the flexibility and agility they need to respond to changing conditions quickly. With a services-oriented architecture (SOA), businesses can more easily link together their
fragmented data and business processes to extract value from their existing technology.

Information Management Software.Enables clients to integrate, manage and use their information to gain business value and improve their
outcomes. Solutions include advanced database management, enterprise content management, information integration, data warehousing, business analytics and intelligence, performance management and
predictive analytics.

Tivoli Software.Helps clients manage their technology and business assets by providing visibility, control and automation across their
organizations. With solutions for identity management, data security, storage management and the ability to provide automation and provisioning of the datacenter, Tivoli helps build the infrastructure
needed to make the world's systems—from transportation to water, energy and telecommunications—run smarter.

Lotus Software.Enables businesses to connect people and processes for more effective communication and increased productivity through
collaboration, messaging and social networking software. By remaining at the forefront of collaboration tools, Lotus helps organizations reap the benefits of social networking and other Web 2.0
modalities.

Rational Software.Supports software development for both IT and embedded system solutions with a suite of Application Lifecycle
Management products. Jazz, Rational's technology platform, transforms










the
way people work together to build software, making software delivery more collaborative, productive and transparent.

Business Analytics.Enables clients to better analyze their data and predict outcomes in order to make better business decisions.
Solutions include Cognos' business intelligence software, which provides comprehensive tools that range from querying to forecasting; as well as SPSS predictive analytics software that helps clients
predict outcomes and act on that insight.

Operating Systems.Software that manages the fundamental processes that make computers run.

Systems and Technologyprovides clients with business solutions requiring advanced computing power and storage capabilities. Approximately
half of Systems and Technology's server and storage sales transactions are through the company's business partners; with the balance direct to end-user clients. In addition, Systems and
Technology provides leading semiconductor technology, products and packaging solutions to clients and for IBM's own advanced technology needs.

Systems
and Technology Capabilities

Systems.A range of general purpose and integrated systems designed and optimized for specific business, public
and scientific computing needs. These systems—System z, Power Systems and System x—are typically the core technology in data centers that provide required infrastructure
for business and institutions. Also, these systems form the foundation for IBM's integrated offerings, such as IBM Smart Business Storage Cloud, IBM Smart Analytics Cloud, IBM Smart Analytics System
and IBM CloudBurst. IBM servers use both IBM and non-IBM microprocessor technology and operating systems. All IBM servers run Linux, a key open- source operating system.

Storage.IBM provides data storage products and solutions that allow clients to retain and manage rapidly growing, complex volumes of
digital information. These solutions address critical client requirements for information retention and archiving, data deduplication, availability and virtualization, and security and compliance. The
portfolio consists of a broad range of disk and tape storage systems and software, including the ultra-scalable disk storage system XIV.

Retail Store Solutions.Point-of-sale retail systems (network connected cash registers) as well as solutions which
connect them to other store systems.

Microelectronics.Semiconductor design and manufacturing primarily for use in IBM systems and storage products as well as delivering
semiconductors and related services to external clients.

Global Financingfacilitates clients' acquisition of IBM systems, software and services. Global Financing invests in financing assets,
leverages with debt and manages the associated risks with the objective of generating consistently strong returns on equity. The primary focus on the company's offerings and clients mitigates many of
the risks normally associated with a financing company. Global Financing has the benefit of both a deep knowledge of its client base and a clear insight into the products and services that are being
financed. This combination allows Global Financing to effectively manage two of the major risks (credit and residual value) that are normally associated with financing.

Global
Financing Capabilities

Client Financing.Lease and loan financing to end users and internal clients for terms generally between two
and seven years. Internal financing is predominantly in support of Global Services' long-term client service contracts. Global Financing also factors a selected portion of the company's
accounts receivable, primarily for cash management purposes. All internal financing arrangements are at arm's-length rates and are based upon market conditions.

Commercial Financing.Short-term inventory and accounts receivable financing to dealers and remarketers of IT products.

Remanufacturing and Remarketing.As equipment is returned at the conclusion of a lease transaction, these assets are refurbished and sold
or leased to new or existing clients both externally and internally. Externally remarketed equipment revenue represents sales or leases to clients and










resellers.
Internally remarketed equipment revenue primarily represents used equipment that is sold or leased internally to the Systems and Technology and Global Services segments. The Systems and
Technology segment may also sell the equipment that it purchases from Global Financing to external clients.

IBM WORLDWIDE ORGANIZATIONS

The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM's delivery of value to its clients:

•Sales and Distribution•Research, Development and Intellectual Property•Enterprise Transformation•Integrated Supply Chain

Sales and Distribution

IBM has a significant global presence, operating in more than 170 countries, with an increasingly broad-based geographic distribution
of revenue. The company's Sales and Distribution organization manages a strong global footprint, with dedicated country-based operating units focused on delivering client value. Within these units,
client relationship professionals work with integrated teams of consultants, product specialists and delivery fulfillment teams to improve clients' business performance. These teams deliver value by
understanding the clients' businesses and needs, and then bring together capabilities from across IBM and an extensive network of Business Partners to develop and implement solutions.

By
combining global expertise with local experience, IBM's geographic structure enables dedicated management focus for local clients, speed in addressing new market opportunities and
timely investments in emerging opportunities. The geographic units align industry-skilled resources to serve clients' agendas. IBM extends capabilities to mid-market client segments by
leveraging industry skills with marketing,ibm.comand local Business Partner resources.

Through
its growth markets organization, the company continues to increase its focus on the emerging markets around the world that have market growth rates greater than the global
average—countries within Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Latin America. The company's major markets include the United States (U.S.), Canada, the United Kingdom (U.K.),
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, Austria, Belgium, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Cyprus, Norway, Israel, Spain, the Bahamas and the
Caribbean region.

The
majority of IBM's revenue, excluding the company's original equipment manufacturer (OEM) technology business, occurs in industries that are broadly grouped into six
sectors:

•Financial Services: Banking, Financial Markets, Insurance•Public: Education, Government, Healthcare, Life Sciences•Industrial: Aerospace and Defense, Automotive, Chemical and Petroleum, Electronics•Distribution: Consumer Products, Retail, Travel and Transportation•Communications: Telecommunications, Media and Entertainment, Energy and Utilities•General Business: Mainly companies with fewer than 1,000 employees

Research, Development and Intellectual Property

IBM's R&D operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually invests approximately $6 billion for R&D,
focusing on high-growth, high-value opportunities. The company has rebalanced its internal R&D. Today, IBM's portfolio is built around networked, modularized and embedded
technologies, as well as business intelligence and analytics. In 2010, the company was once










again
awarded more U.S. patents than any other company, the 18th consecutive year IBM has been the patent leader. IBM's 5,896 patents in 2010 were the most U.S. patents ever awarded to one
company in
a single year. Over 70 percent of the patents issued in 2010 were for software and services. The company's R&D efforts continue to push the frontiers of science and technology—from
analytics, to cloud, to a computer named Watson that applied advanced analytics to defeat the all-time champions on the television quiz show, Jeopardy.

In
addition to producing world-class systems, software and technology products, IBM innovations are also a major differentiator in providing solutions for the company's clients through
its services businesses. As an example, the company's Research unit has the world's largest mathematics department of any public company. This unit is actively involved with most of the company's
business analytics client engagements.

The
company will continue to actively seek intellectual property protection for its innovations, while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage its intellectual
property leadership. The company's investments in R&D also result in intellectual property (IP) income of approximately $1 billion annually. Some of IBM's technological breakthroughs are used
exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in either/both IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. While the company's various proprietary intellectual property
rights are important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or
is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products. Licenses under patents owned by IBM have been and are being granted to others under reasonable terms and
conditions.

Enterprise Transformation

A key element of the company's strategy has been focused on becoming the premier globally integrated enterprise. In the early part of
the decade, the company drove implementation of a consistent set of processes and standards worldwide to reduce inefficiencies and improve collaboration. With its processes fully integrated, the
company implemented a new operating model with work shared in global resource centers of excellence located where it made the most business sense. Since 2005, global integration has enabled the
company to reduce spending by over $5 billion and improve service quality, speed and risk management. The company has shifted resources toward building client relationships and employees
skills, while positioning the company for new market opportunities. During this period, IBM has pioneered this new operating model, changing from a classic "multinational", with smaller versions of
the parent company replicated in countries around the world, to a global model with one set of processes, shared services and broadly distributed decision making.

The
company is now embarking on the next generation of its transformation in which new capabilities and technologies like business analytics and cloud computing will drive performance.
The proven principles of the globally integrated enterprise will be applied to all of the company's spending to continue to drive additional productivity benefits in shared services, integrated
operations and end-to-end process transformation.

Integrated Supply Chain

Consistent with the company's work with clients to transform their supply chains for greater efficiency and responsiveness to global
market conditions, the company continues to derive business value from its own globally integrated supply chain, thereby providing a strategic advantage for the company to create value for clients.
IBM leverages its supply-chain expertise for clients through its supply-chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help operate clients' end-to-end
supply-chain processes, from procurement to logistics.








IBM spends approximately $35 billion annually through its supply chain, procuring materials and services globally. The supply, manufacturing and logistics and customer fulfillment
operations are integrated in one operating unit that has optimized inventories over time, improved response to marketplace opportunities and external risks and converted fixed costs to variable costs.
Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved operations, sales force productivity and processes.

COMPETITION

The company is a globally-integrated enterprise, doing business in more than 170 countries. The company participates in a highly
competitive environment, where its competitors vary by industry segment, and range from large multinational enterprises to smaller, more narrowly focused entities. Overall, across its business
segments, the company recognizes hundreds of competitors worldwide.

The
markets for each of the company's business segments is characterized by aggressive competition among all types of competitors. Across its business, the company's principal methods of
competition are: technology innovation; performance; price; quality; brand; its broad range of capabilities, products and services; client relationships; the ability to deliver business value to
clients; and, service and support. In order to maintain leadership, a corporation must continue to invest, innovate and integrate. Over the past decade, the company has been executing a strategy to
transform its business, including shifting to higher value market segments and offerings and increasing its capabilities through organic investments and strategic acquisitions. As the company executes
its strategy, it enters new markets, such as smarter planet and business analytics, which exposes the company to new competitors. Overall, the company is the leader or among the leaders in each of its
business segments.

A
summary of the competitive environment for each business segment is included below:

Global Services:

The services segments, GTS and GBS, operate in a highly competitive and continually evolving global market. GTS competes in strategic
outsourcing, business process outsourcing, cloud services, and a wide range of technical and IT support services. GBS competes in consulting, system integration and application management services.
The principal competitive factors in these business segments include: technical skills and capabilities, innovative service and product offerings, industry knowledge and experience, value and speed,
price, client relationships, quality of sales and delivery, reliability, security and the availability of resources. The company's competitive advantages in the services business include its global
reach and scale, global delivery model, best-of-breed process and industry skills, extensive technology expertise, services assets, an ability to deliver integrated solutions
that can address clients' needs in any environment and a strong set of relationships with clients and strategic business partners worldwide. The company competes with broad based competitors
including: Accenture, Computer Sciences Corporation, Fujitsu and Hewlett-Packard Company (HP); India-based service providers including HCL, Infosys, Tata Consulting Services, Cognizant and Wipro
Technologies; the consulting practices of public accounting firms including Deloitte Consulting; and many companies that primarily focus on local markets or niche service areas.

Software:

The enterprise management software market is highly competitive, and the key competitive factors in this segment include:
functionality, ease of use, scalability, compliance with open standards and total cost of ownership. The company's leadership in these areas provides it with competitive advantages. The company's
software business includes middleware, operating systems and related software provided to all industry segments worldwide. The middleware portfolio is the broadest in the industry and it also covers
both mainframe and distributed computing environments. The depth and breadth of the company's software offerings, coupled with its global sales and technical support infrastructure differentiate the
company's software business from its competitors. In addition, the company's research










and
development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio contribute to this segment's leadership. The company's principal competitors in this segment include CA, Inc., Microsoft
Corporation and Oracle Corporation (Oracle). In addition, the company competes with smaller, niche competitors in specific geographic or product markets worldwide.

Systems and Technology:

The enterprise server and storage market is highly competitive and is characterized by ongoing technology innovation, with competition
focused on value, function and reliability, and new entrants leveraging technology to compete against traditional offerings. The company's principal competitors include Dell, Inc. (Dell), EMC
Corporation, HP and Oracle. The company's leadership in virtualization, power management, security, multi-operating system capabilities and the ability of its systems platforms to leverage the entire
system, from the company's custom semiconductors through the software stack to increase efficiency and lower cost, provide the company with competitive advantages in this segment. In addition, the
company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio contribute significantly to this segment's leadership.

Global Financing:

The Global Financing business provides client financing, commercial financing and participates in the remarketing of used equipment. In
2008 and 2009, the economic crisis drove an increase in credit spreads which stabilized in 2010. However, going forward the supply of credit may tighten and financial institutions may continue to face
increases in loan losses, higher borrowing costs and liquidity challenges. Global Financing's access to capital and its ability to manage increased exposures provide a competitive advantage for the
company. The key competitive factors include price, IT product expertise, client service, contract flexibility, ease of doing business and residual values. In client and commercial financing, Global
Financing competes with three types of companies in providing financial services to IT customers: other captive financing entities of companies such as HP and Cisco Systems, Inc.,
non-captive financing entities of companies such as General Electric Company and banks or financial institutions. In remarketing, the company competes with local and regional brokers plus
original manufacturers in the fragmented worldwide used IT equipment market.

Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements








The
following information is included in IBM's 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference:

Segment
information and revenue by classes of similar products or services—pages 126 to 130.

Financial
information by geographic areas—page 129.

Amount
spent during each of the last three years on R&D activities—page 108.

Financial
information regarding environmental activities—pages 102 and 103.

The
number of persons employed by the registrant—page 54.

The
management discussion overview—pages 18 to 20.

Available
information—page 136.

Also
refer to Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I of this Form.

Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 22, 2011):

AgeOfficer sinceSamuel J. Palmisano, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer(1)591997Rodney C. Adkins, Senior Vice President, Systems and Technology522007Colleen F. Arnold, Senior Vice President, Application Management Services532010Erich Clementi, Senior Vice President, Global Technology Services522010Michael E. Daniels, Senior Vice President and Group Executive, Services562005Jon C. Iwata, Senior Vice President, Marketing and Communications482002James J. Kavanaugh, Vice President and Controller442008John E. Kelly III, Senior Vice President, Research and Intellectual Property572000R. Franklin Kern III, Senior Vice President, Global Business Services572008Robert J. LeBlanc, Senior Vice President, Middleware Software522010Mark Loughridge, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Finance and Enterprise Transformation571998J. Randall MacDonald, Senior Vice President, Human Resources622000Steven A. Mills, Senior Vice President and Group Executive, Software and Systems592000Michael D. Rhodin, Senior Vice President, Software Solutions502010Virginia M. Rometty, Senior Vice President and Group Executive, Sales, Marketing and Strategy532005Linda S. Sanford, Senior Vice President, Enterprise Transformation582000Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Senior Vice President, GTS Services Delivery532004Robert C. Weber, Senior Vice President, Legal and Regulatory Affairs, and General Counsel602006

(1)Member
of the Board of Directors.

All
executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve until the next election of officers in conjunction with the annual meeting of the stockholders as provided in the
By-laws. Each executive officer named above has been an executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years.








