Item 1.  Business

Cintas Corporation ("Cintas," "Company," "we," "us" or "our"), a Washington corporation, provides highly specialized products and services to businesses of all types primarily throughout North America, as well as Latin America, Europe and Asia. Cintas' products and services are designed to enhance its customers' images and brand identification, as well as provide a safe and efficient workplace. Cintas was founded in 1968 by Richard T. Farmer, currently the Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Directors, when he left his family's industrial laundry business in order to develop uniform programs using an exclusive new fabric. In the early 1970's, Cintas acquired the family industrial laundry business. Over the years, Cintas developed additional products and services that complemented its core uniform business and broadened the scope of products and services available to its customers.

Cintas classifies its businesses into four operating segments based on the types of products and services provided. The Rental Uniforms and Ancillary Products operating segment consists predominantly of revenue derived from the rental of corporate identify uniforms and other garments, including flame resistant clothing, and the rental and/or sale of mats, mops, shop towels, restroom supplies and other rental services. The Uniform Direct Sales operating segment consists of the direct sale of uniforms and related items. The First Aid, Safety and Fire Protection Services operating segment consists of first aid, safety and fire protection products and services. The Document Management Services operating segment consists of document destruction, document imaging and document retention services.

On April 30, 2014, Cintas completed its partnership transaction with the shareholders of Shred-it International Inc. ("Shred-it") to combine Cintas’ document destruction ("shredding") business with Shred-it’s document destruction business. Cintas' document destruction business represented approximately 76%, 80%, and 70% of Cintas' Document Management Services operating segment's assets, revenue, and income before income taxes, respectively, as of and for the most recent quarter ended February 28, 2014. Under the agreement, Cintas and Shred-it each contributed its document destruction business to a newly formed partnership owned 42% by Cintas and 58% by the shareholders of Shred-it. In addition to its 42% ownership of the partnership (named and operated under "Shred-it"), Cintas received $180.0 million in cash at the closing of the transaction. The Company's equity interest in Shred-it is accounted for under the equity method of accounting as prescribed by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Please see Note 1 entitled Significant Accounting Policies and Note 4 entitled Investments of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information on equity method investments.

We provide our products and services to over one million businesses of all types — from small service and manufacturing companies to major corporations that employ thousands of people. This diversity in customer base results in no individual customer accounting for greater than one percent of Cintas' total revenue. As a result, the loss of one account would not have a significant financial impact on Cintas.The following table sets forth Cintas' total revenue and the revenue derived from each operating segment:

Fiscal Year Ended May 31, (in thousands)201420132012Rental Uniforms and Ancillary Products$3,223,930$3,044,587$2,912,261Uniform Direct Sales455,485461,328433,994First Aid, Safety and Fire Protection Services514,429460,592415,703Document Management Services(1)357,968349,964340,042Total Revenue(1)$4,551,812$4,316,471$4,102,000



(1)Fiscal year 2014 includes only eleven months of shredding revenue.

Additional information regarding each operating segment is also included in Note 15 entitled Operating Segment Information of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

The primary markets served by all Cintas operating segments are local in nature and highly fragmented. Cintas competes with national, regional and local providers, and the level of competition varies at each of Cintas' local operations. Product, design, price, quality, service and convenience to the customer are the competitive elements in each of our operating segments.










Within the Rental Uniforms and Ancillary Products operating segment, Cintas provides its products and services to customers via local delivery routes originating from rental processing plants and branches. Within the Uniform Direct Sales and First Aid, Safety and Fire Protection Services operating segments, Cintas provides its products and services via its distribution network and local delivery routes or local representatives. Within the Document Management Services operating segment, Cintas provides its services via local service routes originating from document retention facilities. In total, Cintas has approximately 7,800 local delivery routes, 391 operational facilities and eight distribution centers. AtMay 31, 2014, Cintas employed approximately 33,000 employees, of which approximately 200 were represented by labor unions.

Cintas sources finished products from many outside suppliers. In addition, Cintas operates five manufacturing facilities that provide for standard uniform needs. Cintas purchases fabric, used in its manufacturing process, from several suppliers. Cintas is not aware of any circumstances that would hinder its ability to continue obtaining these materials.

Cintas is subject to various environmental laws and regulations, as are other companies in the uniform rental industry. While environmental compliance is not a material component of its costs, Cintas must incur capital expenditures and associated operating costs, primarily for water treatment and waste removal, on a regular basis. Environmental spending related to water treatment and waste removal was approximately $21 million in fiscal2014and approximately $19 million in fiscal2013. There were no capital expenditures to limit or monitor hazardous substances in fiscal2014and approximately $2 million in capital expenditures in fiscal2013. Cintas does not expect a material change in the cost of environmental compliance and is not aware of any material non-compliance with environmental laws.














