Item 1.  Business

Cintas Corporation ("Cintas," "Company," "we," "us" or "our"), a Washington corporation, provides highly specialized products and services to businesses of all types primarily throughout North America, as well as Latin America, Europe and Asia. Cintas' products and services are designed to enhance its customers' images and brand identification, as well as provide a safe and efficient workplace. Cintas was founded in 1968 by Richard T. Farmer, currently the Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Directors, when he left his family's industrial laundry business in order to develop uniform programs using an exclusive new fabric. In the early 1970's, Cintas acquired the family industrial laundry business. Over the years, Cintas developed additional products and services that complemented its core uniform business and broadened the scope of products and services available to its customers.

Effective August 31, 2014, Cintas classifies its businesses intothreereportable operating segments ("operating segments") based on the types of products and services provided. The Rental Uniforms and Ancillary Products operating segment consists of the rental and servicing of uniforms and other garments including flame resistant clothing, mats, mops and shop towels and other ancillary items. In addition to these rental items, restroom cleaning services and supplies and carpet and tile cleaning services are also provided within this operating segment. The Uniform Direct Sales operating segment consists of the direct sale of uniforms and related items. The First Aid, Safety and Fire Protection Services operating segment consists of first aid, safety and fire protection products and services.

Previously, Cintas classified its businesses intofouroperating segments. The Document Management Services operating segment is no longer considered an operating segment. This operating segment consisted of document destruction services ("Shredding") and document imaging and retention services ("Storage"). On April 30, 2014, Cintas completed its partnership transaction with the shareholders of Shred-it International Inc. (Shred-it) to combine Cintas' Shredding with Shred-it's shredding business ("the Shredding Transaction"). Due to the deconsolidation of Shredding, fiscal 2015 results exclude the results of Shredding. Shredding remains reported in continuing operations for fiscal 2014 (through April 30, 2014 as previously discussed) and 2013. Based on the change in reportable operating segments, the results of Shredding for the year ended May 31, 2014 are presented within Corporate. Additionally, effective August 31, 2014, Storage is reported as a discontinued operation for all periods presented and has been excluded from continuing operations and from operating segment results for all periods presented. In the quarter ended November 30, 2014, Cintas sold Storage in a series of transactions ("Storage Transactions"). Please see Note 17 entitled Discontinued Operations of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information.

On April 30, 2014, the Shredding Transaction was completed. Cintas Shredding represented approximately76%,80%, and70%of Cintas' Document Management Services operating segment's assets, revenue, and income before income taxes, respectively, as of and for the quarter ended February 28, 2014. Under the agreement, Cintas and Shred-it each contributed its shredding business to a newly formed partnership owned42%by Cintas and58%by the shareholders of Shred-it ("the Shred-it Partnership"). In addition to its42%ownership of the Shred-it Partnership, Cintas received$180.0 millionin cash at the closing of the Shredding Transaction. Cintas' equity interest in the partnership is accounted for under the equity method of accounting as prescribed by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP").

We provide our products and services to over one million businesses of all types — from small service and manufacturing companies to major corporations that employ thousands of people. This diversity in customer base results in no individual customer accounting for greater than one percent of Cintas' total revenue. As a result, the loss of one account would not have a significant financial impact on Cintas.










The following table sets forth Cintas' total revenue and the revenue derived from each operating segment:

Fiscal Year Ended May 31, (in thousands)(1)201520142013Rental Uniforms and Ancillary Products$3,454,956$3,223,930$3,044,587Uniform Direct Sales453,653455,485461,328First Aid, Safety and Fire Protection Services568,277514,429460,592Corporate(2)—275,721279,457Total Revenue$4,476,886$4,469,565$4,245,964



(1)The figures for all years presented reflect the change in classification of Storage to discontinued operations within the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 17 entitled Discontinued Operations of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

(2)Corporate results for the fiscal years ended 2014 and 2013 include Shredding revenue. Fiscal year 2014 includes only eleven months of Shredding revenue as the Shredding Transaction closed on April 30, 2014.

Additional information regarding each operating segment is also included in Note 15 entitled Operating Segment Information of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

The primary markets served by all Cintas operating segments are local in nature and highly fragmented. Cintas competes with national, regional and local providers, and the level of competition varies at each of Cintas' local operations. Product, design, price, quality, service and convenience to the customer are the competitive elements in each of our operating segments.

Within the Rental Uniforms and Ancillary Products operating segment, Cintas provides its products and services to customers via local delivery routes originating from rental processing plants and branches. Within the Uniform Direct Sales and First Aid, Safety and Fire Protection Services operating segments, Cintas provides its products and services via its distribution network and local delivery routes or local representatives. In total, Cintas has approximately 8,000 local delivery routes, 364 operational facilities and eight distribution centers. AtMay 31, 2015, Cintas employed approximately 32,000 employees, of which approximately 200 were represented by labor unions.

Cintas sources finished products from many outside suppliers. In addition, Cintas operates five manufacturing facilities that provide for standard uniform needs. Cintas purchases fabric, used in its manufacturing process, from several suppliers. Cintas is not aware of any circumstances that would hinder its ability to continue obtaining these materials.

Cintas is subject to various environmental laws and regulations, as are other companies in the uniform rental industry. While environmental compliance is not a material component of its costs, Cintas must incur capital expenditures and associated operating costs, primarily for water treatment and waste removal, on a regular basis. Environmental spending related to water treatment and waste removal was approximately $12 million in fiscal2015and approximately $21 million in fiscal2014. Capital expenditures to limit or monitor hazardous substances totaled approximately $4 million in fiscal2015, and there were no capital expenditures in fiscal2014. Cintas does not expect a material change in the cost of environmental compliance and is not aware of any material non-compliance with environmental laws.














