Item 1.  Business

Cintas Corporation (Cintas, Company, we, us or our), a Washington corporation, helps more than 900,000 businesses of all types and sizes, primarily in North America, as well as Latin America, Europe and Asia, getReady™to open their doors with confidence every day by providing a wide range of products and services that enhance our customers’ image and help keep their facilities and employees clean, safe and looking their best. With products and services including uniforms, floor care, restroom supplies, first aid and safety products, fire extinguishers and testing, and safety and compliance training, Cintas helps customers getReady for the Workday™.Cintas was founded in 1968 by Richard T. Farmer, currently the Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Directors, when he left his family's industrial laundry business in order to develop uniform programs using an exclusive new fabric. In the early 1970's, Cintas acquired the family industrial laundry business. Over the years, Cintas developed additional products and services that complemented its core uniform business and broadened the scope of products and services available to its customers.

U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires companies to evaluate their reportable operating segments periodically and when certain events occur. As a result of a recent evaluation, effective June 1, 2015, Cintas realigned its organizational structure and updated its reportable operating segments in light of certain changes in its business including the acquisition of ZEE Medical Inc. (ZEE) in the first quarter of fiscal 2016. Cintas’ updated reportable operating segments are Uniform Rental and Facility Services and First Aid and Safety Services. The Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment consists of the rental and servicing of uniforms and other garments including flame resistant clothing, mats, mops and shop towels and other ancillary items. In addition to these rental items, restroom cleaning services and supplies, carpet and tile cleaning services and the sale of items from our catalogs to our customers on route are included within this reportable operating segment. The First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment consists of first aid and safety products and services. The remainder of Cintas’ business, which consists primarily of Fire Protection Services and its Direct Sale business, is included in All Other.

Prior to June 1, 2015, Cintas classified its business into the following three reportable operating segments: the Rental Uniforms and Ancillary Products operating segment consisted of the rental and servicing of uniforms and other garments including flame resistant clothing, mats, mops and shop towels and other ancillary items. In addition to these rental items, restroom cleaning services and supplies and carpet and tile cleaning services were also provided within this operating segment. The Uniform Direct Sales operating segment consisted of the direct sale of uniforms and related items. The First Aid and Safety and Fire Protection Services operating segment consisted of first aid and safety products and services, and fire protection products and services.

In fiscal 2014, Cintas completed its partnership transaction with the shareholders of Shred-it International Inc. to combine Cintas' shredding business (Shredding) with the shredding business of Shred-it International Inc. (the Shredding Transaction). Pursuant to the Shredding Transaction, the newly formed partnership (the Shred-it Partnership) was owned42%by Cintas and58%by the shareholders of Shred-it International Inc. Cintas' investment in the Shred-it Partnership (Shred-it) and the results of Shredding are classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented as a result of selling the investment during fiscal 2016. During fiscal 2015, Cintas sold the storage business (Storage) and, as a result, its operations are also classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Shredding and Storage were previously included in the former Document Management Services reportable operating segment. In accordance with the applicable accounting guidance for the disposal of long-lived assets and discontinued operations, the results of Shredding and Storage have been excluded from both continuing operations and operating segment results for all periods presented. Please see Note 16 entitled Discontinued Operations of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information.

We provide our products and services to over 900,000 businesses of all types — from small service and manufacturing companies to major corporations that employ thousands of people. This diversity in customer base results in no individual customer accounting for greater than one percent of Cintas' total revenue. As a result, the loss of one account would not have a significant financial impact on Cintas.










The following table sets forth Cintas' total revenue and the revenue derived from each reportable operating segment and All Other:

Fiscal Year Ended May 31, (in thousands)20162015(1)(2)2014(1)(2)Uniform Rental and Facility Services$3,777,801$3,539,843$3,304,635First Aid and Safety Services461,783326,593294,966All Other665,874610,450594,243Total Revenue$4,905,458$4,476,886$4,193,844

(1)The figures for fiscal 2015 and 2014 presented reflect the change in classification of Shredding and Storage to discontinued operations within the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 16 entitled Discontinued Operations of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

(2)Cintas' reportable operating segments changed effective June 1, 2015. All prior fiscal periods have been recast to reflect that change.

Additional information regarding each reportable operating segment and All Other is also included in Note 14 entitled Operating Segment Information of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

The primary markets served by all Cintas businesses are local in nature and highly fragmented. Cintas competes with national, regional and local providers, and the level of competition varies at each of Cintas' local operations. Product, design, price, quality, service and convenience to the customer are the competitive elements in each of our businesses.

Within the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment, Cintas provides its products and services to customers via local delivery routes originating from rental processing plants and branches. Within the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and All Other, Cintas provides its products and services via its distribution network and local delivery routes or local representatives. In total, Cintas has approximately 9,000 local delivery routes, 377 operational facilities andeightdistribution centers. AtMay 31, 2016, Cintas employed approximately 35,000 employees, of which approximately 200 were represented by labor unions.

Cintas sources finished products from many outside suppliers. In addition, Cintas operatesfivemanufacturing facilities that provide for standard uniform needs. Cintas purchases fabric, used in its manufacturing process, from several suppliers. Cintas is not aware of any circumstances that would hinder its ability to continue obtaining these materials.

Cintas is subject to various environmental laws and regulations, as are other companies in the uniform rental industry. While environmental compliance is not a material component of its costs, Cintas must incur capital expenditures and associated operating costs, primarily for water treatment and waste removal, on a regular basis. Environmental spending related to water treatment and waste removal was approximately $13 million in fiscal2016and approximately $12 million in fiscal2015. Capital expenditures to limit or monitor hazardous substances totaled approximately $3 million in fiscal2016and approximately $4 million in fiscal2015. Cintas does not expect a material change in the cost of environmental compliance and is not aware of any material non-compliance with environmental laws.














