Item 1.  Business

Cintas Corporation (Cintas), a Washington corporation, provides highly specialized products and services to businesses of all types
primarily throughout North America and Latin America, Europe and Asia. Cintas' products and services are designed to enhance its customers' images and brand identification as well as provide a safe
and efficient work place. Cintas was founded in 1968 by Richard T. Farmer, currently the Chairman Emeritus of the Board, when he left his family's industrial laundry business in order to develop
uniform programs using an exclusive new fabric. In the early 1970's, Cintas acquired the family industrial laundry business. Over the years, Cintas developed additional products and services that
complemented its core uniform business and broadened the scope of products and services available to its customers.

Cintas
classifies its businesses into four operating segments. The Rental Uniforms and Ancillary Products operating segment consists of the rental and servicing of uniforms and other garments
including flame resistant clothing, mats, mops and shop towels and other ancillary items. In addition to these rental items, restroom cleaning services and supplies and carpet and tile cleaning
services are also provided within this operating segment. The Uniform Direct Sales operating segment consists of the direct sale of uniforms and related items and branded promotional products. The
First Aid, Safety and Fire Protection Services operating segment consists of first aid, safety and fire protection products and services. The Document Management Services operating segment consists of
document destruction, document imaging and document retention services.

We
provide our products and services to approximately 800,000 businesses of all types — from small service and manufacturing companies to major corporations that employ thousands of
people. This diversity in customer base results in no individual customer accounting for greater than one percent of Cintas' total revenue. As a result, the loss of one account would not have a
significant financial impact on Cintas.

The
following table sets forth Cintas' total revenue and the revenue derived from each operating segment:

Fiscal Year Ended May 31, (in thousands)201020092008Rental Uniforms and Ancillary Products$2,569,357$2,755,015$2,834,568Uniform Direct Sales386,370428,369517,490First Aid, Safety and Fire Protection Services338,651378,097403,552Document Management Services252,961213,204182,290$3,547,339$3,774,685$3,937,900

Additional information is also included in Note 14 entitled Operating Segment Information in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

The
primary markets served by all Cintas operating segments are local in nature and highly fragmented. Cintas competes with national, regional and local providers, and the level of competition varies
at each of Cintas' local operations. Product, design, price, quality, service and convenience to the customer are the competitive elements in each of our operating segments.









Within
the Rental Uniforms and Ancillary Products operating segment, Cintas provides its products and services to customers via local delivery routes originating from rental processing plants and
branches. Within the Uniform Direct Sales and First Aid, Safety and Fire Protection Services operating segments, Cintas provides its products and services via its distribution network and local
delivery routes or local representatives. Within the Document Management Services operating segment, Cintas provides its services via local service routes originating from document management branches
and document retention facilities. In total, Cintas has approximately 7,700 local delivery routes, 418 operations and 8 distribution centers. At May 31, 2010, Cintas employed approximately
30,000 employees of which approximately 225 were represented by labor unions.

Cintas
sources finished products from many outside suppliers. In addition, Cintas operates 6 manufacturing facilities which provide for standard uniform needs. Cintas purchases fabric, used in its
manufacturing process, from several suppliers. Cintas is not aware of any circumstances that would hinder its ability to continue obtaining these materials.

Cintas
is subject to various environmental laws and regulations, as are other companies in the uniform rental industry. While environmental compliance is not a material component of our costs, Cintas
must incur capital expenditures and associated operating costs, primarily for water treatment and waste removal, on a regular basis. Environmental spending related to water treatment and waste removal
was approximately $18 million in fiscal 2010 and approximately $19 million in fiscal 2009. Capital expenditures to limit or monitor hazardous substances were less than $1 million
in fiscal 2010 and approximately $2 million in fiscal 2009. Cintas does not
expect a material change in the cost of environmental compliance and is not aware of any material non-compliance with environmental laws.

Cintas'
corporate website is located at www.cintas.com. Cintas files with or furnishes to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports
on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as well as proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. The reports and other documents
filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish
them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington D.C. 20549. The public may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site located at
http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as Cintas, that file electronically with the SEC. Cintas' SEC filings and its
Code of Business Conduct can be found on the Investor Information page of our website at www.cintas.com/company/investor_information/highlights.aspx. These documents are available in print to
any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling Cintas as set forth on the Investor Information page.

