10-K


a85543e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

Qualcomm Incorporated - Form 10-K


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended September 29,

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

.

Commission file number 0-19528

QUALCOMM Incorporated

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

(858) 587-1121

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

None

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, $.0001 par value

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.  Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
(Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).  Yes

x

No

o

State the aggregate market value of the voting
and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by
reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold,
or the average bid and asked prices of such common equity, as of
the last business day of the registrant’s most recently
completed second fiscal quarter.

The aggregate market value of the voting and
non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of March 29, 2002 was $27,785,079,579.*

The number of shares outstanding of the
registrant’s Common Stock was 785,080,685 as of
November 20, 2002.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s Definitive
Proxy Statement to be filed with the Commission pursuant to
Regulation 14A in connection with the registrant’s
2003 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed subsequent to
the date hereof, are incorporated by reference into Part III of
this Report. Such Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission not later than
120 days after the conclusion of the registrant’s
fiscal year ended September 29, 2002.

*

Excludes the Common Stock held by executive
    officers, directors and stockholders whose ownership exceeds 5%
    of the Common Stock outstanding at March 29, 2002. This
    calculation does not reflect a determination that such persons
    are affiliates for any other purposes.



QUALCOMM INCORPORATED

FORM 10-K

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 29,

INDEX


TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES

QUALCOMM®, QUALCOMM Wireless Business
Solutions®, OmniTRACS®, OmniOne™,
TruckMAIL™, OmniExpress®, LINQ™, Eudora®,
QCP®, QCT®, MSM™, MSM3000®, MSM5000™,
MSM5010™, MSM5100™, MSM5105™, MSM5200™,
MSM5500™, MSM6000™, MSM6050™, MSM6100™,
MSM6200™, MSM6300™, CSM5000®, CSM5200™,
CSM5500™, gpsOne™, SnapTrack®, BREW™, BREW
SDK™, Launchpad™, QCHAT®, FLEET ADVISOR®,
WIRELESS KNOWLEDGE® and Vésper™ are trademarks
and/or service marks of QUALCOMM Incorporated. QUALCOMM,
QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions, QWBS, QUALCOMM CDMA
Technologies, QCT, QUALCOMM Technology Licensing, QTL, QUALCOMM
Wireless Systems, QWS, QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet Group,
QUALCOMM Digital Media, QDM, QUALCOMM Internet Services, QIS,
QUALCOMM Consumer Products, QCP, QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives,
(QSI) and SnapTrack are trade names of QUALCOMM
Incorporated.

QUALCOMM Personal Electronics and QPE are
trademarks, service marks and trade names of QUALCOMM Personal
Electronics.

cdmaOne® is a trademark of the CDMA
Development Group, Inc. CDMA2000™ is a service mark and
certification mark of the Telecommunications Industry
Association. Globalstar™ is a trademark and service mark of
Globalstar, L.P., Globalstar® is a trademark of Loral
Qualcomm Satellite Services, Inc.

All other trademarks, service marks and/or trade
names appearing in this document are the property of their
respective holders.


In this document, the words “we,”
“our,” “ours” and “us” refer only
to QUALCOMM Incorporated and not any other person or entity.

PART I

ITEM 1.     BUSINESS

This Annual Report (including the following
section regarding Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations) contains
forward-looking statements regarding our business, financial
condition, results of operations and prospects. Words such as
“expects,” “anticipates,”
“intends,” “plans,” “believes,”
“seeks,” “estimates” and similar expressions
or variations of such words are intended to identify
forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of
identifying forward-looking statements in this Annual Report.
Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the
development of new products, enhancements or technologies, sales
levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters
that are not historical are forward-looking statements.

Although forward-looking statements in this
Annual Report reflect the good faith judgment of our management,
such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently
known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are
inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results
and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes
discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in
results and outcomes include without limitation those discussed
under the heading “Risk Factors” below, as well as
those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report. Readers are
urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual
Report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any
forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or
circumstance that may arise after the date of this Annual
Report. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the
various disclosures made in this Annual Report, which attempt to
advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may
affect our business, financial condition, results of operations
and prospects. Our consolidated financial data includes
SnapTrack, Inc. (SnapTrack), Vésper Holding Ltd.
(Vésper Holding) and other consolidated subsidiaries.

We were incorporated in 1985 under the laws of
the state of California. In 1991, we reincorporated in the state
of Delaware. We operate and report using a 52-53 week
fiscal year ending the last Sunday in September. Our
52 week fiscal years consist of four equal quarters of
13 weeks each, and our 53 week fiscal years consist of
three 13 week quarters and one 14 week quarter. The
financial results for our 53 week fiscal years and our
14 week fiscal quarters will not be exactly comparable to
our 52 week fiscal years and our 13 week fiscal
quarters. For presentation purposes, all fiscal periods
presented or discussed in this report have been presented as
ending on the last day of the nearest calendar month. For
example, our 2002 fiscal year ended on September 29, 2002,
but we present our 2002 fiscal year as ending on
September 30, 2002.

Overview

In 1989, we publicly introduced the concept that
a digital communication technique called CDMA could be
commercially successful in wireless communication applications.
CDMA stands for Code Division Multiple Access and is one of the
three main technologies currently used in digital wireless phone
networks. CDMA and the two other main digital wireless
communications technologies, TDMA (which stands for Time
Division Multiple Access) and GSM (which is a form of TDMA and
stands for Global System for Mobile Communications) are the
digital technologies used to transmit a wireless phone
user’s voice or data over radio waves using the wireless
phone operator’s network. CDMA works by converting speech
into digital information, which is then transmitted in the form
of a radio signal over the phone network. These digital wireless
phone networks are complete phone systems comprised primarily of
base stations, or “cells,” which are geographically
placed throughout a service or coverage area. Once communication
between a wireless phone user and a base station is established,
the system detects the movement of the wireless phone user and
the communication is handed off to another base station, or
cell, as the wireless phone user moves throughout the service
area.



Because we led the development of CDMA
technology, we own a significant amount of intellectual
property, including patents, patent applications and trade
secrets, that we both license to customers and integrate into
our own products. The wireless communications industry generally
recognizes that a company that wishes to develop, manufacture
and sell products that use CDMA technology will require a
license from us.

There are currently four versions of CDMA
technology recognized worldwide as standards. The version known
as cdmaOne is currently in use by most CDMA-based mobile phone
networks. Newer versions of CDMA, which also enable the rapid
communication of data as well as voice, are popularly referred
to as third generation or 3G technologies. These versions of
CDMA are described commonly throughout the wireless industry as:

•

CDMA2000

•

Wideband CDMA (WCDMA), and;

•

Time Division Synchronous CDMA (TD-SCDMA)

Our
revenues.

We generate
revenues by licensing our CDMA technology to other manufacturers
of CDMA products (such as wireless phones and the hardware
required to establish and operate a CDMA wireless network).
These revenues are generated through licensing fees and
royalties on CDMA-based products sold by our licensees. We also
sell products and services, which include the following, all of
which are described in greater detail below:

We also make investments to promote the
development of new CDMA products as well as the adoption of CDMA
by more mobile phone service providers, provide services on a
cost-plus contract basis to Kyocera Wireless, a company that
purchased our mobile phone manufacturing business in February of
2000, and provide services and products to the customers and
suppliers of Globalstar L.P., a company that operates a
worldwide mobile phone network using satellites.

Our engineering resources.

We have significant engineering
resources, including engineers with substantial expertise in
CDMA technology. Using these engineering resources, we expect to
develop new versions of CDMA, develop new technologies that use
CDMA, participate in the formulation of new wireless
telecommunications standards that use CDMA and assist in
deploying wireless voice and data communications networks around
the world.

Our integrated circuits business.

We develop and sell CDMA-based
integrated circuits and system software for use in wireless
phones, wireless networks and global positioning systems (GPS).
Our integrated circuits related products include both the
integrated circuits for wireless phones and the equipment used
to operate the wireless phone network. Because of our broad and
unique experience in designing and developing CDMA-based
products, we not only design the integrated circuit, but we also
design the entire supporting system. This approach enables us to
optimize the performance of the wireless phone itself with
improved product features, as well as the integration and
performance of the network system. Our design of the entire
system also allows CDMA systems to come to market faster. We
provide our integrated circuits and related system software,
including reference designs and tools, to many of the
world’s leading wireless phone and infrastructure equipment
manufacturers. We plan to add additional features and
capabilities to our future integrated circuit products to help
our customers reduce the costs and size of their products and to
simplify our



customers’ design processes. We also design
and create multimode and multi-band integrated circuits
incorporating other wireless standards for global roaming
markets. In addition, we will continue to provide high quality
support to enable our customers to reduce the time required to
design their products and bring their products to market faster.

Our asset tracking and messaging business.

We design, manufacture and sell
equipment and provide two-way messaging services to
transportation companies, private fleets and heavy equipment
fleets throughout parts of the world. These products permit our
customers to track the location of their vehicles and to
communicate with them en route. These products and services use
commercially available satellite and land-based mobile phone
technologies to permit this communication. Our customers use
these products to communicate with drivers, monitor vehicle
location and performance, provide automated driver logs and fuel
tax reporting and provide customer service. Our products, which
collect and transmit this data, are also integrated with our
customers’ operations software, such as dispatch, payroll
and accounting, so our customers can better manage their
information and operations.

Our phone software and related services
business.

We provide our BREW
(Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless) product and services
to network operators, handset manufacturers and application
developers and support for developing and delivering over the
air wireless applications and services. The BREW product and
services include the BREW SDK (software development kit) for
developers, the BREW applications platform (i.e. software
programs) and interface tools for device manufacturers, and the
BREW Distribution System that enables network operators to get
applications from developers to market and coordinate the
billing and payment process. The BREW platform is a software
application that provides an open, standard platform for
wireless devices, which means that BREW can be made to interface
with many software applications, including those developed by
others. We make the BREW SDK available, free of charge, to any
qualified person or company interested in developing a new
product for wireless communications. BREW leverages the
capabilities available in our integrated circuits and system
software, enabling our customers to develop feature-rich
applications and content while reducing memory overhead and
maximizing system performance of the wireless phone itself. BREW
can be used on wireless phones and other devices that support
wireless technologies other than CDMA, such as GSM/ GPRS
(General Packet Radio System).

Subscriber
growth.

In October 2002,
EMC World Cellular Information Service forecast that there will
be 1.2 billion mobile phone users, also referred to as
subscribers, by the end of this calendar year and that the
figure will grow to 2 billion globally by the end of 2006.
Wireless networks based on cdmaOne, the version of CDMA
currently in use by most CDMA-based mobile telephone networks,
and CDMA2000 have been commercially deployed in
49 countries around the world. According to the CDMA
Development Group (CDG), there were more than 127 million
CDMA subscribers in June 2002. In September 2002, the CDG
reported that over the year ended June 2002, CDMA subscribers
grew 32% worldwide. CDMA is the leading mobile phone technology
in North America and has increased market share from 43% to 47%
over the year ended June 2002. North America is the largest CDMA
market with nearly 56 million subscribers at June 2002,
representing annual growth of 47%. In the Asian Pacific market,
CDMA carriers added more than 5 million subscribers during
the year ended June 2002, bringing the total number of CDMA
subscribers in this region to over 45 million. In January
2002, China Unicom launched its nationwide CDMA network, and in
October 2002, China Unicom announced that it had more than
4 million subscribers. In Latin America, the number of CDMA
subscribers grew by 40% over the year ended June 2002, reaching
24 million in 15 countries.

Next generation technologies.

We have already developed and
deployed the next generation of our CDMA technology, or what is
being called 3G (third generation). Our 3G technology,
CDMA2000 1X, was first deployed commercially in October
2000 in South Korea, where 15 million, or 46%, of the
nation’s total mobile service users were using this
technology by the end of October 2002. Today there are 20
operators located in 11 countries that are offering the
advanced mobile services supported by CDMA2000 1X. In the
United States there are five operators that have commercially
deployed CDMA2000 1X, Verizon Wireless, Sprint PCS, Leap
Wireless, Metro PCS and Monet Mobile, making CDMA2000 1X
the first 3G technology to be commercially available in
North America. In October 2002, Monet Mobile commercially
launched



CDMA2000 1xEV-DO (Evolution-Data Optimized), a
high-speed, wireless Internet service, in Duluth, Minnesota.

As reported by the CDG in September 2002, as of
July 2002, 38% of subscribers in South Korea were using CDMA2000
technology, and in Japan, KDDI expects to have seven million or
40% of their subscriber base using the improved services enabled
with 3G technology by March 2003. In October 2002, the CDG
reported that more than 200 CDMA2000 user devices are on the
market today. In August 2002, the CDG and eight wireless
companies demonstrated industry confidence in the position of
CDMA2000 within the 3G market with the signing of a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the delivery of
CDMA2000 infrastructure and terminal equipment to be used for
2.1 gigahertz (GHz) spectrum. Under the terms of the MOU,
signed by the CDG, Ericsson, LG Electronics, Lucent
Technologies, Motorola, Nortel Networks, QUALCOMM, Samsung and
ZTE, 2.1 GHz equipment will be commercially available as
early as February 2003.

Further investments.

We continue to invest heavily in
research and development focused on extending the market for
CDMA-based products and services. We are developing and
commercializing CDMA technology and products to support
high-speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multi-band,
multi-network products that can use cdmaOne, CDMA2000
1X/1xEV-DO, GSM/ GPRS, WCDMA, BREW and GPS position location
technologies.

We are devoting significant research and
development resources to developing high-speed wireless data and
Internet access products using our CDMA technology, including
efforts to meet and exceed the standards for 3G products
set by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). CDMA
wireless phone network operators that have integrated new
features, such as Internet access, GPS position location and
advanced multimedia capabilities like digital photos and video
clips, into their products as made possible by our
3G CDMA2000 1X technology have experienced increased
numbers of subscribers and increased revenues. Our 1xEV-DO
technology also permits CDMA wireless network providers to
separately process voice transmissions and data transmissions,
allowing them to optimize each type of transmission. As a
result, this technology supports peak data transfer rates of
2.4 megabits per second (Mbps) between a mobile phone and
its service provider. We believe this level of transfer rate
will satisfy the demand for high speed, cost-effective, fixed
and mobile alternatives for Internet access, competing with
digital subscriber line, cable and satellite networks. As of
today, two wireless phone operators in South Korea,
SK Telecom and KTF, have commercially deployed our 1xEV-DO
technology. KDDI has announced its intention to deploy 1xEV-DO
in Japan in 2003. In addition, Verizon Wireless is conducting
1xEV-DO trials in the United States in Washington, D.C. and
in San Diego, California.

We intend to continue our active support of
CDMA-based systems and the technologies and features CDMA
permits in order to grow our royalty revenues and integrated
circuit and software revenues. We also plan to continue to
broadly grant royalty-bearing licenses to our technology and
patents for CDMA and other wireless applications.

We make strategic investments to promote the
worldwide adoption of CDMA products and services. Our strategy
is to invest in CDMA carriers (also known as wireless phone
operators, wireless network operators or wireless service
providers), licensed device manufacturers and start-up companies
that we believe open new markets for CDMA technology, support
the design and introduction of new CDMA-based products or
possess unique capabilities or technology. Most of our strategic
investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become
liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if
at all. To the extent such investments become liquid and meet
strategic objectives, we attempt to make regular periodic sales
of our interests in these investments that are recognized in
investment (expense) income, net. In some cases, we make
strategic investments in early stage companies which require us
to consolidate or record our equity in losses of those
companies. In November 2001, we acquired a controlling interest
in Vésper Holding, a CDMA carrier in Brazil. We expect
Vésper Holding to incur operating losses and negative cash
flows from operations through 2003 as they expand operations and
enter new markets. The consolidation of such losses will
adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or
reduce our exposure to these investments. We also provide
financing to CDMA carriers to facilitate the marketing and sale
of CDMA equipment by licensed manufacturers. We



have provided equipment financing to customers of
Ericsson on a shared basis with respect to Ericsson’s sale
of CDMA infrastructure equipment in Brazil, Mexico and elsewhere.

Wireless Telecommunications Industry
Overview

From the international perspective, the ITU is
the central telecommunication standards setting organization.
The ITU is recognized as an impartial, international
organization within which governments and the private sector
work together to coordinate the operation of telecommunication
networks and services and advance the development of
communications technology. The ITU’s standardization
activities foster the growth of new technologies, such as mobile
telephony and the Internet, as well as the emerging global
information infrastructure which handles a mix of voice, data,
audio and video signals. The ITU develops internationally-agreed
technical and operating standards to foster seamless
interconnection of the world’s communication network and
systems. As the world of telecommunications, information
technology and content provision rapidly converge, the role of
the ITU is to forge new recommendations which promote the
interoperability of equipment and facilitate the development of
communication networks. The ITU’s objective is to identify
sound technical solutions, which are then developed into
internationally recognized ITU recommendations.

The Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA)
is the leading U.S. based non-profit trade association serving
the communications and information technology industry. Through
its worldwide activities, the TIA facilitates business
development opportunities and a competitive market environment.
The TIA provides a market-focused forum for its member
companies, which manufacture or supply the products and services
used in global communications. The TIA facilitates the
convergence of new communications networks while working for a
competitive and innovative market environment. The TIA is a
major contributor of voluntary industry standards that support
global trade and commerce in communications products and systems.

Neither of these bodies have the enforcement
authority or the ability to protect intellectual property
rights. These bodies merely ask participating companies to
declare whether they believe they hold patents essential for
compliance with a particular standard and whether they are
willing to license such patents on a royalty-free basis or on a
royalty-basis on fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms.

Usage of mobile phones and other types of
wireless telecommunications equipment has increased dramatically
in the past decade. Growth in the market for wireless
telecommunications services has traditionally been fueled by
demand for voice communications. There have been several factors
responsible for this increasing demand, including:

In addition to the tremendous demand for wireless
voice services, wireless service providers are increasingly
focused on providing wireless data services through mobile
phones, including wireless access to the Internet and position
location services. In March 2002, Computer Industry Almanac,
Inc., a publisher of market research reports for Internet
industries, estimated that of the 1.5 billion people who will be
using the Internet by 2007, over 829 million will be
accessing the Internet through wireless networks. We believe the



growing availability of 3G-enabled handsets
capable of performing a wide variety of consumer and enterprise
applications will accelerate Internet use on a global basis and
lead to an increased replacement rate in mobile devices using
our technology and chips. Critical to the adoption of wireless
Internet devices and services is high-speed data connectivity,
which is driving the evolution of wireless standards. We expect
that the spread of high-speed, cost-effective wireless Internet
access will encourage the development of other remote
supervision, position location and telematic automobile
applications. However, projected growth in the number of people
accessing the Internet through wireless networks and the
corresponding demand for wireless data services may not be
achieved.

The adoption of wireless standards for mobile
communications by individual countries is generally based on
economic criteria and the technology preference of the
telecommunication service providers operating in those
countries. A notable exception is the European Community, which
approximately a decade ago developed regulations requiring the
use of a telecommunication standard known as Global System for
Mobile Communications, commonly referred to as GSM. The use of
this standard has spread through the world and currently is the
basis for approximately 80% of the mobile communications in use.
Outside of the European Community, the markets or countries in
which we do business are free to decide which standard to use
based on the most economically advantageous business prospects.
One exception is South Korea, which requires the use of CDMA
technology for wireless service providers.

The Evolution of Wireless Standards

The significant growth in the use of wireless
phones worldwide and demand for enhanced network functionality
requires constant innovation to further improve network
reliability, expand capacity and introduce new types of
services. To meet these requirements, progressive generations of
wireless telecommunications technology standards have evolved.

First Generation.

The first generation of wireless
telecommunications, widely adopted in the late 1980s, was based
on analog technology. While this generation helped increase the
adoption of wireless telecommunications, the technology was
characterized by inherent capacity limitations, minimal data
transfer capabilities, low security, inconsistent service levels
and significant power consumption.

Second Generation.

As the deployment of mobile phone
systems grew, the limitations of analog technology drove the
development of second generation, digital-based technologies,
which are the primary technology standards in use today. Second
generation digital technology provided for significantly
enhanced efficiency within a broadcast spectrum as well as
greatly increased capacity compared to analog systems. Second
generation technologies also enabled numerous enhanced services,
including paging, e-mail and facsimile, connections to computer
networks, greater privacy, lower prices, a greater number of
service options and greater fraud protection. The three main
second-generation digital technologies are CDMA, called cdmaOne
or IS-95A/B, a technology we developed and patented, TDMA and
GSM, a form of TDMA.

Our second generation CDMA technology offers 10
to 20 times the capacity of analog systems and more than three
times the capacity of TDMA- and GSM-based systems through more
efficient utilization of wireless carriers’ licensed
spectrum. Some of the advantages of CDMA technology over both
analog and TDMA-and GSM-based technologies include enhanced call
security, increased network capacity, network flexibility,
compatibility with Internet protocols, lower power requirements,
higher capacity for data and faster access to data (Internet),
higher data throughput rates (kbps) and easier transition to
3G networks. We are not aware of any technological
advantages that GSM has over CDMA.

Many GSM operators have deployed or are expected
to deploy GPRS, a packet data technology, as a bridge
technology, and some plan to deploy EDGE (Enhanced Data Rates
for GSM Evolution), while waiting for 3G WCDMA to become
available. We do not believe that GPRS will be competitive with
3G CDMA-based packet data services, either on a cost or
performance basis, although it will be widely deployed in GSM
networks.

Third Generation.

As
demand for wireless networks that carry both data and voice
traffic at faster speeds has increased significantly, several 3G
wireless standards have been proposed to the ITU by a variety of



companies and alliances. These proposals include
both CDMA- and TDMA-based technologies. The ITU, based in
Geneva, Switzerland, determines which technology or technologies
will be established as 3G standards. A technology standard
selected for 3G must efficiently support significantly increased
data speeds and capacity over limited spectrum bandwidth,
thereby enabling new and enhanced services and applications such
as mobile e-commerce, position location and mobile multimedia
web browsing, including music and video downloads.

CDMA-Based 3G Technology.

In May 2000, the ITU adopted the 3G
standard known as IMT-2000, which encompasses five terrestrial
operating modes, three of them based on our CDMA intellectual
property.

The three IMT-2000 CDMA modes are:

(1) CDMA2000, also known as Multi-Carrier,
which includes both CDMA2000 1X and 1xEV-DO;

(2) WCDMA, also known as Direct Spread or
UMTS; and

(3) Time Division Duplex, also known as TDD
or TD-SCDMA.

The two operating modes not based on CDMA are
UWC-136 and DECT+.

The two current commercial versions of CDMA2000
are CDMA2000 1X and 1xEV-DO (1.25 megahertz (MHz) channel
bandwidth), a standard for high-speed wireless data (up to
2.4 Mbps peak rates). CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO utilizes the same
standard channel bandwidth as existing cdmaOne systems and, as a
result, is compatible with wireless telecommunications
carriers’ existing network equipment. We believe CDMA2000
1X provides approximately twice the voice capacity of cdmaOne
and six to eight times that of TDMA-based networks.
Additionally, CDMA2000 1X initially provides peak data
rates of 144 kilobits per second (kbps), with growth to
307 kbps planned, longer battery life and position location
functionality in compliance with the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) mandates requiring wireless carriers to
provide the location of emergency 911 calls (E911). Commercial
deployment of CDMA2000 1X began in October 2000 in South
Korea where 15 million, or 46%, of the nation’s total
mobile service users were using this technology by the end of
October 2002. Commercial deployment of CDMA2000 1X by Leap
Wireless began in December 2001 in North America in the cities
of Phoenix and Denver. KDDI commercially deployed
CDMA2000 1X in Japan in April 2002 and reported nearly
2.7 million CDMA2000 1X subscribers as of September 2002.

The European Community has focused primarily on
the second mode of the IMT-2000 standard, known as WCDMA, which
is based on our underlying CDMA technology. Most of the
world’s leading wireless phone and infrastructure
manufacturers have licensed our technology, enabling them to
utilize this WCDMA mode of the 3G technology. Our
3G CDMA licensees include Siemens, Nokia, Ericsson,
Motorola, Lucent, Samsung, LG Electronics, Hitachi, NEC, Nortel,
Toshiba, Sanyo, Sharp, Fujitsu, Denso, Agilent, Alcatel,
Matsushita, Mitsubishi, and Kyocera, among others.

The TD-SCDMA mode is the least developed of the
3G alternatives. Support for the development of this version of
the 3G technologies has been provided by the Chinese
government, which hopes this technology will provide a path to
the development of a stronger wireless industry in China.

The three 3G CMDA wireless operating modes
discussed above are all based on the underlying core principles
of CDMA technology, however each has different features which
some technologists believe enable a clearer migration path from
the existing second generation technologies. The CDMA2000 mode
enables a direct and relatively more economical conversion for
current cdmaOne networks. We believe it also offers an
economical transition from current GSM networks. While we
believe that the CDMA2000 mode offers a quicker path to third
generation technologies, we do not favor one of these 3G modes
over the other. We will continue to develop and sell integrated
circuits for all modes of the 3G standard based on CDMA. In
addition, our intellectual property rights include core and
primary patents utilized by each of the 3G CDMA
alternatives, and the royalty rate to be paid to us by a
licensee for 3G CDMA products has not differed from the
rate that a licensee will pay for second-generation cdmaOne
products.



These three 3G CDMA wireless operating modes
require separate implementations and are not interchangeable
from a technological perspective. While the fundamental core
technologies are derived from CDMA and are covered by our
patents, they each require unique infrastructure products,
network design and management.

Operating Segments

We are organized on the basis of products and
services. During the first quarter of fiscal 2002, we formed two
new operating segments, QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet and
QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives, as a result of changes in our
businesses and in managerial reporting. Three segments are
aggregated into the QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet segment.

Consolidated revenues from international
customers as a percentage of total revenues were 70% in fiscal
2002, 65% in fiscal 2001 and 47% in fiscal 2000. During fiscal
2002, 37% and 18% of our revenue was from customers and
licensees based in South Korea and Japan, respectively, as
compared to 35% and 22% during fiscal 2001, respectively, and
22% and 13% during fiscal 2000, respectively.

QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies Segment
(QCT)

QCT is the leading developer and supplier of
CDMA-based integrated circuits and system software for wireless
voice and data communications and global positioning systems
products. QCT offers software and integrated circuits for
wireless handsets and infrastructure equipment. These products
provide customers with advanced wireless technology, enhanced
component integration and interoperability, and reduced time to
market. QCT provides integrated circuits and system software to
many of the world’s leading wireless handset and
infrastructure manufacturers. Through fiscal 2002, QCT has
shipped more than 240 million Mobile Station Modem (MSM)
integrated circuits for CDMA phones worldwide and has shipped
over 725 million integrated circuits in total. QCT revenues
comprised 52%, 51% and 39% of total consolidated revenues in
fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. QCT is dependent on
three major customers, Samsung Electronics Company, Kyocera
Wireless and LG Electronics. The loss of any one of these
customers could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to
achieve or sustain acceptable levels of operating results. QCT
subcontracts all of the manufacturing and assembly, and most of
the testing, of its integrated circuits. QCT depends on a
limited number of third parties to perform these functions, some
of which are only available from single sources with which QCT
does not have long-term contracts.

QCT sells products to both wireless phone and
infrastructure manufacturers. For wireless phone manufacturers,
QCT’s products include baseband and system software, radio
frequency, intermediate frequency, and power management devices.
These highly integrated products enable manufacturers to design
very small, feature-rich handsets with longer standby times that
support existing cdmaOne and 3G services. For wireless
infrastructure manufacturers, QCT offers CDMA integrated
circuits and system software that provide wireless
standards-compliant processing of voice and data signals to and
from wireless handsets. In addition to the key components in a
wireless system, QCT provides our customers with system
reference designs and development tools to assist in customizing
features and user interfaces, to integrate our products with
components developed by others, and to test interoperability
with existing and planned networks. Together, the phone and
infrastructure products and services form a complete system for
the wireless communications industry. QCT is also closely
aligned with manufacturers and carriers in product plans, design
specifications and development timelines.

Our gpsOne wireless location feature has enabled
a host of new value-added, high-precision location-based
services such as friend finder, child safety, personal direction
finding and mobile yellow page services, and has enabled CDMA
system operators to meet the FCC’s E911 mandate. Using a
hybrid approach that utilizes signals from both the GPS
satellite constellation and CDMA cell sites, the gpsOne feature
enhances location services availability, expands terrain
coverage, accelerates the location determination process and
provides better accuracy for callers, whether during emergency
situations or while using GPS-enabled commercial applications.
E911 deployments by CDMA carriers in the United States are well
under way.



Approximately three million gpsOne-enabled
terminals are in use today, supporting nearly 100 high-precision
location-based services in Japan and South Korea.

We have developed 1xEV-DO technology designed to
provide reliable, cost-effective and always-on wireless data and
Internet access to consumers. It is fully compatible with
existing cdmaOne and CDMA2000 1X technologies, and has been
standardized as part of the CDMA2000 mode of the 3G standard.
The versatility of 1xEV-DO allows the technology to be embedded
in phones, laptop and handheld computers, and other fixed,
portable and mobile devices; 1xEV-DO enables manufacturers to
deliver products with access to services that were previously
only available through wired connections to the Internet or
enterprise networks. The 1xEV-DO technology allows carriers to
leverage their current infrastructure investment and maintain
backward compatibility with existing phone equipment. We
designed and developed an end-to-end solution, including both
infrastructure and phone integrated circuits, in support of the
industry-wide movement to standardize, develop and deploy
1xEV-DO technology in CDMA2000 networks.

Our MSM series integrated circuits are the
primary integrated circuits in a CDMA wireless phone. Our Cell
Site Modem (CSM) series integrated circuits are the primary
integrated circuits in a wireless service provider’s base
station equipment. The MSM5000, CSM5000, MSM5010, MSM5105 and
MSM5100 integrated circuits and system software are the
world’s first integrated circuits and software
implementations of the 3G CDMA2000 standards. The MSM5000
digital baseband product is designed to support CDMA2000 1X for
operation in a single 1.25 MHz channel. The
CDMA2000 1X standard is fully backwards compatible with
current cdmaOne networks, allowing carriers to deploy 3G
networks while maintaining existing coverage for all
subscribers, eliminating the expense of moving to a new network.
The MSM5000 features peak data rates of 153.6 kbps,
provides up to a 50% increase in handset standby time, and is
feature- and pin-compatible with our MSM3000 integrated circuit,
allowing manufacturers currently producing handsets using the
MSM3000 to rapidly implement CDMA2000 1X technology in
their handsets. QCT’s CSM 5000 base station product is the
industry’s first to support the CDMA2000 1X standard, based
on IS2000 for CDMA base stations as specified by the ITU. The
CSM5000 product provides carriers with up to twice the overall
voice user capacity of IS-95A and IS-95B systems. The MSM5010
CDMA2000 1X chipset is an entry-level product offering improved
voice capacity for applications where high-speed data rates are
not required. The MSM5105 CDMA2000 1X product offers improved
voice capacity and the introduction of new 3G data services for
mainstream subscribers. The MSM5100 is the first
CDMA2000 1X integrated circuit with advanced position
location capabilities and has integrated Universal Serial Bus
and Bluetooth functionality, as well as other features of the
Launchpad suite including multimedia.

The CSM5500 and MSM5500 integrated circuits offer
1xEV-DO handset and infrastructure modem solutions for
high-speed data. These products support data rates of up to 2.4
Mbps for the 1xEV-DO standard, as well as CDMA2000 1X, and
offers backward compatibility with IS-95 A/B CDMA systems.

QCT’s MSM6xxx family of products,
incorporating radioOne technology, enables tiered products for
CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA and GSM/GPRS networks. The MSM6000
CDMA2000 1X integrated circuit is an entry-level product
optimized for voice applications. The MSM6050 integrated circuit
offers multimedia applications with optimized gpsOne for
mainstream users. In September 2002, we began sample shipping of
the MSM6100 integrated circuit and system software, a highly
integrated CDMA2000 1X multimedia solution enabling lower system
costs for manufacturers developing handsets with advanced
multimedia applications. In September 2002, we began sampling of
the MSM6300, a single-baseband 3G product for multimode and
multi-band CDMA2000/ GSM/GPRS. The MSM6300 and accompanying
radioOne radio frequency integrated circuits comprise the first
world-phone integrated circuit enabling global roaming across
wireless networks.

Leveraging our expertise in CDMA we have
developed integrated circuits for manufacturers and carriers
deploying the WCDMA (or UMTS) version of 3G. The CSM5200 and
MSM5200 integrated circuits provide the first end-to-end
infrastructure and handset solution for WCDMA. The MSM5200
integrated circuit incorporates wireless Internet and multimedia
applications. We began sample shipping of the MSM6200 integrated
circuit in June 2002. The MSM6200 integrated circuit and system
software is a highly integrated system for WCDMA (UMTS)/GSM and
GPRS and includes gpsOne position-location technology,



Bluetooth connectivity and a host of multimedia
features. In June 2002, the MSM6200 integrated circuit was used
in the first multimode, multi-band (UMTS and GSM) wireless phone
calls made on a phone using our complete radioOne
direct-conversion radio frequency dual-mode product.

QUALCOMM Technology Licensing Segment
(QTL)

QTL generates revenue from license fees for our
CDMA (e.g., cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA and TD-SCDMA) technologies
and patents as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide
sales by licensees that design, manufacture and sell products
incorporating our CDMA technology. License fees are generally
nonrefundable and may be paid in one or more installments.
Ongoing royalties are nonrefundable and are generally based upon
a percentage of the net selling price of licensed products.
Revenues generated from royalties are subject to quarterly and
annual fluctuations. Fluctuations are the result of variations
in product mix, product pricing and quantities of sales by our
licensees and the impact of currency fluctuations associated
with royalties generated from international sales. QTL revenues
comprised 28%, 29% and 22% of total consolidated revenues in
fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet Segment
(QWI)

QWI revenues comprised 14%, 16% and 14% of total
consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. The three segments aggregated into QWI are:

QUALCOMM Internet Services (QIS)

The QIS division provides technology to support
and accelerate the convergence of wireless data, Internet and
voice services. The BREW (Binary Runtime Environment for
Wireless) platform is an application execution environment that
provides an open, standard platform for wireless devices, which
means that BREW can be made to interface with many software
applications, including those developed by others. The BREW
platform is part of an end-to-end solution for wireless
applications development, device configuration, application
distribution, and billing and payment. The BREW platform
currently leverages the capabilities available in QCT’s
integrated circuits and system software, enabling development of
feature-rich applications and content while reducing memory
overhead and maximizing system performance. The BREW product and
services include the BREW SDK (software development kit) for
developers, the BREW applications platform (i.e. software
programs) and interface tools for device manufacturers, and the
BREW Distribution System that enables network operators to get
applications from developers to market and coordinate the
billing and payment process. This includes BREW extensions, such
as virtual machines, browsers and other interpreters that
process executable content, such as JAVA midlets, XHTML, HTML,
JavaScript and Flash. Commercial BREW-based services enable
consumers to customize their handsets by downloading
applications over the air from an operator’s application
download server.

In November 2001, KTF, a leading wireless phone
operator in South Korea, launched the world’s first
commercial BREW-enabled applications service. KTF’s
BREW-enabled wireless data service runs on a CDMA2000 1X
high-speed data network. A wireless phone operator in Japan,
KDDI, began shipping BREW-enabled handsets in March and plans to
roll out its BREW-based over the air download service in spring
2003. In the United States, Verizon Wireless, a leading U.S.
operator, launched its nationwide BREW-enabled service in June
2002, and ALLTEL launched its BREW-based service in three
U.S. markets (Lincoln, Nebraska, Kileen, Texas and Norfolk,
Virginia) in July 2002. In August 2002, China Unicom signed a
definitive agreement with us to launch its BREW-based service by
the end of calendar 2002.

In January 2002, we announced a multi-year
licensing agreement with Nextel for QChat, a technology
developed to provide a reliable method of instant connection and
two-way communication between users via their mobile phones.
Using QChat, users may speak with other users virtually
instantaneously at the push of a button. It enables one-to-one
(private) and one-to-many (group) calls over 3G CDMA
networks. The technology also allows over-the-air upgrades of
handset software, management of group membership by subscribers
and ad-hoc creation of chat groups. It uses standard voice-over
Internet protocol technologies. This means sending voice
information in digital form over Internet protocol-based data
networks (including



CDMA) in discrete packets rather than the
traditional circuit-switched protocols of the public switched
telephone network.

QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions
    (QWBS)

We provide satellite and terrestrial-based
two-way data messaging and position reporting services to
transportation companies, private fleets and heavy equipment
fleets. The satellite-based OmniTRACS system was first
introduced in the United States in 1988 and is currently
operating in 33 countries. Through September 2002, we have
shipped over 450,000 OmniTRACS, TruckMAIL, OmniExpress and LINQ
systems worldwide. Message transmission and position tracking
for the OmniTRACS and TruckMAIL systems are provided by use of
leased Ku-band and C-band transponders on commercially available
geostationary earth orbit satellites. The OmniExpress and LINQ
systems use wireless digital telecommunications networks for
messaging transmission, and the GPS constellation for position
tracking. These mobile communications systems help
transportation companies, private fleets and heavy equipment
fleets improve the rate of return on assets and increase
efficiency and safety by improving communications between
drivers and dispatchers. System features include status updates,
load and pick-up reports, position reports at regular intervals,
and vehicle and driving performance information.

In the United States, we manufacture and sell
OmniTRACS, TruckMAIL and OmniExpress mobile communications
equipment and related software packages and provide ongoing
messaging and maintenance services. We have sold OmniTRACS
system products for use by private trucking fleets, service
vans, ships, trains, federal emergency vehicles, and for oil and
gas pipeline control and monitoring sites. Message transmissions
for operations in the United States are formatted and processed
at our Network Management Center in San Diego, California, with
a fully-redundant backup Network Management Center located in
Las Vegas, Nevada. We estimate the Network Management Center
currently processes over seven million messages and position
reports per day.

In fiscal 2002 we announced the commercial launch
of FleetAdvisor, a powerful transportation logistics management
system comprised of full-function on-board computing, vehicle
tracking, Department of Transportation driver logs, fuel tax
reporting, highly integrated back-office software and real-time
wireless communications. Recently we announced the availability
of Driver Authentication, Wireless Panic Button and Tamper
Detection features, three new security enhancements for the
OmniTRACS system to help customers meet increased homeland
security needs and to deter cargo theft. We announced a new
wireless solution for the transportation industry using digital
mobile devices that will provide transportation companies a
portable communications tool for fleet management called
OmniOne. The OmniOne application is designed to run on our BREW
platform.

Outside of the United States and Mexico, we work
with telecommunications companies and carriers to establish the
OmniTRACS system concept and products in foreign markets. The
OmniTRACS system is currently operating throughout Europe and in
the Middle East, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan and
South Korea. Internationally, we generate revenues from the
OmniTRACS system through license fees, sales of network products
and terminals, messaging and service fees. Service providers
that operate network management centers for a region under our
granted licenses provide OmniTRACS messaging services. We also
run QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions Europe, b.v., a
Netherlands subsidiary, that brings mobile communications
products and messaging services to the European market.

QUALCOMM Digital Media (QDM)

The QDM division is comprised of the Government
Systems and Digital Cinema businesses.

The Government Systems business provides
development, hardware and analytical expertise to United States
government agencies involving wireless communications
technologies. We have developed a CDMA wireless terrestrial
phone for the United States government, the QSec-800, which
operates in enhanced security modes and incorporates end-to-end
encryption. During fiscal 2002, initial shipments of QSec-800
phones were made, and in September 2002, the phones were
certified for use. Additionally, OmniTRACS products and services
are being marketed and sold for United States government
worldwide applications.



We develop technologies to support the
processing, transmission and management of content for a variety
of media applications, including the delivery of digitized
motion pictures. In fiscal 2002, we released an end-to-end
Digital Cinema System which combines our expertise in advanced
image compression, electronic security, network management and
integrated circuit design and provides a turn-key solution to
the industry for the secure delivery of digitized motion
pictures to theatres worldwide. We are marketing our system and
technology to the motion picture industry and participating in
the industry-wide standards setting process. In May 2000, we
entered into a strategic alliance with Technicolor Digital
Cinema, Inc. and formed a joint venture, Technicolor Digital
Cinema, LLC, in which we have a 20% ownership interest. The
joint venture markets the QUALCOMM Digital Cinema System and
works with the motion picture industry as a technology enabler
and service provider while supporting open standards for the
digital delivery of motion pictures.

QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives Segment
(QSI)

We make strategic investments to promote the
worldwide adoption of CDMA products and services for wireless
voice and Internet data communications, including CDMA carriers
and licensed device manufacturers and companies that support the
design and introduction of new CDMA-based products or possess
unique capabilities or technology. We make strategic investments
in early stage companies and, from time to time, venture funds
or incubators, to support the adoption of CDMA and use of the
wireless Internet. In November 2001, we acquired Vésper
Holding Ltd. (Vésper Holding), which owns two CDMA carriers
in Brazil. We expect Vésper Holding to incur operating
losses and negative cash flows from operations. We have a
significant equity investment in Inquam Limited (Inquam). Inquam
was formed to acquire, own, develop and manage wireless
communications systems, either directly or indirectly, with the
primary intent of deploying CDMA-based technology. We may invest
up to $200 million in Reliance Communications Limited, a
wireless carrier in India. As part of the agreement to sell our
infrastructure business to Ericsson in 1999, we have provided
equipment financing to customers of Ericsson on a shared basis
with respect to their sale of CDMA infrastructure in Brazil,
Mexico and elsewhere. QSI revenues comprised 4% of total
consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002, primarily resulting from
the consolidation of Vésper Holding. QSI did not generate
revenues in fiscal 2001 or 2000.

Other Businesses

QUALCOMM Consumer Products (QCP)

In February 2000, we sold our terrestrial-based
CDMA wireless consumer phone business, including our phone
inventory, manufacturing equipment and customer commitments, to
Kyocera Wireless (Kyocera). We received $242 million for
the net assets sold. Under the agreement with Kyocera, Kyocera
agreed to purchase a majority of its CDMA integrated circuit
sets and system software requirements from us for a period of
five years. Kyocera will continue its existing royalty-bearing
CDMA license agreement with us.

As part of the agreement with Kyocera, we formed
a new subsidiary that has a substantial number of employees from
the former QUALCOMM Consumer Products business to provide
services to Kyocera on a cost-plus basis to support
Kyocera’s phone business for up to three years. This
arrangement will expire in February 2003. Kyocera has informed
us that it intends to offer employment to substantially all
employees of the subsidiary. During fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000,
revenues from this arrangement were $105 million,
$107 million and $69 million, respectively; earnings
before taxes were not material.

QUALCOMM Wireless Systems (QWS)

Under now-terminated contracts with Globalstar
L.P. (Globalstar), we designed, developed and manufactured
subscriber products and ground communications systems utilizing
CDMA technology and provided contract development services.
Globalstar was formed to design, construct and operate a
worldwide, low-Earth-orbit satellite-based telecommunications
system (the Globalstar System). We currently hold an approximate
6.3% interest in Globalstar through certain limited partnerships
and other indirect interests.



On January 16, 2001, Globalstar announced
that, in order to have sufficient funds available for the
continued progress of its marketing and service activities, it
had suspended indefinitely principal and interest payments on
all of its debt, including its vendor financing obligations.
Globalstar also announced its intent to restructure its debt.
Globalstar filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection
during fiscal 2002. We continue to provide services and sell
products to Globalstar service providers and other customers
involved with the Globalstar System.

Research and Development

The wireless telecommunications industry is
characterized by rapid technological change, requiring a
continuous effort to enhance existing products and develop new
products and technologies. Our research and development team has
a strong and proven track record of innovation in wireless
communications technologies. Our research and development
expenditures in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000 totaled approximately
$452 million, $415 million and $340 million,
respectively. Research and development expenditures in fiscal
2002 and 2001 were primarily related to integrated circuit
product initiatives to support high-speed wireless Internet
access and multimode, multi-band, multi-network products,
including cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO, GSM/GPRS, WCDMA and GPS
position location technologies, and to expansion of our BREW
software. Research and development expenditures in fiscal 2000
were primarily related to integrated circuit product
initiatives, software development efforts and 1xEV products. We
intend to use our substantial engineering resources and
expertise to develop new technologies, applications and services
and make them available to licensees to help grow the wireless
telecommunications market and generate new or expanded licensing
opportunities. In addition to internally sponsored research and
development, we perform contract research and development for
various government agencies and commercial contractors.

Sales and Marketing

QCT markets and sells products in the United
States through a sales force based in San Diego, California, and
internationally through a direct sales force based in South
Korea, Japan, China, Germany and the United Kingdom. QCT’s
sales and marketing strategy is to achieve design wins with
technology leaders in our targeted markets by, among other
things, providing superior field application and engineering
support.

The QIS division of QWI develops and sells
business-to-business products and services to companies
worldwide. The sales and marketing team is headquartered in San
Diego with offices worldwide. The QIS sales and marketing
strategy is to enter into contracts with companies in target
markets by providing comprehensive technology and services to
help them provide next-generation wireless data services that
combine wireless Internet, data and voice capabilities.

The QWBS division of QWI markets and sells
products through a sales force, partnerships, and distributors
based in the United States, Europe, the Middle East, Argentina,
Brazil, Canada, China, Japan, South Korea and Mexico.
QWBS’s sales and marketing strategy is to enter into
contracts with companies in our target markets by providing
high-value wireless fleet management products and services to
the transportation industry and other logistics-based businesses.

Marketing activities include participation in
technical conferences, business cases, competitive analyses and
other marketing collateral, publication of customer deployments,
new product information and educational articles in industry
journals, maintenance of our World Wide Web site and direct
marketing to prospective customers and prospective licensees. We
also developed and maintain a World Wide Web site
(www.3Gtoday.com) dedicated to highlighting commercial 3G
Wireless Services and products around the world. Our CDMA
Development Center in China is a 43,000 square foot facility in
Beijing in what is popularly known as ‘China’s Silicon
Valley.’ The center provides training, support and
equipment testing services primarily to manufacturers, mobile
carriers and software developers for BREW in China, as well as
supporting research and development of 3G wireless
standards based on CDMA. The center houses our CDMA University,
which offers classroom and hands-on training programs and a
highly-integrated test program designed to enable time and cost
savings when bringing products to market. The center and its
staff are focused on providing China with the resources to
enable the most timely development of its mobile



communications industry using our technologies
and applications, such as cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO, gpsOne
and the BREW platform. The center also supports the transfer of
certain hardware and software technologies for product
development and manufacturing to licensed manufacturers, as well
as network implementation methods to carriers and government
bodies in China.

Competition

Competition in the wireless telecommunications
industry in the United States and throughout the world continues
to increase at a rapid pace, as businesses and foreign
governments realize the market potential of telecommunications
services. Many of these current and potential competitors have
advantages over us, including:

As a result of these and other factors, our
competitors may be more successful than us. These competitors
may have more established relationships and greater technical,
marketing, sales and distribution capabilities and greater
access to channels in markets not currently deploying wireless
communications technology. These competitors also have
established or may establish financial or strategic
relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential
customers, resellers or other third parties. These relationships
may affect customers’ decisions to purchase products or
license technology from us. Accordingly, new competitors or
alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire
significant market share to our detriment. In addition, many of
these companies are licensees of our technology, and have
established market positions, trade names, trademarks, patents,
copyrights, intellectual property rights and substantial
technological capabilities. We may face competition throughout
the world with new technologies and services introduced in the
future as additional competitors enter the market place for
products based on 3G standards. Although we intend to
employ relatively new technologies, there will be a continuing
competitive threat from even newer technologies that may render
our technologies obsolete. We also expect that the price we
charge for our products and services may continue to decline as
competition intensifies.

QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies Segment
    (QCT)

The markets in which our QCT segment operates are
intensely competitive. QCT competes worldwide with a number of
United States and international manufacturers. As a result of
the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic
competitors and technological and public policy changes, we
anticipate that additional competitors will enter this market.
We believe that the principal competitive factors for CDMA
integrated circuit providers to our addressed markets are
product performance, level of integration, quality, compliance
with industry standards, price, time to market, system cost,
design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation and
customer support. The specific bases on which we compete against
alternative CDMA integrated circuit providers vary by product
platform. We also compete against alternative wireless
communications technologies including, but not limited to,
GSM/GPRS, TDMA and analog.

QCT’s current competitors include major
semiconductor companies such as Intel, Texas Instruments,
PrairieComm and Philips, as well as major telecommunication
equipment companies such as Motorola, Nokia and Matsushita. In
addition, QCT faces competition from the in-house development
efforts of many of our key customers, including Samsung. QCT
also faces competition from start-up ventures.

Our competitors may devote a significantly
greater amount of their financial, technical, marketing and
other resources to aggressively market competitive
telecommunications systems or to develop and adopt competitive
digital cellular technologies, and those efforts may materially
and adversely affect QCT. Moreover, competitors may offer more
attractive product pricing or financing terms than we do as a
means of gaining access to the wireless telecommunications
markets.



We have entered into licensing agreements with
certain of our competitors, including Philips, Motorola, Lucent,
Texas Instruments, PrairieComm, NEC, EoNex Technologies and
Infineon. These licenses permit the licensees to manufacture
CDMA-based integrated circuits using certain of our intellectual
property for sale to CDMA-based phone manufacturers. In exchange
for granting the licenses, we receive license fees, royalties
(payable as a percentage of the selling price of the integrated
circuits) and/or royalty-free cross-licenses, which allow us to
use our competitors’ CDMA and, in some cases, non-CDMA
intellectual property for specified purposes. In every case, the
phone manufacturers’ sales of CDMA-based phones are subject
to the payment of royalties to us on the products into which the
integrated circuits are incorporated in accordance with the
manufacturers’ separate licensing arrangements with us. We
license our CDMA intellectual property to the competitors of our
QCT segment to support the deployment of CDMA-based systems and
technologies worldwide in order to grow our royalty revenues
from customers licensed to sell CDMA phones and equipment. We
believe that, if the use of CDMA expands sufficiently,
QCT’s business will also grow, even if we lose market
share. Also, our QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) segment
will receive royalties from sales of CDMA integrated circuits by
certain competitors of QCT. To date, most phone manufacturer
licensees have elected to purchase their CDMA-based integrated
circuits from us.

QUALCOMM Technology Licensing Segment
    (QTL)

As part of our strategy to generate new licensing
revenues, significant resources are allocated to develop leading
edge technology for the telecommunications industry. We face
competition in the development of intellectual property for
next-generation digital wireless communications technology and
services. There are no guarantees that our technologies will
continue to be adopted or we will be able to secure patents for
our technology to subsequently license. Furthermore, there are
no guarantees that existing systems and applications cannot be
replaced by competitors’ technologies, thereby jeopardizing
our existing royalty and licensing revenues.

On a worldwide basis, we currently compete
primarily with two digital wireless telecommunications
technologies, TDMA and GSM/GPRS. TDMA has been deployed
primarily in the United States and Latin America, and a
variation, PDC (Personal Digital Cellular), deployed in Japan,
while GSM has been extensively utilized in Europe, much of Asia
other than Japan and Korea, and certain other markets. To date,
GSM has been more widely adopted than CDMA, and, although CDMA
technology has been proposed for all third generation wireless
systems, there can be no assurance that wireless communications
service providers will select CDMA for their networks or update
to any CDMA-based third generation technology. WCDMA, a
technology designed as an alternative to CDMA2000, is currently
in the standardization process and has been adopted by several
European, Japanese and United States carriers. We expect that,
although limited systems have been placed in service, widespread
and standardized WCDMA networks will not begin operation until
2003 or later, given that the WCDMA standard and
interoperability testing is not yet complete. In addition, many
GSM operators have deployed or are expected to deploy GPRS, a
packet data technology, as a 2.5G bridge technology, and some
plan to deploy EDGE, while waiting for third generation WCDMA to
become available and/or cost effective for their system. We
believe that our CDMA patent portfolio is applicable to all CDMA
systems. However, we cannot assure you that the wireless
communications industry will widely adopt 3G standards based on
CDMA technology, or that our CDMA patents will be determined to
be applicable to future standards.

QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet Segment
    (QWI)

Existing competitors of our Wireless Business
Solutions division offering alternatives to our OmniTRACS,
TruckMAIL, OmniExpress and LINQ system products are aggressively
pricing their products and services and could continue to do so
in the future. In addition, these competitors are offering new
value-added products and services similar in many cases to our
existing or developing technologies. Emergence of new
competitors, particularly those offering low cost
terrestrial-based products, may impact margins and intensify
competition in new markets.



Patents, Trademarks and Trade
Secrets

We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights,
trade secrets, trademarks and proprietary information to
maintain and enhance our competitive position. We have been
granted more than 900 United States patents and have over 1,500
patent applications pending in the United States. The vast
majority of such patents and patent applications relate to our
CDMA digital wireless communications technology. We also have
and will continue to actively file for patent protection around
the world and have received numerous CDMA patents with broad
coverage throughout most of the world, including China, Japan,
South Korea, Europe, Brazil, North America and elsewhere.

The standards bodies and the ITU have been
informed that we hold essential intellectual property rights for
the 3G standards that are based on CDMA. We have committed to
the ITU to license our essential patents for these CDMA
standards on a fair and reasonable basis free from unfair
discrimination.

Under our CDMA license agreements, licensees are
generally required to pay us license fees as well as ongoing
royalties based on a percentage of the net selling price of CDMA
subscriber, infrastructure, test and integrated circuits
products. License fees are paid in one or more installments,
while royalties generally continue throughout the life of the
licensed patents. Our CDMA license agreements generally provide
cross-licenses to us to use certain of our licensees’
technology to manufacture and sell certain CDMA products. In
most cases, our use of our licensees’ technology is royalty
free. However, under some of the licenses, if we incorporate
certain of the licensed technology into certain of our products,
we are obligated to pay royalties on the sale of such products.
For a limited period of time, Motorola is entitled, subject to
the terms of their license agreement, to share in a percentage
of certain third-party subscriber unit royalties paid by
licensees to us. For a limited period of time, the Korean
Electronics Telecommunications Research Institute is entitled,
subject to the terms of a development agreement with us, to
share in a percentage of subscriber and infrastructure royalties
paid by certain South Korean licensees for sales of those CDMA
products sold solely for use in South Korea.



As part of our strategy to generate licensing
revenues and support worldwide adoption of our CDMA technology,
we license to third parties the rights to design, manufacture
and sell products utilizing our CDMA technology. The following
table lists the majority of our current CDMA licensees:

Infrastructure

Airvana, Inc.

AirWalk Communications, Inc.

Alcatel SA

Alps Electric Co., Ltd.

Beijing Telecommunications Equipment

Factory

Cisco Systems, Inc.

COM DEV International, Ltd.

Contela, Inc.

Datang Telecom Technology Co., Ltd.

Eastern Communications Company Ltd.

Fujitsu Limited

Great Dragon Information Technology

Corporation Ltd.

Guangzhou Jinpeng Group Co., Ltd.

Hitachi Kokusai Electric, Inc.

Hitachi, Ltd.

Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.

Hyundai Syscomm, Inc.

interWAVE Advanced Communications,

Inc.

Kisan Telecom Co., Ltd.

LG Electronics

Lucent Technologies Inc.

Matsushita Communication Industrial Co.,

Ltd.

Mitsubishi Electric Corporation

Motorola, Inc.

NEC Corporation

NOKIA Corporation

Nortel Networks Corporation

Samsung Electronics Co.

Siemens Aktiengesellschaft

Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson

ZTE Corporation

Test Equipment

Acterna Corporation

Advantest Corporation

Agilent Technologies, Inc.

Allen Telecom Group

Ando Electric Co., Ltd.

Anritsu Corporation

Comarco Wireless Technologies, Inc.

Hewlett-Packard Company

IFR Systems, Inc.

Japan Radio Company, Ltd.

LCC International, Inc.

Matsushita Communication Industrial Co.,

Ltd.

Mobens Co., Ltd.

Motorola, Inc.

Rohde & Schwarz GmbH & Co.

Rotadata Limited

Sage Instruments

Spirent Communications, Inc.

Tektronix, Inc.

Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson

Thales Instrument Limited

Willtech, Inc.

Subscriber Equipment

AirPrime Inc.

Alps Electric Co., Ltd.

Appeal Telecom Co., Ltd.

Axesstel, Inc.

Beijing Telecommunications Equipment

Factory

Bellwave Co., Ltd.

Benq Corporation

Casio Computer Co., Ltd.

CEC Telecom Co. Ltd.

COM DEV International, Ltd.

Compal Electronics, Inc.

Cyberlane Inc.

Dalian Daxian Group Co., Ltd.

Datang Telecom Technology Co., Ltd.

Denso Corporation

eAnywhere Tech Inc.

Eastern Communications Co., Ltd.

ERON Technologies Co., Ltd.

ETRONICS Corp.

Fujitsu Limited

Garmin Corporation

Giga Telecom, Inc.

Glenayre Electronics, Inc.

Growell Telecom Co., Ltd.

GTRAN Wireless Inc.

Guangzhou Southern Hi-Tech Co., Ltd.

Haier Group Company

Handspring, Inc.

Hanwha Corporation

High Tech Computer Corporation

Hisense Group Co., Ltd.

Hitachi Kokusai Electric Inc.

Hitachi, Ltd.

INTERCUBE Co., Ltd.

Kenwood Corporation

Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V.

Konka Group Co., Ltd.

Kyocera Corporation

Langchao Electronic Information Industry

Group Corp.

LG Electronics Inc.

Lucent Technologies Inc.

Matsushita Communication Industrial Co.,

Ltd.

Matsushita Electronic Components Co.,

Ltd.

Maxon Telecom Co., Ltd.

Mitsubishi Electric Corporation

Modottel Co., Ltd.

Motorola, Inc.

NEC Corporation

NG Industrial Ltd.

Ningo Bird Co., Ltd.

NOKIA Corporation

Novatel Wireless Inc.

Pantech & Curitel, Inc.

Pantech Co., Ltd.

Research In Motion Limited

Samsung Electronics Co.

Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd.

Seiko Instruments Inc.

Sharp Corporation

Siemens Aktiengesellschaft

Sierra Wireless, SRL

SK Telecom Co., Ltd.

Sony Corporation

Synertek, Inc.

- Sewon Co., Ltd.

- Standard Telecom Co., Ltd.

- Telson Electronics Co., Ltd.

- Wide Telecom Co., Ltd.

TCL Holdings Co. Ltd.

Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson

Teleion Wireless, Inc.

Tellus Technology Inc.

Telson Information & Communications

Co., Ltd.

Toshiba Corporation

Uniden Corporation

United Computer &

Telecommunication, Inc.

Wavecom S.A.

Westech Korea, Inc.

Xiamen Overseas Chinese Electronic Co.,

Ltd.

ZTE Corporation

ASICs

EoNex Technologies, Inc.

Infineon Technologies AG

Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V.

LSI Logic Corporation

NEC Corporation

PrairieComm Incorporated

Texas Instruments

Research & Development

Chunghwa Telecom Laboratories

Non-Standard Systems

SOMA Networks, Inc.

Cable and Repeaters

EMS Technologies, Inc.

Transcept, Inc.



Employees

As of September 30, 2002, we employed
approximately 8,100 full-time and temporary employees.

Executive Officers

Our executive officers and their ages as of
September 30, 2002 are as follows:

Irwin Mark Jacobs, age 68, one of the founders of
the Company, has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors
and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since it began
operations in July 1985. He served as the Company’s
President prior to May 1992. Before joining the Company, he was
executive vice president and a director of M/ A-COM. From
October 1968 to April 1985, he held various executive positions
at LINKABIT (M/ A-COM LINKABIT after August 1980), a company he
co-founded. During most of his period of service with LINKABIT,
he was chairman, president and chief executive officer and was
at all times a director. He received his B.E.E. degree from
Cornell University and his M.S. and Sc.D. degrees from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Dr. Jacobs is a
member of the National Academy of Engineering and the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences and was awarded the National Medal
of Technology in 1994.

Anthony S. Thornley, age 56, was appointed
President in February 2002 and Chief Operating Officer of the
Company in July 2001. He served as Chief Financial Officer from
March 1994 to February 2002 and as Executive Vice President from
November 1997 to July 2001. Prior to joining the Company, he was
with Nortel, a telecommunications equipment manufacturer, for
sixteen years in various financial and information systems
management positions, including Vice President, Public Networks,
Vice President Finance NT World Trade and Corporate Controller
Nortel Limited. He has also worked for Coopers and Lybrand. Mr.
Thornley received his Bachelor’s of Science degree in
Chemistry from the University of Manchester, England.

William E. Keitel, age 49, was appointed Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in February 2002. He
joined the Company in 1996 and has worked in senior management
roles within corporate finance, serving as Senior Vice President
and Corporate Controller since 1998. Previously, Mr. Keitel
served in various senior finance roles for Nortel, a
telecommunications equipment manufacturer, from 1983 until 1996.
Mr. Keitel received a master’s degree in business
administration from Arizona State University and a
bachelor’s degree in business administration from the
University of Wisconsin.

Steven R. Altman, age 41, has served as Executive
Vice President of the Company since November 1997. He also has
served as President of the Company’s Technology Transfer
and Strategic Alliance division, which is responsible for, among
other things, licensing the Company’s intellectual
property, since September 1995. He served as General Counsel of
the Company from October 1989 through September 2000. He was
named Vice President in December 1992, was promoted to Senior
Vice President in February 1996 and was promoted to Executive
Vice President in November 1997. Prior to joining the Company in
October 1989, he was a business lawyer in the San Diego law firm
of Gray, Cary, Ware & Freidenrich, where he specialized in
intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, securities and
general corporate matters. Mr. Altman received a B.S.
degree from Northern Arizona University and a Juris Doctor from
the University of San Diego.

Dr. Roberto Padovani, age 48, was appointed
Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer in January
2002. He joined the Company in 1986 where he has been involved
in the design, development and standardization of second and
third generation CDMA systems. Prior to joining QUALCOMM,
Dr. Padovani was involved in the design and development of
satellite communication systems, secure video systems, and
error-correcting coding equipment at M/ A-COM LINKABIT in San
Diego. Dr. Padovani received a Laureate degree from the
University of Padova, Italy and a M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from
the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, all in electrical and
computer engineering. He is a Fellow of the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers.

Paul E. Jacobs, age 39, was appointed Group
President of the QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet Group in July
2001. He oversees the QUALCOMM Technology Licensing division,
the QUALCOMM Internet Services division, the QUALCOMM Wireless
Business Solutions division, and the QUALCOMM Digital Media
division along with Corporate Marketing, Standards and the
QUALCOMM Technology and Ventures unit. He has served as
Executive Vice President of the Company since February 2000. He
served as President



of the Consumer Products division from February
1997 to February 2000 and as Senior Vice President of the
Company and Vice President and General Manager of the Consumer
Products division from April 1995 to February 1997. He joined
the Company in September 1990 as Senior Engineer and was
promoted to Engineering Director in April 1993. Dr. Jacobs
holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering and Ph.D. degree
in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the
University of California, Berkeley. Dr. Paul Jacobs is the
son of Dr. Irwin Mark Jacobs, Chairman of the Board of
Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.

Donald E. Schrock, age 57, is an Executive Vice
President and was appointed Group President of QUALCOMM CDMA
Technologies Group in July 2001, overseeing QUALCOMM CDMA
Technologies and SnapTrack. He has served as Senior Vice
President of the Company since February 1997 and President of
CDMA Technologies division since October 1997. He joined the
Company in January 1996 as Corporate Vice President and in June
1996 was promoted to General Manager, QCT Products Division.
Prior to joining QUALCOMM, he was Group Vice President and
Division Manager with Hughes Aircraft Company. Prior to his
employment with Hughes, he was Vice President of Operations with
Applied Micro Circuits Corporation. He has also held positions
as Vice President/ Division General Manager at Burr-Brown
Corporation and spent 15 years with Motorola Semiconductor.
Mr. Schrock holds a B.S.E.E. with honors from the
University of Illinois, as well as a M.S.E.E. and Advanced
Business Administration degrees from Arizona State University.

Jeffrey A. Jacobs, age 36, was appointed
President of QUALCOMM Global Development, an organization
responsible for proliferating CDMA throughout the world, in May
2001. He served as Senior Vice President of Business Development
from June 1999 to May 2001 and Vice President of Business
Development from November 1997 to June 1999. Mr. Jacobs
founded the QUALCOMM Eudora division in 1993 and served as Vice
President and General Manager of the division from August 1995
to November 1997. He joined the Company in May 1986 as a market
analyst and held other management positions at the Company
through August 1995. Mr. Jacobs holds a Bachelor of Arts
degree in International Economics from the University of
California, Berkeley. Mr. Jeffrey Jacobs is the son of
Dr. Irwin Mark Jacobs, Chairman of the Board of Directors
and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.

Louis Lupin, age 47, was appointed Senior Vice
President and General Counsel of the Company in September 2000.
He served as Senior Vice President, Proprietary Rights Counsel
from May 1998 to September 2000, Vice President, Proprietary
Rights Counsel from April 1996 to May 1998 and Senior Legal
Counsel from February 1995 to April 1996. Prior to joining the
Company in 1995, he was a partner with Cooley, Godward, Castro,
Huddleson and Tatum where he focused on intellectual property
litigation in the telecommunications, software and biotechnology
industry. Mr. Lupin received his bachelor’s degree
from Swarthmore College and a J.D. from Stanford Law School.

RISK FACTORS

You should consider each of the following factors
as well as the other information in this Annual Report in
evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and
uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or
that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our
business operations. If any of the following risks actually
occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In
that case the trading price of our common stock could decline.
You should also refer to the other information set forth in this
Annual Report, including our financial statements and the
related notes.

Risks Related to Our Businesses

Global economic weakness that impacts the
    wireless communications industry could negatively affect our
    revenues and operating results.

Recent global economic weakness has had
wide-ranging effects on markets that we serve, particularly
wireless communications equipment manufacturers and network
operators. We cannot predict whether a recovery will occur or
what effects negative events, such as war, may have on the
economy. Further, an



economic recovery, if it occurs, may not benefit
us in the near term. If it does not, our ability to increase or
maintain our revenues and operating results may be impaired. In
addition, because we intend to continue to make significant
investments in research and development and to maintain
extensive ongoing customer service and support capability, any
decline in the rate of growth of our revenues will have a
significant adverse impact on our operating results.

If CDMA technology is not widely deployed, our
    revenues may not grow as anticipated.

We focus our business primarily on developing,
patenting and commercializing CDMA technology for wireless
telecommunications applications. Other digital wireless
communications technologies, particularly GSM technology, have
been more widely deployed than CDMA technology. If CDMA
technology does not become the preferred wireless communications
industry standard in the countries where our products and those
of our customers and licensees are sold, or if wireless
communications service providers do not deploy networks that
utilize CDMA technology, our business and financial results
could suffer.

To increase our revenues and market share in
future periods, we are dependent upon the commercial deployment
of 3G wireless communications equipment, products and services
based on our CDMA technology. Although network operators have
commercially deployed CDMA2000 1X, we cannot predict the timing
or success of other commercial deployments. If existing
deployments are not commercially successful, or if new
commercial deployments of CDMA2000 1X are delayed or
unsuccessful, our business and financial results may be harmed.
In addition, our business could be harmed if network operators
deploy competing technologies, such as GPRS, or switch existing
networks from CDMA to GSM.

Because we have made significant investments
    in and loans to CDMA carriers, our financial condition may be
    harmed if those CDMA carriers are not successful.

We provide significant financing to CDMA carriers
to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products and services.
Due to financial and competitive challenges facing CDMA
carriers, we cannot assure you that our investments will
generate financial returns or that they will result in increased
adoption or continued use of CDMA technologies. Many domestic
and international CDMA carriers to whom we have provided
financing have limited operating histories, are faced with
significant capital requirements, are highly leveraged or have
limited financial resources. If these CDMA operators are not
successful, we may have to write down our investments in or
loans to these carriers. Certain carriers to whom we have
provided financing have defaulted on their obligations to us,
and it is possible that others will default on their obligations
to us in the future. Any such write-downs or defaults could have
a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
operating results. Due to currency fluctuations and
international risks, foreign borrowers may become unable to pay
their debts to us from revenues generated by their projects that
are denominated in local currencies. Further, we may not be
permitted to retain a security interest in any spectrum licenses
held by foreign carriers that we finance. These spectrum
licenses initially may constitute the primary asset of the
carriers. The amount of financing that we currently are
providing and that we expect to provide in the future is
substantial. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, Note 4 – Investments in Other Entities.”
If we are unable to recover our investments in or loans to these
carriers, our financial condition may be harmed.

We have acquired a controlling interest in
    Vésper Holding, which owns two CDMA carriers in Brazil. Our
    financial condition may be harmed if Vésper Holding is not
    successful.

In November 2001, we acquired Vésper
Holding, which owns two CDMA carriers in Brazil (collectively,
Vésper). See “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, Note 13 — Acquisitions.” We expect
Vésper Holding to incur operating losses and negative cash
flows from operations as it expands operations and enters new
markets, even if and after it achieves positive cash flows from
operations in initial operating markets. We may incur
significant losses in the future related to our ownership of
Vésper Holding, and we cannot assure



you that Vésper Holding will ever operate
profitably. Additional risks and uncertainties specific to
Vésper Holding include risks associated with:

We have a significant equity method investment
    in Inquam Limited (Inquam). Our financial condition may be
    harmed if Inquam is not successful.

We agreed to invest $200 million in the
convertible preferred shares of Inquam. Inquam was formed to
acquire, own, develop and manage wireless communications
systems, either directly or indirectly, with the primary intent
of deploying CDMA-based technology. At September 30, 2002,
our investment in Inquam was $114 million, net of equity in
losses, and $27 million of the equity funding commitment
was outstanding. Inquam’s management expects to meet
certain operational milestones necessary for expansion of
Inquam’s CDMA operations during 2003. In addition,
Inquam’s management expects to raise additional funds over
the next 12 months required for Inquam to realize the full
value of its current operations. Remaining funding commitments
from us and another investor are expected to be exhausted by
March 2003. Total additional funding required by Inquam for
calendar 2003 is estimated to be between $175 million and
$195 million. If new investors cannot be found or should
existing investors decide not to provide additional funding, or
if Inquam does not promptly meet certain operational milestones
necessary for expansion, Inquam’s growth potential and the
value of our investment in Inquam may be negatively affected.

Our three largest customers accounted for 41%
    and 37% of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002 and 2001,
    respectively, and our largest customer accounted for 11% of
    total consolidated revenue in fiscal 2000. The loss of any one
    of our major customers or licensees could reduce our revenues
    and harm our ability to achieve or sustain acceptable levels of
    operating results.

QCT Segment

The loss of any one of our QCT segment’s
significant customers or the delay, even if only temporary, or
cancellation of significant orders from any of these customers
would reduce our revenues in the period of the cancellation or
deferral and could harm our ability to achieve or sustain
acceptable levels of profitability. Accordingly, unless and
until our QCT segment diversifies and expands its customer base,
our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and
size of future purchase orders, if any, from these customers.



Factors that may impact the size and timing of
orders from customers of our QCT segment include, among others,
the following:

QTL Segment

Our QTL segment derives royalty revenues from
shipments by our licensees. We derive a significant portion of
our royalty revenue from a limited number of licensees. Our
future success depends upon the ability of our licensees to
develop, introduce and deliver high volume products that achieve
and sustain market acceptance. We have little or no control over
the sales efforts of our licensees, and we cannot assure you
that our licensees will be successful or that the demand for
wireless communications devices and services offered by our
licensees will continue to increase. Any reduction in the demand
for or any delay in the development, introduction or delivery of
wireless communications devices utilizing our CDMA technology
could have a material adverse effect on our business. Weakness
in the value of foreign currencies in which our customers’
products are sold may reduce the amount of royalties payable to
us in U.S. dollars.

QWI Segment

Our QIS division derives revenue primarily from
software development and services revenues related to our BREW
product and services and a QChat licensing agreement with
Nextel. We derive a significant portion of our QIS revenue from
network operators offering BREW services. The future success of
our QIS division depends in part upon the ability of network
operators, handset manufacturers and developers to continue the
momentum in wireless data and sustain market acceptance for
quality wireless applications and services. We cannot assure you
that they will be successful or that the demand for BREW
services will continue to increase. Any reduction in the demand
for these services could have a material adverse effect on our
business.

We derive a majority of our revenues from
    sales outside the United States, and numerous factors related to
    international business activities subject us to risks that could
    reduce the demand for our licensees’ products or our
    products, negatively affecting our operating results.

A significant part of our strategy involves our
continued pursuit of growth opportunities in a number of
international markets. We market, sell and service our products
internationally. We have established sales offices around the
world. We will continue to expand our international sales
operations and enter new international markets. This expansion
will require significant management attention and financial
resources to successfully develop direct and indirect
international sales and support channels, and we cannot assure
you that we will be successful or that our expenditures in this
effort will not exceed the amount of any resulting revenues. If
we are not able to maintain or increase international market
demand for our products and technologies, then we may not be
able to maintain an acceptable rate of growth in our business.



Consolidated revenues from international
customers as a percentage of total revenues were 70% in fiscal
2002, 65% in fiscal 2001, and 47% in fiscal 2000. Because most
of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, our
products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold
in U.S. dollars become less price-competitive in international
markets if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to
foreign currencies.

In many international markets, barriers to entry
are created by long-standing relationships between our potential
customers and their local providers and protective regulations,
including local content and service requirements. In addition,
our pursuit of international growth opportunities may require
significant investments for an extended period before we realize
returns, if any, on our investments. Our business could be
adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing
factors, including:

In addition to general risks associated with our
international sales, licensing activities and operations, we are
also subject to risks specific to the individual countries in
which we do business. During fiscal 2002, 37% and 18% of our
revenues were from customers and licensees based in South Korea
and Japan, respectively, as compared to 35% and 22% during
fiscal 2001, respectively. During fiscal 2000, 22% and 13% of
our revenues were from customers and licensees based in South
Korea and Japan, respectively. A significant downturn in the
economies of Asian countries where many of our customers and
licensees are located, particularly the economies of South Korea
and Japan, would materially harm our business. The wireless
market in China represents a significant growth opportunity for
us. In January 2002, China Unicom launched its nationwide CDMA
network, and in October 2002, China Unicom announced that it had
more than 4 million subscribers. If China Unicom or the
government of China make technology deployment or other
decisions that result in actions that are adverse to the
expansion of CDMA technologies in China, our business could be
harmed.

India’s highest court will resume hearings
in November 2002 on an appeal filed by cellular phone operators
seeking to block limited-range mobile services that use CDMA
technology in India. Should the Supreme Court in India rule in
favor of the cellular phone operators, our business could be
harmed.

In November 2001, we acquired Vésper
Holding, a CDMA carrier in Brazil. A significant downturn in the
economy of Brazil could materially harm our business and limit
our strategic alternatives related to this investment.

We are subject to risks in certain markets in
which our customers and licensees grant subsidies on handsets to
their subscribers. For example, in the past the South Korean
government limited the ability of telecommunications carriers to
provide subsidies on handsets to their subscribers, and this, in
turn, reduced



our revenues from those sources. Further
limitations on the ability of handset manufacturers to sell
their products in South Korea, Japan or in other countries may
have additional negative impacts on our revenues.

We expect that royalty revenues derived from
international licensees will continue to represent a significant
portion of our total revenues in the future. To date, all of the
revenues from international licenses have been denominated in
U.S. dollars. However, to the extent that such licensees’
sales to their customers are not denominated in U.S. dollars,
any royalties that we receive as a result of such sales are
subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In addition,
if the effective price of products sold by our customers were to
increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the
relevant currencies, demand for the products could fall, which
in turn would reduce our royalty revenues.

We may engage in strategic transactions that
    could result in significant charges or management disruption and
    fail to enhance stockholder value.

From time to time, we engage in strategic
transactions with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. In
the past we have acquired businesses, entered into joint
ventures and made strategic investments in early stage companies
and venture funds or incubators to support global adoption of
CDMA and the use of the wireless Internet. Most of our strategic
investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become
liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if
at all.

We will continue to evaluate potential strategic
transactions and alternatives that we believe may enhance
stockholder value. These potential future transactions may
include a variety of different business arrangements, including
acquisitions, spin-offs, strategic partnerships, joint ventures,
restructurings, divestitures, business combinations and
investments. Although our goal is to maximize stockholder value,
such transactions may impair stockholder value or otherwise
adversely affect our business and the trading price of our
stock. Any such transaction may require us to incur
non-recurring or other charges and/or to consolidate or record
our equity in losses and may pose significant integration
challenges and/or management and business disruptions, any of
which could harm our operating results and business.

The fair values of our strategic investments
    are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and
    to market downturns. Downward fluctuations and market trends
    could adversely affect our operating results.

We maintain strategic holdings of various issuers
and types. These securities include available-for-sale equity
securities and derivative instruments that are recorded on the
balance sheet at fair value. We strategically invest in
companies in the high-technology industry and typically do not
attempt to reduce or eliminate our exposure to market risks in
these investments. Available-for-sale equity securities recorded
at fair value under FAS 115 and derivative instruments
recorded at fair value under FAS 133 subject us to equity
price risk. The fair market values of these securities and
derivative instruments are subject to significant market price
volatility and, in general, suffered significant decreases in
market value during fiscal 2002 and 2001. In addition, the
realizable value of these securities and derivative instruments
is subject to market and other conditions. Our strategic
investments in specific companies and industry segments may vary
over time, and changes in concentrations may affect price
volatility. We also make strategic investments in privately-held
companies, including early stage companies, venture funds or
incubators. These investments are recorded at cost, but the
recorded values may be written down due to changes in the
companies’ conditions or prospects. Our strategic
investments are inherently risky as the market for the
technologies or products the investees have under development
may never materialize. As a result, we could lose all or a
portion of our investments in these companies, which could
negatively affect our financial position and operating results.
See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
Note 2 — Marketable Securities and
Note 4 — Investments in Other Entities” and
“Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure
About Market Risk.”



We depend upon a limited number of third-party
    manufacturers to provide subassemblies and parts for our
    products. Any disruptions in the operations of, or the loss of,
    any of these third parties could harm our ability to meet our
    delivery obligations to our customers and increase our cost of
    sales.

QCT Segment

We subcontract all of the manufacturing and
assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits.
We depend upon a limited number of third parties to perform
these functions, some of which are only available from single
sources with which we do not have long-term contracts. IBM,
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. and United
Microelectronics are the primary foundry partners for our family
of baseband integrated circuits. IBM, Motorola and Texas
Instruments are the primary foundry partners for our family of
radio frequency and analog integrated circuits. Our reliance on
a sole-source vendor primarily occurs during the start-up phase
of a new product. Once a new product reaches a significant
volume level, we establish alternative suppliers for
technologies that we consider critical. Our reliance on sole or
limited-source vendors involves risks. These risks include
possible shortages of capacity, product performance shortfalls,
and reduced controls over delivery schedules, manufacturing
capability, quality assurance, quantity and costs. We have no
firm long-term commitments from our manufacturers to supply
products to us for any specific period, or in any specific
quantity, except as may be provided in a particular purchase
order. As a result, these manufacturers may allocate, and in the
past have allocated, capacity to the production of other
products while reducing deliveries to us on short notice.

Our operations also may be harmed by lengthy or
recurring disruptions at any of the facilities of our
manufacturers and may be harmed by disruptions in the
distribution channels from our suppliers and to our customers.
These disruptions may include labor strikes, work stoppages,
terrorism, war, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural
disasters. These disruptions could cause significant delays in
shipments until we are able to shift the products from an
affected manufacturer to another manufacturer. The loss of a
significant third-party manufacturer or the inability of a
third-party manufacturer to meet performance and quality
specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to
meet our delivery obligations to our customers.

In addition, one or more of our manufacturers may
obtain licenses from us to manufacture CDMA integrated circuits
that compete with our products. In this event, the manufacturer
could elect to allocate scarce components and manufacturing
capacity to their own products and reduce deliveries to us. In
the event of a loss of, or a decision to change, a key
third-party manufacturer, qualifying a new manufacturer and
commencing volume production or testing could involve delay and
expense, resulting in lost revenues, reduced operating margins
and possible loss of customers.

QWI Segment

Several of the critical subassemblies and parts
used in our QWBS division’s existing and proposed products
are currently available only from third-party single or limited
sources. These include items such as electronic and radio
frequency components, and other sophisticated parts and
subassemblies which are used in the OmniTRACS, TruckMAIL,
OmniExpress, LINQ and OmniOne products. These third parties
include companies such as Tyco International (M/ A Com), Rakon,
Mini-Circuits, Cambridge Tool & Mfg., Andrew
Corporation, American Design, Deutsch ECD, PCI Limited,
KeyTronic EMS, Seavey Engineering Associates, Symbol
Technologies, Navman NZ, Thomson-Airpax Mechatronics and
Eagle-Picher Industries. Our reliance on sole or limited source
vendors involves risks. These risks include possible shortages
of certain key components, product performance shortfalls, and
reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing
capability, quality and costs. In the event of a long-term
supply interruption, alternate sources could be developed in a
majority of the cases. The inability to obtain adequate
quantities of significant compliant materials on a timely basis
could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating
results, liquidity and financial position.



A reduction or interruption in component
supply or a significant increase in component prices could have
a material adverse effect on our business or
profitability.

Our ability to meet customer demands depends, in
part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of
parts and components from our suppliers and internal
manufacturing capacity. We have experienced component shortages
in the past, including components for our integrated circuit
products, that have adversely affected our operations. Although
we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of
shortages, we may continue to encounter these problems in the
future. Component shortages could adversely affect our ability
and that of our customers and licensees to ship products in a
timely basis and our customers’ or licensees’ demand
for our products. Any such shipment delays or declines in demand
could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or
sustain acceptable levels of profitability. Additionally,
failure to meet customer demand in a timely manner could damage
our reputation and harm our customer relationships.

Defects or errors in our products or in those
made by our suppliers could harm our relations with our
customers and expose us to liability. Similar problems related
to the products of our customers or licensees would harm our
business.

Our software and integrated circuit products are
inherently complex and may contain defects and errors that are
detected only when the products are in use. Further, because our
products perform critical functions in our customers’
products and networks, such defects or errors could have a
serious impact on our customers, which could damage our
reputation, harm our customer relationships and expose us to
liability. Defects or impurities in our components, materials or
software or those used by our customers or licensees, equipment
failures or other difficulties could adversely affect our
ability and that of our customers and licensees to ship products
on a timely basis as well as customer or licensee demand for our
products. Any such shipment delays or declines in demand could
reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain
acceptable levels of profitability. We and our customers or
licensees may also experience component or software failures or
defects which could require significant product recalls, reworks
and/or repairs which are not covered by warranty reserves and
which could consume a substantial portion of the capacity of our
third-party manufacturers or those of our customers or
licensees. Resolving any defect or failure related issues could
consume financial and/or engineering resources that could affect
future product release schedules.

Our operating results are subject to
substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market
downturns.

Our revenues, earnings and other operating
results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may
fluctuate significantly in the future. General economic or other
conditions causing a downturn in the market for our products or
technology, affecting the timing of customer orders or causing
cancellations or rescheduling of orders could also adversely
affect our operating results. Moreover, our customers may change
delivery schedules or cancel or reduce orders without incurring
significant penalties and generally are not subject to minimum
purchase requirements.

Our future operating results will be affected by
many factors, including the following:



The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast
and these, as well as other factors, could harm our quarterly or
annual operating results. If our operating results fail to meet
the expectations of investment analysts or investors in any
period, the market price of our common stock may decline.

Our industry is subject to competition that
could result in declining average selling prices for our
licensees’ products and our products, negatively affecting
our revenues and operating results.

We currently face significant competition in our
markets and expect that competition will continue. Competition
in the telecommunications market is affected by various factors
including:



•

system cost; and

•

customer support.

This competition has resulted and is expected to
continue to result in reduced average selling prices for our
products and those of our customers and licensees. Reductions in
the average selling price of our licensees’ products
generally results in reduced average royalties. While this trend
has, to a large extent, been mitigated by the introduction of
new features and functionality in our licensees’ products,
there is no guarantee that such mitigation will continue. We
anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as
a result of growth opportunities in wireless telecommunications,
the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic
competitors, technological and public policy changes and
relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the
industry.

Our competitors include companies that promote
non-CDMA technologies and companies that design competing CDMA
integrated circuits, such as Nokia, Motorola, Philips, Ericsson,
Texas Instruments, Intel, NEC, Nortel, Samsung, Matsushita and
Siemens, all of whom are our licensees with the exception of
Intel. With respect to our OmniTRACS, TruckMAIL, OmniExpress,
LINQ and OmniOne products and services, our existing competitors
are aggressively pricing their products and services and could
continue to do so in the future. In addition, these competitors
are offering new value-added products and services similar in
many cases to those we have developed or are developing.
Emergence of new competitors, particularly those offering low
cost terrestrial-based products and current as well as future
satellite-based systems, may impact margins and intensify
competition in new markets.

Many of these current and potential competitors
have advantages over us, including:

As a result of these and other factors, our
competitors may be more successful than us. In addition, we
anticipate additional competitors will enter the market for
products based on 3G standards. These competitors may have
more established relationships and distribution channels in
markets not currently deploying wireless communications
technology. These competitors also have established or may
establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves
or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other
third parties. These relationships may affect customers’
decisions to purchase products or license technology from us.
Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors
could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share to our
detriment.

Currency fluctuations could negatively affect
future product sales or royalty revenue and harm our ability to
collect receivables.

We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in
currencies, which may change over time as our business practices
evolve, that could impact our operating results, liquidity and
financial condition. Because we are a global concern, adverse
movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our
business due to a number of situations, including the following:

•

Financial instruments held by our consolidated
    subsidiaries and other companies in which we invest that are not
    denominated in the functional currency of those entities are
    subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may
    affect our reported earnings. Our exposure to emerging market
    currencies may increase as we expand into those markets.

•

Investments in our consolidated foreign
    subsidiaries and in other foreign entities that use the local
    currency as the functional currency may decline in value as a
    result of declines in local currency values.



•

Foreign CDMA carriers to whom we have provided
    financing may be unable to pay their debts to us, which are
    denominated in U.S. dollars, from revenues generated by their
    projects, which are denominated in local currencies.

•

Declines in currency values in selected regions
    may adversely affect our operating results because our products
    and those of our customers and licensees may become more
    expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected
    currencies. Our trade receivables are generally United States
    dollar denominated. Accordingly, any significant change in the
    value of the dollar against our customers’ or
    licensees’ functional currencies could result in an
    increase in our customers’ or licensees’ cash flow
    requirements and could consequently affect our ability to
    collect receivables.

•

Average selling prices for our customers’
    products may be denominated in local currencies, and declines in
    local currency values may adversely affect future royalty
    revenue.

Our stock price is volatile.

The stock market in general, and the stock prices
of technology-based and wireless communications companies in
particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has
been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific
public company. The market price of our common stock has
fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future
as well. Factors that may have a significant impact on the
market price of our stock include:

Our future earnings and stock price may be
subject to significant volatility, particularly on a quarterly
basis. Shortfalls in our revenues or earnings in any given
period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts
could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the
trading price of our common stock.

Our industry is subject to rapid technological
change that we must keep pace with to successfully
compete.

New technological innovations generally require a
substantial investment before they are commercially viable. We
intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing
new products and technologies, and it is possible that our
development efforts will not be successful and that our new
technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. In
particular, we intend to continue to invest significant
resources in developing integrated circuit products to support
high-speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multi-band,
multi-network products including cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO,
GSM/GPRS, WCDMA and GPS



position location technologies. We will also
continue our significant development efforts with respect to
BREW (Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless), an applications
execution platform that provides applications developers with an
open standard platform for wireless devices on which to develop
their products. An open standard platform means that BREW can be
made to interface with many software applications, including
those developed by others. We cannot assure you that the
revenues generated from these products will meet our
expectations.

The market for our products and technology is
characterized by many factors, including:

Our future success will depend on our ability to
continue to develop and introduce new products, technology and
enhancements on a timely basis. Our future success will also
depend on our ability to keep pace with technological
developments, protect our intellectual property, satisfy varying
customer requirements, price our products competitively and
achieve market acceptance. The introduction of products
embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry
standards could render our existing products and technology, and
products and technology currently under development, obsolete
and unmarketable. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately
to technological developments or customer requirements, or
experience any significant delays in development, introduction
or shipment of our products and technology in commercial
quantities, our competitive position could be damaged.

Consolidations in the wireless communications
industry could adversely affect our business.

The wireless communications industry has
experienced consolidation of participants, and this trend may
continue. If wireless carriers consolidate with companies that
utilize technologies that compete with CDMA, then CDMA may lose
market share unless the surviving entity continues to deploy
CDMA. This consolidation could also result in delays in or
cancellation of purchasing decisions by the merged companies,
negatively affecting our revenues and operating results.

The enforcement and protection of our
intellectual property rights may be expensive and could divert
our valuable resources.

We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark
and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and
confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our
proprietary information, technologies and processes, including
our patent portfolio. Policing unauthorized use of our products
and technologies is difficult. We cannot be certain that the
steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or
unauthorized use of our proprietary information and
technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws
may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as United States
laws.

The vast majority of our patents and patent
applications relate to our CDMA digital wireless communications
technology and much of the remainder of our patents and patent
applications relate to our gpsOne, BREW, OmniTRACS, Digital
Cinema, Globalstar and Eudora products. Litigation may be
required to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect
our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of
proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such
litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights or incur
substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to
protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and
could absorb significant management time and attention, which,
in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. In
addition, failure to protect our trademark rights could impair
our brand identity.



Claims by third parties that we infringe their
intellectual property or that patents on which we rely are
invalid could adversely affect our business.

From time to time, companies may assert patent,
copyright and other intellectual proprietary rights to our
technologies or technologies used in our industry. These claims
may result in our involvement in litigation. We may not prevail
in such litigation given the complex technical issues and
inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If
any of our products were found to infringe on protected
technology, we could be required to redesign or license such
technology and/ or pay damages or other compensation to the
infringed party. If we were unable to license protected
technology used in our products, we could be prohibited from
making and selling such products.

In addition, as the number of competitors in our
market increases and the functionality of our products is
enhanced and overlaps with the products of other companies, we
may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation
of the intellectual property rights of others. Any claims, with
or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly
litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management
personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of
which could have a material adverse effect upon our operating
results. In any potential dispute involving our patents or other
intellectual property, our licensees could also become the
targets of litigation. Any such litigation could severely
disrupt the business of our licensees, which in turn could hurt
our relations with our licensees and cause our revenues to
decrease.

A number of third parties have claimed to own
patents essential to various proposed 3G CDMA standards. If
we or other product manufacturers are required to obtain
additional licenses and/ or pay royalties to one or more patent
holders, this could have a material adverse effect on the
commercial implementation of our CDMA products and
technologies and our profitability.

Third parties also may commence actions seeking
to establish the invalidity of our patents. In the event that a
third-party challenges a patent, a court may invalidate the
patent or determine that the patent is not enforceable, which
would harm our competitive position. If any of our key patents
are invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these
patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from
licensing the invalidated or limited portion of our technology
and our licensees may be prevented from manufacturing and
selling the products that incorporate such technology without
obtaining a license to use a third-party’s technology. Even
if a third-party challenge is not successful, it could be
expensive and time consuming, divert management attention from
our business and harm our reputation.

The high amount of capital required to obtain
radio frequencies licenses could slow the growth of the wireless
communications industry and adversely affect our
business.

Our growth is dependent upon the increased use of
wireless communications services that utilize our
CDMA technology. In order to provide wireless
communications services, carriers must obtain rights to use
specific radio frequencies. The allocation of frequencies is
regulated in the United States and other countries throughout
the world and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless
communications services. Industry growth may be affected by the
amount of capital required to obtain licenses to use new
frequencies. Typically, governments sell these licenses at
auctions. Over the last several years, the amount paid for these
licenses has increased significantly, particularly for
frequencies used in connection with 3G technology. In
addition, litigation and disputes involving companies bidding to
acquire spectrum has delayed the expansion of wireless networks
in the United States, and it is possible that this delay could
continue for a significant amount of time. The significant cost
of licenses and delays associated with disputes over license
auctions may slow the growth of the industry if service
providers are unable to obtain or service the additional capital
necessary to implement infrastructure to support
3G technology. Our growth could be adversely affected if
this occurs.

Our business and operating results may be
harmed by inflation and deflation.

Inflation has had and may continue to have
adverse effects on the economies and securities markets of
certain countries and could have adverse effects on our
customers, licensees and the projects of CDMA carriers in
those countries, including their ability to obtain financing and
repay debts. Brazil and Mexico, for example, have periodically
experienced relatively high rates of inflation and currency
devaluation. Significant



inflation or deflation could have a material
adverse effect on our business, operating results, liquidity and
financial position.

If we experience product liability claims or
recalls, we may incur significant expenses and experience
decreased demand for our products.

Testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our
products and those of our licensees and customers entails the
risk of product liability. Although we believe our product
liability insurance will be adequate to protect against product
liability claims, we cannot assure you that we will be able to
continue to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost or in
sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to product
liability. Our inability to maintain insurance at an acceptable
cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability
claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our
products and those of our licensees and customers and harm our
future operating results. In addition, a product liability claim
or recall could harm our reputation and result in decreased
demand for our products.

Our business depends on the availability of
satellite and other networks for our OmniTRACS, TruckMAIL,
OmniExpress, LINQ and OmniOne systems and other communications
products.

Our OmniTRACS and TruckMAIL systems currently
operate in the United States market on leased Ku-band satellite
transponders. Our data satellite transponder and position
reporting satellite transponder lease runs through October 2006.
Based on system capacity analysis, we believe that the United
States OmniTRACS and TruckMAIL operations will not require
additional transponder capacity through 2003. We believe that in
the event additional transponder capacity would be required in
fiscal 2003 or in future years, additional capacity will be
available on acceptable terms. However, we cannot assure you
that we will be able to acquire additional transponder capacity
on acceptable terms in a timely manner. A failure to maintain
adequate satellite capacity would harm our business, operating
results, liquidity and financial position.

Our OmniExpress, LINQ and OmniOne systems are
terrestrial-based products and thus rely on various wireless
terrestrial communications networks operated by third parties.
We believe these terrestrial networks will be available for our
products; however, we cannot assure you that these networks will
continue to be available to us or that they will perform
adequately for our needs. The unavailability or nonperformance
of these network systems could harm our business.

Our business and operations would suffer in
the event of system failures.

Despite the implementation of security measures
and the existence of a Disaster Recovery Plan for our internal
information technology networking systems, our systems are
vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized
access, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication
failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that
causes interruptions in our operations could result in a
material disruption to our business. To the extent that any
disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our
customers’ data or applications, or inappropriate
disclosure of confidential information, we may incur liability
as a result. In addition, we may incur additional costs to
remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security
breaches.

Message transmissions for domestic OmniTRACS,
TruckMAIL, OmniExpress, LINQ and OmniOne operations are
formatted and processed at the Network Management Center in
San Diego, California, which we operate, with a fully
redundant backup Network Management Center located in
Las Vegas, Nevada. Our Network Management Center operations
are subject to system failures, which could interrupt the
services and have a material adverse effect on our operating
results.

From time to time, we install new or upgraded
business management systems. To the extent such systems fail or
are not properly implemented, we may experience material
disruptions to our business that could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations.



Government regulation may adversely affect our
business.

Our products and those of our customers and
licensees are subject to various FCC regulations in the
United States and other international regulations. These
regulations require that these products meet certain radio
frequency emission standards, not cause unallowable interference
to other services, and in some cases accept interference from
other services. We are also subject to government regulations
and requirements of local standards bodies outside the United
States, where we are less prominent than local competitors and
have less opportunity to participate in the establishment of
regulatory and standards policies. We are also subject to state
and federal health, safety and environmental regulations, as
well as regulations related to the handling of and access to
classified information. Changes in the regulation of our
activities, including changes in the allocation of available
spectrum by the United States government and other governments
or exclusion of our technology by a standards body, could have a
material adverse effect on our business, operating results,
liquidity and financial position.

If wireless handsets pose safety risks, we may
be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and
those of our licensees and customers may decrease.

Concerns over the effects of radio frequency
emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of
discouraging the use of wireless handsets, which would decrease
demand for our products and those of our licensees and
customers. In recent years, the FCC and foreign regulatory
agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for
evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment,
including wireless handsets. In addition, interest groups have
requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless
communications technologies pose health concerns and cause
interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices.
There also may be some safety risks associated with the use of
wireless handsets while driving. Concerns over these safety
risks and the effect of any legislation that may be adopted in
response to these risks could reduce demand for our products and
those of our licensees and customers in the United States as
well as foreign countries.

Our business and operating results will be
harmed if we are unable to manage growth in our
business.

Certain of our businesses have experienced
periods of rapid growth that have placed, and may continue to
place, significant demands on our managerial, operational and
financial resources. In order to manage this growth, we must
continue to improve and expand our management, operational and
financial systems and controls, including quality control and
delivery and service capabilities. We also need to continue to
expand, train and manage our employee base. We must carefully
manage research and development capabilities and production and
inventory levels to meet product demand, new product
introductions and product and technology transitions. We cannot
assure you that we will be able to timely and effectively meet
that demand and maintain the quality standards required by our
existing and potential customers and licensees.

In addition, inaccuracies in our demand
forecasts, or failure of the systems used to develop the
forecasts, could quickly result in either insufficient or
excessive inventories and disproportionate overhead expenses. If
we ineffectively manage our growth or are unsuccessful in
recruiting and retaining personnel, our business and operating
results will be harmed.

We may not be able to attract and retain
qualified personnel necessary for the design, development and
commercialization of our products and technology.

Our future success depends largely upon the
continued service of our Board members, executive officers and
other key management and technical personnel. Our success also
depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and
motivate qualified personnel. In addition, implementing our
product and business strategy requires specialized engineering
and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on
technological and product innovations. Key technical personnel
represent a significant asset, and the competition for these
personnel is intense in the wireless communications industry.

We may have particular difficulty attracting and
retaining key personnel in periods of poor operating performance
given the significant use of incentive compensation by our
competitors. We do not have



employment agreements with our key management
personnel and do not maintain key person life insurance on any
of our personnel. The loss of one or more of our key employees
or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified
personnel could negatively impact our ability to design, develop
and commercialize our products and technology.

Future changes in financial accounting
standards may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and
affect our reported results of operations.

A change in accounting standards can have a
significant effect on our reported results and may even affect
our reporting of transactions completed before the change is
effective. Any changes requiring that we record compensation
expense in the statement of operations for employee stock
options using the fair value method could have a significant
negative effect on our reported results. New pronouncements and
varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may
occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the
questioning of current practices may adversely affect our
reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.

Compliance with changing regulation of
corporate governance and public disclosure may result in
additional expenses.

Changing laws, regulations and standards relating
to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock
Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as
ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of
corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we
intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply
with evolving standards, and this investment may result in
increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of
management time and attention from revenue-generating activities
to compliance activities.

Pro forma financial information that we
disclose concerning our operations does not conform to generally
accepted accounting principles and may not comply with finalized
SEC regulations.

We prepare and release quarterly unaudited and
annual audited financial statements prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We also
disclose and discuss certain pro forma financial information in
our related earnings releases and investor conference calls. Our
pro forma financial information excludes the results of our QSI
segment, goodwill amortization and certain other items. We
believe the disclosure of pro forma financial information helps
investors more meaningfully evaluate the results of our ongoing
operations and that the securities analysts who cover our stock
evaluate our performance on this basis. However, we urge
investors to carefully review the GAAP financial information
included as part of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and
our Annual Reports on Form 10-K that are filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and our quarterly earnings
releases and compare that GAAP financial information with the
pro forma financial results disclosed in our quarterly earnings
releases and investor calls, as well as in some of our other
reports. In addition, pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, the SEC has released proposed rules and is required to
issue final rules regarding the publication of pro forma
financial information in the first quarter of 2003. It is
possible the final rules could materially limit our ability to
disclose pro forma financial information, which could make it
more difficult for us to communicate the results of our ongoing
operations. This result could have an adverse effect on the
trading price of our common stock and lead to increased stock
price volatility

.

Actual results may differ from estimates made
in prior periods, causing adverse unexpected fluctuations
affecting our reported financial results.

The preparation of our financial statements
requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses,
and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. By their
nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of
uncertainty. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated
results and trends and on various other assumptions that we
believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including
assumptions as to future events. These estimates form the basis
for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from



other sources. Actual results that differ from
our estimates could have a significant adverse effect on our
operating results and financial position.

Our stockholder rights plan, certificate of
incorporation and Delaware law could adversely affect the
performance of our stock.

Our certificate of incorporation provides for
cumulative voting in the election of directors. In addition, our
certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of
directors and includes a provision that requires the approval of
holders of at least 66 2/3% of our voting stock as a
condition to a merger or certain other business transactions
with, or proposed by, a holder of 15% or more of our voting
stock. This approval is not required in cases where certain of
our directors approve the transaction or where certain minimum
price criteria and other procedural requirements are met. Our
certificate of incorporation also requires the approval of
holders of at least 66 2/3% of our voting stock to amend or
change the provisions mentioned relating to the classified
board, cumulative voting or the transaction approval. Under our
bylaws, stockholders are not permitted to call special meetings
of our stockholders. Finally, our certificate of incorporation
provides that any action required or permitted to be taken by
our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or
special meeting rather than by any consent in writing.

The classified board, transaction approval,
special meeting and other charter provisions may discourage
certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential
change in our control. These provisions may also discourage
certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might
otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current
market prices and may limit our stockholders’ ability to
approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best
interests.

Further, we have distributed a dividend of one
right for each outstanding share of our common stock pursuant to
the terms of our preferred share purchase rights plan. These
rights will cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a
person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not
approved by our board of directors and may have the effect of
deterring hostile takeover attempts. In addition, our board of
directors has the authority to fix the rights and preferences of
and issue shares of preferred stock. This right may have the
effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control without
action by our stockholders.

We are at risk of securities class action
litigation that could result in substantial costs and divert
management’s attention and resources.

In the past, securities class action litigation
has often been brought against a company following periods of
volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to the
volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of
securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could
result in substantial costs and divert management’s
attention and resources.



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

At September 30, 2002, we occupied the
indicated square footage in the owned or leased facilities
described below (in thousands):

In addition to the facilities above, we also own
or lease an additional 1,323,900 square feet of properties that
are leased or subleased to third parties.

Our leases expire at varying dates through 2009
not including renewals that would be at our option. We believe
that our facilities will be suitable and adequate for the
present purposes, and that the productive capacity in such
facilities is substantially being utilized. In the future, we
may need to purchase, build or lease additional facilities to
meet the requirements projected in our long-term business plan.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Schwartz, et al v.
QUALCOMM:

On December 14, 2000,
77 former employees filed a lawsuit against us in the District
Court for Boulder County, Colorado, alleging claims for
intentional misrepresentation, nondisclosure and concealment,
violation of C.R.S. Section 8-2-104 (obtaining workers by
misrepresentation), breach of contract, breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, promissory estoppels,
negligent misrepresentation, unjust enrichment, violation of
California Labor Code Section 970, violation of California
Civil Code Sections 1709-1710, rescission, violation of
California Business & Professions Code Section 17200
and violation of California Civil Code Section 1575. Since
then, 10 other individuals have joined the suit as plaintiffs.
The complaint seeks economic, emotional distress and punitive
damages and unspecified amounts of interest. On
November 29, 2001, the Court granted our motion to dismiss
17 of the plaintiffs from the lawsuit. Subsequently, the Court
dismissed 3 other plaintiffs from the lawsuit. On
November 18, 2002, the Court granted our motion to dismiss
66 of the remaining 67 plaintiffs from the lawsuit. Although
there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of the
dispute would not have a material adverse effect on our
operating results, liquidity or financial position, we believe
the claims are without merit and will vigorously defend the
action.

GTE Wireless Incorporated (GTE) v.
QUALCOMM:

On June 29, 1999, GTE
filed an action in the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia seeking damages and injunctive
relief and



asserting that wireless telephones sold by us
infringe a single patent allegedly owned by GTE. On
September 15, 1999, the Court granted our motion to
transfer the action to the United States District Court for the
Southern District of California. On February 14, 2002, the
District Court granted our motion for summary judgment that our
products did not infringe GTE’s asserted patent and denied
GTE’s motion seeking summary judgment of infringement. Our
counterclaims that the patent is invalid or unenforceable remain
pending in the District Court and have been stayed while the
ruling granting our motion and denying GTE’s motion is on
appeal. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable
outcome of the dispute would not have a material adverse effect
on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, we
believe the action is without merit and will vigorously defend
the action.

Durante, et al v.
QUALCOMM:

On February 2, 2000,
three former employees filed a putative class action against us,
ostensibly on behalf of themselves and those former employees of
ours whose employment was terminated in April 1999. Virtually
all of the purported class of plaintiffs received severance
packages at the time of the termination of their employment, in
exchange for a release of claims, other than federal age
discrimination claims, against us. The complaint was filed in
California Superior Court in and for the County of Los Angeles
and purports to state ten causes of action including breach of
contract, age discrimination, violation of Labor Code
Section 200, violation of Labor Code Section 970,
unfair business practices, intentional infliction of emotional
distress, unjust enrichment, breach of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, declaratory relief and undue influence.
The complaint seeks an order accelerating all unvested stock
options for the members of the class, plus economic and
liquidated damages of an unspecified amount. On June 27,
2000, the case was ordered transferred from Los Angeles County
Superior Court to San Diego County Superior Court. On
July 3, 2000, we removed the case to the United States
District Court for the Southern District of California, and
discovery commenced. On May 29, 2001, the Court dismissed
all plaintiffs’ claims except for claims arising under the
federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act. On July 16,
2001, the Court granted conditional class certification on the
remaining claims, to be revisited by the Court at the end of the
discovery period. Currently there are 83 individuals
included in the class. Although there can be no assurance that
an unfavorable outcome of the dispute would not have a material
adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial
position, we believe the claims are without merit and will
vigorously defend the action.

Zoltar Satellite Alarm Systems, Inc. v.
QUALCOMM and SnapTrack:

On March 30,
2001, Zoltar Satellite Alarm Systems, Inc. (Zoltar) filed suit
against us and SnapTrack, our wholly-owned subsidiary, seeking
damages and injunctive relief and alleging infringement of three
patents. On August 27, 2001, Zoltar filed an amended
complaint adding Sprint Corp. as a named defendant and narrowing
certain infringement claims against us and SnapTrack. Since
then, Zoltar has dismissed Sprint Corp. as a defendant. On
September 23, 2002, the court denied Zoltar’s motion
for summary judgment that the accused products infringe. Our and
SnapTrack’s various motions for summary judgment of
noninfringement and invalidity are currently pending and await
hearing. Trial has been set for February 11, 2003. Although
there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this
dispute would not have a material adverse effect on our
operating results, liquidity or financial position, we believe
the claims are without merit and will vigorously defend the
action.

We have been named, along with many other
manufacturers of wireless handsets, wireless carriers and
industry-related organizations, as a defendant in a purported
class action lawsuit (In re Wireless Telephone Frequency
Emissions Products Liability Litigation, United States District
Court for the District of Maryland), and in several individually
filed actions, seeking personal injury, economic and/or punitive
damages arising out of the sale of cellular phones. The courts
that have reviewed similar claims against other companies to
date have held that there was insufficient scientific basis for
the plaintiffs’ claims in those cases, and the judge
responsible for the multi-district litigation proceedings
recently made such a ruling in another case to which we are not
a party. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable
outcome of these and other disputes would not have a material
adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial
position, we believe the claims are without merit and will
vigorously defend the actions.

We have not recorded any accrual for contingent
liability associated with the legal proceedings described above
based on our belief that a liability, while possible, is not
probable. Further, any possible range of loss



cannot be estimated at this time. We are engaged
in other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our
business and believe that the ultimate outcome of these actions
will not have a material adverse effect on our operating
results, liquidity or financial position.

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
    HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security
holders during the quarter ended September 30, 2002.



PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Market Information.

Our Common Stock is traded on the
Nasdaq National Market under the symbol “QCOM.” The
following table sets forth the range of high and low sales
prices on the National Market of the Common Stock for the
periods indicated, as reported by Nasdaq. Such quotations
represent inter-dealer prices without retail markup, markdown or
commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions.

As of November 20, 2002, there were 10,142
holders of record of the Common Stock. On November 20,
2002, the last sale price reported on the Nasdaq National Market
for the Common Stock was $39.15 per share. We have never paid
cash dividends on our Common Stock and have no present intention
to do so.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under
Equity Compensation Plans.

Information
about QUALCOMM equity compensation plans at September 30,
2002 was as follows (number of shares in thousands):



Information about employee and executive stock
option grants at September 30 was as follows:

*

Named executive officers are defined by the SEC
    for inclusion in the Proxy Statement as the Chief Executive
    Officer and each of the four other most highly compensated
    executive officers.



ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
DATA

The following balance sheet data and statements
of operations for the five years ended September 30, 2002
were derived from our audited consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated balance sheets at September 30, 2002 and 2001
and the related consolidated statements of operations and of
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
September 30, 2002 and notes thereto appear elsewhere
herein. The data should be read in conjunction with the annual
consolidated financial statements, related notes and other
financial information appearing elsewhere herein.





ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
    FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION

Except for the historical information contained
herein, the following discussion contains forward-looking
statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual
results may differ substantially from those referred to herein
due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks
described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in
this Annual Report. Our consolidated financial data includes
SnapTrack, Inc., Vésper Holding Ltd. and other consolidated
subsidiaries.

Overview

We design, manufacture and market digital
wireless telecommunications products and services based on our
CDMA and other technologies. We derive revenue principally from
license fees and royalties from our intellectual property, from
sales of integrated circuit products, from services and related
hardware sales and from software development and related
services. Operating expenses primarily consist of cost of
revenues, research and development, selling, general and
administrative, amortization of goodwill and other
acquisition-related intangible assets, and asset impairment and
related charges.

Our QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT) segment is a
leading developer and supplier of CDMA-based integrated circuits
and system software for wireless voice and data communications
and global positioning system products. QCT software products
are the interface link between the operating system that
controls the phone and the functionality embedded in our
integrated circuit products. QCT products are sold to many of
the world’s leading wireless phone and infrastructure
manufacturers. QCT revenues comprised 52%, 51% and 39% of total
consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. QCT’s operating margin was 28% in fiscal
2002, compared to 22% in 2001 and 32% in 2000. The increase in
operating margin in 2002 as compared to 2001 was primarily
related to a change in product mix toward higher end devices
utilizing our CDMA2000 1X products. The decrease in
operating margin in 2001 as compared to 2000 was primarily
related to increased research and development costs associated
with new integrated circuit product and technology initiatives,
as well as increased advertising expenses.

Our QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) segment
receives license fees and royalty payments for use of our CDMA
technology by domestic and international wireless
telecommunications equipment suppliers. QTL generates revenue
from license fees for our patented CDMA (e.g., cdmaOne,
CDMA2000, WCDMA and TD-SCDMA) technologies as well as ongoing
royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees that design,
manufacture and sell products incorporating our CDMA technology.
QTL revenues comprised 28%, 29% and 22% of total consolidated
revenues in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. QTL’s
operating margin was 89% in fiscal 2002, compared to 90% in 2001
and 2000.

Our QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet (QWI)
segment, which includes QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions
(QWBS), QUALCOMM Internet Services (QIS) and QUALCOMM Digital
Media (QDM), generates revenue primarily through mobile
communication products and services, software, and software
development aimed at support and delivery of wireless
applications. QWI revenues comprised 14%, 16% and 14% of total
consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. QWI’s operating margin was a negative 2% in
fiscal 2002, compared to positive 8% in 2001 and 19% in 2000.
The decrease in operating margin from 2001 to 2002, and from
2000 to 2001, was primarily due to expenses incurred in the
development, support and marketing efforts related to the BREW
product.

Our QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment
makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of
CDMA products and services for wireless voice and Internet data
communications. Our strategy is to invest in CDMA carriers,
licensed device manufacturers and start-up companies that we
believe open new markets for CMDA technology, support the design
and introduction of new CDMA-based products or possess unique
capabilities or technology to promote Internet data
communications. The QSI segment’s revenues relate primarily
to the consolidation of our investment in Vésper Holding.
QSI revenues comprised 4% of fiscal 2002 total consolidated
revenues. QSI did not generate revenues in 2001 or 2000.
QSI’s operating margin was negative 401% in 2002 and was
not meaningful in 2001 or 2000.



Recent global economic weakness has had
wide-ranging effects on markets that we serve, particularly
wireless communications equipment manufacturers and network
operators. We cannot predict whether a recovery will occur or
what effects negative events, such as war, may have on the
economy. Further, an economic recovery, if it occurs, may not
benefit us in the near term. If it does not, our ability to
increase or maintain our revenues and operating results may be
impaired. To increase our revenues and market share in future
periods, we are dependent upon the adoption and commercial
deployment of 3G wireless communications equipment, products and
services based on our CDMA technology. Although network
operators have commercially deployed CDMA2000 1X, we cannot
predict the timing or success of other commercial deployments.
If existing deployments are not commercially successful, or if
new commercial deployments of CDMA2000 1X are delayed or
unsuccessful, our business and financial results may be harmed.

We currently face significant competition in our
markets and expect that competition will continue. Historically,
this competition has resulted and is expected to continue to
result in reduced average selling prices for our products and
those of our customers and licensees. Reductions in the average
selling price of our licensees’ products generally results
in reduced average royalties. While this trend has, to a large
extent, been mitigated by the introduction of new features and
functionality in our licensees’ products, there is no
guarantee that such mitigation will continue.

The wireless communications industry has
experienced consolidation of participants, and this trend may
continue. If wireless carriers consolidate with companies that
utilize technologies that compete with CDMA, then CDMA may lose
market share unless the surviving entity continues to deploy
CDMA. This consolidation could also result in delays in or
cancellation of purchasing decisions by the merged companies,
negatively affecting our revenues and operating results.

We will continue to expand our international
sales operations and enter new international markets. This
expansion will require significant management attention and
financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect
international sales and support channels, and we cannot assure
you that we will be successful or that our expenditures in this
effort will not exceed the amount of any resulting revenues. If
we are not able to maintain or increase international market
demand for our products and technologies, then we may not be
able to maintain an acceptable rate of growth in our business.

Revenues from customers in the United States,
South Korea, and Japan comprised 30%, 37% and 18%, respectively,
of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002, as compared to
35%, 35%, and 22%, respectively, in fiscal 2001, and 53%, 22%
and 13%, respectively, in fiscal 2000. We distinguish revenue
from external customers by geographic areas based on customer
location. The decreases in revenues from customers in the United
States, as a percentage of the total, is primarily attributed to
the sale of the terrestrial-based CDMA wireless consumer phone
business in February 2000 and a decrease in revenues related to
business with Globalstar. The increases in revenues from
customers in South Korea, as a percentage of the total, is
primarily attributed to the commercial deployment of our 3G
CDMA2000 1X technology in October 2000 in South Korea, where
15 million, or 46%, of the nation’s total mobile
service users were using this technology by the end of October
2002. The general increase in revenues from customers in Japan
as a percentage of the total is primarily attributed to an
ongoing migration to 3G services, illustrated by KDDI’s
expectation of 7 million, or 40%, of their subscriber base
using 3G services by March 2003, as reported by the CDG.

Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates

Our discussion and analysis of our results of
operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our
consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. The preparation of these financial statements
requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses,
and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an
on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments,
including those related to revenue recognition, adequacy of
allowances for doubtful accounts, valuation of intangible assets
and investments, income taxes, and litigation. We base our
estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and
on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable
under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future
events. These estimates form the basis for making



judgments about the carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. By
their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of
uncertainty. Actual results may differ from our estimates. We
believe that the following significant accounting policies and
assumptions may involve a higher degree of judgment and
complexity than others.

Revenue Recognition

We derive revenue principally from royalties,
from sales of integrated circuit products, from services and
related hardware sales, from software development and related
services, and from license fees for intellectual property. The
timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually
recognized in each case depends upon a variety of factors,
including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature
of our deliverables and obligations. Determination of the
appropriate method of revenue recognition involves judgments and
estimates that we believe are reasonable, but it is possible
that actual results may differ from our estimates.

In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 101 (SAB 101), “Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements” which we adopted in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2001 and applied retroactively to the first quarter of
fiscal 2001. We recognized $66 million and $95 million
during fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively, in net income before
income taxes and accounting changes related to revenue and
expense that was recognized in prior years. We continue to
monitor developments in Emerging Issues Task Force discussions
of Issue 00-21, “Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with
Multiple Deliverables” and Issue 02-G, “Recognition of
Revenue from Licensing Arrangements on Intellectual
Property,” to determine what, if any, impact a final
consensus may have on our revenue recognition policy.

We license rights to use our intellectual
property portfolio, which includes patent rights to use cdmaOne,
CDMA2000, CDMA2000 1X, CDMA2000 1x EV-DO, TD-SCDMA and
WCDMA technologies. Licensees typically pay a non-refundable
license fee and on-going royalties on their sales of products
incorporating our intellectual property. License fees are
generally recognized over the estimated period of future benefit
to the average licensee, typically five to seven years. We
generally recognize royalty revenue as earned when reasonable
estimates of such amounts can be made. Certain royalty revenues
are accrued based on estimates prior to the reporting of such
revenues by our licensees. Estimates of royalty revenues are
based on analyses of historical royalty data by licensee, the
relationship between the timing of our sales of integrated
circuits to our licensees and our licensees’ sales of CDMA
phones and infrastructure equipment, average sales price
forecasts, and current market and economic trends. When our
licensees report royalties for which we accrued revenues based
on estimates, we adjust revenues for the period in which the
reports are received. Revenues from sales of our CDMA-based
integrated circuits are recognized at the time of shipment, or
when title and risk of loss passes to the customer, if later.
Revenues and expenses from sales of certain satellite and
terrestrial-based two-way data messaging and position reporting
hardware and related software products are recognized ratably
over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the hardware
product or the expected messaging service period, which is
typically five years, as the messaging service is considered
integral to the functionality of the hardware and software.
Revenues from providing services are recorded when earned.
Revenues from long-term contracts are generally recognized using
the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, based on
costs incurred compared with total estimated costs. The
percentage-of-completion method relies on estimates of total
contract revenue and costs. Revenues and profit are subject to
revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Revisions in
profit estimates are charged or credited to income in the period
in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known.
If actual contract costs are greater than expected, reduction of
contract profit would be required. Billings on uncompleted
contracts in excess of incurred cost and accrued profits are
classified as unearned revenue. Estimated contract losses are
recognized when determined. If substantive uncertainty related
to customer acceptance exists or the contract’s duration is
relatively short, we use the completed-contract method.

Revenues from software license fees are
recognized when all of the following criteria are met: the
written agreement is executed; the software is delivered; the
license fee is fixed and determinable; collectibility of the
license fee is probable; and if applicable, when vendor-specific
objective evidence exists to allocate the total



license fee to elements of multiple-element
arrangements, including post-contract customer support. When
contracts contain multiple elements wherein vendor-specific
objective evidence exists for all undelivered elements, we
recognize revenue for the delivered elements and defer revenue
for the undelivered elements until the remaining obligations
have been satisfied. If vendor-specific objective evidence does
not exist for all undelivered elements, revenue for the
delivered and undelivered elements is deferred until remaining
obligations have been satisfied, or if the only undelivered
element is post-contract customer support, revenue is recognized
ratably over the support period. Significant judgments and
estimates are made in connection with the recognition of
software license revenue, including assessments of
collectibility and the fair values of deliverable elements. The
amount or timing of our software license revenue may differ as a
result of changes in these judgments or estimates.

Allowances for Doubtful Accounts

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for
estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers
to make required payments. We consider the following factors
when determining if collection of a fee is reasonably assured:
customer credit-worthiness, past transaction history with the
customer, current economic industry trends and changes in
customer payment terms. If we have no previous experience with
the customer, we typically obtain reports from various credit
organizations to ensure that the customer has a history of
paying its creditors. We may also request financial information,
including financial statements or other documents (e.g., bank
statements) to ensure that the customer has the means of making
payment. If these factors do not indicate collection is
reasonably assured, revenue is deferred until collection becomes
reasonable assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash. If
the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate,
adversely affecting their ability to make payments, additional
allowances would be required.

We also maintain allowances for doubtful accounts
for estimated losses resulting from the inability of entities we
have financed to make required payments. We evaluate the
adequacy of allowances for doubtful finance and note receivables
based on analyses of the financed entities’
credit-worthiness, current economic trends or market conditions,
review of the entities’ current and projected financial and
operational information, and consideration of the fair value of
collateral to be received, if applicable. From time to time, we
may consider third party evaluations, valuation reports or
advice from investment banks. If the financial condition of the
financed entities were to deteriorate, adversely affecting their
ability to make payments, additional allowances would be
required.

Valuation of Intangible Assets and
Investments

Our business acquisitions typically result in
goodwill and other intangible assets, and the recorded values of
those assets may become impaired in the future. The
determination of the value of such intangible assets requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our
consolidated financial statements. We assess potential
impairments to intangible assets when there is evidence that
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of an asset may not be recovered. Our judgments regarding
the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows
related to intangible assets are based on operational
performance of our acquired businesses, market conditions and
other factors. Future events could cause us to conclude that
impairment indicators exist and that goodwill associated with
our acquired businesses is impaired. Any resulting impairment
loss could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

We hold minority strategic investments in
publicly-traded companies whose share prices may be highly
volatile. We record impairment charges when we believe an
investment has experienced a decline that is other than
temporary. The determination that a decline is other than
temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. Future
adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results
of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover
the carrying value of the investments, thereby possibly
requiring impairment charges in the future. When assessing a
publicly-traded investment for an other-than-temporary decline
in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, how
significant the decline in value is as a percentage of the
original cost, how long the market value of the investment has
been less than its original cost, the performance of the
investee’s stock price in relation to the stock price of
its competitors within the industry



and the market in general and analyst
recommendations. We also review the financial statements of the
investee to determine if the investee is experiencing financial
difficulties.

We hold minority strategic investments in private
companies whose values are difficult to determine. We record
impairment charges when we believe an investment has experienced
a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a
decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by
many factors. Future adverse changes in market conditions or
poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an
inability to recover the carrying value of the investments,
thereby possibly requiring impairment charges in the future.
When assessing investments in private companies for an
other-than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors
as, among other things, the share price from the investee’s
latest financing round, the performance of the investee in
relation to its own operating targets and its business plan, the
investee’s revenue and cost trends, the liquidity and cash
position, including its cash burn rate and market acceptance of
the investee’s products and services. From time to time, we
may consider third party evaluations, valuation reports or
advice from investment banks. We also consider new
products/services that the investee may have forthcoming, any
significant news that has been released specific to the investee
or the investee’s competitors and/or industry and the
outlook of the overall industry in which the investee operates.

Income Taxes

Our income tax provision is based on calculations
and assumptions that will be subject to examination by the
Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly
assess the potential outcomes of these examinations in
determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
Should the actual results differ from our estimates, we would
have to adjust the income tax provision in the period in which
the facts that give rise to the revision become known. Tax law
and rate changes are reflected in the income tax provision in
the period in which such changes are enacted.

Since we believe it is more likely than not that
deductions from future employee stock option exercises will
exceed future taxable income, we have provided a valuation
allowance through equity on substantially all of our net
deferred tax assets. We consider estimated future taxable income
and on-going tax planning strategies in assessing the need for
the valuation allowance.

We can only use our capital losses and capital
loss carrybacks or carryforwards to offset capital gains. We
have developed tax planning strategies to generate future
capital gains sufficient to offset the capital losses that we
have incurred through fiscal 2002. Any additional capital losses
in future years may require us to set up a valuation allowance
for the deferred tax assets through our statement of operations
if we are unable to generate sufficient future capital gains to
offset these additional capital losses through our tax planning
strategies.

We consider the operating earnings of non-United
States subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the
United States. No provision has been made for United States
federal and state, or foreign taxes that may result from future
remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries.
Should we have to repatriate foreign earnings, we would have to
adjust the income tax provision in the period in which the facts
that give rise to the revision become known.

Litigation

We are currently involved in certain legal
proceedings. We estimate the range of liability related to
pending litigation where the amount and range of loss can be
estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss
is considered probable. Where a liability is probable and there
is a range of estimated loss, we record the minimum estimated
liability related to the claim. As additional information
becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to
our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Revisions in
our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact
our results of operations.

Strategic Investments and Financing

Our QSI segment makes strategic investments to
promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products and services for
wireless voice and Internet data communications. In general, we
enter into strategic



relationships with CDMA carriers and developers
of innovative technologies or products for the wireless
communications industry. As part of the agreement to sell our
infrastructure equipment business to Ericsson in 1999, we have
provided equipment financing to customers of Ericsson on a
shared basis with respect to Ericsson’s sale of CDMA
infrastructure in Brazil, Mexico and elsewhere. Our QSI segment
selects and manages strategic investments in early stage
companies and, from time to time, venture funds or incubators,
to support the adoption of CDMA and use of the wireless
Internet. Most of our strategic investments entail a high degree
of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from
the date of investment, if at all. To the extent such
investments become liquid and meet strategic objectives, we
attempt to make regular periodic sales that are recognized in
investment (expense) income. We may reduce or suspend the
planned sale of these investments if and when market conditions
decline. We regularly monitor and evaluate the realizable value
of our investments in both marketable and private securities. If
events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the value of
these assets has occurred and is other than temporary, we will
record a charge to investment (expense) income. During fiscal
2002, we recognized $230 million in charges related to
other-than-temporary losses on marketable and private
securities. In some cases, we make strategic investments in
early stage companies which require us to consolidate or record
our equity in the losses of those companies. The consolidation
of these losses can adversely affect our financial results until
we exit from or reduce our exposure to the investments.

From time to time, we may accept equity interests
in a licensee as consideration for a portion or all of the
license fees payable under our CDMA license agreements. We
record license fee revenues based on the fair values of the
equity instruments received, if determinable. The measurement
date for determination of fair value is the earlier of the date
on which the parties establish a commitment to perform or the
date at which the performance is complete. The evaluation
procedures used to determine fair value include, but are not
limited to, examining the current market price for the shares if
the licensee is publicly traded, examining recent rounds of
financing and the licensee’s business plan if not publicly
traded, and performing other due diligence procedures. We
account for the equity received using APB 18 or
FAS 115, as appropriate. This program will not affect the
licensees’ obligations to pay royalties under their CDMA
license agreements. The amount of cash consideration and the
timing of revenue recognition vary depending on the terms of
each agreement. As of September 30, 2002, nine licensees
have participated in this program. We recognized $6 million
and $7 million of revenue in fiscal 2002 and 2001,
respectively, and no revenue in fiscal 2000 related to equity
received as consideration for license fees.

VeloCom, Inc.

On November 29, 2001, we forgave
$119 million under our debt facility with VeloCom, Inc.
(VeloCom), an investor in Vésper Holding. We also converted
our remaining $56 million convertible promissory note into
equity securities of VeloCom (the VeloCom exchange) in
conjunction with our acquisition of Vésper Holding. The
VeloCom exchange increased our equity interest in VeloCom to
49.9%. We use the equity method to account for our investment in
VeloCom. At September 30, 2002, our investment in VeloCom
was $33 million, net of our equity in VeloCom’s losses.

Vésper Holding, Ltd.

In fiscal 1999, we acquired an approximate 16%
ownership interest in Vésper Sao Paulo S.A. and Vésper
S.A. (the Vésper Operating Companies or collectively,
Vésper). The Vésper Operating Companies were formed by
a consortium of investors to provide fixed wireless and wireline
telephone services in the northern, northeast and eastern
regions of Brazil and in the state of Sao Paulo. In addition, we
extended long-term financing to the Vésper Operating
Companies related to our financing arrangement with Ericsson. On
November 13, 2001, we consummated a series of transactions
as part of an overall financial restructuring (the
Restructuring) of the Vésper Operating Companies.

Pursuant to the Restructuring, we committed to
invest $266 million, and VeloCom committed to invest
$80 million, in a newly formed holding company called
Vésper Holding. Vésper Holding acquired certain
liabilities of the Vésper Operating Companies from their
vendors for $135 million and the issuance of warrants to
purchase an approximate 7% interest in Vésper Holding, and
the vendors released in full any claims that



they might have against us, VeloCom, the
Vésper Operating Companies and other related parties
arising from or related to the acquired liabilities. In a series
of related transactions, Vésper Holding agreed to
contribute the acquired liabilities to the Vésper Operating
Companies in exchange for equity securities and to cancel the
contributed liabilities. At September 30, 2002, we directly
owned 72% of the issued and outstanding equity of Vésper
Holding, and we indirectly owned an additional 11.9% of
Vésper Holding through our ownership interest in VeloCom,
totaling an 83.9% direct and indirect interest.

The purchase price allocation, based on the
estimated fair values of acquired assets and liabilities
assumed, included $307 million for property, plant and
equipment, $39 million for licenses, and $31 million
for other intangible assets. Property, plant and equipment are
depreciated over useful lives ranging from 2 to 18 years.
Licenses and other intangible assets are amortized over their
useful lives of 18 years and 3 to 18 years,
respectively.

When we obtained the controlling interest in
Vésper Holding, Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 18, “The Equity Method of Accounting for
Investments in Common Stock,” required that we adjust our
prior period results to account for our original 16% ownership
interest in the Vésper Operating Companies, predecessors to
Vésper Holding, using the equity method of accounting. As a
result, we recorded $6 million, $150 million and
$48 million of equity in losses of the Vésper
Operating Companies for fiscal 2002 (pre-acquisition), 2001 and
2000, respectively. We recorded a $59 million reduction in
finance receivables, an $18 million reduction in other
assets and a $77 million reduction in retained earnings at
September 30, 2001. We previously recorded
$121 million in asset impairment charges and
other-than-temporary losses on other investments during fiscal
2001. Because those charges did not exceed the losses recorded
as a result of using the equity method, our net loss for fiscal
2001 increased by $29 million. We did not record any asset
impairment charges or other-than-temporary losses during fiscal
2000, and as a result of using the equity method, the net income
for fiscal 2000 decreased by $48 million.

In July 2002, a group of Brazilian mobile
operators sued the Vésper Operating Companies, claiming
Vésper violated its STFC (fixed) license by allowing
full mobility on its network. The court issued an order
temporarily restraining Vésper from continued sales of its
limited mobility product pending the trial. This order did not
impact Vésper’s existing customers, nor sales of other
types of products. Subsequently, Anatel, the Brazilian
telecommunications regulatory agency, placed a similar
administrative hold on Vésper until such time as it could
determine whether Vésper was in compliance with existing
regulations. Vésper successfully appealed the court order,
and the temporary restraint was lifted although the underlying
court case remains to be tried. Additionally, Vésper and
Anatel reviewed the issue from a technical and regulatory
standpoint, and the parties reached an agreement which allows
Vésper to resume sales of its limited mobility product once
certain technical adjustments to restrict broad mobility are
implemented in Vésper’s network. Vésper has
commenced making such technical adjustments and expects to
complete them in all of its markets over the next few months.
Sales of the affected products have resumed in those areas in
which the technical modifications have already been completed.

During September 2002, Vésper decided to
replace all towers manufactured by one of its third party
contractors due to the identification of structural defects,
resulting in an asset impairment charge of $0.5 million.
This decision was made after severe storm winds damaged and/or
destroyed a number of Vésper towers manufactured by that
third party contractor. Overall, this replacement program
impacts up to 66 Vésper towers, which carry antennae for
less than 9% of Vésper base stations. Vésper towers
manufactured by other parties were also inspected during this
process and found to be in proper condition. Replacements have
begun for the most critical towers, and all affected towers are
expected to be replaced by March 2003. Vésper has not
experienced and does not expect to experience any appreciable
service degradation during this replacement process. Vésper
also is seeking to complete a tower sale-leaseback of a portion
of its tower sites by December 31, 2002, including the
defective towers, pursuant to which the purchasing party would
assume all further liability for the purchased towers and
fulfill replacement construction obligations. Vésper
expects the tower sale-leaseback arrangement, which includes the
cost of replacing the defective towers, to provide net cash
inflows during calendar 2002.



In September 2002, Anatel issued Resolution 314,
which modifies certain current telecommunications regulations.
As part of this resolution and prior resolutions, Vésper
will be required to vacate its current spectrum in the 1900MHz
frequency (analogous to United States Band A/ D) in the coming
years to enable the frequency to be allotted to future Universal
Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) license holders. In
return, Vésper has been assigned new 1900MHz frequencies
(analogous to United States PCS Band C). Pursuant to
Resolution 314, upon completion of up-banding of its network,
Vésper would be permitted to utilize the new 1900MHz
frequencies for its primary allocation for fixed wireless
services as well as to apply for permission to use those
frequencies for full mobility services offered under an SMP
(mobile) license. Such secondary use of the new 1900 MHz
frequencies for SMP (mobile) services would require
Vésper to either obtain its own SMP license(s) or to enter
into an arrangement with an SMP license holder whereby CDMA
mobility at 1900MHz would be offered by the license holder
utilizing Vésper’s up-banded infrastructure.
Significant costs, constraints and hurdles exist with respect to
accomplishing these objectives, including Vésper’s or
another party’s ability to acquire the necessary SMP
license(s), uncertainty whether and to what extent applicable
Brazilian telecommunications regulations would require
Vésper to build out additional infrastructure in another
frequency band in order to offer SMP (mobile) services, the
cost of up-banding Vésper’s CDMA radio interface
equipment, and uncertainty whether reimbursement for such costs
can be obtained from future UMTS license holder(s).

On November 19, 2002, we won bids to acquire
mobile licenses in the state of Sao Paulo (excluding Sao Paulo
metro), the state of Minas Gerais, and in the Northeast region
of Brazil (license Areas 2, 4, and 10, respectively). The new
mobile licenses cover areas with a combined population in excess
of 64 million. The mobile licenses overlap with
approximately 47% of Vésper Holding’s existing
Wireless Local Loop areas. None of the mobile licenses cover an
area outside of Vésper Holding’s current coverage
areas. Approximately $8 million of the approximate
$83 million total purchase price is payable by
December 19, 2002. The remaining $75 million Brazilian
real-denominated obligation is financed by the Brazilian
government at an interest rate of 12%, plus an adjustment for
inflation, payable in six equal annual installments. The first
such installment payment is due in 36 months.

Access to long-term funding sources to fund
growth is a critical issue for Vésper. We continue to seek
strategic partners and/or acquirers to participate in this
process. We continue to invest in Vésper to ensure the
establishment of CDMA-based systems and to provide CDMA coverage
and roaming possibilities to as many regions throughout Brazil
as possible. The investment will help us grow our revenues from
royalties and from the sale of integrated circuits to phone
manufacturers. In other words, our return on our investment in
Vésper is not limited to a Vésper ownership interest,
but also includes indirect revenues, including CDMA licensing
revenues and QCT integrated circuit sales from third party
suppliers to Vésper. Further, the Vésper business
plan, similar to other start-up wireless operators, indicates
that we should receive a return on our investment in the
long-run despite losses in the initial years. The Vésper
Operating Companies expect to incur operating losses and
negative cash flows from operations through calendar 2003 as
they expand operations and enter new markets, even if and after
they achieve positive cash flows from operations in the initial
operating markets. Vésper expects to commercially launch
CDMA2000 1xEV-DO services in December 2002. To date no long-term
funding commitments from other sources have been secured, and it
is not clear whether future commitments from outside parties
will be available. Furthermore, important regulatory and
business issues have yet to be resolved. If these issues cannot
be resolved in a prompt and reasonable manner, risks related to
Vésper may increase, and we may incur significant losses.
Specifically, if Vésper is unable to offer converged
services, which includes full mobility, either by itself and/or
through other parties utilizing Vésper’s CDMA network,
we may need to write down Vésper’s long-lived assets.
In that management believes there is currently a regulatory path
to mobility and several partnership and/or other potential means
under which Vésper could offer mobile services, we believe
that the assets are recoverable at this time.

Pegaso Telecomunicaciones, S.A. de
    C.V.

We have various financing arrangements, including
a bridge loan facility, an equipment loan facility and an
interim loan facility, with Pegaso Comunicaciones y Sistemas
S.A. de C.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of Pegaso
Telecomunicaciones, S.A. de C.V., a CDMA wireless operating
company in Mexico (collectively



referred to as Pegaso). On September 10,
2002, Telefónica Móviles (Telefónica) acquired a
65% controlling interest in Pegaso (the Close).

The bridge facility was payable in full on
October 31, 2001, was in default and was subject to a
forbearance agreement at September 30, 2002. At
September 30, 2002, $413 million was outstanding under
the bridge loan facility, net of deferred interest and unearned
fees. We stopped recognizing interest on the bridge loan
facility effective at the beginning of the fourth fiscal quarter
of 2001. Pegaso paid $435 million in full satisfaction of
the bridge loan facility on November 8, 2002 (the Bridge
Payment).

The equipment loan facility and related financing
were in default and subject to a forbearance agreement at
September 30, 2002. At September 30, 2002,
$318 million was outstanding under the equipment loan
facility, net of deferred interest and unearned fees. The
equipment loan facility was payable through December 31,
2007 and bears interest at the London Interbank Offered Rate
(LIBOR) plus 4.5% (or LIBOR plus 6.5% when in default). We
stopped recognizing interest on the equipment loan facility and
related financing effective at the beginning of the fourth
fiscal quarter of 2001. The terms of the equipment loan facility
and related financing were modified, retroactive to
September 10, 2002, upon receipt of the Bridge Payment and
the satisfaction of other conditions. We will be required to use
approximately $139 million of the bridge loan proceeds to
purchase outstanding vendor debt owed by Pegaso to other
lenders. Financing related to the equipment loan facility in the
amount of $4 million will be payable in March 2003. The
remaining equipment loan facility, including the acquired vendor
debt, will be payable quarterly starting in March 2006 through
December 2008 and will bear interest at LIBOR plus 1% for two
years, LIBOR plus 3% for the next three years and LIBOR plus 6%
thereafter. We recognized $0.5 million in interest income
on the equipment loan facility during fiscal 2002 from the Close
through fiscal year end at LIBOR plus 1%.

During fiscal 2002, we provided to Pegaso
$65 million of interim financing, including $5 million
in capitalized fees, and $65 million of additional interim
financing. Prior to the Close, a Pegaso shareholder purchased
$25 million and $23 million participations in the
interim and additional interim finance receivables,
respectively, from us, and at Close, converted those portions of
the interim and additional interim financings into equity in
Pegaso. At September 30, 2002, $40 million and
$42 million were outstanding under the interim and
additional interim facilities, respectively. The interim and
additional interim financing commitments were cancelled at
Close, and the interim and additional interim finance
receivables were repaid in full with interest on
October 10, 2002.

Also in connection with the Close,
Telefónica paid $9 million to us in consideration for
warrants to acquire equity in Pegaso at Close, and Pegaso paid
$12 million to us in October 2002 related to certain fees
and expense reimbursements.

As a result of the Close, we recognized a total
of $9 million in interest income in fiscal 2002. At
September 30, 2002, finance and other receivables from
Pegaso totaled $821 million, net of $45 million in
deferred interest income that will be amortized over the
remaining term of the equipment loan facility as an adjustment
to yield. We received $90 million of this amount in October
2002 and an additional $295 million when the Bridge Payment
was made in November 2002, excluding the $139 million
portion of the Bridge Payment that will be used to acquire
vendor debt. After receipt of the Bridge Payment, $436 million
of the September 30, 2002 finance receivables remains, net
of deferred interest. In the event that Pegaso were to initiate
the commercialization of GSM or TDMA services in its spectrum,
Pegaso would be obliged to prepay $285 million of that
amount. Telefonica has recently indicated its intention to
deploy GSM in Mexico.

Our aggregate commitments to provide additional
long-term financing to Pegaso under our arrangements with
Ericsson were $105 million as of September 30, 2002,
subject to Pegaso meeting certain conditions. Of this amount,
$9 million was cancelled when Pegaso made the Bridge
Payment, and the remaining $96 million is no longer
available to Pegaso as a result of a series of events that
occurred in November 2002. We also had $4 million in other
financing commitments to Pegaso as of September 30, 2002
that were cancelled when Pegaso made the Bridge Payment.

Pegaso is at an early stage of development and
may not be able to compete successfully. Competitors in Mexico
have greater financial resources and more established operations
than Pegaso. As is normal for early



stage wireless operators, Pegaso is experiencing
significant losses and negative cash flows from operations.
Based on current information and available evidence, including
the acquisition of Pegaso by Telefónica, we believe that we
will ultimately be able to collect the remaining long-term
financing from Pegaso. Failure to collect our finance
receivables could have a material adverse effect on our
operating results and financial condition.

Leap Wireless International Inc.

In fiscal 2000, we purchased 308,000 units of
Leap Wireless International Inc.’s (Leap Wireless) senior
discount notes with detachable warrants for $150 million.
The notes mature in April 2010 and bear interest at 14.5%
payable beginning in 2005. In addition, we hold 489,000 shares
of Leap Wireless’ common stock and a warrant to purchase
3,375,000 shares of common stock issued to us in connection with
our spin-off of Leap Wireless in September 1998. During fiscal
2002, we determined that declines in the market values of our
investments in Leap Wireless were other than temporary, as the
market values of the investments had declined significantly
during our third quarter of fiscal 2002 as a result of
unfavorable developments in Leap Wireless’ business. As a
result, we recorded $162 million and $18 million in
other-than-temporary losses on marketable securities for the
notes and stock, respectively, during fiscal 2002. We also
recorded $59 million in losses related to changes in the
fair values of Leap Wireless derivative investments for fiscal
2002. The remaining recorded values of Leap Wireless investments
totaled $1 million at September 30, 2002. Under the terms
of our senior secured credit facility with Leap Wireless, we are
committed to fund up to $125 million in connection with
Leap Wireless’ bid for PCS spectrum licenses in the
FCC’s Auction No. 35, however it appears unlikely that
Leap Wireless will be able to use this credit facility. See
“Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
Note 11 — Commitments and Contingencies.”

Inquam Ltd

In October 2000, we agreed to invest
$200 million in the convertible preferred shares of Inquam
Limited (Inquam). Inquam was formed to acquire, own, develop and
manage wireless communications systems, either directly or
indirectly, with the primary intent of deploying CDMA-based
technology. At September 30, 2002, our investment in Inquam
was $114 million, net of equity in losses, and
$27 million of the equity funding commitment was
outstanding. Inquam’s management expects to meet certain
operational milestones necessary for expansion of Inquam’s
CDMA operations during 2003. In addition, Inquam’s
management expects to raise additional funds over the next
12 months required for Inquam to realize the full value of
its current operations. Remaining funding commitments from us
and another investor are expected to be exhausted by March 2003.
Total additional funding required by Inquam for calendar 2003 is
estimated to be between $175 million and $195 million.
If new investors cannot be found or should existing investors
decide not to provide additional funding, or if Inquam does not
promptly meet certain operational milestones necessary for
expansion, Inquam’s growth potential and the value of our
investment in Inquam may be negatively affected.

Fiscal 2002 Compared to Fiscal 2001

Total revenues for fiscal 2002 were
$3,040 million, compared to $2,680 million for fiscal 2001.
Revenues from Samsung, Kyocera, and LG Electronics, customers of
both QCT and QTL, comprised an aggregate of 15%, 14% and 11% of
total consolidated revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2002. In
fiscal 2001, revenues from Samsung, Kyocera, and LG Electronics,
comprised an aggregate of 14%, 12% and 10% of total consolidated
revenues, respectively. The percentages for Kyocera included 3%
and 4% in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively, related to
services provided to Kyocera by employees from our
terrestrial-based CDMA wireless consumer phone business which
was sold to Kyocera in February 2000.

Revenues from sales of equipment and services for
fiscal 2002 were $2,204 million, compared to
$1,908 million for fiscal 2001. Revenues from sales of
equipment and services for fiscal 2002 included
$125 million related to the consolidation of Vésper
Holding effective in November 2001 and $8 million related
to the Globalstar business. Revenues from sales of equipment and
services for fiscal 2001 included $54 million related to
Globalstar. Excluding Vésper Holding and Globalstar,
revenues from sales of equipment and services increased by
$217 million. Revenues from sales of equipment and services
increased $218 million in



our integrated circuits business, primarily due
to an increase in unit shipments of MSM integrated circuits, and
the effect of the change in product mix toward the higher end
devices utilizing our 3G CDMA2000 1X integrated circuits
products. Software development services revenues related to the
QChat licensing agreement increased $34 million.

Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for
fiscal 2002 were $836 million, compared to
$772 million for fiscal 2001. QTL segment revenues from
royalties paid by third parties increased $64 million.

Cost of equipment and services revenues for
fiscal 2002 was $1,137 million, compared to
$1,035 million for fiscal 2001. Cost of revenues for fiscal
2002 included $183 million related to the consolidation of
Vésper Holding and $11 million related to our on-going
obligation to Globalstar. Cost of revenues for fiscal 2001
included $129 million related to Globalstar. Excluding
Vésper Holding and Globalstar, cost of revenues as a
percentage of revenues was 32% for fiscal 2002, compared to 35%
for fiscal 2001. The margin improvement in fiscal 2002 was
primarily due to the change in product mix toward the higher end
devices utilizing our CDMA2000 1X integrated circuits products
and the increase in revenues from royalties in the QTL segment.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues may fluctuate in
future quarters depending on the mix of products sold and
services provided, royalties and license fees earned,
competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other
factors.

For fiscal 2002, research and development
expenses were $452 million or 15% of revenues, compared to
$415 million or 15% of revenues for fiscal 2001. The dollar
increase in research and development expenses was primarily due
to $41 million in increased integrated circuit product
initiatives to support high-speed wireless Internet access and
multimode, multi-band, multi-network products including cdmaOne,
CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO, GSM/ GPRS, WCDMA and position location
technologies and $14 million in increased QWBS research and
development initiatives, partially offset by a $29 million
reduction of development efforts related to the Globalstar
business.

For fiscal 2002, selling, general and
administrative expenses were $509 million or 17% of
revenues, compared to $367 million or 14% of revenues for
fiscal 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses for
fiscal 2002 included $107 million related to the
consolidation of Vésper Holding. Excluding Vésper
Holding, selling, general and administrative expenses comprised
14% of revenues. The dollar increase was primarily due to a
$33 million increase in marketing and support efforts
related to products and services of our QIS division, including
the BREW product, $23 million associated with the expansion
of our integrated circuit customer base and international
business development activities, particularly in China, and
$13 million resulting from the consolidation of Wireless
Knowledge, Inc. (Wireless Knowledge), partially offset by a
$22 million reduction in support efforts related to the
Globalstar business and a $14 million reduction in bad debt
expense.

Amortization of goodwill and other
acquisition-related intangible assets was $259 million for
fiscal 2002, compared to $255 million in fiscal 2001.
Amortization charges were primarily related to the acquisition
of SnapTrack in March 2000.

For fiscal 2002, asset impairment and related
charges were less than $1 million, compared to
$518 million of such charges in fiscal 2001. Asset
impairment and related charges during fiscal 2001 were comprised
primarily of $519 million in charges resulting from
management’s determination that certain assets related to
the Globalstar business were impaired.

For fiscal 2002, other operating expenses were
$9 million, compared to $51 million in fiscal 2001.
Other operating expenses for fiscal 2002 resulted from the write
down of a note receivable from a development stage CDMA carrier.
Other operating expenses for fiscal 2001 were comprised of a
$62 million arbitration decision against us, offset by
$11 million in other income related to the irrevocable
transfer of a portion of an FCC Auction Discount Voucher to a
third party.

Interest expense was $26 million for fiscal
2002, compared to $10 million for fiscal 2001. Interest
expense for fiscal 2002 was primarily related to the long-term
debt of Vésper Holding. Interest expense for fiscal 2001
was primarily related to interest charges resulting from the
arbitration decision made against us.



Net investment expense was $186 million for
fiscal 2002 compared to $317 million for fiscal 2001. The
change was primarily comprised as follows (in millions):

The decline in interest income on corporate cash
and marketable debt securities was a result of lower interest
rates. The decline in QSI interest income was a result of the
cessation of interest income recognition on Pegaso debt
facilities starting in the fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal 2001
and on Leap Wireless bonds starting in the third quarter of
fiscal 2002. The other-than-temporary losses on marketable
securities during fiscal 2002 primarily related to
$162 million and $18 million in losses on our
investments in Leap Wireless bonds and common stock,
respectively. We determined that the declines in fair values
were other than temporary, as the market values of the bond and
common stock had significantly declined during our third quarter
of fiscal 2002 as a result of unfavorable developments in Leap
Wireless’ business. The other-than-temporary losses on
marketable securities during fiscal 2001 primarily related to a
$134 million loss on our investment in NetZero, Inc., which
subsequently completed a merger with Juno Online Services, Inc.
and became United Online, Inc. The change in fair values of
derivative instruments primarily resulted from $59 million
in losses resulting from declines in the price of Leap Wireless
common stock, which reduced the fair values of our warrants to
acquire Leap Wireless common stock. The warrants had
insignificant value at September 30, 2002. Equity in losses
of investees decreased as a result of the consolidation of
Vésper Holding effective November 13, 2001, as these
losses are now included in operations.

For fiscal 2002 there were no other non-operating
charges, compared to $167 million in fiscal 2001. Other
non-operating charges in fiscal 2001 were primarily comprised of
a $120 million write-down of the note receivable from
VeloCom to its fair value and $58 million in write-downs of
recorded values of a note receivable from Globalstar and
warrants to acquire partnership interests in Globalstar to their
estimated fair values.

Income tax expense was $101 million for
fiscal 2002, compared to $105 million for fiscal 2001. The
annual effective tax rate was 22% for fiscal 2002, compared to a
negative 23% rate for fiscal 2001. The annual effective tax rate
for fiscal 2002 was lower than the statutory rate due to the
reduction of deferred tax assets and the related valuation
allowance that was previously charged to tax expense, partially
offset by foreign losses for which we are not recording a tax
benefit. The fiscal 2001 effective tax rate was the result of
pre-tax losses for which no tax benefit was recorded and foreign
tax expense. The annual effective tax rate on profits for fiscal
2002 cannot be meaningfully compared to the effective tax rate
on losses for the prior fiscal year.

We recorded an $18 million loss, net of
taxes, in fiscal 2001 as the net cumulative effect of changes in
accounting principles at September 30, 2000. The cumulative
effect of the adoption of SAB 101 was a $147 million
loss, net of taxes, offset by a $129 million gain, net of
taxes, resulting from the cumulative effect of the adoption of
FAS 133. The gain resulting from the adoption of FAS 133
related primarily to the



unrealized gain on a warrant to purchase
4,500,000 shares of Leap Wireless common stock issued to us in
connection with our spin-off of Leap Wireless in September 1998.

Fiscal 2001 Compared to Fiscal 2000

Total revenues for fiscal 2001 were
$2,680 million, compared to $3,197 million for fiscal
2000. Revenue from Samsung, Kyocera, and LG, customers of both
QCT and QTL, comprised an aggregate of 14%, 12% and 10% of total
consolidated revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2001. In fiscal
2000, Samsung accounted for 11% of total consolidated revenues.

Revenues from sales of equipment and services for
fiscal 2001 were $1,908 million, compared to
$2,526 million for fiscal 2000. Revenues from sales of
equipment and services for fiscal 2000 included
$419 million in revenue related to the terrestrial-based
CDMA wireless consumer phone business which was sold in February
2000. Excluding the revenue of the business sold in fiscal 2000,
revenues from sales of equipment and services decreased by
$199 million in fiscal 2001. The decrease was primarily
related to a $310 million decline in revenues related to
the business with Globalstar, offset by a $107 million
increase in integrated circuit sales, largely attributed to
higher unit shipments and average selling prices of MSM
integrated circuits, and higher CSM infrastructure integrated
circuit revenues and a $24 million increase in QWI revenue
due to the implementation of SAB 101 in fiscal 2001.

Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for
fiscal 2001 were $772 million, compared to
$671 million for fiscal 2000. The increase was primarily
related to a $149 million increase in royalties and license
fees and a $16 million increase in software revenues,
offset by a $64 million decrease due to the implementation
of SAB 101 in fiscal 2001.

Cost of equipment and services revenues for
fiscal 2001 was $1,035 million, compared to
$1,507 million for fiscal 2000. Total cost of revenues for
fiscal 2000 included $433 million in cost of revenues
related to the terrestrial-based CDMA wireless consumer phone
business which was sold in February 2000. Excluding the cost of
revenues of the business sold in fiscal 2000, total cost of
revenues decreased by $39 million in fiscal 2001,
consistent with the decrease in revenues. Cost of revenues as a
percentage of revenues was 39% for fiscal 2001 and 2000. Cost of
revenues as a percentage of revenues may fluctuate in future
quarters depending on the mix of products sold and services
provided, royalties and license fees earned, competitive
pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors.

For fiscal 2001, research and development
expenses were $415 million or 15% of revenues, compared to
$340 million or 11% of revenues for fiscal 2000. The dollar
and percentage increases in research and development expenses
were primarily due to $101 million in increased integrated
circuit product initiatives to support high-speed wireless
Internet access and multimode, multi-band, multi-network
products including cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO, GSM/ GPRS,
WCDMA and position location technologies, offset by a
$44 million decrease in terrestrial-based CDMA wireless
consumer phone products research and development as a result of
exiting this business in February 2000. In addition, the
percentage increase is attributed to a more significant
reduction in revenue relative to research and development
expenses as a result of the sale of the terrestrial-based CDMA
wireless consumer phone business in February 2000.

For fiscal 2001, selling, general and
administrative expenses were $367 million or 14% of
revenues, compared to $343 million or 11% of revenues for
fiscal 2000. The dollar and percentage increases in selling,
general and administrative expenses from fiscal 2000 were
primarily due to $61 million associated with the expansion
of international business activities in China, Japan, South
Korea and Europe and trade show expenses related to the
expansion of the integrated circuit customer base and product
portfolio and $21 million related to the introduction of
products and services by our QIS division, including our BREW
product, offset by a $67 million decrease in expenses for
terrestrial-based CDMA wireless consumer phone products as a
result of the sale of the business in February 2000. In
addition, the percentage increase is attributed to a more
significant reduction in revenue relative to selling, general
and administrative expenses as a result of the sale of the
terrestrial-based CDMA wireless consumer phone business in
February 2000.



Amortization of goodwill and other
acquisition-related intangible assets was $255 million for
fiscal 2001, compared to $146 million in fiscal 2000. For
fiscal 2001, no purchased in-process technology was recorded,
compared to $60 million in fiscal 2000. The increase in
amortization in fiscal 2001 and the purchased in-process
technology charge in fiscal 2000 resulted from the acquisition
of SnapTrack, Inc. (SnapTrack) in March 2000.

For fiscal 2001, asset impairment and related
charges were $518 million, compared to $46 million for
fiscal 2000. Asset impairment and related charges during fiscal
2001 were comprised primarily of $519 million in charges
resulting from management’s determination that certain
assets related to the Globalstar business were impaired. Asset
impairment and related charges during fiscal 2000 were primarily
related to the sale of the terrestrial-based CDMA wireless
consumer phone business in February 2000.

For fiscal 2001, other operating expenses were
$51 million, compared to $32 million in fiscal 2000.
Other operating expenses for fiscal 2001 were comprised of a
$62 million arbitration decision against us, offset by
$11 million in other income related to the irrevocable
transfer of a portion of an FCC Auction Discount Voucher to a
third-party. Other operating expenses during fiscal 2000 were
comprised primarily of employee termination and other costs
related to the sale of the terrestrial-based CDMA wireless
consumer phone business in February 2000.

Interest expense was $10 million for fiscal
2001, compared to $5 million for fiscal 2000. The increase
was primarily related to interest charges resulting from an
arbitration decision against us, offset by lower interest
expense resulting from decreased bank borrowings.

Net investment expense was $317 million for
fiscal 2001, compared to net investment income of
$446 million for fiscal 2000. The change was primarily
comprised as follows (in millions):

The increase in interest income on corporate cash
and marketable debt securities was a result of higher average
interest-bearing balances. The decline in QSI interest income
was primarily a result of the cessation of interest income
recognition on Globalstar finance receivables in fiscal 2001.
The other-than-temporary losses on marketable securities during
fiscal 2001 primarily related to a $134 million loss on our
investments in Netzero, Inc, which subsequently completed a
merger with Juno Online Services, Inc. and became United Online,
Inc. The market value of our investment in United Online, Inc.
was $38 million as of November 22, 2002, as compared
to our adjusted cost basis of $10 million. We did not
record any other-than temporary losses on marketable securities
during fiscal 2000. The change in fair values of derivative
instruments primarily resulted from $213 million in losses
related to declines in the price of Leap Wireless common stock,
which reduced the fair values of our warrants to acquire Leap
Wireless common stock. Equity in losses of investees increased
primarily as a result of an increase in the equity in losses of
Vésper Holding in fiscal 2001.



There were no distributions on Trust Convertible
Preferred Securities in fiscal 2001 due to the conversion of all
remaining Trust Convertible Preferred Securities into common
stock during fiscal 2000. We recorded $13 million in
distributions for fiscal 2000.

Other non-operating charges were approximately
$167 million in fiscal 2001, compared to $2 million in
fiscal 2000. Other non-operating charges in fiscal 2001 were
primarily comprised of a $120 million write-down of the
note receivable from VeloCom to its fair value and
$58 million in write-downs of recorded values of a note
receivable from Globalstar and warrants to acquire partnership
interests in Globalstar to their estimated fair values.

Income tax expense was $105 million for
fiscal 2001, compared to $527 million for fiscal 2000. The
annual effective tax rate was negative 23% for fiscal 2001,
compared to a 46% rate for fiscal 2000. The estimated annual
effective tax rate was negative primarily as a result of foreign
taxes paid for which it is more likely than not we will not
receive a tax benefit. The difference in the tax rate from the
prior year is primarily due to the loss for fiscal 2001
resulting from certain asset impairment and related charges. We
have provided a valuation allowance on substantially all of our
deferred tax assets because of uncertainty regarding their
realizability due to the expectation that deductions from future
employee stock option exercises will exceed future taxable
income. Our net deferred tax assets increased by
$631 million in fiscal 2001, and the resulting increase in
the valuation allowance was reflected in part as an increase to
the tax expense and in part as a reduction of stockholders’
equity. The total expense related to the increase in the
valuation allowance was $185 million.

We recorded an $18 million loss, net of
taxes, in fiscal 2001 as the net cumulative effect of changes in
accounting principle at September 30, 2000. The cumulative
effect of the adoption of SAB 101 was a $147 million
loss, net of taxes, offset by a $129 million gain, net of
taxes, resulting from the cumulative effect of the adoption of
FAS 133. The gain resulting from the adoption of
FAS 133 related primarily to the unrealized gain on a
warrant to purchase 4,500,000 shares of Leap Wireless common
stock issued to us in connection with our spin-off of Leap
Wireless in September 1998.

Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2002 Compared
to Fiscal 2001

QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies Segment
(QCT)

QCT segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were
$1,591 million, compared to $1,365 million for fiscal
2001. Earnings before taxes for fiscal 2002 were
$441 million, compared to $306 million for fiscal
2001. Revenues and earnings before taxes increased primarily due
to an increase in unit shipments of MSM integrated circuits and
the effect of the change in product mix toward the higher end
devices utilizing our CDMA2000 1X products. Approximately
65 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal
2002, compared to approximately 58 million for fiscal 2001.
Approximately 10 million CSM infrastructure integrated
circuits equivalent voice channels were sold during fiscal 2002,
compared to approximately 9 million for fiscal 2001. Both
research and development and selling and marketing expenses were
$22 million higher for fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal
2001 primarily associated with new integrated circuit product
and technology initiatives to support high-speed wireless
Internet access and multi-band, multimode, multi-network
products including cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO, GSM/ GPRS,
WCDMA and position location technologies. QCT inventories
decreased by 27% during fiscal 2002 primarily as a result of
strong demand for 1X products across our customer base and
improved component availability.

QUALCOMM Technology Licensing Segment
(QTL)

QTL segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were
$847 million, compared to $782 million for fiscal
2001. Revenues from royalties paid by third party licensees were
$725 million in fiscal 2002, compared to $661 million
in fiscal 2001. Revenues from license fees were $55 million
in fiscal 2002, compared to $67 million in fiscal 2001.
Earnings before taxes for fiscal 2002 were $756 million,
compared to $706 million for fiscal 2001. The increase in
revenues and earnings before taxes was primarily due to an
increase in sales of CDMA products by licensees resulting from
higher demand for CDMA products across all major regions of



CDMA deployment. During fiscal 2002, we
recognized $6 million in revenue related to equity received
as consideration for license fees, compared to $7 million
in fiscal 2001.

QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet Segment
(QWI)

QWI segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were
$439 million, compared to $426 million for fiscal
2001. Losses before taxes for fiscal 2002 were $9 million,
compared to earnings before taxes of $33 million for fiscal
2001. Revenues increased primarily due to an increase in
software development and services revenues related to our BREW
products and QChat licensing agreement. Earnings before taxes
decreased primarily due to a $35 million increase in our
development, support and marketing efforts related to products
and services of our QIS division, including the BREW product and
a $14 million increase in QWBS research and development
expenditures. We shipped approximately 46,000 OmniTRACS and
other related communications systems during fiscal 2002,
compared to approximately 43,000 in fiscal 2001.

QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives Segment
(QSI)

QSI segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were
$126 million, primarily related to the consolidation of
Vésper Holding. QSI segment losses before taxes for fiscal
2002 were $507 million, compared to $1,125 million for
fiscal 2001. The decrease in losses was primarily due to
$568 million in charges incurred in fiscal 2001 related to
Globalstar. During fiscal 2002, we recorded a $130 million
loss, net of minority interest, due to the consolidation of
Vésper Holding and $30 million of equity losses in the
Vésper Operating Companies (pre-acquisition) and VeloCom,
as compared with $150 million of equity losses for the
Vésper Operating Companies in fiscal 2001. During fiscal
2002, we recorded $180 million in other-than-temporary
losses on Leap Wireless marketable securities, compared to an
$11 million realized gain in fiscal 2001. We also recorded
$59 million in losses related to changes in the fair values
of Leap Wireless derivative investments in fiscal 2002, compared
to $213 million in losses in fiscal 2001. Losses on Leap
Wireless derivative investments resulted from declines in the
market price of Leap Wireless common stock during those fiscal
years. During fiscal 2001, we recorded a $120 million
charge to write down a note receivable from VeloCom to its fair
value as a result of the reorganization of the Vésper
Operating Companies initiated during fiscal 2001.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash and cash equivalents and marketable
securities were $3,176 million at September 30, 2002,
an increase of $596 million from September 30, 2001.
The increase during fiscal 2002 was primarily the result of
$968 million in cash provided by operating activities,
$120 million in net proceeds from the issuance of common
stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans,
$16 million in collections on notes receivable,
$10 million in proceeds received from Vésper
Holding’s minority interest shareholders and
$9 million in proceeds received from the sale of other
investments, partially offset by $321 million in cash used
for other investments and acquisitions, $142 million in
capital expenditures, an $81 million decrease in the fair
values of marketable securities and $6 million of cash used
to purchase our shares. We expect Vésper Holding to require
approximately $60 to $70 million in cash funding during the
first six months of fiscal 2003.

Accounts receivable increased by 4% during fiscal
2002. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to
an increase in revenues and the consolidation of Vésper
Holding receivables, partially offset by the timing of cash
receipts for royalty receivables. Excluding Vésper Holding
receivables and revenues, days sales outstanding, using a daily
three month rolling average, were 53 days at
September 30, 2002 compared to 72 days at
September 30, 2001. The change in days sales outstanding is
consistent with the increase in revenue and improved cash
collections resulting in the accounts receivable balance
remaining relatively unchanged.

We believe our current cash and cash equivalents,
marketable securities and cash generated from operations will
satisfy our expected working and other capital requirements for
the foreseeable future based on current business plans,
including investments in other companies and other assets to
support the growth of our business, financing for customers of
CDMA infrastructure products in accordance with the agreements
with Ericsson, financing under agreements with CDMA
telecommunications carriers, and other commitments. We



intend to continue our strategic investment
activities to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products
and the growth of CDMA-based wireless data and wireless Internet
products. As part of these investment activities, we may provide
financing to facilitate the marketing and sale of CDMA equipment
by authorized suppliers. In the event additional needs for cash
arise, we may raise additional funds from a combination of
sources including potential debt and equity issuance.

At September 30, 2002, our outstanding
commitments included (in millions):

(a)

Under the terms of our senior secured credit
    facility with Leap Wireless, we are committed to fund up to
    $125 million in connection with Leap Wireless’ bid for
    PCS spectrum licenses in the FCC’s Auction No. 35,
    however it appears unlikely that Leap Wireless will be able to
    use this credit facility. See “Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements, Note 11 — Commitments and
    Contingencies.”

(b)

Information regarding our long-term purchase
    commitments and operating leases at September 30, 2002 is
    provided in the Consolidated Financial Statements. See
    “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note
    11 — Commitments and Contingencies.”

The majority of these commitments do not have
fixed funding dates, and the expected funding dates cannot be
forecast.

At September 30, 2002, commitments to extend
long-term financing to certain CDMA customers of Ericsson
totaled approximately $473 million. The commitment to fund
$346 million of this amount expires on November 6,
2003. The funding of the remaining $127 million, if it
occurs, is not subject to a fixed expiration date, however, on
November 12, 2002, $9 million of this commitment was
cancelled. The financing commitments are subject to the CDMA
customers meeting conditions prescribed in the financing
arrangements and, in certain cases, to Ericsson also financing a
portion of such sales and services. Such financing is generally
collateralized by the related equipment. Commitments represent
the maximum amounts to be financed under these arrangements;
actual financing may be in lesser amounts. Financing provided by
us to Pegaso included $203 million funded under these
commitments with Ericsson. Financing provided by us to the
Vésper Operating Companies included $108 million
funded under these commitments. All other financings made
related to these commitments were repaid prior to
September 30, 2002.

The Inquam equity investment commitment is
expected to be funded by March 2003, and the remaining equity
commitments are expected to be funded through fiscal 2009. Our
existing commitments over the next 12 months related to
long-term purchase commitments (including capital expenditures),
future minimum operating lease payments, capital leases and
long-term debt total $70 million. We expect Vésper
Holding to require approximately $60 to $70 million in cash
funding during the first six months of fiscal 2003, including
license payments.



In December 2001, we agreed to invest up to
$200 million in exchange for up to 4% of the common shares
of Reliance Infocomm Limited (RIL), formerly Reliance
Communications Limited, a wireless carrier in India. RIL intends
to construct and operate a CDMA commercial network deploying
CDMA2000 1X technology to provide basic telephone services,
Wireless Local Loop (WLL) with limited mobility, national
long distance and international long distance services in India.
Our obligation to make this investment became subject to
termination during fiscal 2002 because RIL failed to meet
certain milestones. However, we may purchase the shares upon
RIL’s completion of certain closing conditions. If we
complete the investment, funding is likely to occur through
September 2003. At September 30, 2002, we had not purchased
any shares related to this agreement.

Information regarding our other financial
commitments at September 30, 2002 is provided in the Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See “Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4 —
Investments in Other Entities, Note 11 — Commitments
and Contingencies and Note 13 — Acquisitions.”

Future Accounting Requirements

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 141 (FAS 141), “Business
Combinations,” and No. 142 (FAS 142),
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” FAS 141
supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion
(APB) No. 16, “Business Combinations.” The
provisions of FAS 141 (1) require that the purchase
method of accounting be used for all business combinations
initiated after June 30, 2001, (2) provide specific
criteria for the initial recognition and measurement of
intangible assets apart from goodwill, and (3) require that
unamortized negative goodwill be written off immediately as an
extraordinary gain instead of being deferred and amortized.
FAS 141 also requires that, upon adoption of FAS 142, we
reclassify the carrying amounts of certain intangible assets
into or out of goodwill, based on certain criteria. FAS 142
supersedes APB 17, “Intangible Assets,” and is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2001. FAS 142 primarily addresses the accounting for goodwill
and intangible assets subsequent to their initial recognition.
The provisions of FAS 142 (1) prohibit the
amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets,
(2) require that goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible
assets be tested annually for impairment (and in interim periods
if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of
goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible assets may be
impaired), (3) require that reporting units be identified
for the purpose of assessing potential impairments of goodwill,
and (4) remove the forty-year limitation on the
amortization period of intangible assets that have finite lives.

FAS 142 requires that goodwill be tested at least
annually for impairment using a two-step process. The first step
(Step 1) is to identify a potential impairment and, in
transition, this step must be measured as of the beginning of
the fiscal year. However, a company has six months from the date
of adoption to complete this step. The second step of the
goodwill impairment test measures the amount of the impairment
loss (measured as of the beginning of the year of adoption), if
any, and must be completed by the end of fiscal 2003. Any
impairment loss resulting from the transitional impairment tests
would be reflected as the cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle in the first quarter 2003.

We will adopt the provisions of FAS 142 in our
first quarter of fiscal 2003. We have determined our reporting
units and the amounts of goodwill, intangible assets, other
assets and liabilities allocable to those reporting units and
have completed our Step 1 analysis. Based on our Step 1
analysis, the adoption of FAS 142 does not have a material
impact on our financial position. We will no longer record
goodwill amortization starting in fiscal 2003. We recorded
$248 million, $244 million and $141 million in
goodwill amortization expense during fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively.

In August 2001, the FASB issued FAS 144,
“Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets.” FAS 144 replaces FAS 121,
“Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of.” The FASB issued
FAS 144 to establish a single accounting model, based on
the framework established in FAS 121, as FAS 121 did not address
the accounting for a segment of a business accounted for as a
discontinued operation under APB 30, “Reporting The
Results of Operations — Reporting The Effects of
Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary Unusual
and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions.”
FAS 144 also resolves significant implementation issues
related to FAS 121.



Companies are required to adopt FAS 144 for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001, but early
adoption is permitted. We will adopt FAS 144 as of the
beginning of fiscal 2003. We do not expect the adoption of
FAS 144 to have a material impact on our operating results
and financial position.

ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

Interest Rate Market
Risk.

We have fixed income
securities consisting of cash equivalents and investments in
marketable debt securities. During fiscal 2002, we invested
$300 million in diversified portfolios of non-investment
grade securities managed by institutional portfolio managers,
which are subject to a higher degree of default risk than our
investment grade fixed income portfolios. A portion of these
bonds are designated as trading securities. Changes in the
general level of United States interest rates can affect the
principal values and yields of fixed income investments. (See
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information
about investments in marketable debt securities.)

Finance receivables bear interest at both fixed
and variable rates (see Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for information about finance receivables).
Interest earned on certain finance receivables is at variable
interest rates and is affected by changes in the general level
of United States interest rates and/or LIBOR. Fair values will
vary as interest rates change.

We have other notes receivable from third parties
included in other assets. These facilities bear interest at
variable rates. Interest earned on credit facilities included in
other assets is affected by changes in the LIBOR index rate, and
fair value will vary as interest rates change.

The following table provides information about
our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in
interest rates. For our fixed income investment portfolio,
finance receivables and credit facilities in other assets, the
table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average
yield at cost and contractual interest rates for fixed income
securities and finance receivables or other credit facilities,
respectively, by expected maturity dates. Additionally, we have
assumed that our fixed income securities are similar enough to
aggregate those securities for presentation purposes.

Interest Rate Sensitivity

Principal Amount by Expected
Maturity

Average Interest Rate

(Dollars in millions)

We consolidate all assets and liabilities of the
Vésper Operating Companies, including bank loans and
capital lease obligations. Bank loans totaled $66 million
at September 30, 2002, of which $16 million is payable
in fiscal 2005 and $50 million is payable in fiscal 2006.
The bank loans bear interest at variable rates, based on the
Certificate of Deposit Inter Bank (CDI) rate (the LIBOR
rate equivalent in Brazil) plus 1.5%. Capital lease obligations
totaled $42 million at September 30, 2002. The
aggregate maturities on the capital



lease obligations over the next three years from
fiscal 2003 through 2005 are $14 million, $22 million
and $6 million, respectively. The capital lease obligations
bear interest at fixed interest rates, ranging from 11.25% to
14.5%. The fair values of bank loans and capital lease
obligations will change as interest rates change. Interest
expense will be affected by changes in the CDI.

Equity Price Market
Risk.

We hold marketable
securities and derivative instruments subject to equity price
risk. Available-for-sale equity securities and derivative
instruments recorded at fair value under FAS 115 and
FAS 133, respectively, subject us to equity price risk. The
recorded values of marketable equity securities increased to
$155 million at September 30, 2002 from
$122 million at September 30, 2001. As of
September 30, 2002, one equity position constituted
approximately 71% of the fair value of the marketable securities
portfolio. The recorded value of derivative instruments subject
to FAS 133 at September 30, 2002 was $1 million.
We generally invest in companies in the high-technology
industry, and typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate
our market exposure on these securities. The portfolio’s
concentrations in specific companies and industry segments may
vary over time, and changes in concentrations may affect the
portfolio’s price volatility.

We received a warrant in connection with the Leap
Wireless spin-off to purchase Leap Wireless common stock at
$6.11 per share. At September 30, 2002, we were entitled to
purchase 3,375,000 shares of Leap Wireless common stock (see
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a
description of our accounting policy for this instrument). The
warrant’s remaining value at September 30, 2002 was
insignificant, as compared to the $49 million value at
September 2001. The estimated fair value of the warrant is
directly correlated to movements in the price of the Leap
Wireless common stock. The warrant is held for purposes other
than trading. During fiscal 2002, we recorded $59 million
in losses on derivative instruments, primarily related to this
warrant.

We strategically invest in companies in the
high-technology industry, and typically do not attempt to reduce
or eliminate our market exposure on these securities. During
fiscal 2002 and 2001, many high-technology stocks experienced
significant decreases in value, negatively affecting the fair
values of our available-for-sale equity securities and
derivative instruments. Investment concentrations in specific
companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes
in concentrations may affect the overall price volatility. A 10%
decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities
at September 30, 2002 would cause a corresponding 10%
decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities.

Our strategic investments in other entities
consist substantially of investments accounted for under the
equity and cost methods that are predominantly closely held and
not publicly traded. These investments are held for purposes
other than trading. Accordingly, we believe that our exposure to
market risk from these investments is not material.
Additionally, we do not anticipate any near-term changes in the
nature of our market risk exposures or in management’s
objectives and strategies with respect to managing such
exposures.

Foreign Exchange Market Risk.

See Note 1 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for a description of our foreign currency
accounting policies. We manage our exposure to foreign exchange
market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of
derivative financial instruments, consisting primarily of
forward contracts. Derivative financial instruments are viewed
as risk management tools and are not used for speculative or
trading purposes. At September 30, 2002, no foreign
currency forward contracts were outstanding.

Financial instruments held by consolidated
subsidiaries and equity method investees which are not
denominated in the functional currency of those entities are
subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may
affect reported earnings. As a global concern, we face exposure
to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We may
hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and
liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain
anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. As a result, we
could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated
foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with
respect to the recoverability of investments. While we may hedge
certain transactions with non-United States customers, declines
in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed,
adversely affect future product sales because our products may
become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the
affected currencies.



We are exposed to foreign exchange risk related
to our consolidation of the Vésper Operating Companies. We
report our financial statements in U.S. dollars. The
Vésper Operating Companies account for the majority of
their transactions in Brazilian real, and their results are
translated into U.S. dollars during and at the end of the
fiscal quarter. In addition, the Vésper Operating Companies
capital lease commitments are denominated in U.S. dollars.
As a result, a significant change in the value of the
U.S. dollar against the Brazilian real could have a
material effect on the Vésper Operating Companies and on
us. A significant devaluation of the Brazilian real has occurred
in the past and may occur again the future. At
September 30, 2002, a 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar
relative to the Brazilian real would result in a decrease in net
income of approximately $16 million for the year ended
September 30, 2002.

Finance receivables and notes receivable from
international carriers that do not use the United States dollar
as their functional currencies subject us to credit risk.
Because our financing is dollar denominated, any significant
change in the value of the dollar against the debtors’
functional currencies could result in an increase in the
debtor’s cash flow requirements and could thereby affect
our ability to collect our receivables. At September 30,
2002, finance receivables from international customers totaled
$817 million.

Our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate
risk discussed above should not be considered projections of
future risks.

ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
    DATA

Our consolidated financial statements at
September 30, 2002 and 2001 and the Report of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Accountants, are
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K on
pages F-1 through F-43.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
    ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.



PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
    REGISTRANT

The information required by this item regarding
directors is incorporated by reference to our Definitive Proxy
Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held in 2003 (the “Proxy Statement”) under the
heading “Election of Directors.” Information regarding
executive officers is set forth in Item 1 of Part I of
this Report under the caption “Executive Officers.”

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement under the
heading “Executive Compensation.”

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
    OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement under the
heading “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management.”

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
    TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement under the
heading “Certain Transactions.”

ITEM 14.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(a) Under the supervision and with the
participation of our management, including our principal
executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted
an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such
term is defined under Rule 13a-14(c) promulgated under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange
Act”), within 90 days of the filing date of this
report. Based on their evaluation, our principal executive
officer and our principal financial officer concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

(b) There have been no significant changes
(including corrective actions with regard to significant
deficiencies or material weaknesses) in our internal controls or
in other factors that could significantly affect these controls
subsequent to the date of the evaluation referenced in
paragraph (a) above.

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL
STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

The following documents are filed as part of this
report:



Financial statement schedules other than those
listed above have been omitted because they are either not
required, not applicable or the information is otherwise
included. See Exhibit 99.3 for financial statements
required under Article 3.09 of Regulation S-X.

(b) Exhibits:







(7)

Filed as an exhibit to the Registrant’s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    March 27, 1994, as amended.

(8)

Certain confidential portions deleted pursuant to
    Order Granting Application for Confidential Treatment pursuant
    to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
    dated July 7, 1994.

(9)

Filed as an exhibit to the Registrant’s
    Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 26, 1995.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

November 26, 2002

QUALCOMM Incorporated

By

/s/ IRWIN MARK JACOBS

Irwin Mark Jacobs,

Chief Executive Officer and Chairman



POWER OF ATTORNEY

Know all persons by these presents, that each
person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints
Irwin Mark Jacobs and William E. Keitel, and each of them, as
his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full
power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his
name, place, and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any
and all amendments to this Report, and to file the same, with
all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting
unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and
thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection
therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming that all
said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or their or
his substitute or substituted, may lawfully do or cause to be
done by virtue thereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the following persons on behalf of
Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated have
signed this Report below.



CERTIFICATIONS

I, Irwin Mark Jacobs, certify that:

a) designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the
    registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of
    registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the
    equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls which could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated
    in this annual report whether there were significant changes in
    internal controls or in other factors that could significantly
    affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most
    recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard
    to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

Dated: November 26, 2002

/s/ IRWIN MARK JACOBS

Irwin Mark Jacobs,

Chief Executive Officer and Chairman



I, William E. Keitel, certify that:

a) designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the
    registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of
    registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the
    equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls which could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated
    in this annual report whether there were significant changes in
    internal controls or in other factors that could significantly
    affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most
    recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard
    to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

Dated: November 26, 2002

/s/ WILLIAM E. KEITEL

William E. Keitel,

Chief Financial Officer



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
QUALCOMM Incorporated

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements listed in the index appearing under
Item 15(a)(1) on page 64 present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of QUALCOMM
Incorporated and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) at
September 30, 2002 and 2001, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended September 30, 2002 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement
schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2)
on page 64 presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related consolidated financial statements. These financial
statements and financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements, the Company changed its method of
recognizing revenue and adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard No. 133, “Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” during the
year ended September 30, 2001.

PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

San Diego, California

November 6, 2002, except for Note 15

which is as of November 21, 2002

F-1


QUALCOMM Incorporated

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In thousands, except per share
data)

ASSETS

*

As adjusted (Note 13)

See accompanying notes.

F-2


QUALCOMM Incorporated

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS

(In thousands, except per share
data)

*

As adjusted (Note 13)

See accompanying notes.

F-3


QUALCOMM Incorporated

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

(In thousands)

*

As adjusted (Note 13)

See accompanying notes.

F-4


QUALCOMM Incorporated

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

(In thousands)

*

As adjusted (Note 13)

See accompanying notes.

F-5


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Note 1. The Company and its Significant
Accounting Policies

The Company

QUALCOMM Incorporated (the Company or QUALCOMM),
a Delaware corporation, develops, designs, manufactures and
markets digital wireless telecommunications products and
services based on its Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA)
technology. The Company licenses its CDMA technology and
receives license fees and ongoing royalty payments on the sale
of equipment by domestic and international wireless
telecommunications equipment suppliers.

The Company is also a leading developer and
supplier of CDMA-based integrated circuits and system software
for wireless voice and data communications and global
positioning system products. These products provide customers
with advanced wireless technology, enhanced component
integration and interoperability, and reduced time to market.
The Company provides integrated circuits and system software to
many of the world’s leading wireless handset and
infrastructure manufacturers.

The Company provides satellite and
terrestrial-based two-way data messaging and position reporting
services for transportation companies, private fleets and heavy
equipment fleets. The Company designs, manufactures and
distributes products and provides services for its
satellite-based and terrestrial-based mobile communications
systems throughout parts of the world. Transportation companies,
private fleets and heavy equipment fleets use the Company’s
products to communicate with drivers, monitor vehicle location,
provide automated driver logs and fuel tax reporting and provide
customer service. The Company also integrates the mobile data
with operations software, such as dispatch, payroll and
accounting, so end-users can manage their information and
operations.

The Company provides the BREW (Binary Runtime
Environment for Wireless) product and services to network
operators, handset manufacturers and application developers with
the systems and support for developing and delivering wireless
applications and services. The BREW product and services include
the BREW SDK (software development kit) for developers, the BREW
applications platform (i.e. software programs) and interface
tools for device manufacturers, and the BREW Distribution System
that enables network operators to get applications from
developers to market and coordinate the billing and payment
process. The BREW platform is an application execution
environment that provides an open, standard platform for
wireless devices, which means that BREW can be made to interface
with many software applications, including those developed by
others outside of the Company.

Principles of Consolidation

The Company’s consolidated financial
statements include the assets, liabilities and operating results
of majority-owned subsidiaries and other subsidiaries controlled
by the Company. The ownership of the other interest holders of
consolidated subsidiaries is reflected as minority interest. All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated.

Financial Statement Preparation

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts and the disclosure
of contingent amounts in the Company’s financial statements
and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from
those estimates. Certain prior year amounts have been
reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

Fiscal Year

The Company operates and reports using a
52-53 week fiscal year ending on the last Sunday in
September. As a result, the fiscal years ended
September 30, 2002, 2001, and 2000 include 52 weeks,

F-6


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

53 weeks, and 52 weeks, respectively.
For presentation purposes, the Company presents its fiscal years
as ending on September 30.

Revenue Recognition

The Company derives revenue principally from
royalties, from sales of integrated circuit products, from
services and related hardware sales, from software development
and related services, and from license fees for intellectual
property. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of
revenue actually recognized in each case depends upon a variety
of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and
the nature of the Company’s deliverables and obligations.

In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101
(SAB 101), “Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements” which the Company adopted in the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2001 and applied retroactively to the first quarter of
fiscal 2001. The Company recorded a $147 million loss, net
of taxes of $98 million, as the cumulative effect of the
accounting change as of the beginning of fiscal 2001 to reflect
the deferral of revenue and expenses related to future periods.
The Company recognized $66 million and $95 million
during fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively, in income before
income taxes and accounting changes related to revenue and
expense that was recognized in prior years. The Company
continues to monitor developments in Emerging Issues Task Force
discussions of Issue 00-21, “Accounting for Revenue
Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables” and
Issue 02-G, “Recognition of Revenue from Licensing
Arrangements on Intellectual Property,” to determine what,
if any, impact a final consensus may have on the Company’s
revenue recognition policy.

The unaudited pro forma effect of the adoption of
SAB 101 on the Company’s fiscal 2000 results of
operations, assuming SAB 101 had been adopted in that year,
is as follows (in thousands, except per share data):

*

As adjusted (Note 13)

The Company licenses rights to use its
intellectual property portfolio, which includes patent rights to
use cdmaOne, CDMA2000, CDMA2000 1X, CDMA2000 1xEV-DO,
TD-SCDMA and WCDMA technologies. Licensees typically pay a
non-refundable license fee and on-going royalties on their sales
of products incorporating the Company’s intellectual
property. License fees are generally recognized over the
estimated period of future benefit to the average licensee,
typically five to seven years. The Company generally recognizes
royalty revenue as earned when reasonable estimates of such
amounts can be made. Certain royalty revenues are accrued based
on estimates prior to the reporting of such revenues by the
licensees. Estimates of royalty revenues are based on analyses
of historical royalty data by licensee, the relationship between
the timing of the Company’s sales of integrated circuits to
its licensees and its licensees’ sales of CDMA phones and
infrastructure equipment, average sales price forecasts, and
current market and economic trends. When the Company’s
licensees report royalties for which the Company accrued
revenues based on estimates, the Company adjusts revenues for
the period in which the reports are received.

Revenues from sales of the Company’s
CDMA-based integrated circuits are recognized at the time of
shipment, or when title and risk of loss passes to the customer,
if later. Revenues and expenses from sales of certain satellite
and terrestrial-based two-way data messaging and position
reporting hardware and related

F-7


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

software products are recognized ratably over the
shorter of the estimated useful life of the hardware product or
the expected messaging service period, which is typically five
years, as the messaging service is considered integral to the
functionality of the hardware and software.

Revenues from providing services are recorded
when earned. Revenues from long-term contracts are generally
recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of
accounting, based on costs incurred compared with total
estimated costs. The percentage-of-completion method relies on
estimates of total contract revenue and costs. Revenues and
profit are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to
completion. Revisions in profit estimates are charged or
credited to income in the period in which the facts that give
rise to the revision become known. If actual contract costs are
greater than expected, reduction of contract profit would be
required. Billings on uncompleted contracts in excess of
incurred cost and accrued profits are classified as unearned
revenue. Estimated contract losses are recognized when
determined. If substantive uncertainty related to customer
acceptance exists or the contract’s duration is relatively
short, the Company uses the completed-contract method.

Revenues from software license fees are
recognized when all of the following criteria are met: the
written agreement is executed; the software is delivered; the
license fee is fixed and determinable; collectibility of the
license fee is probable; and if applicable, when vendor-specific
objective evidence exists to allocate the total license fee to
elements of multiple-element arrangements, including
post-contract customer support. When contracts contain multiple
elements wherein vendor-specific objective evidence exists for
all undelivered elements, the Company recognizes revenue for the
delivered elements and defers revenue for the undelivered
elements until the remaining obligations have been satisfied. If
vendor-specific objective evidence does not exist for all
undelivered elements, revenue for the delivered and undelivered
elements is deferred until remaining obligations have been
satisfied, or if the only undelivered element is post-contract
customer support, revenue is recognized ratably over the support
period. Significant judgments and estimates are made in
connection with the recognition of software license revenue,
including assessments of collectibility and the fair value of
deliverable elements. The amount or timing of the Company’s
software license revenue may differ as a result of changes in
these judgments or estimates.

Unearned revenue consists primarily of fees
related to software products and other intellectual property for
which delivery is not yet complete and to hardware products
sales contracted with a continuing service obligation. Unearned
revenue attributable to hardware product sales with a continuing
service obligation is recognized ratably over the shorter of the
estimated useful life of the hardware product or the expected
service period, which is typically five years.

Concentrations

A significant portion of the Company’s
revenues are concentrated with a limited number of customers as
the worldwide market for wireless telephone systems and products
is dominated by a small number of large corporations and
government agencies. During fiscal 2002 and 2001, sales to two
South Korean customers and one Japanese customer by the QCT, QTL
and other nonreportable segments (Note 12) comprised 41%
and 37% of consolidated revenues, respectively. During fiscal
2000, sales to one South Korean customer by the QCT and QTL
segments comprised 11% of consolidated revenues. At
September 30, 2002 and 2001, accounts receivable from two
South Korean customers comprised 23% and 25% of net receivables,
respectively.

Revenues from international customers were
approximately 70%, 65% and 47% of total revenues in fiscal 2002,
2001 and 2000, respectively.

Research and Development

Costs incurred in research and development
activities are expensed as incurred, except certain software
development costs capitalized after technological feasibility of
the software is established.

F-8


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Shipping and Handling Costs

Costs incurred for shipping and handling are
included in cost of revenues at the time the related revenue is
recognized. Amounts billed to a customer for shipping and
handling are reported as revenue.

Income Taxes

The asset and liability approach is used to
recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected
future tax consequences of temporary differences between the
carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities.
Tax law and rate changes are reflected in income in the period
such changes are enacted.

The Company records a valuation allowance to
reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely
than not to be realized.

Cash Equivalents

The Company considers all highly liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less to
be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are comprised of money
market funds, certificates of deposit, commercial paper and
government agencies’ securities. The carrying amounts
approximate fair value due to the short maturities of these
instruments.

Marketable Securities

Management determines the appropriate
classification of marketable securities at the time of purchase
and reevaluates such designation as of each balance sheet date.
Held-to-maturity securities are carried at amortized cost, which
approximates fair value. Available-for-sale securities are
stated at fair value as determined by the most recently traded
price of each security at the balance sheet date. The net
unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities are
reported as a component of comprehensive income (loss), net of
tax, unless the Company provides a valuation allowance against
the tax benefit or liability resulting from the loss or gain.
The specific identification method is used to compute the
realized gains and losses on debt and equity securities.

The Company regularly monitors and evaluates the
realizable value of its marketable securities. When assessing
marketable securities for other-than-temporary declines in
value, the Company considers such factors as, among other
things, how significant the decline in value is as a percentage
of the original cost, how long the market value of the
investment has been less than its original cost, the performance
of the investee’s stock price in relation to the stock
price of its competitors within the industry and the market in
general, analyst recommendations, any news that has been
released specific to the investee and the outlook for the
overall industry in which the investee operates. The Company
also reviews the financial statements of the investee to
determine if the investee is experiencing financial difficulties
and considers new products/services that the investee may have
forthcoming that will improve its operating results. If events
and circumstances indicate that a decline in the value of these
assets has occurred and is other than temporary, the Company
records a charge to investment (expense) income.

Allowances for Doubtful Accounts

The Company maintains allowances for doubtful
accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of
the Company’s customers to make required payments. The
Company considers the following factors when determining if
collection of a fee is reasonably assured: customer
credit-worthiness, past transaction history with the customer,
current economic industry trends and changes in customer payment
terms. If the Company has no previous experience with the
customer, the Company typically obtains reports from various
credit organizations to ensure that the customer has a history
of paying its creditors. The Company may also request financial
information, including financial statements or other documents
(e.g., bank statements) to ensure that

F-9


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

the customer has the means of making payment. If
these factors do not indicate collection is reasonably assured,
revenue is deferred until collection becomes reasonable assured,
which is generally upon receipt of cash. If the financial
condition of the Company’s customers were to deteriorate,
adversely affecting their ability to make payments, additional
allowances would be required.

The Company also maintains allowances for
doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the
inability of entities it has financed to make required payments.
The Company evaluates the adequacy of allowances for doubtful
finance and note receivables based on analyses of the financed
entities’ credit-worthiness, current economic trends or
market conditions, review of the entities’ current and
projected financial and operational information, and
consideration of the fair value of collateral to be received, if
applicable. From time to time, the Company may consider third
party evaluations, valuation reports or advice from investment
banks. If the financial condition of the financed entities were
to deteriorate, adversely affecting their ability to make
payments, additional allowances would be required.

Inventories

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or
market (replacement cost, not to exceed net realizable value)
using the first-in, first-out method. Recoverability of
inventory is assessed based on review of committed purchase
orders from customers, as well as purchase commitment
projections provided by customers, among other things.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment are recorded at
cost and depreciated or amortized using the straight-line method
over their estimated useful lives. Buildings and building
improvements are depreciated over thirty years and fifteen
years, respectively. Leasehold improvements are amortized over
the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the remaining
term of the related lease. Direct external and internal costs of
developing software for internal use are capitalized subsequent
to the preliminary stage of development. Other property, plant
and equipment have useful lives ranging from two to eighteen
years. Maintenance, repairs, and minor renewals and betterments
are charged to expense as incurred.

Upon the retirement or disposition of property,
plant and equipment, the related cost and accumulated
depreciation or amortization are removed and the gain or loss is
recorded.

Other Investments

Investments in Other Entities

The Company makes strategic investments in
companies that have developed or are developing innovative
wireless data applications and wireless carriers that promote
the worldwide deployment of CDMA systems. Investments in
corporate entities with less than a 20% voting interest are
generally accounted for under the cost method. The Company uses
the equity method to account for investments in corporate
entities in which it has a voting interest of 20% to 50% and
other than minor to 50% ownership interests in partnerships and
limited liability corporations, or in which it otherwise has the
ability to exercise significant influence. Under the equity
method, the investment is originally recorded at cost and
adjusted to recognize the Company’s share of net earnings
or losses of the investee, limited to the extent of the
Company’s investment in and advances to the investee and
financial guarantees on behalf of the investee that create
additional basis.

The Company regularly monitors and evaluates the
realizable value of its investments. When assessing an
investment for an other-than-temporary decline in value, the
Company considers such factors as, among other things, the share
price from the investee’s latest financing round, the
performance of the investee in relation to its own operating
targets and its business plan, the investee’s revenue and
cost trends, as well as liquidity and cash position, including
its cash burn rate, market acceptance of the investee’s
products/services as well as any

F-10


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

new products or services that may be forthcoming,
any significant news that has been released specific to the
investee or the investee’s competitors and/or industry, and
the outlook for the overall industry in which the investee
operates. From time to time, the Company may consider third
party evaluations, valuation reports or advice from investment
banks. If events and circumstances indicate that a decline in
the value of these assets has occurred and is other than
temporary, the Company records a charge to investment
(expense) income.

Derivatives

The Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 133 (FAS 133),
“Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities,” as of the beginning of fiscal 2001.
FAS 133 requires that certain derivative instruments be
recorded at fair value. Derivative instruments held by the
Company are comprised of warrants and other rights to purchase
equity interests in certain other companies related to strategic
investment and financing activities. The Company recorded a
$129 million gain, net of taxes of $87 million, as the
cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle as of
the beginning of fiscal 2001. The cumulative effect of the
accounting change related primarily to the recognition of the
unrealized gain on a warrant to purchase 4,500,000 shares
of Leap Wireless International, Inc. (Leap Wireless) common
stock issued to the Company in connection with its spin-off of
Leap Wireless in September 1998 (Leap Wireless Spin-off). At
September 30, 2002 and 2001, the Company had the right to
purchase 3,375,000 shares of Leap Wireless common stock
under the warrant. The warrant’s value was insignificant at
September 30, 2002, as compared to the estimated fair value
of $49 million at September 30, 2001, calculated using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.

At September 30, 2002 and 2001, the
Company’s derivative balances were included in other
investments and none of the Company’s derivatives were
designated as hedges.

•

Warrants

The Company holds warrants to purchase equity
interests in certain other companies related to its strategic
investment activities. The Company’s warrants are not held
for trading purposes. The Company’s warrants to purchase
equity interests in certain publicly-traded and private
companies are recorded at fair value. Changes in fair value are
recorded in investment (expense) income, as a change in
unrealized gain on derivative instruments because the warrants
do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting.

Warrants that do not have contractual net
settlement provisions are recorded at cost. At
September 30, 2002 and 2001, the Company’s warrant
balances were included in other investments.

•

Forward Contracts

The Company enters into foreign currency forward
contracts to hedge certain foreign currency transactions and
probable anticipated foreign currency transactions. Unrealized
gains and losses arising from foreign currency forward contracts
are reported in investment (expense) income as a change in fair
values of derivative instruments because the forward contracts
are not designated as hedging instruments. Upon settlement of
the foreign currency forward contracts, the unrealized gains and
losses are reclassified to net realized gains (losses) on
derivative instruments. The Company had no foreign currency
forward contracts outstanding as of September 30, 2002; one
such contract was outstanding as of September 30, 2001. The
amount of the unrealized loss as of September 30, 2001 was
not material.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price
and related costs over the value assigned to the net tangible
and identifiable intangible assets of businesses acquired.
Goodwill is amortized on a straight-line basis over its useful
life, ranging from three to four years. The Company will no
longer record goodwill amortization starting in fiscal 2003 as a
result of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards Board

F-11


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

No. 142 (Note 1). Other intangible
assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful
lives, ranging from three to twenty years. Software development
costs are capitalized when a product’s technological
feasibility has been established through the date a product is
available for general release to customers.

Valuation of Long-Lived and Intangible
Assets

The Company assesses potential impairments to its
long-lived and intangible assets when there is evidence that
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of an asset may not be recovered. An impairment loss is
recognized when the undiscounted cash flows expected to be
generated by an asset (or group of assets) is less than its
carrying amount. Any required impairment loss is measured as the
amount by which the asset’s carrying value exceeds its fair
value, and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of
the related asset and a charge to operating results.

Litigation

The Company is currently involved in certain
legal proceedings. The Company estimates the range of liability
related to pending litigation where the amount and range of loss
can be estimated. The Company records its best estimate of a
loss when the loss is considered probable. Where a liability is
probable and there is a range of estimated loss, the Company
records the minimum estimated liability related to the claim. As
additional information becomes available, the Company assesses
the potential liability related to the Company’s pending
litigation and revises its estimates.

Warranty

Estimated future warranty obligations related to
certain products are provided by charges to operations in the
period in which the related revenue is recognized.

Stock-Based Compensation

The Company measures compensation expense for its
stock-based employee compensation using the intrinsic value
method and provides pro forma disclosures of net income and net
earnings per common share as if the fair value method had been
applied in measuring compensation expense.

Equity instruments issued to non-employees for
goods or services are accounted for at fair value and are marked
to market until service is complete or a performance commitment
date is reached.

Foreign Currency

Foreign subsidiaries operating in a local
currency environment use the local currency as the functional
currency. Assets and liabilities are translated to United States
dollars at year-end exchange rates; revenues, expenses, gains
and losses are translated at rates of exchange that approximate
the rates in effect at the transaction date. Resulting
remeasurement gains or losses are recognized as a component of
other comprehensive income. The functional currency of the
Company’s foreign investees that do not use local
currencies is the United States dollar. Where the United States
dollar is the functional currency, the monetary assets and
liabilities are translated into United States dollars at the
exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date. Revenues,
expenses, gains and losses associated with the monetary assets
and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange that
approximate the rates in effect at the transaction date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities and related elements of
expense, gains and losses are translated at historical rates.
Resulting remeasurement gains or losses of these foreign
investees are recognized in the statements of operations.

During fiscal 2002, net foreign currency
transaction losses included in the Company’s statements of
operations were $11 million. During fiscal 2001 and 2000,
net foreign currency transaction gains and losses included in
the Company’s statements of operations were not material.

F-12


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Comprehensive Income

Comprehensive income (loss) is defined as the
change in equity of a business enterprise during a period from
transactions and other events and circumstances from non-owner
sources, including foreign currency translation adjustments and
unrealized gains and losses on marketable securities. The
Company presents other comprehensive income (loss) in its
consolidated statements of stockholders’ equity.

The reclassification adjustment for
other-than-temporary losses on marketable securities results
from the recognition of unrealized losses in the statement of
operations resulting from declines in the market prices of those
securities deemed to be other than temporary. The
reclassification adjustment for net realized losses (gains)
results from the recognition of the net realized losses or gains
in the statement of operations when the marketable securities
are sold. The reclassification adjustment for losses included in
the accounting change results from the recognition of unrealized
losses attributable to derivative instruments as of the
beginning of fiscal 2001 in the statement of operations as a
result of the implementation of FAS 133. Unrealized losses
on certain derivative instruments subject to FAS 133 were
previously recorded as a component of other comprehensive income
(loss).

Components of accumulated other comprehensive
loss consisted of the following (in thousands):

Stock Splits

On November 2, 1999, the Company’s
Board of Directors declared a four-for-one stock split of the
Company’s common stock and an increase in the number of
authorized shares of common stock to three billion shares. The
stock was distributed on December 30, 1999 to stockholders
of record on December 20, 1999. All references to per share
amounts have been restated to reflect these stock splits.

Net Earnings Per Common Share

Basic earnings per common share are calculated by
dividing net income by the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted earnings
per common share (diluted EPS) reflect the potential dilutive
effect, calculated using the treasury stock method, of
additional common shares that are issuable upon exercise of
outstanding stock options and warrants and the potential
dilutive effect for the period prior to conversion of shares
issuable upon conversion of Trust Convertible Preferred
Securities, determined on an if-converted basis, as follows (in
thousands):

The diluted share base for fiscal 2001 excluded
the potential dilutive effect of 51,188,000 incremental shares
related to outstanding stock options, calculated using the
treasury stock method, due to their anti-dilutive effect as a
result of the Company’s loss before accounting change.

F-13


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Options outstanding during the years ended
September 30, 2002, 2001 and 2000 to purchase approximately
40,845,000, 14,427,000, and 2,625,000 shares of common stock,
respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted
EPS because the options’ exercise prices were greater than
the average market prices of the common stock during the period
and, therefore, the effect would be anti-dilutive. Net income in
the computation of diluted EPS for fiscal 2000 was increased by
$7 million, representing the assumed savings of
distributions, net of taxes, on the Trust Convertible Preferred
Securities (Note 7).

Future Accounting Requirements

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 141 (FAS 141), “Business Combinations,”
and No. 142 (FAS 142), “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets.” FAS 141 supersedes Accounting
Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 16, “Business
Combinations.” The provisions of FAS 141
(1) require that the purchase method of accounting be used
for all business combinations initiated after June 30,
2001, (2) provide specific criteria for the initial
recognition and measurement of intangible assets apart from
goodwill, and (3) require that unamortized negative
goodwill be written off immediately as an extraordinary gain
instead of being deferred and amortized. FAS 141 also
requires that, upon adoption of FAS 142, the Company
reclassify the carrying amounts of certain intangible assets
into or out of goodwill, based on certain criteria. FAS 142
supersedes APB 17, “Intangible Assets,” and is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2001. FAS 142 primarily addresses the accounting for
goodwill and intangible assets subsequent to their initial
recognition. The provisions of FAS 142 (1) prohibit
the amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible
assets, (2) require that goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets be tested annually for impairment (and in
interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the
carrying value of goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible
assets may be impaired), (3) require that reporting units
be identified for the purpose of assessing potential impairments
of goodwill, and (4) remove the forty-year limitation on
the amortization period of intangible assets that have finite
lives.

FAS 142 requires that goodwill be tested at
least annually for impairment using a two-step process. The
first step (Step 1) is to identify a potential impairment
and, in transition, this step must be measured as of the
beginning of the fiscal year. However, a company has six months
from the date of adoption to complete this step. If Step 1
indicates potential impairment, the second step of the goodwill
impairment test measures the amount of the impairment loss
(measured as of the beginning of the year of adoption). Any
impairment loss resulting from the transitional impairment tests
would be reflected as the cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle in the first quarter 2003.

The Company will adopt the provisions of
FAS 142 in its first quarter of fiscal 2003. The Company
has determined its reporting units and the amounts of goodwill,
intangible assets, other assets and liabilities allocable to
those reporting units and has completed its Step 1
analysis. Based on its Step 1 analysis, the adoption of
FAS 142 does not have a material impact on the
Company’s financial position. The Company will no longer
record goodwill amortization starting in fiscal 2003. The
Company recorded $248 million, $244 million and
$141 million in goodwill amortization expense during fiscal
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

In August 2001, the FASB issued FAS 144,
“Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets.” FAS 144 replaces FAS 121,
“Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of.” The FASB issued
FAS 144 to establish a single accounting model, based on
the framework established in FAS 121, as FAS 121 did
not address the accounting for a segment of a business accounted
for as a discontinued operation under APB 30,
“Reporting The Results of Operations — Reporting
The Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and
Extraordinary Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and
Transactions.” FAS 144 also resolves significant
implementation issues related to FAS 121. Companies are
required to adopt FAS 144 for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2001, but early adoption is permitted. The
Company will adopt FAS 144 as of the beginning of fiscal
2003. The Company

F-14


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

does not expect the adoption of FAS 144 to
have a material impact on its operating results and financial
position.

Note 2. Marketable Securities

Marketable securities were comprised as follows
(in thousands):

As of September 30, 2002, the contractual
maturities of debt securities were as follows (in thousands):

Securities with no single maturity date include
mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed securities.

F-15


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Available-for-sale securities were comprised as
follows at September 30 (in thousands):

The fair values of held-to-maturity debt
securities at September 30, 2002 and 2001 approximate cost.

In fiscal 2000, the Company purchased
approximately 11,500,000 shares of the common stock of NetZero,
Inc. (NetZero), representing a 9.9% interest, for
$144 million in cash. NetZero was a publicly-traded company
that provided Internet access and services to consumers and
on-line direct marketing services to advertisers. Effective
September 26, 2001, NetZero and Juno Online Services, Inc.
completed a merger and became United Online, Inc. (United
Online). The Company received 2,300,000 shares of United Online
for its 11,500,000 shares of NetZero, representing an
approximate 5.7% interest in United Online. During fiscal 2001,
the Company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge
of $134 million in investment (expense) income related
to this investment. The fair value of the United Online
investment was $22 million at September 30, 2002.

In fiscal 2000, the Company purchased 308,000
units of Leap Wireless’ senior discount notes with
detachable warrants for $150 million. The notes mature in
April 2010 and bear interest at 14.5% payable beginning in 2005.
The warrants entitle each holder to purchase 2.503 common shares
per each senior discount note unit held. The exercise price is
$96.80 per common share. Upon the adoption of FAS 133, the
Company bifurcated the warrants from the senior discount notes
and accounted for the warrants separately. The Company
calculated the fair value of the warrants as of the purchase
date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and used the
fair value to determine the warrants’ cost basis. The
resulting adjustment between the cost basis and their fair value
on the adoption date was recorded as an accounting change, net
of tax, and subsequent changes in fair value of the warrants
were recorded in investment (expense) income. In addition, the
Company holds 489,000 shares of Leap Wireless’ common stock
at September 30, 2002 and a warrant to purchase common
stock issued to the Company in connection with its spin-off of
Leap Wireless (Note 1). During fiscal 2002, management
determined that declines in the market values of the
Company’s investments in Leap Wireless were other than
temporary when those values declined significantly as a result
of unfavorable business developments. As a result, the Company
recorded $162 million and $18 million in
other-than-temporary losses on marketable securities for the
notes and stock, respectively, during fiscal 2002. The Company
also recorded $59 million and $213 million in losses
related to changes in the fair values of Leap Wireless
derivative investments for fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively.
The fair values of the senior discount notes and the common
stock totaled $1 million, and the warrants had
insignificant value at September 30, 2002.

In fiscal 2000, the Company purchased 2,565,000
common shares of Korea Telecom Freetel Co., Ltd. (KTF),
representing a 1.9% interest, for $110 million and an
$86 million zero coupon bond with warrants to purchase
approximately 1,851,000 additional shares. The Company used the
cost method to account for 1,924,000 of the common shares and
approximately 1,388,000 shares under warrant through
June 1, 2001, as those shares were restricted. Subsequent
to that date, the Company used the fair value method to account
for

F-16


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

all of the common shares and the warrants,
recording changes in fair value as a component of comprehensive
loss, net of tax, and investment (expense) income,
respectively. Upon the adoption of FAS 133, the Company had
bifurcated the warrants from the zero coupon bond and accounted
for the warrants separately. The Company calculated the fair
value of the warrants as of the purchase date using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model and used the fair value to
determine the warrants’ cost basis. Since only the warrants
with unrestricted underlying shares met the definition of a
derivative instrument at the time of adoption, the resulting
adjustment between those warrants’ cost basis and their
fair value on the adoption date was recorded as an accounting
change, net of tax, and subsequent changes in fair value of the
warrants were recorded in investment (expense) income.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2002, KTF met certain
obligations related to the commercial deployment of 1xEV-DO
technology, and the Company was required to exercise the
warrants. The exercise price of the warrants was paid by
tendering the bond as payment in full. As a result of the
exercise, the Company holds 4,416,000 common shares of KTF as of
September 30, 2002. The fair value of the common shares was
$110 million at September 30, 2002.

Note 3. Composition of Certain Financial
Statement Captions

Accounts Receivable

At September 30, 2002, trade accounts
receivable and the allowance for doubtful accounts included
$39 million and $11 million, respectively, related to
the consolidation of Vésper Holding Ltd. (Vésper
Holding) (Note 13). Unbilled receivables represent costs
and profits recorded in excess of amounts billable pursuant to
contract provisions and are expected to be realized within one
year.

Finance Receivables

Finance receivables result from arrangements in
which the Company has agreed to provide its customers or certain
CDMA customers of Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (Ericsson)
with long-term interest bearing debt financing for the purchase
of equipment and/or services. Finance receivables were comprised
as follows:

*

As adjusted (Note 13)

F-17


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

During fiscal 2002, the Company wrote off
$622 million in finance receivables from Globalstar L.P.
(Note 4) against the allowance for doubtful receivables
previously established. At September 30, 2002 and 2001, the
fair value of finance receivables approximated $826 million
and $685 million, respectively. The fair value of finance
receivables is estimated by discounting the future cash flows
using current interest rates at which similar financing would be
provided to similar customers for the same remaining maturities.

Maturities of finance receivables at
September 30, 2002 were as follows (in thousands):

Maturities after 2007 include finance receivables
which have been fully reserved or which the Company has not or
does not expect to receive payments in accordance with the
scheduled maturities.

At September 30, 2002, commitments to extend
long-term financing by the Company to certain CDMA customers of
Ericsson totaled approximately $473 million. The commitment
to fund $346 million of this amount expires on
November 6, 2003. The funding of the remaining
$127 million, if it occurs, is not subject to a fixed
expiration date, however, on November 12, 2002,
$9 million of this commitment was cancelled (Note 15).
The financing commitments are subject to the CDMA customers
meeting conditions prescribed in the financing arrangements and,
in certain cases, to Ericsson also financing a portion of such
sales and services. This financing is generally collateralized
by the related equipment. Commitments represent the maximum
amounts to be financed under these arrangements; actual
financing may be in lesser amounts.

Inventories

F-18


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment increased during
fiscal 2002 primarily as a result of the acquisition of
Vésper Holding (Note 13). Depreciation and
amortization expense related to property, plant, and equipment
for fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000 was $133 million,
$91 million and $109 million, respectively. At
September 30, 2002 and 2001, buildings and improvements and
leasehold improvements with a net book value of $86 million
and $91 million, respectively, including accumulated
depreciation and amortization of $43 million and
$37 million, respectively, were leased or held for lease to
third parties. Future minimum rentals, including the Kyocera
rentals (Note 14), in each of the next three years from
fiscal 2003 to 2005 are $21 million, $17 million and
$4 million.

Intangible Assets

At September 30, 2002 and 2001, goodwill was
presented net of $634 million and $389 million in
accumulated amortization, respectively. Goodwill amortization
will cease beginning in fiscal 2003 (Note 1).

At September 30, 2002 and 2001, intangible
assets totaled $179 million and $121 million,
respectively, net of $43 million and $21 million in
accumulated amortization, respectively. During fiscal 2002, the
Company acquired intangible assets, including wireless licenses,
as a result of its acquisitions (Note 13); at
September 30, 2002, these intangible assets totaled
$62 million. During fiscal 2001, the Company acquired
licenses in the Australian 3G wireless spectrum auctions for
$84 million. The Company will begin amortizing the licenses
in Australia, over their expected useful lives of 15 years
when they become effective in October 2002.

Capitalized software development costs were
$24 million and $16 million, at September 30,
2002 and 2001, respectively. Accumulated amortization was $14
and $6 million at September 30, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. Amortization expense related to capitalized
software for fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $10 million,
$1 million and $1 million, respectively.

Note 4. Investments in Other
Entities

VeloCom, Inc.

On November 29, 2001, the Company forgave
$119 million under its debt facility with VeloCom, Inc.
(VeloCom), an investor in Vésper Holding (Note 13) and
converted its remaining $56 million convertible promissory
note into equity securities of VeloCom (the VeloCom exchange) in
conjunction with its acquisition of Vésper Holding. The
VeloCom exchange increased the Company’s equity interest in
VeloCom to 49.9%. The Company uses the equity method to account
for its investment in VeloCom. At September 30,

F-19


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

2002, the Company’s investment in VeloCom
was $33 million, net of the Company’s equity in
VeloCom’s losses.

VeloCom’s summarized financial information,
derived from its unaudited financial statements, is as follows
(in thousands):

Inquam Limited

In October 2000, the Company agreed to invest
$200 million in the convertible preferred shares of Inquam
Limited (Inquam) for an approximate 42% ownership interest in
Inquam. Inquam was formed to acquire, own, develop and manage
wireless communications systems, either directly or indirectly,
with the primary intent of deploying CDMA-based technology. In
addition, the Company advanced $10 million under a
promissory note, bearing interest at 10% that matured on
January 31, 2002. In April 2002, Inquam used a portion of
the equity funding commitment from the Company to repay the
promissory note. The Company uses the equity method to account
for its investment in Inquam. At September 30, 2002, the
Company’s investment in Inquam was $114 million, net
of equity in losses, and $27 million of the equity funding
commitment was outstanding. Inquam’s management expects to
meet certain operational milestones necessary for expansion of
Inquam’s CDMA operations during 2003. In addition,
Inquam’s management expects to raise additional funds over
the next 12 months required for Inquam to realize the full
value of its current operations. Remaining funding commitments
from the Company and another investor are expected to be
exhausted by March 2003. Total additional funding required by
Inquam for calendar 2003 is estimated to be between
$175 million and $195 million. If new investors cannot
be found or should existing investors decide not to provide
additional funding, or if Inquam does not promptly meet certain
operational milestones necessary for expansion, Inquam’s
growth potential and the value of the Company’s investment
in Inquam may be negatively affected.

F-20


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Inquam’s summarized financial information,
derived from its unaudited financial statements, is as follows
(in thousands):

Reliance Infocomm Limited

In December 2001, the Company agreed to invest up
to $200 million in exchange for up to 4% of the common
shares of Reliance Infocomm Limited (RIL), formerly Reliance
Communications Limited, a wireless carrier in India. RIL intends
to construct and operate a CDMA commercial network deploying
CDMA2000 1X technology to provide basic telephone services,
Wireless Local Loop (WLL) with limited mobility, national long
distance and international long distance services in India. The
Company’s obligation to make this investment became subject
to termination during fiscal 2002 because RIL failed to meet
certain milestones. However, the Company may purchase the shares
upon RIL’s completion of certain closing conditions. If the
Company completes the investment, funding is likely to occur
through September 2003. At September 30, 2002, the Company
had not purchased any shares related to this agreement.

Globalstar L.P.

Under now-terminated contracts with Globalstar
L.P. (Globalstar), the Company designed, developed and
manufactured subscriber products and ground communications
systems utilizing CDMA technology and provided contract
development services. Globalstar was formed to design,
construct, and operate a worldwide, low-Earth-orbit
satellite-based telecommunications system (the Globalstar
System).

Through partnership interests held in certain
intermediate limited partnerships and other indirect interests,
the Company owns an approximate 6.3% interest in Globalstar. The
Company uses the equity method to account for its investment in
Globalstar.

On June 30, 2000, Globalstar defaulted on a
$250 million bank facility that the Company partially
guaranteed in 1996. As a result of this default, the
Company’s guaranty was called, and the Company paid
$22 million to the subject banks in full satisfaction of
this guaranty plus interest. Pursuant to an agreement entered
into in 1996, with respect to the original provision of this
guaranty, the Company accepted a subordinated promissory note
issued by Globalstar with a principal amount equal to the amount
the Company paid under its guaranty. The promissory note bears
interest at LIBOR plus 3%, and principal and interest are due
and payable in full on June 30, 2003.

F-21


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2001, the
Company decided to not recognize revenue on business with
Globalstar related entities until cash is received. Revenues
resulting from agreements with Globalstar and its consolidated
subsidiaries for fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000 were
$4 million, $35 million and $219 million,
respectively.

On January 16, 2001, Globalstar announced
that, in order to have sufficient funds available for the
continued progress of its marketing and service activities, it
had suspended indefinitely principal and interest payments on
all of its debt, including its vendor financing obligations. As
a result, Globalstar did not make an approximately
$22 million payment for principal and interest due to
QUALCOMM on January 15, 2001. Globalstar also announced its
intent to restructure its debt. As a result, the Company
recorded total net charges of $49 million in cost of
revenues, $519 million in asset impairment and related
charges, $10 million in investment expense and $58 million
in other non-operating charges during fiscal 2001 related
primarily to the impairment of certain assets. Globalstar filed
for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection during fiscal 2002.
During fiscal 2002, the Company recorded net credits of
$4 million in cost of revenues related to recoveries on
assets impaired in fiscal 2001. The Company does not anticipate
receiving any of the contractual amounts due from Globalstar.
The Company did not recognize any interest income during fiscal
2002 or 2001 and does not anticipate recognition of any interest
income in the future.

QUALCOMM Personal Electronics

In fiscal 1994, a subsidiary of the Company and a
subsidiary of Sony Electronics Inc. (Sony Electronics) entered
into a general partnership, QUALCOMM Personal Electronics (QPE),
to manufacture CDMA consumer equipment for wireless
applications. The Company owns 51% of QPE and consolidates QPE
in its financial statements. In February 2000, the Company sold
its terrestrial-based CDMA wireless consumer phone business
(Note 14). As a result, QPE has no on-going operations.

During fiscal 2001, QPE distributed certain
assets to its owners based on their pro-rata ownership
interests. Sony Electronics’ 49% share of the distribution
reimbursed the Company for cash advanced to and the forgiveness
of receivables from Sony Electronics in February 2000 related to
the sale of the Company’s terrestrial-based CDMA wireless
consumer phone business (Note 14). The distribution by QPE
reduced the minority interest liability to Sony Electronics and
a related receivable included in other current assets by
$40 million. During fiscal 2000, QPE sales to Sony
Electronics and purchases of inventory and capital equipment
from Sony Electronics and other Sony affiliates were not
material. At September 30, 2002 and 2001, there were no
outstanding accounts receivable from Sony Electronics.

Other

Other strategic investments as of
September 30, 2002 and 2001, amounted to $130 million
and $184 million, respectively, including $73 million
and $80 million, respectively, accounted for using the cost
method. The fair values of cost method investments approximate
their recorded values. At September 30, 2002, effective
ownership interests in the investees ranged from 1% to 50%.

Summarized financial information regarding our
principal equity investments, excluding both Vésper and
Wireless Knowledge (Note 13), derived from their unaudited
financial statements, follows. These investments

F-22


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

are noncontrolling interests in venture capital
funds. Information is presented in the aggregate, and net (loss)
income is generally presented from the acquisition date (in
thousands):

Funding commitments related to these investments
total $30 million at September 30, 2002, which the
Company expects to fund through fiscal 2009. Such commitments
are subject to the investees meeting certain conditions; actual
equity funding may be in lesser amounts. An investee’s
failure to successfully develop and provide competitive products
and services due to lack of financing, market demand or
unfavorable economic environment could adversely affect the
value of the Company’s investment in the investee. There
can be no assurance that the investees will be successful in
their efforts.

Note 5. Debt and Lease
Obligations

The Company consolidates all assets and
liabilities of Vésper Holding (Note 13), including bank
loans and capital lease obligations. The balances of these loans
and obligations at September 30, 2002 were $66 million
and $42 million, respectively. At September 30, 2002,
the fair values of these loans and obligations approximated
$42 million and $36 million, respectively. The bank
loans, which are denominated in Brazilian real, bear interest at
the Certificate of Deposit Inter Bank (CDI) rate (the LIBOR rate
equivalent in Brazil) plus 1.5% (approximately 19% at
September 30, 2002). The lease obligations bear interest at
rates ranging from 11.25% to 14.5%. The aggregate amounts of
debt maturities and minimum capital lease payments in each of
the next four years from fiscal 2003 through 2006 are
$14 million, $22 million, $22 million, and
$50 million, respectively. These debt facilities are
collateralized by certain assets of Vésper Holding. The
current and long-term portions of these debt facilities are
included in other current liabilities and other liabilities,
respectively.

Cash amounts paid for interest were
$22 million, $11 million and $5 million in fiscal
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Cash paid for interest in
fiscal 2002 is primarily related to the Vésper Holding bank
loans and capital leases. Cash paid for interest in fiscal 2001
included $8 million related to an arbitration decision
against the Company.

F-23


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Note 6. Investment (Expense)
Income

Investment (expense) income for the years ended
September 30 was comprised as follows (in thousands):

*

As adjusted (Note 13)

Note 7. Trust Convertible Preferred
Securities of Subsidiary

In February 1997, QUALCOMM Financial Trust I
(the Trust), the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary trust
created under the laws of the State of Delaware, completed a
private placement of $660 million of 5 3/4% Trust
Convertible Preferred Securities. The sole assets of the Trust
were QUALCOMM Incorporated 5 3/4% Convertible Subordinated
Debentures due February 24, 2012. Distributions on the
Trust Convertible Preferred Securities were payable quarterly by
the Trust. As a result of the Leap Wireless Spin-off in
September 1998, and pursuant to a resolution of the Board of
Directors of QUALCOMM, each QUALCOMM Trust Convertible Preferred
Security was convertible, subject and pursuant to the terms of
the Convertible Subordinated Debentures, into both QUALCOMM
common stock and Leap Wireless common stock at the rate of
5.5056 and 0.17205 shares, respectively, for each QUALCOMM
Trust Convertible Preferred Security. The Trust Convertible
Preferred Securities were subject to mandatory redemption on
February 24, 2012, at a redemption price of $50 per
preferred security. The Company had the right to convert the
Trust Convertible Preferred Securities, in whole or in part, on
or after March 4, 2000. The Company was required to pay a
premium over the initial conversion price if securities were
converted prior to March 4, 2002. During fiscal 2000, all
remaining Trust Convertible Preferred Securities were converted
into approximately 72,623,000 shares of common stock.

F-24


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Note 8. Income Taxes

The components of income tax provision for the
years ended September 30 were as follows (in thousands):

The following is a reconciliation from the
expected statutory federal income tax provision to the
Company’s actual income tax provision for the years ended
September 30 (in thousands):

*

As adjusted (Note 13)

The Company did not provide for United States
income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on a cumulative total
of approximately $455 million of undistributed earnings for
certain non-United States subsidiaries. The Company considers
the operating earnings of non-United States subsidiaries to be
indefinitely invested outside the United States. Should the
Company have to repatriate foreign earnings, the Company would
have to adjust the income tax provision in the period in which
the facts that give rise to the revision become known.

F-25


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

At September 30, 2002 and 2001, the Company
had net deferred tax assets as follows (in thousands):

*

As adjusted (Note 13)

The Company has provided a valuation allowance on
substantially all of its net deferred tax assets because of
uncertainty regarding their realizability due to the expectation
that deductions from future employee stock option exercises and
related deductions will exceed future taxable income. If and
when recognized, the tax benefit of these deferred assets will
be accounted for primarily as a credit to stockholders’
equity rather than as a reduction of the income tax provision.

At September 30, 2002, the Company had
unused net operating losses, manufacturing, research, foreign
tax and alternative minimum tax credits expiring from 2003
through 2022. The unused net operating tax losses were generated
by the exercise of non-qualified employee stock options.

Cash amounts paid for income taxes were
$89 million, $75 million and $44 million for
fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Note 9. Capital Stock

Preferred Stock

The Company has 8,000,000 shares of preferred
stock authorized for issuance in one or more series, at a par
value of $0.0001 per share. In conjunction with the distribution
of Preferred Share Purchase Rights, the Company’s Board of
Directors designated 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock as
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and reserved
such shares for issuance upon exercise of the Preferred Share
Purchase Rights. At September 30, 2002 and 2001, no shares
of preferred stock were outstanding.

Preferred Share Purchase Rights Plan

During fiscal 1996, the Board of Directors
implemented a Preferred Share Purchase Rights Plan (Rights Plan)
to protect stockholders’ rights in the event of a proposed
takeover of the Company. Under the Rights Plan, the Company
declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (a
Right) for each share of the Company’s common stock
outstanding. Pursuant to the Rights Plan, each Right entitles
the registered holder

F-26


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

to purchase from the Company a one one-hundredth
share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock,
$0.0001 par value per share, at a purchase price of $250. In
November 1999, the Rights Plan was amended to provide that the
purchase price be set at $400. The Rights are exercisable only
if a person or group (an Acquiring Person) acquires beneficial
ownership of 15% or more of the Company’s outstanding
shares of common stock. Upon exercise, holders, other than an
Acquiring Person, will have the right, subject to termination,
to receive the Company’s common stock or other securities,
cash or other assets having a market value, as defined, equal to
twice such purchase price. The Rights, which expire on
September 25, 2005, are redeemable in whole, but not in
part, at the Company’s option at any time for a price of
$0.005 per Right.

Note 10. Employee Benefit Plans

Employee Savings and Retirement Plan

The Company has a 401(k) plan that allows
eligible employees to contribute up to 50% of their eligible
compensation, subject to annual limits. The Company matches a
portion of the employee contributions and may, at its
discretion, make additional contributions based upon earnings.
The Company’s contribution expense for fiscal 2002, 2001
and 2000 was $20 million, $19 million and
$17 million, respectively.

Stock Option Plans

The Board of Directors may grant options to
selected employees, directors and consultants to the Company to
purchase shares of the Company’s common stock at a price
not less than the fair market value of the stock at the date of
grant. The 2001 Stock Option Plan (the 2001 Plan) was
adopted and replaced the 1991 Stock Option Plan (the
1991 Plan), which expired in August 2001. Options granted
under the 1991 Plan remain outstanding until exercised or
cancelled. The shares reserved under the 2001 Plan are
equal to the number of shares available for future grant under
the 1991 Plan on the date the 2001 Plan was approved by the
Company’s stockholders. At that date, 50,541,570 shares
were available for future grants under the 2001 Plan. This
share amount is automatically increased by the amount equal to
the number of shares subject to any outstanding option under the
1991 Plan that expires or is terminated or cancelled following
the date that the 2001 Plan was approved by stockholders.
The Board of Directors of the Company may terminate the
2001 Plan at any time. The 2001 Plan provides for the
grant of both incentive stock options and non-qualified stock
options. Generally, options outstanding vest over periods not
exceeding six years and are exercisable for up to ten years
from the grant date. At September 30, 2002, options for
65,799,000 shares under both plans were exercisable at prices
ranging from $2.19 to $172.38 for an aggregate exercise price of
$1,212 million.

The Company has adopted the 2001 Non-Employee
Directors’ Stock Option Plan (the 2001 Directors’
Plan), which replaces the 1998 Non-Employee Directors’
Stock Option Plan (the 1998 Directors’ Plan). Options
granted under the 1998 Directors’ Plan remain outstanding
until exercised or cancelled. The shares reserved under the 2001
Directors’ Plan are equal to the number of shares available
for future grant under the 1998 Directors’ Plan on the date
the 2001 Directors’ Plan was approved by the
Company’s stockholders. At that date, 2,050,000 shares were
available for future grants under the 2001 Directors’ Plan.
This share amount is automatically increased by the amount equal
to the number of shares subject to any outstanding option under
the 1998 Directors’ Plan that expires or is terminated or
cancelled following the date that the 2001 Directors’
Plan was approved by stockholders. The Board of Directors of the
Company may terminate the 2001 Directors’ Plan at any
time. This plan provides for non-qualified stock options to be
granted to non-employee directors at fair market value, vesting
over periods not exceeding five years and are exercisable for up
to ten years from the grant date. At September 30, 2002,
options for 2,832,000 shares under both plans were exercisable
at prices ranging from $2.78 to $133.00 per share for an
aggregate exercise price of $24 million.

In March 2000, the Company assumed 1,560,000
outstanding stock options under the SnapTrack, Inc. 1995
Stock Option Plan (the SnapTrack Plan), as amended with respect
to the acquisition. The SnapTrack

F-27


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Plan expired on the date of acquisition, and no
additional shares may be granted under that plan. The SnapTrack
Plan provided for the grant of both incentive stock options and
non-qualified stock options. Generally, options outstanding vest
over periods not exceeding four years and are exercisable for up
to ten years from the grant date. At September 30, 2002,
options for 307,000 shares were exercisable at prices ranging
from $0.13 to $5.26 for an aggregate exercise price of
$0.5 million.

A summary of stock option transactions for the
plans follows (number of shares in thousands):

(a)

Represents activity related to options that were
    assumed as a result of the acquisition of SnapTrack in March
    2000.

(b)

Represents shares available for future grant
    cancelled pursuant to the SnapTrack escrow agreement.

F-28


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Information about fixed stock options outstanding
at September 30, 2002 follows (number of shares in
thousands):

There were 60,748 options exercisable with a
weighted average exercise price of $11.52 at September 30, 2001.
There were 48,850 options exercisable with a weighted average
exercise price of $7.13 at September 30, 2000.

Information about stock options outstanding at
September 30, 2002 with exercise prices less than or above
$28.61, the closing price at September 30, 2002, follows
(number of shares in thousands):

Employee Stock Purchase Plans

The Company has employee stock purchase plans for
all eligible employees to purchase shares of common stock at 85%
of the lower of the fair market value on the first or the last
day of each six-month offering period. Employees may authorize
the Company to withhold up to 15% of their compensation during
any offering period, subject to certain limitations. The
2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the 2001 Purchase
Plan) was adopted and replaces the 1991 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan, which expired in August 2001. The
2001 Purchase Plan authorizes up to 12,155,000 shares
to be granted until the Board of Directors of the Company
terminates the 2001 Purchase Plan. The
1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan authorizes
up to 200,000 shares to be granted at anytime. During fiscal
2002, 2001 and 2000, shares totaling 1,150,000, 758,000 and
749,000 were issued under the plans at an average price of
$31.45, $50.16 and $37.75 per share, respectively. At
September 30, 2002, 11,090,000 shares were reserved
for future issuance.

Executive Retirement Plans

The Company has voluntary retirement plans that
allow eligible executives to defer up to 100% of their income on
a pre-tax basis. On a quarterly basis, the Company matches up to
10% of the participants’ deferral

F-29


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

in Company common stock based on the then-current
market price, to be distributed to the participant upon eligible
retirement. The income deferred and the Company match held in
trust are unsecured and subject to the claims of general
creditors of the Company. Company contributions begin vesting
based on certain minimum participation or service requirements,
and are fully vested at age 65. Participants who terminate
employment forfeit their unvested shares. All shares forfeited
are used to reduce the Company’s future matching
contributions. The plans authorize up to 800,000 shares to
be allocated to participants at anytime. During fiscal 2002,
2001 and 2000, 44,000, 33,000, and no shares were issued under
the plans respectively. The Company’s matching contribution
net of amounts forfeited during fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000
amounted to $2 million, $3 million and
$2 million, respectively. At September 30, 2002,
264,000 shares, including 85,000 issued and unallocated
forfeited shares, were reserved for future allocation.

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation

The Company records compensation expense for
employee stock options based upon their intrinsic value on the
date of grant pursuant to Accounting Principles Board
Opinion 25 (APB 25), “Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees.” Because the Company establishes the exercise
price based on the fair market value of the Company’s stock
at the date of grant, the options have no intrinsic value upon
grant, and therefore no expense is recorded. Each quarter, the
Company reports the potential dilutive impact of stock options
in its diluted earnings per share using the treasury-stock
method. Out-of-the-money stock options (i.e., the average stock
price during the period is below the strike price of the option)
are not included in diluted earnings per share.

As required under Financial Accounting Standards
Board Statement 123 (FAS 123), “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation,” the pro forma effects of
stock-based compensation on net income and net earnings per
common share have been estimated at the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model based on the following
assumptions:

The Black-Scholes option-pricing model was
developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options
that have no restrictions and are fully transferable and
negotiable in a free trading market. Black-Scholes does not
consider the employment, transfer or vesting restrictions that
are inherent in the Company’s employee options. FAS 123
requires the use of an option valuation model using highly
subjective assumptions based on long-term predictions, including
the expected stock price volatility and average life of each
option grant. Because the Company’s employee options have
characteristics significantly different from those of freely
traded options, and because changes in the subjective input
assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in
our opinion, the existing models, including Black-Scholes, are
not reliable single measures and may misstate the fair value of
the Company’s employee options. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Black-Scholes weighted average estimated fair
values of stock options granted during fiscal 2002, 2001 and
2000 were $28.20, $44.25 and $48.62 per share, respectively. The
weighted average estimated fair values of shares granted under
the Employee Stock Purchase Plans during fiscal 2002, 2001 and
2000 were $14.57, $24.20 and $31.95, respectively.

For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the
estimated fair value of the options is assumed to be amortized
to expense over the options’ vesting periods. The pro forma
effects of recognizing compensation expense under

F-30


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

the fair value method on net income and net
earnings per common share for the years ended September 30
were as follows (in thousands, except for net earnings per
share):

*

As adjusted (Note 13)

The effects on pro forma disclosures of applying
the fair value method are not likely to be representative of the
effects on pro forma disclosures of future years because the
fair value method is applicable only to options granted
subsequent to September 30, 1995.

Note 11. Commitments and
Contingencies

Litigation

Schwartz, et al v.
QUALCOMM:

On December 14, 2000,
77 former QUALCOMM employees filed a lawsuit against the
Company in the District Court for Boulder County, Colorado,
alleging claims for intentional misrepresentation, nondisclosure
and concealment, violation of C.R.S. Section 8-2-104
(obtaining workers by misrepresentation), breach of contract,
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
promissory estoppels, negligent misrepresentation, unjust
enrichment, violation of California Labor Code Section 970,
violation of California Civil Code Sections 1709-1710,
rescission, violation of California Business & Professions
Code Section 17200 and violation of California Civil Code
Section 1575. Since then, 10 other individuals have
joined the suit as plaintiffs. The complaint seeks economic,
emotional distress and punitive damages and unspecified amounts
of interest. On November 29, 2001, the Court granted the
Company’s motion to dismiss 17 of the plaintiffs from the
lawsuit. Subsequently, the Court dismissed 3 other
plaintiffs from the lawsuit. On November 18, 2002, the
Court granted the Company’s motion to dismiss 66 of the
remaining 67 plaintiffs from the lawsuit (Note 15).
Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome
of the dispute would not have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s operating results, liquidity or financial
position, the Company believes the claims are without merit and
will vigorously defend the action.

GTE Wireless Incorporated (GTE) v.
QUALCOMM:

On June 29, 1999, GTE
filed an action in the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia seeking damages and injunctive
relief and asserting that wireless telephones sold by the
Company infringe a single patent allegedly owned by GTE. On
September 15, 1999, the Court granted the Company’s
motion to transfer the action to the United States District
Court for the Southern District of California. On
February 14, 2002, the District Court granted
QUALCOMM’s motion for summary judgment that QUALCOMM’s
products did not infringe GTE’s asserted patent and denied
GTE’s motion seeking summary judgment of infringement.
QUALCOMM’s counterclaims that the patent is invalid or
unenforceable remain pending in the District Court and have been
stayed while the ruling granting QUALCOMM’s motion and
denying GTE’s motion is on appeal. Although there can be no
assurance that an unfavorable outcome of the dispute would not
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating
results, liquidity or financial position, the Company believes
the action is without merit and will vigorously defend the
action.

Durante, et al v.
QUALCOMM:

On February 2, 2000,
three former QUALCOMM employees filed a putative class action
against the Company, ostensibly on behalf of themselves and
those former employees of

F-31


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

the Company whose employment was terminated in
April 1999. Virtually all of the purported class of plaintiffs
received severance packages at the time of the termination of
their employment, in exchange for a release of claims, other
than federal age discrimination claims, against the Company. The
complaint was filed in California Superior Court in and for the
County of Los Angeles and purports to state ten causes of action
including breach of contract, age discrimination, violation of
Labor Code Section 200, violation of Labor Code
Section 970, unfair business practices, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, unjust enrichment, breach of
the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, declaratory relief
and undue influence. The complaint seeks an order accelerating
all unvested stock options for the members of the class, plus
economic and liquidated damages of an unspecified amount. On
June 27, 2000, the case was ordered transferred from Los
Angeles County Superior Court to San Diego County Superior
Court. On July 3, 2000, the Company removed the case to the
United States District Court for the Southern District of
California, and discovery commenced. On May 29, 2001, the
Court dismissed all plaintiffs’ claims except for claims
arising under the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act.
On July 16, 2001, the Court granted conditional class
certification on the remaining claims, to be revisited by the
Court at the end of the discovery period. Currently, there are
83 individuals included in the class. Although there can be no
assurance that an unfavorable outcome of the dispute would not
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating
results, liquidity or financial position, the Company believes
the claims are without merit and will vigorously defend the
action.

Zoltar Satellite Alarm Systems, Inc. v.
QUALCOMM and SnapTrack:

On
March 30, 2001, Zoltar Satellite Alarm Systems, Inc.
(Zoltar) filed suit against QUALCOMM and SnapTrack, a QUALCOMM
wholly-owned subsidiary, seeking damages and injunctive relief
and alleging infringement of three patents. On August 27,
2001, Zoltar filed an amended complaint adding Sprint Corp. as a
named defendant and narrowing certain infringement claims
against QUALCOMM and SnapTrack. Since then, Zoltar has dismissed
Sprint Corp. as a defendant. On September 23, 2002, the
court denied Zoltar’s motion for summary judgment that the
accused products infringe. QUALCOMM and SnapTrack’s various
motions for summary judgment of noninfringement and invalidity
are currently pending and await hearing. Trial has been set for
February 11, 2003. Although there can be no assurance that
an unfavorable outcome of this dispute would not have a material
adverse effect on QUALCOMM’s operating results, liquidity
or financial position, the Company believes the claims are
without merit and will vigorously defend the action.

The Company has been named, along with many other
manufacturers of wireless handsets, wireless carriers and
industry-related organizations, as a defendant in a purported
class action lawsuit (In re Wireless Telephone Frequency
Emissions Products Liability Litigation, United States District
Court for the District of Maryland), and in several individually
filed actions, seeking personal injury, economic and/or punitive
damages arising out of its sale of cellular phones. The courts
that have reviewed similar claims against other companies to
date have held that there was insufficient scientific basis for
the plaintiffs’ claims in those cases, and the judge
responsible for the multi-district litigation proceedings
recently made such a ruling in another case to which the company
is not a party. Although there can be no assurance that an
unfavorable outcome of these and other disputes would not have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results,
liquidity or financial position, the Company believes the claims
are without merit and will vigorously defend the actions.

The Company has not recorded any accrual for
contingent liability associated with the legal proceedings
described above based on the Company’s belief that a
liability, while possible, is not probable. Further, any
possible range of loss cannot be estimated at this time. The
Company is engaged in numerous other legal actions arising in
the ordinary course of its business and believes that the
ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material
adverse effect on its operating results, liquidity or financial
position.

Operating Leases

The Company leases certain of its facilities and
equipment under noncancelable operating leases, with terms
ranging from two to ten years and with provisions for
cost-of-living increases. Rental expense for fiscal

F-32


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

2002, 2001 and 2000 was $61 million,
$28 million and $19 million, respectively. Rental
expense increased by $19 million in fiscal 2002 as a result
of the consolidation of Vésper Holding (Note 13). Future
minimum lease payments in each of the next five years from
fiscal 2003 through 2007 are $39 million, $29 million,
$20 million, $13 million and $12 million,
respectively, and $11 million thereafter.

Purchase Obligations

The Company has agreements with a supplier to
purchase software and estimates its noncancelable obligations
under these agreements to be approximately $3 million
through fiscal 2004. The Company also has commitments to
purchase telecommunications and research and development
services for approximately $17 million in fiscal 2003 and
$17 million in each of the subsequent fiscal years through
2006.

Letters of Credit, Financial Guarantees and
Other Financial Commitments

Pegaso Telecomunicaciones, S.A. de
    C.V.

The Company has various financing arrangements,
including a bridge loan facility, an equipment loan facility and
an interim loan facility, with Pegaso Comunicaciones y Sistemas
S.A. de C.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of Pegaso
Telecomunicaciones, S.A. de C.V., a CDMA wireless operating
company in Mexico (collectively referred to as Pegaso). On
September 10, 2002, Telefónica Móviles
(Telefónica) acquired a 65% controlling interest in Pegaso
(the Close).

The bridge facility was payable in full on
October 31, 2001, was in default and was subject to a
forbearance agreement at September 30, 2002. At
September 30, 2002, $413 million was outstanding under
the bridge loan facility, net of deferred interest and unearned
fees. The Company stopped recognizing interest on the bridge
loan facility effective at the beginning of the fourth fiscal
quarter of 2001. Pegaso paid $435 million in full
satisfaction of the bridge loan facility on November 8,
2002 (the Bridge Payment) (Note 15).

The equipment loan facility and related financing
were in default and subject to a forbearance agreement at
September 30, 2002. At September 30, 2002,
$318 million was outstanding under the equipment loan
facility, net of deferred interest and unearned fees. The
equipment loan facility was payable through December 31,
2007 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 4.5% (or LIBOR plus 6.5%
when in default). The Company stopped recognizing interest on
the equipment loan facility and related financing effective at
the beginning of the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001. The terms of
the equipment loan facility and related financing were modified,
retroactive to September 10, 2002, upon receipt of the
Bridge Payment and the satisfaction of other conditions. The
Company will be required to use approximately $139 million
of the bridge loan proceeds to purchase outstanding vendor debt
owed by Pegaso to other lenders. Financing related to the
equipment loan facility in the amount of $4 million will be
payable in March 2003. The remaining equipment loan facility,
including the acquired vendor debt, will be payable quarterly
starting in March 2006 through December 2008 and will bear
interest at LIBOR plus 1% for two years, LIBOR plus 3% for the
next three years and LIBOR plus 6% thereafter. The Company
recognized $0.5 million in interest income on the equipment
loan facility during fiscal 2002 from the Close through fiscal
year end at LIBOR plus 1%.

During fiscal 2002, the Company provided to
Pegaso $65 million of interim financing, including
$5 million in capitalized fees, and $65 million of
additional interim financing. Prior to the Close, a Pegaso
shareholder purchased $25 million and $23 million
participations in the interim and additional interim finance
receivables, respectively, from the Company, and at Close,
converted those portions of the interim and additional interim
financings into equity in Pegaso. At September 30, 2002,
$40 million and $42 million were outstanding under the
interim and additional interim facilities, respectively. The
interim and additional interim financing commitments were
cancelled at Close, and the interim and additional interim
finance receivables were repaid in full with interest on
October 10, 2002.

F-33


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Also in connection with the Close,
Telefónica paid $9 million to the Company in
consideration for warrants to acquire equity in Pegaso at Close,
and Pegaso paid $12 million to the Company in October 2002
related to certain fees and expense reimbursements.

As a result of the Close, the Company recognized
a total of $9 million in interest income in fiscal 2002. At
September 30, 2002, finance and other receivables from
Pegaso totaled $821 million, net of $45 million in
deferred interest income that will be amortized over the
remaining term of the equipment loan facility as an adjustment
to yield. The Company received $90 million of this amount
in October 2002 and an additional $295 million when the
Bridge Payment was made in November 2002, excluding the
$139 million portion of the Bridge Payment that will be
used to acquire vendor debt. After receipt of the Bridge
Payment, $436 million of the September 30, 2002
finance receivables remains, net of deferred interest. In the
event that Pegaso were to initiate the commercialization of GSM
or TDMA services in its spectrum, Pegaso would be obliged to
prepay $285 million of that amount. Telefonica has recently
indicated its intention to deploy GSM in Mexico.

The Company’s aggregate commitments to
provide additional long-term financing to Pegaso under its
arrangements with Ericsson (Note 3) were $105 million
as of September 30, 2002, subject to Pegaso meeting certain
conditions. Of this amount, $9 million was cancelled when
Pegaso made the Bridge Payment, and the remaining
$96 million is no longer available to Pegaso as a result of
a series of events that occurred in November 2002. The Company
also had $4 million in other financing commitments to
Pegaso as of September 30, 2002 that were cancelled when
Pegaso made the Bridge Payment.

Leap Wireless International Inc.

The Company has a commitment to provide
$125 million of cash loans under a senior secured credit
facility with Leap Wireless to facilitate Leap Wireless’
purchase of licenses in the FCC’s Auction No. 35. At
QUALCOMM’s option, and subject to FCC consent, QUALCOMM may
transfer all or a portion of any remaining amounts of its
Auction Discount Voucher (ADV) in satisfaction of a like
dollar amount of such commitment, with a cash commitment equal
to any difference between $125 million and the actual
amount of the ADV transferred to Leap Wireless. The ADV was
awarded to QUALCOMM by the FCC in June 2000 as the result of a
legal ruling. The terms of the ADV allow QUALCOMM to use the
voucher in whole or in part in any FCC spectrum auction over a
period of three years. The ADV is fully transferable and may,
subject to certain conditions, be used in whole or in part by
any entity in any auction, including those in which QUALCOMM is
not a participant.

The credit facility may be used by Leap Wireless
solely to pay for PCS spectrum licenses acquired in the
FCC’s Auction No. 35, which was completed in January
2001. Under the terms of the credit facility, the Company is
committed to fund up to $125 million until the earlier of
settlement of the FCC’s Auction No. 35 of PCS spectrum
or Leap Wireless’ withdrawal from Auction No. 35. In
Auction No. 35, each of the spectrum licenses as to which
Leap Wireless was the highest bidder were licenses the FCC
reclaimed from Next

Wave

Telecom, Inc. (Next

Wave

),
a company currently in a Chapter 11 reorganization
proceeding. The validity of the FCC’s reclamation and
reauction of these licenses in Auction No. 35 is currently
subject to litigation between Next

Wave

and the federal
government. Next

Wave

has prevailed on certain of its
claims in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit. In response to a petition by the FCC, the U.S.
Supreme Court agreed to review the case and heard oral argument
on October 8, 2002. The grant to Leap Wireless of these
Auction 35 wireless licenses has been substantially delayed and
has been brought into question by the Next

Wave

litigation. In addition, in November 2002, the FCC adopted
an order granting relief to Auction 35 bidders that were
the high bidders for Next

Wave

licenses. Leap has until
the end of December 2002 to elect to terminate its obligation to
purchase these licenses (Note 15). As a result, it is
unclear when or if Leap Wireless will be able to use the senior
credit facility. Also, the Company believes that Leap Wireless
is not able to satisfy all of the conditions precedent to
funding under the credit facility. As a result, it appears
unlikely that Leap Wireless will be able to use the senior
credit facility. The facility is repayable in a lump sum

F-34


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

payment, including principal and interest accrued
through October 2002, no later than March 9, 2006. After
October 2002, interest is payable semi-annually. The facility
bears interest at LIBOR plus 7.5%. At September 30, 2002,
no cash had been advanced to Leap Wireless.

Other

In addition to the financing commitments to
Pegaso, Leap Wireless and Ericsson (Note 3), the Company
had $3 million of letters of credit and $6 million of
other financial commitments outstanding as of September 30,
2002, none of which were collateralized.

Note 12. Segment Information

The Company is organized on the basis of products
and services. During the first quarter of fiscal 2002, the
Company formed two new operating segments, QUALCOMM
Wireless & Internet and QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives,
as a result of changes in the Company’s businesses and in
managerial reporting. Three divisions have been aggregated into
the QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet segment. Reportable
segments are as follows:

•

QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT) —
    develops and supplies CDMA-based integrated circuits and system
    software for wireless voice and data communications and global
    positioning products;

•

QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) —
    licenses third parties to design, manufacture, and sell products
    incorporating the Company’s CDMA technology;

•

QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet
    (QWI) — comprised of:

o

QUALCOMM Internet Services (QIS) —
    provides the BREW product and services for wireless service
    providers, handset manufacturers and wireless application
    developers and software development services;

o

QUALCOMM Digital Media (QDM) — develops
    technologies to support the processing, transmission and
    management of content for a variety of media applications,
    including the delivery of digitized motion pictures (Digital
    Cinema) and highly secure, wireless products for the United
    States government; and

o

QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions
    (QWBS) — provides satellite and terrestrial-based
    two-way data messaging and position reporting services to
    transportation companies, private fleets and heavy equipment
    fleets.

•

QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) —
    manages the Company’s strategic investment activities. QSI
    makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of
    CDMA products and services for wireless voice and Internet data
    communications, including CDMA carriers and licensed device
    manufacturers and companies that support the design and
    introduction of new CDMA-based products or possess unique
    capabilities or technology. QSI also provides financing to CDMA
    carriers to facilitate the marketing and sale of CDMA equipment
    by licensed manufacturers.

The Wireless Systems division, which provides
services and sells products to Globalstar service providers and
other customers involved with the Globalstar System, is no
longer included in a reportable segment, and the division’s
revenues and losses are presented with other products in
reconciling items in the table that follows.

The Company evaluates the performance of its
segments based on earnings before income taxes and accounting
changes (EBT), excluding certain impairment and other charges
that are not allocated to the

F-35


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

segments for management reporting purposes. EBT
includes the allocation of certain corporate expenses to the
segments, including depreciation and amortization expense
related to unallocated corporate assets. Segment data includes
intersegment revenues.

Segment results presented for the fiscal 2001 and
2000 periods have been restated to conform to the current year
segment presentation and adjusted to reflect the Company’s
equity in losses of the Vésper Operating Companies
(Note 13). The Company sold its terrestrial-based CDMA
wireless consumer phone business, the former operating segment
QUALCOMM Consumer Products (QCP), to Kyocera in February 2000
(Note 14). The table below presents revenues and EBT for
reported segments (in thousands):

Revenues from each of the Company’s
divisions aggregated into the QWI operating segment for the
years ended September 30 were as follows (in thousands):

QSI assets include $203 million and
$106 million related to investments in equity method
investees at September 30, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

F-36


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Other reconciling items for the years ended
September 30 were comprised as follows (in thousands):

Generally, revenues between operating segments
are based on prevailing market rates or an approximation
thereof. Certain charges are allocated to the corporate
functional department in the Company’s management reports
based on the decision that those charges should not be used to
evaluate a segment’s operating performance. The Company
also routinely excludes amortization of goodwill and other
acquisition-related intangible assets from segments’ EBT in
its management reports based on the decision to exclude those
charges from the evaluation of segment results. Unallocated
corporate expenses for fiscal 2002 included $259 million
for amortization of goodwill and other acquisition-related
intangible assets. Unallocated corporate expenses for fiscal
2001 included $256 million for amortization of goodwill and
other acquisition-related intangible assets, $62 million
related to an arbitration decision against the Company and
$57 million related to Globalstar (Note 4).
Unallocated corporate expenses for fiscal 2000 included
$146 million for amortization of goodwill and other
acquisition-related intangible assets, $83 million in
charges related to the sale of the terrestrial-based CDMA
wireless consumer phone business (Note 14), and
$60 million for in-process technology related to the
SnapTrack acquisition (Note 13).

F-37


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Specified items included in segment EBT for years
ended September 30 were as follows (in thousands):

All equity in losses of investees (Note 6)
are recorded in QSI.

Sales information by geographic area for the
years ended September 30 was as follows (in thousands):

The Company distinguishes revenues from external
customers by geographic areas based on customer location.

The net book value of long-lived assets located
outside of the United States was $251 million,
$10 million and $10 million at September 30,
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase over the prior
years is due to Vésper Holding’s long-lived assets
acquired during fiscal 2002 (Note 13).

Note 13. Acquisitions

Vésper Holding, Ltd.

In fiscal 1999, the Company acquired an
approximate 16% ownership interest in Vésper Sao Paulo S.A.
and Vésper S.A. (the Vésper Operating Companies). The
Vésper Operating Companies were formed by a consortium of
investors to provide fixed wireless and wireline telephone
services in the northern, northeast and eastern regions of
Brazil and in the state of Sao Paulo. In addition, the Company
extended long-term financing to the Vésper Operating
Companies related to the Company’s financing arrangement
with Ericsson (Note 3). On November 13, 2001, QUALCOMM
consummated a series of transactions as part of an overall
financial restructuring (the Restructuring) of the Vésper
Operating Companies.

Pursuant to the Restructuring, the Company and
VeloCom (Note 4) committed to invest $266 million and
$80 million, respectively, in a newly formed holding
company called Vésper Holding. Vésper Holding acquired
certain liabilities of the Vésper Operating Companies from
their vendors for $135 million and the

F-38


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

issuance of warrants to purchase an approximate
7% interest in Vésper Holding, and the vendors released in
full any claims that they might have against the Company,
VeloCom, the Vésper Operating Companies and other related
parties arising from or related to the acquired liabilities. In
a series of related transactions, Vésper Holding agreed to
contribute the acquired liabilities to the Vésper Operating
Companies in exchange for equity securities and to cancel the
contributed liabilities. At September 30, 2002, the Company
directly owned 72% of the issued and outstanding equity of
Vésper Holding, and the Company indirectly owned an
additional 11.9% of Vésper Holding through its ownership
interest in VeloCom, totaling an 83.9% direct and indirect
interest.

The purchase price allocation, based on the
estimated fair values of acquired assets and liabilities
assumed, included $307 million for property, plant and
equipment, $39 million for licenses, and $31 million
for other intangible assets. Property, plant and equipment are
depreciated over useful lives ranging from 2 to 18 years.
Licenses and other intangible assets are amortized over their
useful lives of 18 years and 3 to 18 years,
respectively.

When the Company obtained its controlling
interest in Vésper Holding, Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 18, “The Equity Method of Accounting for
Investments in Common Stock,” required that the Company
adjust its prior period results to account for its original 16%
ownership interest in the Vésper Operating Companies,
predecessors to Vésper Holding, using the equity method of
accounting. As a result, the Company recorded $6 million,
$150 million and $48 million of equity in losses of
the Vésper Operating Companies for fiscal 2002
(pre-acquisition), 2001, and 2000 respectively. The Company
recorded a $59 million reduction in finance receivables, an
$18 million reduction in other assets and a
$77 million reduction to retained earnings at
September 30, 2001. The Company had previously recorded
$121 million in asset impairment charges and
other-than-temporary losses on other investments during fiscal
2001. Because those charges did not exceed the losses recorded
as a result of using the equity method, the net loss for fiscal
2001 increased by $29 million. The Company did not record
any asset impairment charges or other-than-temporary losses
during fiscal 2000, and as a result of using the equity method,
the net income for fiscal 2000 decreased by $48 million.

Due to the Company’s practice of
consolidating foreign subsidiaries one month in arrears, the
consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2002 included
$130 million in losses, net of minority interest of
Vésper Holding, from November 13, 2001 to
August 31, 2002. The consolidated financial statements for
fiscal 2002 also included $30 million of equity losses
related to Vésper Holding (pre-acquisition) and VeloCom.
Pro forma operating results for the Company, assuming the
acquisition of Vésper Holding had been made at the
beginning of the periods ended September 30, are as follows
(in thousands, except per share data):

These pro forma results have been prepared for
comparative purposes only and may not be indicative of the
results of operations that actually would have occurred had the
combination been in effect at the beginning of the respective
periods or of future results of operations of the consolidated
entities.

F-39


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

The Vésper Operating Companies’
summarized financial information, derived from its unaudited
financial statements for the periods prior to the Company
obtaining its controlling interest in Vésper Holding, is as
follows (in thousands):

Corporación Nacional de
    Radiodeterminación, S.A. de C.V.

During May 2002, the Company acquired the equity
interests of certain minority shareholders in its consolidated
subsidiary, Corporación Nacional de
Radiodeterminación, S.A. de C.V. (CNR), the exclusive
distributor of the Company’s OmniTRACS product in Mexico,
for $24 million. The acquisition increased the
Company’s equity ownership in CNR to approximately 97%. The
Company used the purchase method to account for this
acquisition. The preliminary allocation of purchase price, based
on the estimated fair values of acquired assets and liabilities
assumed, reflects acquired goodwill and intangible assets of
$3 million and $9 million, respectively. The Company
is in the process of finalizing the purchase price allocation
and does not anticipate material adjustments to the preliminary
allocation. In accordance with FAS 142, amounts allocated
to goodwill are not amortized. Amounts allocated to intangible
assets are being amortized over their expected useful lives.

Wireless Knowledge, Inc.

Wireless Knowledge, formed in November 1998 as a
joint venture with Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), provides
software and professional services to allow users real-time
access to critical business information through a range of
browser-equipped wireless and wireline devices including mobile
phones, personal digital assistants, laptops and landline
connected personal computers. In October 2001, Wireless
Knowledge acquired all of the outstanding shares owned by
Microsoft in exchange for an agreement that Microsoft’s
royalty obligations under a Development, License and Alliance
Agreement dated July 19, 2000 by and between Wireless
Knowledge and Microsoft are considered fully paid. The
acquisition increased the Company’s ownership in Wireless
Knowledge from approximately 50% to approximately 100%. The
Company used the purchase method of accounting to record its
indirect acquisition of Wireless Knowledge in accordance with
FAS 141. The allocation of purchase price, based on the
estimated fair values of acquired assets and liabilities
assumed, included acquired goodwill of $4 million. In
accordance with FAS 142, amounts allocated to goodwill are
not amortized. The consolidated financial statements include the
operating results of Wireless Knowledge from the date of
acquisition. The Company had previously recorded its share of
Wireless

F-40


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Knowledge’s losses under the equity method.
Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because
the effect of this acquisition is not material.

SnapTrack, Inc.

In March 2000, the Company completed the
acquisition of all of the outstanding capital stock of
SnapTrack, Inc. (SnapTrack), a developer of wireless position
location technology, in a transaction accounted for as a
purchase. The purchase price was approximately $1 billion,
representing the value of QUALCOMM shares issued to effect the
purchase, the value of vested and unvested options and warrants
exchanged at the closing date and estimated transaction costs of
$2 million. The allocation of purchase price, based on the
estimated fair values of the acquired assets and assumed
liabilities, included acquired goodwill of $948 million,
purchased in-process technology of $60 million and other
intangible assets of $34 million. Tangible assets acquired
and liabilities assumed were not material to the Company’s
financial statements. Amounts allocated to goodwill and other
intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over
their estimated useful lives of four years. The acquisition is
presented as a non-cash transaction in the statement of cash
flows.

The consolidated financial statements include the
operating results of SnapTrack from the date of acquisition.
Unaudited pro forma operating results for the Company, assuming
the acquisition of SnapTrack had been made at the beginning of
the years ended September 30, were as follows (in
thousands, except per share data):

*

As adjusted (Note 13)

These pro forma results have been prepared for
comparative purposes only and may not be indicative of the
operating results, which actually would have occurred had the
combination been in effect at the beginning of the respective
periods or of future operating results of the consolidated
entities.

Note 14. Disposition of Assets and Other
Charges

In February 2000, the Company sold its
terrestrial-based CDMA wireless consumer phone business,
including its phone inventory, manufacturing equipment and
customer commitments, to Kyocera Wireless (Kyocera). QUALCOMM
received $242 million, including interest, during fiscal 2000
for the net assets sold. QUALCOMM recorded $83 million in
charges during fiscal 2000 to reflect the estimated difference
between the carrying value of the net assets and the
consideration received from Kyocera, less costs to sell, and
employee termination costs. Under the agreement with Kyocera,
Kyocera agreed to purchase a majority of its CDMA integrated
circuit sets and system software requirements from QUALCOMM for
a period of five years. Kyocera will continue its existing
royalty-bearing CDMA license agreement with QUALCOMM.

As part of the agreement with Kyocera, QUALCOMM
formed a new subsidiary that has a substantial number of
employees from QUALCOMM Consumer Products business to provide
services to Kyocera on a cost-plus basis to support
Kyocera’s phone business for up to three years. This
arrangement will expire in February 2003. Kyocera has informed
the Company that it intends to offer employment to substantially
all employees of the subsidiary. During fiscal 2002, 2001 and
2000, revenues resulting from this arrangement were
$105 million, $107 million and $69 million,
respectively; earnings before taxes were not material.

F-41


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

The Company leases certain facilities to Kyocera
under noncancelable operating leases, with provisions for
cost-of-living increases. The leases expire on various dates
through February 20, 2005 and generally provide for renewal
options thereafter. Future minimum rentals in each of the next
three years from fiscal 2003 to 2005 are $10 million,
$9 million and $4 million.

Note 15. Subsequent Events

On November 8, 2002, Pegaso paid
$435 million in full satisfaction of the bridge loan
facility (Note 11).

On November 12, 2002, $9 million of the
Company’s commitment to extend long-term financing to
certain CDMA customers of Ericsson was cancelled (Note 3).

On November 14, 2002, the FCC adopted an
order granting relief to Auction 35 bidders that were the
high bidders for Next

Wave

licenses. Leap has until the
end of December 2002 to elect to terminate its obligation to
purchase these licenses (Note 11).

On November 18, 2002, the District Court for
Boulder County, Colorado granted the Company’s motion to
dismiss 66 of the remaining 67 plaintiffs from the lawsuit in
the matter of

Schwartz, et al v. QUALCOMM

(Note 11).

On November 19, 2002, the Company won bids
to acquire mobile licenses in the state of Sao Paulo (excluding
Sao Paulo metro), the state of Minas Gerais, and in the
Northeast region of Brazil (license Areas 2, 4, and 10,
respectively). The new mobile licenses cover areas with a
combined population in excess of 64 million. The mobile
licenses overlap with approximately 47% of Vésper
Holding’s existing Wireless Local Loop areas. None of the
mobile licenses cover an area outside of Vesper Holding’s
current coverage areas. Approximately $8 million of the
approximate $83 million total purchase price is payable by
December 19, 2002. The remaining $75 million Brazilian
real-denominated obligation is financed by the Brazilian
government at an interest rate of 12%, plus an adjustment for
inflation, payable in six equal annual installments. The first
such installment payment is due in 36 months (Note 13).

Note 16. Summarized Quarterly Data
(Unaudited)

The following financial information reflects all
normal recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of
management, necessary for a fair statement of the results of the
interim periods.

F-42


QUALCOMM Incorporated

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

The table below presents quarterly data for the
years ended September 30, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands,
except per share data):

(1)

Earnings (loss) per share are computed
    independently for each quarter and the full year based upon
    respective average shares outstanding. Therefore, the sum of the
    quarterly net earnings (loss) per share amounts may not
    equal the annual amounts reported.

(2)

Adjusted to account for the Company’s
    original 16% ownership interest in the Vésper Operating
    Companies using the equity method of accounting (Note 13).

F-43


SCHEDULE II

QUALCOMM INCORPORATED

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(In thousands)

*

As adjusted (see Note 13 of the Consolidated
    Financial Statements)

(A)

The Company’s fiscal year ends on the last
    Sunday of September.

(B)

Disposition in connection with the sale of assets
    related to the terrestrial-based CDMA wireless consumer phone
    business in February 2000.

(C)

Balance was charged to paid-in-capital (see Note
    8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

(D)

Of this amount, $64,171 was charged against the
    tax benefit as a component of comprehensive loss related to the
    Company’s temporary losses on marketable securities and
    $374,718 was charged to paid-in-capital (see Note 8 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements).

(E)

The reduction in finance receivables related to
    equity in losses related to the Company’s original 16%
    ownership interest in the Vésper Operating Companies (see
    Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) This amount
    includes $31,757 previously disclosed as a charge to costs and
    expenses.

S-1


(F)

Of this amount, $54,708 related to the
    acquisitions of Vésper Holding and Wireless Knowledge (see
    Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements).

(G)

Of this amount, $8,844 related to translation
    adjustments due to changes in foreign currency rates primarily
    attributable to the Vésper Operating Companies.

(H)

Of this amount, $329,742 related to the
    acquisitions of Vésper Holding and Wireless Knowledge (see
    Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements) and $153,957
    was charged to paid-in capital (see Note 8 of the Consolidated
    Financial Statements), offset by a $43,593 reduction in the tax
    benefit recorded as a component of comprehensive loss related to
    the Company’s temporary losses on marketable securities.

S-2