ITEM 1A.Risk
    Factors



Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties,
    including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties
    described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are
    not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and
    uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may
    impair our business operations. If any of the following risks
    actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of
    operations could be negatively affected and we may not be able
    to achieve our goals or expectations. This Annual Report onForm 10-Kalso includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations,
    projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are
    intended as “forward-looking statements” under the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be
    read in conjunction with the section entitled“Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and
    Information”included in Item 7.“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations.”



Our
    operating results may vary significantly from quarter to
    quarter.



Our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and
    other variations that can result in significant differences in
    operating results from quarter to quarter. For example, we
    typically experience lower gross and operating margins during
    winter months due to lower demand for our services and more
    difficult operating conditions. Additionally, our quarterly
    results may be materially and adversely affected by:



•variations in the margins of projects performed during any
    particular quarter;•unfavorable regional, national or global economic and market
    conditions;•a reduction in the demand for our services;•the budgetary spending patterns of customers;•increases in construction and design costs;•the timing and volume of work we perform;•the effects of adverse or favorable weather conditions;•the termination or expiration of existing agreements;•losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by
    insurance;•a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business;•payment risk associated with the financial condition of our
    customers;•changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing
    and new agreements;•implementation of various information systems, which could
    temporarily disruptday-to-dayoperations;•the recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax
    positions;•permitting, regulatory or customer caused delays;







•decreases in interest rates we receive on our cash and cash
    equivalents;•changes in accounting pronouncements that require us to account
    for items differently than historical pronouncements have;•costs we incur to support growth internally or through
    acquisitions or otherwise;•the timing and integration of acquisitions and the magnitude of
    the related acquisition and integration costs; and•the timing and significance of potential impairments of
    long-lived assets, goodwill or other intangible assets.



Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may
    not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any
    other quarter or for the entire year.



The
    ongoing economic downturn and instability in the financial
    markets may adversely impact our customers’ future spending
    as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our
    operations and growth.



The U.S. economy is still recovering from the recent
    recession, and growth in economic activity has slowed
    substantially. The financial markets also have not fully
    recovered. It is uncertain when these conditions will
    significantly improve. Stagnant or declining economic conditions
    have adversely impacted the demand for our services and resulted
    in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and
    may continue to adversely affect us in the future. Additionally,
    our customers may finance their projects through the incurrence
    of debt or the issuance of equity. The availability of credit
    remains constrained, and many of our customers’ equity
    values have not fully recovered from the negative impact of the
    recession. A reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability
    of debt or equity financing may continue to result in a
    reduction in our customers’ spending for our services and
    may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed
    to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    operations and our ability to grow at historical levels.



An
    economic downturn in any of the industries we serve may lead to
    less demand for our services.





Project
    performance issues, including those caused by third parties, or
    certain contractual obligations may result in additional costs
    to us, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated
    damages.



In certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a
    scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance
    and performance testing levels. Many projects involve
    challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases
    that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over
    several years. We may encounter difficulties as a result of
    delays in designs, engineering information or materials provided
    by the customer





rights-of-way,



percentage-of-completion





Our
    use of fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business
    and results of operations.



We currently generate a portion of our revenues under fixed
    price contracts. We also expect to generate a greater portion of
    our revenues under this type of contract in the future as a
    result of the acquisition of Price Gregory, which conducts most
    of its work through fixed price arrangements, and as larger
    projects, such as electric power transmission build-outs and
    utility-scale solar facilities, become a more significant aspect
    of our business. We must estimate the costs of completing a
    particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. The actual
    cost of labor and





materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally
    estimated, and we may bear the risk of certain unforeseen
    circumstances not included in our cost estimates for which we
    cannot obtain adequate compensation. These variations, along
    with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts,
    may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to
    differ from those we originally estimated and could result in
    reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending upon the
    size of a particular project, variations from the estimated
    contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating
    results for any fiscal period.



Our
    operating results can be negatively affected by weather
    conditions.



We perform substantially all of our services in the outdoors. As
    a result, adverse weather conditions, such as rainfall or snow,
    may affect our productivity in performing our services or may
    temporarily prevent us from performing services. The affect of
    weather delays on projects that are under fixed price
    arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the
    project schedule for such delays. A reduction in our
    productivity in any given period or our inability to meet
    guaranteed schedules may adversely affect the profitability of
    our projects, and as a result, our results of operations.



Our
    use ofpercentage-of-completionaccounting could result in a reduction or elimination of
    previously reported profits.



“Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Critical Accounting Policies”

percentage-of-completion

cost-to-cost

percentage-of-completion



We may
    be unsuccessful at generating internal growth.



Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by,
    among other factors, our ability to:



•expand the range of services we offer to customers to address
    their evolving network needs;•attract new customers;•increase the number of projects performed for existing customers;•hire and retain qualified employees;•expand geographically, including internationally; and•address the challenges presented by difficult economic or market
    conditions that may affect us or our customers.



In addition, our customers may cancel or delay or reduce the
    number or size of projects available to us due to their
    inability to obtain capital or pay for services provided, the
    risk of which has become evident in light of the continuing
    economic downturn. Many of the factors affecting our ability to
    generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we
    cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal
    growth will be successful.





As a
    result of the acquisition of Price Gregory, our profitability
    and financial condition may be adversely affected by risks
    associated with the natural gas and oil industry, such as price
    fluctuations and supply and demand for natural
    gas.



As a result of our acquisition of Price Gregory, our exposure to
    risks associated with providing services under our Natural Gas
    and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment have now increased
    due to the increase in the portion of our revenues attributable
    to these services. These risks, which are not subject to our
    control, include the volatility of natural gas prices, the lack
    of demand for power generation from natural gas and a slowdown
    in the discovery or development of natural gas and/or oil
    reserves. Specifically, lower natural gas and oil prices
    generally result in decreased spending by our Natural Gas and
    Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment customers. While higher
    natural gas and oil prices generally result in increased
    spending by these customers, sustained high energy prices could
    be an impediment to economic growth and could result in reduced
    spending by such customers. Additionally, higher prices will
    likely reduce demand for power generation from natural gas,
    which could result in decreased demand for the expansion of
    North America’s natural gas pipeline infrastructure, and
    consequently result in less capital spending by these customers
    and less demand for our services.



Further, if the discovery or development of natural gas and/or
    oil reserves slowed or stopped, customers would likely reduce
    capital spending on transmission pipelines, gas gathering and
    compressor systems and other related infrastructure, resulting
    in less demand for our services. If the profitability of our
    business under Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services
    segment were to decline, our overall profitability, results of
    operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected.



We may
    not realize all of the anticipated benefits from acquiring Price
    Gregory.





Our
    business is highly competitive.



The specialty contracting business is served by numerous small,
    owner-operated private companies, some public companies and
    several large regional companies. In addition, relatively few
    barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business. As a
    result, any organization that has adequate financial resources
    and access to technical expertise may become one of our
    competitors. Competition in the industry depends on a number of
    factors, including price. For example, we are currently
    experiencing the impacts of competitive pricing in certain of
    the markets we serve. Certain of our competitors may have lower
    overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide
    their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. In
    addition, some of our competitors have significant resources
    including financial, technical and marketing resources. We
    cannot be certain that our competitors do not have or will not
    develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide
    services that are superior in both price and quality to our
    services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able
    to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the
    specialty contracting business or maintain our customer base at
    current levels. We also may face competition from the in-house
    service organizations of our existing or prospective





customers. Electric power, natural gas, oil and
    telecommunications service providers usually employ personnel
    who perform some of the same types of services we do, and we
    cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers
    will continue to outsource services in the future.



Legislative
    actions and initiatives relating to electric power, renewable
    energy and telecommunications may fail to result in increased
    demand for our services.



Demand for our services may not result from renewable energy
    initiatives. While many states currently have mandates in place
    that require certain percentages of power to be generated from
    renewable sources, states could reduce those mandates or make
    them optional, which could reduce, delay or eliminate renewable
    energy development in the affected states. Additionally,
    renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce and may
    require additional power generation sources as backup. The
    locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are
    not viable unless new or expanded transmission infrastructure to
    transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible.
    Furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be
    available, which may be further constrained as a result of the
    current tight credit markets. These factors have resulted in
    fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated and a delay in
    the construction of these projects and the related
    infrastructure, which has adversely affected the demand for our
    services. These factors could continue to result in delays or
    reductions in projects, which could further negatively impact
    our business.



The ARRA provides for various stimulus programs, such as grants,
    loan guarantees and tax incentives, relating to renewable
    energy, energy efficiency and electric power and
    telecommunications infrastructure. We cannot predict when
    programs under the ARRA will be implemented, the timing and
    scope of any investments to be made under these programs or
    whether these programs will result in increased demand for our
    services. Investments for renewable energy, electric power
    infrastructure and telecommunications fiber deployment under
    ARRA programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may
    be delayed, any of which would negatively impact demand for our
    services.



In addition, other current and potential legislative initiatives
    may not result in increased demand for our services. For
    instance, certain provisions of the proposed American Clean
    Energy and Security Act (ACES Act) are intended to encourage
    electric power transmission and renewable energy projects.
    However, it is uncertain whether the ACES Act, if enacted, will
    positively impact infrastructure spending in the long-term.
    Specifically, the ACES Act may not result in the anticipated
    acceleration of future transmission projects or encourage the
    installation of renewable energy generation facilities, which
    could result in fewer electric power transmission and substation
    projects than anticipated and consequently adversely impact
    demand for our services. It is not certain when or if these
    legislative initiatives, including the ACES Act, will be enacted
    or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be
    included in the final legislation.



The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Energy Act) requires the power
    industry to meet certain federal reliability standards for its
    transmission and distribution systems and provides incentives to
    the industry to invest in and improve maintenance on its
    systems. However, regulations implementing various components of
    the Energy Act that could affect demand for our services remain
    subject to uncertainty. Accordingly, the effect of these
    regulations, once finally implemented, cannot be predicted. As a
    result, the legislation may not result in increased spending on
    electric power transmission infrastructure or increased demand
    for our services.



There are also a number of other legislative and regulatory
    proposals, including the ACES Act, to address greenhouse gas
    emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or
    implementation. The outcome of federal and state actions to
    address global climate change could negatively affect the
    operations of our customers through costs of compliance or
    restraints on projects, which could reduce their demand for our
    services.



Many
    of our contracts may be canceled on short notice or may not be
    renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be
    unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such
    events.



We could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and
    liquidity if any of the following occur:



•our customers cancel a significant number of contracts or
    contracts having significant value;•we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts
    upon re-bid;







•we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and
    cannot replace them with similar projects; or•we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent
    with any decrease in our revenue.



Many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice,
    typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the
    contract. Certain of our customers assign work to us on aproject-by-projectbasis under master service agreements. Under these agreements,
    our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific
    amount of work to us. Our operations could decline significantly
    if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which
    will be more likely if customer spending continues to decrease,
    for example, due to the current economic downturn. Many of our
    contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened
    to public bid at the expiration of their terms. There can be no
    assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing
    contracts that come up forre-bid.



Our
    business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and
    retain qualified employees.



Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will
    be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled
    personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We cannot be
    certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled
    labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our
    growth strategy. For instance, we may experience shortages of
    qualified journeyman linemen, who are integral to the provision
    of transmission and distribution services under our Electric
    Power Infrastructure Services segment. In addition, in our
    Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment, there
    is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen
    that can oversee large transmission pipeline projects. A
    shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel creates
    competitive hiring markets and may result in increased labor
    expenses. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair
    our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues.



Backlog
    may not be realized or may not result in profits.



Backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. Customers
    often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or
    release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on
    short notice. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation of one
    or more contracts by a customer or for other reasons could
    significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive
    from contracts included in backlog. In the event of a project
    cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but
    typically have no contractual right to the total revenues
    reflected in our backlog. The backlog we obtain in connection
    with any companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed
    or may not result in the revenue or profits we expected. In
    addition, projects may remain in backlog for extended periods of
    time. All of these uncertainties are heightened as a result of
    negative economic conditions and their impact on our
    customers’ spending. Consequently, we cannot assure you
    that our estimates of backlog are accurate or that we will be
    able to realize our estimated backlog.



Our
    financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that
    may differ from actual results.







Factors
    beyond our control may affect our ability to successfully
    execute our acquisition strategy, which may have an adverse
    impact on our growth strategy.



Our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the
    industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies
    that complement or enhance our business. We expect to face
    competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our
    competitors may offer more favorable terms than us or have
    greater financial resources than we do. This competition may
    limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow
    through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions
    and make them less accretive or possibly non-accretive to us.
    Acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant
    cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt or the
    issuance of securities. Any acquisition may ultimately have a
    negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows. In addition, if we issue equity
    securities in connection with our acquisitions, we may dilute
    our earnings per share and our shareholders’ percentage
    ownership.



We may
    be unsuccessful at integrating companies that either we have
    acquired or that we may acquire in the future.



As a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and seek
    to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance
    our business. However, we cannot be sure that we will be able to
    successfully integrate each of these companies with our existing
    operations without substantial costs, delays or other
    operational or financial problems. If we do not implement proper
    overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy
    could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices
    at the companies we acquire and our overall profitability could
    be adversely affected. Integrating our acquired companies
    involves a number of special risks that could have a negative
    impact on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations, including:



•failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect;•diversion of our management’s attention from operational
    and other matters;•difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of
    acquired companies;•inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies;•risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities;•loss of business due to customer overlap;•risks arising from the prior operations of acquired companies,
    such as performance, safety or workforce issues; and•potential disruptions of our business.



If one of our acquired companies suffers or has suffered
    customer dissatisfaction, performance problems or operational
    issues, the reputation of our entire company could suffer.



Our
    results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of
    goodwill impairments.



non-amortized

“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Critical
    Accounting Polices”





market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches.
    Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment
    tests annually during the fourth quarter. If there is a decrease
    in market capitalization below book value in the future, this
    may be considered an impairment indicator. Any future
    impairments, including impairments of the goodwill or intangible
    assets recorded in connection with the acquisition of Price
    Gregory, and other past or future acquisitions, would negatively
    impact our results of operations for the period in which the
    impairment is recognized.



Our
    profitability and financial operations may be negatively
    affected by changes in, or interpretations of, existing state or
    federal telecommunications regulations or new regulations that
    could adversely affect our Fiber Optic Licensing
    segment.



Many of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment customers benefit from
    the Universal Service“E-rate”program, which was established by Congress in the 1996
    Telecommunications Act and is administered by the Universal
    Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the oversight of the
    Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Under theE-rateprogram, schools, libraries and certain healthcare facilities
    may receive subsidies for certain approved telecommunications
    services, internet access and internal connections. From time to
    time, bills have been introduced in Congress that would
    eliminate or curtail theE-rateprogram. Passage of such actions by the FCC or USAC to further
    limitE-ratesubsidies could decrease the demand by certain customers for the
    services offered by our Fiber Optic Licensing segment.



The telecommunications services we provide through our Fiber
    Optic Licensing segment are subject to regulation by the FCC, to
    the extent that they are interstate telecommunications services,
    and by state regulatory agencies, when wholly within a
    particular state. To remain eligible to provide services under
    theE-rateprogram, we must maintain telecommunications authorizations in
    every state where we operate, and we must obtain such
    authorizations in any new state where we plan to operate.
    Changes in federal or state regulations could reduce the
    profitability of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment, and delays
    in obtaining new authorizations could inhibit our ability to
    grow our Fiber Optic Licensing segment in new geographic areas.
    We could be subject to fines if the FCC or a state regulatory
    agency were to determine that any of our activities or positions
    are not in compliance with certain regulations. If the
    profitability of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment were to
    decline, or if the business of this segment were to become
    subject to fines, our overall results of operations and cash
    flows could also be adversely affected.



The
    business of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment is capital
    intensive and requires substantial investments, and returns on
    investments may be less than expected for various
    reasons.







We
    extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and may
    enter into longer-term deferred payment arrangements or provide
    other financing or investment arrangements with certain of our
    customers, which subjects us to potential credit or investment
    risk that could, if realized, adversely affect our results of
    operations or financial condition.





We are
    self-insured against potential liabilities.



Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to
    employer’s liability, general liability, auto and
    workers’ compensation claims, those policies are subject to
    deductibles ranging from $1.0 million to $5.0 million
    per occurrence depending on the insurance policy. We are
    primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the
    amount of the applicable deductible. We also have employee
    health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to
    collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is
    subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year.



Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based
    upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported
    and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with
    assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance
    liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown
    factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination
    of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of
    incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety
    program. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical
    trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate. If
    we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly
    above our estimates, our results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected in a given period.



During
    the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to
    lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and
    adversely affect our business and results of
    operations.







Unavailability
    or cancellation of third party insurance coverage would increase
    our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt our
    operations.



We maintain insurance coverage from third party insurers as part
    of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our
    contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage
    limits. There can be no assurance that any of our existing
    insurance coverage will be renewable upon the expiration of the
    coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at
    the required limits. In addition, our third party insurers could
    fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable to
    provide us with adequate insurance coverage. If any of these
    events occur, our overall risk exposure would increase and our
    operations could be disrupted. For example, we have significant
    operations in California, which has an environment conducive to
    wildfires. Should our insurer determine to exclude coverage for
    wildfires in the future, we could be exposed to significant
    liabilities and potentially a disruption of our California
    operations. If our risk exposure increases as a result of
    adverse changes in our insurance coverages, we could be subject
    to increased claims and liabilities that could negatively affect
    our results of operations and financial condition.



The
    departure of key personnel could disrupt our
    business.



We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and
    on senior management of our operating units, including the
    businesses we acquire. Although we have entered into employment
    agreements with terms of one to three years with most of our
    executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be
    certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for
    any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the
    inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could
    negatively impact our ability to manage our business. We do not
    carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees.



Our
    unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely
    affect our operations.





Our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely
    affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons.
    For instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the
    union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some
    businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union-based
    company. Additionally, we may increase our exposure to
    withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multi-employer pension
    plans to which an acquired company contributes. For example, the
    acquisition of Price Gregory increased the number of unions in
    which we participate, as well as the number of multi-employer
    pension plans to which we contribute, some of which are subject
    to notices of underfunded status as described above or may not
    otherwise be as well-funded as other





multi-employer pension funds to which we contribute, potentially
    increasing our exposure to underfunded status, which could
    detrimentally affect our financial condition or results of
    operation.



Approximately 56% of our hourly employees are not unionized. The
    new presidential administration has expressed strong support for
    proposed legislation that would create more flexibility and
    opportunity for labor unions to organize non-union workers. If
    passed, this legislation could result in a greater percentage of
    our workforce being subject to collective bargaining agreements,
    heightening the risks described above. In addition, certain of
    our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they
    may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non-union
    labor crews were to become unionized, which could negatively
    affect our business and results of operations.



We may
    incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational
    impacts relating to occupational health and safety
    matters.



Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations
    relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace.
    While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial
    resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our
    industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there
    can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability
    exposure. Although we have taken what we believe are appropriate
    precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may
    suffer additional fatalities in the future. Serious accidents,
    including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties,
    civil litigation or criminal prosecution. Claims for damages to
    persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life,
    could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could
    materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows. In addition, if our safety record
    were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer
    substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of
    health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our
    contracts and not award us future business.



Risks
    associated with operating in international markets could
    restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business
    and prospects, and we could be adversely affected by our failure
    to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities,
    including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other
    similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.





The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions
    prohibit U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from
    making improper payments tonon-U.S. officialsfor the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We pursue
    opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience
    government corruption to some degree, and, in certain
    circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict
    with local customs and practices. Our policies mandate
    compliance with these anti-bribery laws. Further, we require our
    partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or
    on our behalf that they are obligated to comply with the FCPA
    and other anti-bribery laws. Although we have policies and
    procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and our
    agents comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws, there
    is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us
    against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken
    by our agents, employees and intermediaries. If we are found to
    be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our
    inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we
    could suffer from severe criminal or civil penalties or





other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on
    our reputation, business, results of operations or cash flows.
    In addition, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or
    alleged FCPA violations is expensive and can consume significant
    time and attention of our senior management.



Our
    participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or
    harm to our reputation for failures of our
    partners.



As part of our business, we have entered into joint venture
    arrangements and may enter into additional joint venture
    arrangements in the future. The purpose of these joint ventures
    is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the
    performance of particular projects. Success on these jointly
    performed projects depends in large part on whether our joint
    venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations. We and
    our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally
    liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint
    ventures. If a joint venture partner fails to perform or is
    financially unable to bear its portion of required capital
    contributions or other obligations, including liabilities
    stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make
    additional investments, provide additional services or pay more
    than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our
    partner’s shortfall. Further, if we are unable to
    adequately address our partner’s performance issues, the
    customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal
    liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit on a
    project. These risks have been heightened as a result of our
    assumption of additional joint venture arrangements in
    connection with our acquisition of Price Gregory.



We are
    in the process of implementing an information technology
    (“IT”) solution, which could temporarily disruptday-to-dayoperations at certain operating units.



We have begun to implement a comprehensive IT solution that we
    believe will allow for a seamless interface between functions
    such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, and
    fleet management. Continued development and implementation of
    the IT solution will require substantial financial and personnel
    resources. While the IT solution is intended to improve and
    enhance our information systems, implementation of new
    information systems at each operating unit exposes us to the
    risks ofstart-upof
    the new system and integration of that system with our existing
    systems and processes, including possible disruption of our
    financial reporting. Failure to properly implement the IT
    solution could result in substantial disruptions to our
    business, including coordinating and processing our normal
    business activities, testing and recording of certain data
    necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and
    procedures and effective internal controls over our financial
    reporting, and other unforeseen problems.



Our
    dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment
    manufacturers could expose us to the risk of loss in our
    operations.



On certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the
    necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of
    our services. We also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide
    us with the equipment required to conduct our operations.
    Although we are not dependent on any single supplier,
    subcontractor or equipment manufacturer, any substantial
    limitation on the availability of required suppliers,
    subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively
    impact our operations. The risk of a lack of available
    suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers is
    heightened under the current turbulent market conditions and
    economic downturn. To the extent we cannot engage subcontractors
    or acquire equipment or materials, we could experience losses in
    the performance of our operations.



Our
    business growth could outpace the capability of our corporate
    management infrastructure.



We cannot be certain that our infrastructure will be adequate to
    support our operations as they expand. Future growth also could
    impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our
    senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate
    new senior level managers and executives. We cannot be certain
    that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional
    managers and executives. To the extent that we are unable to
    manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and
    retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to
    expand our operations or execute our business plan.





Opportunities
    within the government arena could subject us to increased
    governmental regulation and costs.





A
    portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety
    bonds. We may be unable to compete for or work on certain
    projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety
    bonds.



Current or future market conditions, including losses incurred
    in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate
    bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties’
    assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our
    surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially
    reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our
    bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. If
    our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to
    bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity
    from other sureties, finding more business that does not require
    bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project
    performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable
    to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable
    terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or
    work on future projects requiring financial assurances.



We have also granted security interests in various of our assets
    to collateralize our obligations to our sureties. Furthermore,
    under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or
    continue bonds on aproject-by-projectbasis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the
    posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or
    renewing any bonds. If we were to experience an interruption or
    reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of
    these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or
    work on certain projects that would require bonding.



Our
    failure to comply with environmental laws could result in
    significant liabilities.







In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of
    existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously
    unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of newclean-uprequirements could require us to incur significant costs or
    become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could
    negatively impact our financial condition and results of
    operations. In certain instances, we have obtained
    indemnification or covenants from third parties (including
    predecessors or lessors) for such cleanup and other obligations
    and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such
    obligations and liabilities. However, such third-party
    indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs, and
    such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future
    obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect
    on our business operations, financial condition or cash flows.
    Further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify
    or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities
    relating to any acquired business.



There are also other legislative and regulatory proposals,
    including the ACES Act, to address greenhouse gas emissions.
    These proposals, if enacted, could result in a variety of
    regulatory programs including potential new regulations,
    additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or
    other regulatory actions. Any of these actions could result in
    increased costs associated with our operations and impact the
    prices we charge our customers. For example, if new regulations
    are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from mobile
    sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a
    significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light
    of our large rolling-stock fleet. In addition, if our operations
    are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our
    reputation could suffer.



We may
    not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.



The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has many requirements applicable
    to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting,
    including the requirements for management to report on our
    internal controls over financial reporting and for our
    independent registered public accounting firm to express an
    opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control
    over financial reporting. During 2009, we continued actions to
    ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. As of
    December 31, 2009, our internal control over financial
    reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that
    our internal control over financial reporting will be effective
    in future years. Failure to maintain effective internal controls
    or the identification of significant internal control
    deficiencies in acquisitions already made or made in the future
    could result in a decrease in the market value of our common
    stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced
    ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties
    and additional expenditures to meet the requirements.



If we
    are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our
    intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive
    position could be adversely impacted.



We utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our
    services. We view our portfolio of proprietary energized
    services tools and techniques as well as our other process and
    design technologies as one of our competitive strengths, and we
    use it as part of our efforts to differentiate our service
    offerings. We may not be able to successfully preserve these
    intellectual property rights in the future and these rights
    could be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. In addition,
    the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be
    sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same
    extent as the laws of the United States. We also license certain
    technologies from third parties, and there is a risk that our
    relationships with licensors may terminate or expire or may be
    interrupted or harmed. If we are unable to protect and maintain
    our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful
    intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings
    against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings
    could be reduced. In addition, if our intellectual property
    rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to
    differentiate our service offerings, and some of our competitors
    may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers.
    As a result, our business and revenue could be materially and
    adversely affected.



We may
    not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance
    desired growth and operations.



If we cannot secure funds in the future, including financing on
    acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth
    strategy or future operations. We cannot readily predict the
    ability of certain customers to pay for past services, and the
    current economic downturn may negatively impact the ability of
    our customers to pay amounts owed to us. We also cannot readily
    predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts.
    Using cash for acquisitions limits our





Form 10-K.



The
    industries we serve are subject to rapid technological and
    structural changes that could reduce the demand for the services
    we provide.



The electric power, gas and oil, telecommunications and cable
    television industries are undergoing rapid change as a result of
    technological advances that could, in certain cases, reduce the
    demand for our services, impair the value of our fiber optic
    network or otherwise negatively impact our business. New or
    developing technologies could displace the wireline systems used
    for voice, video and data transmissions, and improvements in
    existing technology may allow our Telecommunications
    Infrastructure Services segment customers to significantly
    improve their networks without physically upgrading them.



Our
    convertible subordinated notes may be convertible in the future,
    which, if converted, may result in dilution to existing
    stockholders, lower prevailing market prices for our common
    stock or cause a significant cash outlay.



As a result of our common stock satisfying the market price
    condition of our convertible subordinated notes, our 3.75%
    convertible subordinated notes due 2026 (3.75% Notes) have
    been convertible at the option of the holders at various times
    in the past. The 3.75% Notes are not presently convertible,
    but may resume convertibility in future periods upon
    satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions.



We have the right to deliver shares of our common stock, cash or
    a combination of cash and shares of our common stock upon a
    conversion of the 3.75% Notes. The number of shares
    issuable upon conversion will be determined based on a
    conversion rate of approximately $22.41. In the event that all
    3.75% Notes were converted for common stock, we would issue
    an aggregate of 6.4 million shares of our common stock. The
    conversion of some or all of our 3.75% Notes into our
    common stock would dilute existing stockholders. Any sales in
    the public market of the common stock issued upon such
    conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of
    our common stock. In addition, the possibility that the notes
    may be converted may encourage short-selling by market
    participants because the conversion of the notes could depress
    the price of our common stock.



If we elect to satisfy the conversion obligation in cash, the
    amount of cash payable upon conversion of the 3.75% Notes
    will be determined by the product of (i) the number of
    shares issuable for the principal amount of the converted notes
    at a conversion rate of approximately $22.41 per share and
    (ii) the average closing price of our common stock during a20-daytrading period following the holders unretracted election to
    convert the notes. To the extent we decide to pay cash to settle
    any conversions and the average closing price of our common
    stock during this





period exceeds $22.41 for the 3.75% Notes, we would have to
    pay cash in excess of the principal amount of the notes being
    converted, which would result in the recording of a loss on
    extinguishment of debt.



Certain
    provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an
    acquisition of our company more difficult.



The following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and
    bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as our stockholder
    rights plan and Delaware law, could discourage potential
    proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of
    us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in
    the future for shares of our common stock:



•our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors
    to issue “blank check” preferred stock and to adopt
    amendments to our bylaws;•our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of
    stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be
    considered at stockholder meetings;•our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right
    of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to
    act by written consent; and•we are subject to provisions of Delaware law which prohibit us
    from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions
    with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three
    years following the date such stockholder became classified as
    an interested stockholder.



