ITEM 1A.Risk Factors

Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. The matters described below are not the only risks and
uncertainties facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of
operations could be negatively affected and we may not be able to achieve our goals or expectations. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future
events that are intended as “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled“Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and
Information”included in Item 7.“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter.

Our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and other variations that can result in significant differences in operating results from quarter to quarter. For example, we typically
experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions. Additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by:



•permitting, regulatory or customer-caused delays on projects;



•adverse weather conditions;



•variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter;



•unfavorable regional, national or global economic and market conditions;



•a reduction in the demand for our services;



•the budgetary spending patterns of customers and federal, state and local governments;



•increases in construction and design costs;



•the timing and volume of work we perform;



•the magnitude of work performed under change orders and the timing of their recognition;



•liabilities associated with pension plans in which our employees participate or withdrawals therefrom;



•changes in accounting pronouncements that require us to account for items differently than historical pronouncements have;



•losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance;



•a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business;



•payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers;







•the termination or expiration of existing agreements;



•pricing pressures resulting from competition;



•changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing and new agreements;



•implementation of various information systems, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations;



•the recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions;



•costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise;



•the timing and integration of acquisitions and the magnitude of the related acquisition and integration costs; and



•the timing and significance of potential impairments of long-lived assets, equity or other investments, goodwill or other intangible assets.

Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the
results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year.

Negative economic and market conditions may
adversely impact our customers’ future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth.

The economy is still recovering from the recession in 2008 and 2009, and economic growth remains slow. The financial markets also have not fully recovered. It is uncertain when these conditions will
significantly improve. Stagnant or declining economic conditions have adversely impacted the demand for our services in the past and resulted in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and may continue to adversely affect us in the
future. Additionally, many of our customers finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. The availability of credit remains constrained, and many of our customers’ equity values have not fully recovered from
the negative impact of the recession. A reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may continue to result in a reduction in our customers’ spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our
customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels.

Regulatory and environmental requirements and economic conditions affecting any of the industries we serve may lead to less demand for our services.

Because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, regulatory and environmental requirements or a
downturn in economic conditions affecting any of those industries would adversely affect our results of operations. Customers in the industries we serve face stringent regulatory and environmental requirements and permitting processes as they
implement plans for their projects, resulting in delays, reductions and cancellations of some of their projects. Additionally, unfavorable economic conditions in any industry we serve could result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of projects
by our customers as well as cause our customers to outsource less work. These regulatory and economic factors have resulted in decreased demand for our services in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future, potentially impacting our
operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. A number of other factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our
customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. Consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power, natural gas, oil and
telecommunications industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers.







Project performance issues, including those caused by third parties, or certain
contractual obligations may result in additional costs to us, reductions or delays in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages.

Our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees.

Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain
skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. For instance, we may experience
shortages of qualified journeyman linemen, who are integral to the provision of transmission and distribution services under our Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment. In addition, in our Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services
segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee large transmission pipeline projects. A shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel creates competitive hiring markets and may result in increased
labor expenses. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues or profitability.







Our use of fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business and results of
operations.

We currently generate a portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. We also
expect to generate a greater portion of our revenues under this type of contract in the future as larger projects, such as electric power and pipeline transmission build-outs and utility-scale solar facilities, become a more significant aspect of
our business. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. The actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated, and we may bear the risk of certain
unforeseen circumstances not included in our cost estimates for which we cannot obtain adequate compensation. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a
project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on
our operating results for any fiscal period.

Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction
or elimination of previously reported profits.

“Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies”

Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

Our operating results can be negatively affected by weather conditions.

We perform substantially all of our services in the outdoors. As a result, adverse weather conditions, such as rainfall or
snow, may affect our productivity in performing our services or may temporarily prevent us from performing services. The effect of weather delays on projects that are under fixed price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the
project schedule for such delays. A reduction in our productivity in any given period or our inability to meet guaranteed schedules may adversely affect the profitability of our projects, and as a result, our results of operations.

We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth.

Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to:



•expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs;



•attract new customers;



•increase the number of projects performed for existing customers;



•hire and retain qualified employees;



•expand geographically, including internationally; and



•address the challenges presented by stringent regulatory, environmental and permitting requirements and difficult economic or market conditions that
may affect us or our customers.







In addition, our customers may cancel, delay or reduce the number or size of
projects available to us for a variety of reasons, including capital constraints or inability to the meet regulatory requirements. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be
certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful.

Our business is highly competitive.

Legislative actions and initiatives relating to renewable energy, telecommunications and electric power may fail to result in increased demand for our services.

Demand for our services may not result from renewable energy initiatives. While many states currently have mandates in
place that require specified percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, states could reduce those mandates or make them optional, which could reduce, delay or eliminate renewable energy development in the affected states.
Additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce and may require additional power generation sources as backup. The locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless new or expanded transmission
infrastructure to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. Furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be available, which has been further constrained as a result of tight credit markets. These factors have
resulted in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated and a delay in the construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which has adversely affected the demand for our services. These factors could continue to result in delays
or reductions in projects, which could further negatively impact our business.

The ARRA provides for various
stimulus programs, such as grants, loan guarantees and tax incentives, relating to renewable energy, energy efficiency and electric power and telecommunications infrastructure. Some of these programs have expired, which may affect the economic
feasibility of future projects. Additionally, while a significant amount of stimulus funds have been awarded, we cannot predict the timing and scope of any investments to be made under stimulus funding or whether stimulus funding will result in
increased demand for our services. Investments for renewable energy, electric power infrastructure and telecommunications fiber deployment under ARRA programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, any of which would
negatively impact demand for our services.

Other current and potential legislative or regulatory initiatives
may not result in increased demand for our services. Examples include legislation or regulations to require utilities to meet reliability standards, to ease siting and right-of-way issues for the construction of transmission lines, and to encourage
installation of new electric power transmission and renewable energy generation facilities. It is not certain whether existing legislation will create sufficient incentives for new projects, when or if proposed legislative initiatives will be
enacted or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be included in the final legislation.







There are also a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address
greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. The outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could negatively affect the operations of our customers through costs of compliance or
restraints on projects, which could reduce their demand for our services.

We are self-insured against certain potential
liabilities.

Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to employer’s liability,
general liability, auto and workers’ compensation claims, those policies are subject to deductibles ranging from $1.0 million to $5.0 million per occurrence depending on the insurance policy. We are primarily self-insured for all claims that do
not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per
year. Our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including the requirement to give appropriate notice. If we fail to comply with these requirements, our coverage could be denied.

Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims
reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of
damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. If we were to
experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given period.

During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.

“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Unavailability or cancellation of third party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt our
operations.

We maintain insurance coverage from third party insurers as part of our overall risk
management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. There can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewed upon the expiration of the coverage period or that
future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. In addition, our third party insurers could fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. If any of these events occur, our
overall risk exposure would increase and our operations could be disrupted. For example,







we have significant operations in California, which has an environment conducive to wildfires. Should our insurer determine to exclude coverage for wildfires in the future, we could be exposed to
significant liabilities and potentially a disruption of our California operations. If our risk exposure increases as a result of adverse changes in our insurance coverage, we could be subject to increased claims and liabilities that could negatively
affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice or may
not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

We could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur:



•our customers cancel a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value;



•we fail to renew a significant number of our existing contracts;



•we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or



•we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue.

Many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in
default under the contract. Certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. Under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. Our
operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which will be more likely if customer spending continues to decrease, for example, due to the slow recovery of the economy and the financial markets.
Many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. There can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid.

The nature of our business exposes us to warranty claims, which may reduce our profitability.

The loss of one or a few customers could have an adverse effect
on us.

A few clients have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our
revenue in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. Although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant clients, our clients may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their contracts with us at any time. Our
loss of business from a significant client could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.







Our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected by risks
associated with the natural gas and oil industry, such as price fluctuations and supply and demand for natural gas.

Certain of our services, in particular those under our Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment, are exposed to risks associated with the natural gas and oil industry. These risks, which
are not subject to our control, include the volatility of natural gas and oil prices, the lack of demand for power generation from natural gas and a slowdown in the discovery or development of natural gas and/or oil reserves. Specifically, lower
natural gas and oil prices generally result in decreased spending by our customers in our Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment. While higher natural gas and oil prices generally result in increased infrastructure spending by
these customers, sustained high energy prices could be an impediment to economic growth and could result in reduced infrastructure spending by such customers. Additionally, higher prices will likely reduce demand for power generation from natural
gas, which could result in decreased demand for the expansion of North America’s natural gas pipeline infrastructure, and consequently result in less capital spending by these customers and less demand for our services.

Further, if the discovery or development of natural gas and/or oil reserves slowed or stopped, customers would likely
reduce capital spending on transmission pipelines, gas gathering and compressor systems and other related infrastructure, resulting in less demand for our services. If the profitability of our business under the Natural Gas and Pipeline
Infrastructure Services segment were to decline, our overall profitability, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected.

Backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits.

Backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. Customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. Reductions
in backlog due to cancellation of one or more contracts or projects by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. In the event of a project cancellation,
we may be reimbursed for certain costs but would not have a contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. The backlog we obtain in connection with any companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed or may not result in
the revenue or profits we expected. In addition, projects that are delayed may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. All of these uncertainties are heightened as a result of negative economic conditions and their impact on our
customers’ spending, as well as the effects of regulatory requirements and weather conditions. Consequently, we cannot assure that our estimates of backlog are accurate or that we will be able to realize our estimated backlog.

Our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results.







Our inability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may have an adverse
impact on our growth strategy.

Our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries
we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. The number of acquisition targets that meet our criteria may be limited, and we may also face competition for acquisition opportunities. Some of our
competitors may offer more favorable terms than us or have greater financial resources than we do. This competition may further limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of
acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly not accretive to us. Acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt or burdensome regulatory requirements. Any acquisition
may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any of these factors could inhibit our ability to consummate future acquisitions, which could negatively affect our growth strategies.

We may be unsuccessful at integrating businesses that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future,
which may reduce the anticipated benefit from acquired businesses.

As a part of our business strategy,
we have acquired, and may seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. The success of this strategy will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquired businesses, such as the
expansion of our existing operations, elimination of redundant costs and capitalizing on cross-selling opportunities. To realize these benefits, however, we must successfully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our existing
operations. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully integrate acquired companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays, disruptions or other operational or financial problems. Additionally, if we do not
implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire. Issues related to the integration process may result in adverse impact to
our revenues, earnings and cash flows. Integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks that could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including:



•failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect;



•diversion of our management’s attention from operational and other matters;



•difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies;



•inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies;



•risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities;



•loss of business due to customer overlap or change from local or private ownership;



•risks arising from the prior operations of acquired companies, such as performance, operational, safety or workforce issues, or customer
dissatisfaction; and



•potential disruptions of our business.

Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of impairments of goodwill, other intangible assets or our investments.

When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the excess amount we pay for the
business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. Goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead must be tested at
least annually for impairment, while intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives. The accounting literature provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for
impairment. Refer to Item 7.“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Polices”for a detailed discussion.







Management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting unit’s net assets and liabilities,
including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is
determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. If there is a decrease
in market capitalization below book value in the future, this may be considered an impairment indicator.

In
addition, we enter into various types of investment arrangements in the normal course of business, each having unique terms and conditions. These investments may include equity interests we hold in business entities, including general or limited
partnerships, contractual joint ventures or other forms of equity participation. These investments may also include our participation in different finance structures such as the extension of loans to project specific entities, the acquisition of
convertible notes issued by project specific entities or other strategic financing arrangements. Our equity method investments are carried at original cost and are included in other assets, net in our consolidated balance sheet and are adjusted for
our proportionate share of the investees’ income, losses and distributions. Equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing whether any decline in the fair value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary. In
making this determination, factors such as the ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment and the inability of the investee to sustain future earnings capacity are evaluated in determining whether an impairment should be recognized.

Any future impairments, including impairments of goodwill or intangible assets recorded in connection with
acquisitions or impairments of any investments, would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized.

Our profitability and financial operations may be negatively affected by changes in, or interpretations of, existing state or federal telecommunications regulations or new regulations that could
adversely affect our Fiber Optic Licensing segment.

Many of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment
customers benefit from the Universal Service “E-rate” program, which was established by Congress in the 1996 Telecommunications Act and is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the oversight of the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Under the E-rate program, schools, libraries and certain healthcare facilities may receive subsidies for certain approved telecommunications services, internet access and internal connections. From time to
time, bills have been introduced in Congress that would eliminate or curtail the E-rate program. Passage of such actions by the FCC or USAC to further limit E-rate subsidies could decrease the demand by certain customers for the services offered by
our Fiber Optic Licensing segment.

The telecommunications services we provide through our Fiber Optic
Licensing segment are subject to regulation by the FCC, to the extent that they are interstate telecommunications services, and by state regulatory agencies, when wholly within a particular state. To remain eligible to provide services under the
E-rate program, we must maintain telecommunications authorizations in every state where we operate, and we must obtain such authorizations in any new state where we plan to operate. Changes in federal or state regulations could reduce the
profitability of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment, and delays in obtaining new authorizations could inhibit our ability to grow our Fiber Optic Licensing segment in new geographic areas. We could be subject to fines if the FCC or a state regulatory
agency were to determine that any of our activities or positions are not in compliance with certain regulations. If the profitability of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment were to decline, or if the business of this segment were to become subject to
fines, our overall results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected.







The business of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment is capital intensive and requires
substantial investments, and returns on investments may be less than expected for various reasons.

We extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and may enter
into longer-term deferred payment arrangements or provide other financing or investment arrangements with certain of our customers, which subjects us to potential credit or investment risk that could, if realized, adversely affect our results of
operations or financial condition.

The loss of key personnel could disrupt our business.

We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior management of our operating units, including
the businesses we acquire. Although we have entered into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with most of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such
capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. We do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our
employees.







We may be required to contribute cash to meet our underfunded obligations in certain
multi-employer pension plans.

Our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate
with other companies in multi-employer pension plans. To the extent those plans are underfunded, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, may subject us to substantial
liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated or experience a mass withdrawal. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2011, we recognized a $32.6 million liability when certain of our subsidiaries withdrew from an
underfunded multi-employer pension plan. The amount of this liability is estimated based on information received from the multi-employer plan in 2011 and the actual amount assessed by the plan for the withdrawal, which we do not expect the plan to
provide us before 2013, and the amount that we ultimately pay for the withdrawal liability may be materially different than the amount currently recorded.

Our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations.

As of December 31, 2011, approximately 48% of our hourly employees were covered by collective bargaining
agreements. Although the majority of the collective bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, certain of our unionized employees participated in a strike and work stoppage during January 2012, and we cannot be certain that strikes
or work stoppages will not occur in the future. Strikes or work stoppages can adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue.

Our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of
reasons. For instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. Additionally, we may increase our exposure
to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multi-employer pension plans to which an acquired company contributes.

Approximately 52% of our hourly employees are not unionized. Under the current presidential administration, certain administrative and regulatory actions have been taken and are being considered that
could create more flexibility and opportunity for labor unions to organize non-union workers and could result in a greater percentage of our workforce being subject to collective bargaining agreements, heightening the risks described above. In
addition, certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non-union labor crews were to become unionized, which could negatively affect our business and results of
operations.







We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating
to occupational health and safety matters.

Our operations are subject to extensive laws and
regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of
operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the
future. Serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. Claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs
and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or
criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business.

Risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects.

Our international operations are presently conducted primarily in Canada and Australia, but we have performed work in
various other foreign countries, and we expect that the number of countries in which we operate could expand significantly over the next few years. Economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other
conflicts or volatility in the global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our services and their ability to pay for our services. In addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally,
including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in
foreign countries and complex U.S. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws. These risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers or to operate our international business profitably, and our overall
business and results of operations could be negatively impacted by our foreign activities.

We could be adversely
affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.

We may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations.

If we cannot secure funds in the future, including financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth
strategy or future operations. We cannot readily predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past services, and unfavorable economic conditions, such as those experienced over recent years, may







Our participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners.

As part of our business, we have entered into joint venture arrangements and may enter into additional
joint venture arrangements in the future. The purpose of these joint ventures is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the performance of particular projects. Success on these jointly performed projects depends in large part on
whether our joint venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations. We and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. If a joint venture partner fails to
perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or
pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner’s shortfall. Further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in
legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit on a project.

We are in the process of implementing an
information technology (IT) solution, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations at certain operating units.

We continue to implement a comprehensive IT solution that we believe will allow for the interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, and fleet management.
Continued development and implementation of the IT solution will require substantial financial and personnel resources. While the IT solution is intended to improve and enhance our information systems, implementation of new information systems at
each operating unit exposes us to the risks of start-up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. There is no guarantee that we will realize
economic or other intended benefits from continued development and implementation of the IT solution. Additionally, the IT solution may not be developed or implemented as timely or as accurately as planned. Failure to properly implement the IT
solution could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures
and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems.







Failure to adequately protect critical data and technology systems could materially
affect our operations.

IT solution failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could
disrupt our operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding processing of transactions and reporting financial results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer or our information, or damage to our reputation.
While management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach (particularly in light of our ongoing implementation
of the IT solution) will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.

Our
dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to the risk of loss in our operations.

On certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. We also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment
required to conduct our operations. Although we are not dependent on any single supplier, subcontractor or equipment manufacturer, any substantial limitation on the availability of required suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could
negatively impact our operations. The risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers may be heightened as a result of recent market and economic conditions. To the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire
equipment or materials, we could experience losses in the performance of our operations.

Fluctuating foreign currency
exchange rates may have a greater impact on our financial results as we expand into international markets.

For the year ended December 31, 2011, we derived $535.0 million, or 12%, of our consolidated revenues from foreign operations, the substantial majority of which was earned in Canada. We intend to
expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. As a result, our reported financial condition and results of operations may be more significantly exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have
on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are denominated in local currencies, into the U.S. dollar.

Our business growth could outpace the capability of our decentralized management infrastructure.

We cannot be certain that our management infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. For example, the ability to internally communicate, coordinate and execute business
strategies, plans and tactics may be negatively impacted by our increasing size and complexity. A decentralized structure places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of local management. This contributes to the risk that we
may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting key business matters than we would in a more centralized environment. The lack of timely access to information may impact the quality of decision making by management. Our
decentralized organization creates the possibility that our operating subsidiaries assume excessive risk without appropriate guidance from our centralized legal, accounting, tax, and treasury functions as to the potential overall impact. Future
growth also could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. We cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and
retain such additional managers and executives. To the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our
business plan.

We may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain surety bonds.

A portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds or other financial
assurances. Current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties’ assessment of our operating and financial risk, could







cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bid and/or performance bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions could
be taken on short notice. If our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds or posting other forms
of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects
requiring financial assurances.

We have also granted security interests in various of our assets to
collateralize our obligations to our sureties. Furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional
collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. If we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain
projects that would require bonding.

Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant
liabilities.

In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery
of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our financial condition and
results of operations. In certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such clean-up and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such
obligations and liabilities. However, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs and the indemnitors may not pay amounts owed to us, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and
liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition or cash flows. Further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to
any acquired business.

There are also other legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas
emissions. These proposals, if enacted, could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. Any of these actions could result in
increased costs associated with our operations and impact the prices we charge our customers. For example, if new regulations are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a
significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light of our large rolling-stock fleet. In addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer.







Opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental
regulation and costs.

We may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance
and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting. During 2011, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. As of December 31, 2011, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can
be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. Failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies in acquisitions already made or
made in the future could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the
requirements.

If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights
become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted.

We utilize a variety of
intellectual property rights in our services. We view our portfolio of proprietary energized services tools and techniques as well as our other process and design technologies as one of our competitive strengths, which we believe differentiates our
service offerings. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services
may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We also license certain technologies from third parties, and there is a risk that our relationships with licensors may terminate or expire
or may be interrupted or harmed. If we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our ability to differentiate our
service offerings could be reduced. In addition, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings, and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive
services to our customers. As a result, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected.

We may
incur additional healthcare costs arising from federal healthcare reform legislation.

In March 2010,
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the U.S. This legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to
those already insured. The changes required by this legislation could cause us to incur additional healthcare and other costs, although we do not expect any material short-term impact on our financial results as a result of the legislation. We are
currently assessing the extent of any long-term impact from the legislation, including any potential changes to this legislation.







Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of
our company more difficult.

The following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws,
as currently in effect, as well as Delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock:



•our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our
bylaws;



•our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder
meetings;



•our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written
consent; and



•we are subject to provisions of Delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an
“interested stockholder” for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder.



