10-K


form10k2007.htm

O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC FORM 10-K

UNITED
        STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, DC 20549

FORM
        10-K

(X)

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the
        fiscal year ended December 31, 2007

OR

( )

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the
        transition period from ___________________ to ____________________

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
        Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on which Registered

Common Stock, $0.01 par value

The Nasdaq Global Select Market

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate
        by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
        the Securities Act. Yes

o

No

x

Indicate
        by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
        Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes

o

No

x

Note
        – Checking the box above will not relieve any registrant required to file reports
        pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act from their obligations under those
        Sections.

Indicate
        by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
        Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
        (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)
        has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate
        by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
        not contained here, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s
        knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
        III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate
        by a check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer
        or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large
        accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Large Accelerated Filer

x

Accelerated Filer

o

Non-Accelerated Filer

o

Smaller Reporting Company

o

Indicate
        by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2of the
        Exchange Act). Yes

o

No

x

At
        February 28, 2008, an aggregate of 115,390,026 shares of the common stock of the registrant
        was outstanding. As of that date, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
        non-affiliates of the Company was approximately $3,243,613,631 based on the last sale price
        of the common stock reported by The Nasdaq Global Select Market.

At June
        30, 2007, an aggregate of 114,836,096 shares of the common stock of the registrant was
        outstanding. As of that date, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
        non-affiliates of the Company was approximately $4,197,259,309 based on the last sale price
        of the common stock reported by The Nasdaq Global Select Market.


DOCUMENTS
        INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

As
        indicated below, portions of the registrant’s documents specified below are
        incorporated here by reference:


Forward
        Looking Information

We claim the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements
        within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can
        identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “expect,”
        “believe,” “anticipate,” “should,” “plan,”
        “intend,” “estimate,” “project,” “will” or
        similar words. In addition, statements contained within this annual report that are not
        historical facts are forward-looking statements, such as statements discussing among other
        things, expected growth, store development and expansion strategy, business strategies,
        future revenues and future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on
        estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and
        results. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including,
        but not limited to, competition, product demand, the market for auto parts, the economy in
        general, inflation, consumer debt levels, governmental approvals, our ability to hire and
        retain qualified employees, risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses,
        weather, terrorist activities, war and the threat of war. Actual results may materially
        differ from anticipated results described or implied in these forward-looking statements.
        Please refer to the Risk Factors section of this annual report on Form 10-K for the year
        ended December 31, 2007, for additional factors that could materially affect our financial
        performance.

PART
        I

Item
        1. Business

General

O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. is one of the largest specialty retailers of
        automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment and accessories in the United
        States, selling our products to both do-it-yourself (DIY) customers and professional
        installers. At December 31, 2007, we operated 1,830 stores in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida,
        Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi,
        Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina,
        South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Our stores carry an
        extensive product line consisting of:

We do not sell tires or perform automotive repairs or
        installations.

We were founded in 1957 by Charles F. O'Reilly and his son, Charles H.
        ''Chub'' O'Reilly, Sr. and initially operated from a single store in Springfield, Missouri.
        The O'Reilly family has been highly involved in the management of the Company since our
        inception.

Our goal is to continue to achieve growth in sales and profitability by
        capitalizing on our competitive advantages and executing our growth strategy.

Our Internet address is www.oreillyauto.com. Interested readers can access
        the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
        reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
        Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, through the
        Securities and Exchange Commission website at www.sec.gov and searching with our ticker
        symbol “ORLY”. Such reports are generally available on the day they are filed.
        Upon request, the Company will furnish interested readers a paper copy of such reports free
        of charge.

See "Risk Factors" beginning on page 11 for a description of certain risks
        relevant to our business. These risk factors include, among others, risks related to
        competition in the automotive aftermarket business, our growth strategy, our acquisition
        strategy, our sensitivity to regional economic and weather conditions, our dependence upon
        key and other personnel, the volatility of the market price of our common stock and the
        effect of sales of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale.

Competitive Advantages

Proven Ability to Execute Dual Market Strategy.

We have an established track record of effectively serving at a high level
        both DIY customers and professional installers. We believe our ability to execute a dual
        market strategy is a competitive advantage, which enables us to:


•

enhance service levels offered to our DIY customers by offering
                    a broad selection of stock keeping units (SKUs) and the extensive product
                    knowledge required by professional installers.

We have been committed to a dual market strategy for over 20 years. In 2007,
        we derived approximately 52% of our sales from our DIY customers and approximately 48% from
        our professional installer customers. As a result of our historical success of executing
        our dual market strategy and our 250 full-time sales representatives dedicated solely to
        calling upon and selling to the professional installer, we believe we will continue to
        increase our sales to professional installers and will continue to have a competitive
        advantage over our retail competitors who derive a high concentration of their sales from
        the DIY market.

Superior Customer Service.

We seek to attract
        new DIY and professional installer customers and to retain existing customers by offering
        superior customer service, the key elements of which include:

Technically Proficient Professional Parts People.

Our highly proficient Professional Parts People provide us with a
        significant competitive advantage, particularly over less specialized retail operators. We
        require our Professional Parts People to undergo extensive and ongoing training and to be
        technically knowledgeable, particularly with respect to hard parts, in order to better
        serve the technically oriented professional installers with whom they interact on a daily
        basis. Such technical proficiency also enhances the customer service we provide to our DIY
        customers, who value the expert assistance provided by our Professional Parts
        People.

Strategic Distribution Systems.

We believe that
        the geographic concentration of our store network in 26 contiguous states and the strategic
        locations of our 14 distribution centers enable us to optimize product availability and
        inventory levels throughout our store network. In addition, our inventory management and
        distribution systems electronically link each of our stores to a distribution center,
        providing for efficient inventory control and management. Our distribution system provides
        each of our stores with same day or overnight access to over 100,000 SKUs, many of which
        are hard to find items not typically stocked by other auto parts retailers. We believe this
        timely access to a broad range of products is a key competitive advantage in satisfying
        customer demand and generating repeat business.

Experienced Management Team.

Our management
        team has demonstrated the consistent ability to successfully execute our business plan,
        including the identification and integration of strategic acquisitions. We have experienced
        fifteen consecutive years of record revenues, positive comparable store sales results and
        earnings growth since becoming a public company in April 1993. We have a strong senior
        management team comprised of 88 professionals who average over 16 years of experience with
        O'Reilly. In addition, our 127 corporate managers average over 13 years of experience with
        Team O’Reilly and our 177 district managers average over 10 years of
        experience.

Growth
        Strategy

Aggressively Open New Stores

. We intend to
        continue to aggressively open new stores to achieve greater penetration in existing markets
        and to expand into new, contiguous markets. We plan to open approximately 205 stores in
        2008. A majority of the sites for our proposed 2008 store openings have been identified. In
        selecting sites for new stores, we strategically locate store sites in clusters within
        geographic areas to achieve management, advertising and distribution economies of
        scale.

We target both small and large markets for expansion of our store network.
        While we have faced, and expect to continue to face, aggressive competition in the more
        densely populated markets, we believe that we have competed effectively, and that we are
        well positioned to continue to compete effectively, in such markets and achieve our goal of
        continued sales and profit growth within these markets. We also believe that because of our
        dual market strategy, we are better able to operate stores in less densely populated areas
        within our regional markets, which would not otherwise support a national or regional chain
        store selling primarily to the retail automotive aftermarket. Consequently, we also expect
        to continue to open new stores in less densely populated market areas.

To date, we have not experienced significant difficulties in locating
        suitable store sites for construction of new stores or identifying suitable acquisition
        candidates for conversion to O'Reilly stores. We typically open new stores either by (i)
        constructing a new store at a site we purchase or lease and stocking the new store with
        fixtures and inventory, or (ii) acquiring an independently owned auto parts store,
        typically by the purchase of substantially all of the inventory and other assets (other
        than realty) of such store. Store sites are strategically located in clusters within
        geographic areas that complement our distribution system in order to achieve economies of
        scale in management, advertising and distribution costs. Other key factors we consider in
        the site selection process include population density and growth patterns, age and per
        capita income, vehicle traffic counts, the number and type of existing


automotive repair facilities, other competing auto parts stores, and other
        competitors within a pre-determined radius, and the operational strength of such
        competitors. When entering new, more densely populated markets, we generally seek to
        initially open several stores within a short span of time in order to maximize the effect
        of initial promotional programs and achieve economies of scale.

Profitable same store sales growth is also an important part of our growth
        strategy. To achieve improved sales and profitability at existing O'Reilly stores, we
        continually strive to improve the service provided to our customers. We believe that while
        competitive pricing is essential in the competitive environment of the automotive
        aftermarket business, it is customer satisfaction (whether of the DIY consumer or
        professional installer), resulting from superior customer service, which generates
        increased sales and profitability.

Selectively Pursue Strategic Acquisitions.

Although the automotive aftermarket industry is still highly fragmented, we
        believe the ability of national and regional specialty retail chains, such as ourselves, to
        operate more efficiently than smaller independent operators or mass merchandisers will
        result in continued industry consolidation. Thus, we intend to selectively pursue
        acquisition targets that will strengthen our position as a leading automotive products
        retailer.

Continually Enhance Store Design and Location.

Our current prototype store design features enhancements such as greater
        square footage, higher ceilings, more convenient interior store layouts, improved in-store
        signage, brighter lighting, increased parking availability and dedicated counters to serve
        professional installers, each designed to increase sales and operating efficiencies and
        enhance customer service. We continually update the location and condition of our store
        network through systematic renovation and relocation of our existing stores to enhance
        store performance. We believe that our ability to consistently achieve growth in same store
        sales is due in part to our commitment to maintaining an attractive store network, which is
        strategically located to best serve our customers.

Products and Purchasing

Our stores offer DIY and professional installer customers a wide selection
        of brand name and private label products for domestic and imported automobiles, vans and
        trucks. We do not sell tires or perform automotive repairs or installations. Our
        merchandise generally consists of nationally recognized, well-advertised, name brand
        products such as AC Delco, Moog, Murray, Wagner, Gates Rubber, Federal Mogul, Monroe,
        Prestone, Quaker State, Pennzoil, Castrol, Valvoline, STP, BWD, Cardone, Wix, Armor All and
        Turtle Wax. In addition to name brand products, our stores carry a wide variety of
        high-quality private label products under our O'Reilly Auto Parts®, BestTest®,
        MicroGard®, PowerTorque®, Miles Ahead®, SuperStart®, BrakeBest®,
        Ultima®, Master Pro® and Omnispark® proprietary name brands. Because most of
        our private label products are produced by nationally recognized manufacturers and meet or
        exceed original equipment manufacturer specifications, we believe that the private label
        products are generally of equal or, in some cases, better quality than comparable name
        brand products, a characteristic which is important to our DIY customers. We further
        believe that our private label products are packaged attractively to promote customer
        interest and are generally priced below comparable name brand products carried in our
        stores.

We purchase automotive products in substantial quantities from over 400
        vendors, the five largest of which accounted for approximately 30% of our total purchases
        in 2007. Our largest vendor in 2007 accounted for approximately 11% of our total purchases
        and the next four largest vendors each accounted for 4-6% of such purchases. We have no
        long-term contractual purchase commitments with any of our vendors, nor have we experienced
        difficulty in obtaining satisfactory alternative sources of supply for automotive parts. We
        believe that alternative supply sources exist at substantially similar costs, for
        substantially all of the automotive products that we sell. It is our policy to take
        advantage of payment and seasonal purchasing discounts offered by our vendors and to
        utilize extended dating terms available from vendors. During 2007, we entered into various
        programs and arrangements with certain vendors that provided for extended dating and
        payment terms for inventory purchases. As a whole, we consider our relationships with our
        vendors to be very good.

Inflation and Seasonality

We have been successful, in many cases, in reducing the effects of
        merchandise cost increases principally by taking advantage of vendor incentive programs,
        economies of scale resulting from increased volume of purchases and selective forward
        buying. As a result, we do not believe our operations have been materially affected by
        inflation.

To some extent, our business is seasonal primarily as a result of the impact
        of weather conditions on customer buying patterns. Store sales and profits have
        historically been higher in the second and third quarters (April through September) than in
        the first and fourth quarters.


Store
        Network

Store Locations.

As a result of our dual market
        strategy, we are able to profitably operate in both large, densely populated markets and
        small, less densely populated areas that would not otherwise support a national or regional
        chain selling primarily to the retail automotive aftermarket. The following table sets
        forth the geographic distribution of our stores:

Our stores on average carry approximately 21,000 SKUs and average
        approximately 6,800 total square feet in size. At December 31, 2007, we had a total of
        approximately 12.4 million square feet in our 1,830 stores. Our stores are served primarily
        by the nearest distribution center, but they also have access to the broader selection of
        inventory available at one of our 102 Master Inventory Stores, which on average carry
        approximately 34,000 SKUs and average approximately 9,100 square feet in size. In addition
        to serving DIY and professional installer customers in their markets, Master Inventory
        Stores also provide our other stores within the contiguous area access to a greater
        selection of SKUs on a same-day basis.

We believe that our stores are ''destination stores'' generating their own
        traffic rather than relying on traffic created by the presence of other stores in the
        immediate vicinity. Consequently, most of our stores are freestanding buildings situated on
        or near major traffic thoroughfares, and offer ample parking and easy customer
        access.

Store Layout.

We utilize a computer-assisted
        ''plan-o-grammed'' store layout system to provide a uniform and consistent merchandise
        presentation; however, each store’s inventory assortment is customized to meet the
        specific needs of a particular market area. Merchandise is arranged to provide easy
        customer access, maximum selling space and to prominently display high-turnover products
        and accessories to customers. To ensure the best customer experience possible, we have
        selectively implemented bilingual in-store signage based on the demographics in each
        store’s geographic area. Aisle displays are used to feature high-demand or seasonal
        merchandise, new items and advertised specials.

Store Automation.

To enhance store level
        operations and customer service, we use IBM I-Series and X-Series computer systems in all
        of our stores. These systems are linked with the IBM AS/400 computers located in each of
        our distribution centers. Our point-of-sale terminals provide immediate access to our
        electronic catalog to graphically display parts and pricing information by make, model and
        year of vehicle and use bar code scanning technology to price our merchandise. This system
        speeds transaction times, reduces the customer’s checkout time and provides enhanced
        customer service. Moreover, our store automation systems capture detailed sales information
        which assists in store management, strategic planning, inventory control and distribution
        efficiency.


New Store Site Selection.

In selecting sites
        for new stores, we seek to strategically locate store sites in clusters within geographic
        areas in order to achieve economies of scale in management, advertising and distribution.
        Other key factors we consider in the site selection process include:

When entering new, more densely populated markets, we generally seek to
        initially open several stores within a short span of time in order to maximize the effect
        of initial promotional programs and achieve economies of scale. After opening this initial
        cluster of new stores, we seek to begin penetrating the less densely populated surrounding
        areas. This strategy enables us to achieve additional distribution and advertising
        efficiencies in each market.

Distribution System

We currently operate 14 distribution centers comprised of approximately 4.7
        million square feet (see the “Properties” table in Item 2 of this Form 10-K for
        a detailed listing of distribution center square footages). Our distribution centers are
        equipped with highly automated conveyor systems, which expedite the movement of our
        products to loading areas for shipment to each of our stores on a nightly basis. The
        distribution centers utilize technology to electronically receive orders from computers
        located in each of our stores. In addition to the bar code system employed in our stores,
        each of our stores is connected through secured data transmission technology to our
        distribution centers and corporate headquarters.

We believe that our distribution system provides industry leading parts
        availability and store in-stock positions while lowering our inventory carrying costs and
        controlling inventory. Moreover, we believe that our significant capital investments in
        expanding the network of distribution centers allows us to efficiently service new stores
        that are planned to open in contiguous market areas as well as servicing our existing store
        network. Our distribution center expansion strategy complements our new store opening
        strategy by supporting newly established clusters of stores located in the regions
        surrounding each distribution center. As part of our continuing efforts to enhance our
        distribution network, in 2008 we plan to:

Marketing

Marketing to the DIY Customer.

We aggressively
        promote sales to DIY customers through an integrated marketing program, which includes
        direct mail, newspaper, television and radio advertising in selected markets, sports
        sponsorships and in event signage. We believe that our advertising and promotional
        activities have resulted in significant brand awareness in each of our geographic markets.
        Newspaper and radio advertisements are generally directed toward seasonal product and price
        promotions, frequently in connection with specific sale events or promotions.

To promote sales to race enthusiasts, who we believe on an individual basis
        spend more on automotive products than the general public, we sponsored multiple nationally
        televised races and over 1,500 grassroots to major motor sports races and car shows in 26
        states, including 3 NASCAR Craftsmen Truck Series Races, 2 NASCAR Busch Series Races, 6
        National Hotrod Racing Association races, as well as the

st

Annual Chili Bowl Midget
        Nationals. In addition to sponsorships, O’Reilly Auto Parts is the “Official
        Auto Parts Store” of Texas Motor Speedway, Kansas Speedway, Bristol Motor Speedway,
        Houston Raceway Park, Texas Motorplex, Memphis Motorsports Park, Heartland Park, Gateway
        International, Atlanta Dragway, O’Reilly Raceway Park at Indianapolis, Darlington
        Raceway and Talladega Superspeedway.

Since 2003, we have aggressively sought to market the O’Reilly brand
        in the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Our first initiative was to partner with
        Texas Tech University and their former head basketball coach, Bobby Knight. Our success
        with Coach


Knight
        let to placement of the O’Reilly logo on courts, goal stanchions, seatbacks and
        scoring table signs at over 70 colleges and universities across the country. O’Reilly
        is the title sponsor of numerous college basketball tournaments and events including the
        CBE Classic, All-College Classic and ESPN’s Bracketbusters.

In 2007, we increased programs targeted toward Hispanic customers, expanded
        brand awareness campaigns into college and professional football and initiated integrated
        consumer promotions with the goal of increasing retail traffic in our stores. We have found
        that the more progressive marketing concepts utilized in the DIY portion of our business
        have also resulted in increased awareness for professional installer customers.

Marketing to the Professional Installer.

We
        have 250 full-time O'Reilly sales representatives strategically located across our primary
        market areas. Each sales representative is dedicated solely to calling upon, supporting and
        selling to the professional installer. Targeted marketing materials such as flyers, quick
        reference guides and catalogs are produced and distributed on a regular basis to
        professional installers and fleet customers. Our industry leading First Call program
        includes a dedicated sales force, promotions directed solely to the professional installer,
        electronic shop management systems and electronic access to our stores. Moreover, each
        district manager and store manager throughout our store network calls upon existing and
        potential new professional installer customers on a regular basis. Our First Call marketing
        strategy, with respect to professional installers, emphasizes our ability to
        offer:

Marketing to the Independently Owned Parts
        Store

. Along with the operation of the distribution centers and
        the distribution of automotive products to our stores, Ozark Automotive Distributors, Inc.,
        our wholly owned subsidiary (“Ozark”), also sells automotive products to
        independently owned parts stores (jobber stores) throughout our trade areas. These jobber
        stores are generally located in areas not directly serviced by an O'Reilly store. Ozark
        operates its own separate marketing program to jobber stores.

Approximately 191 jobber stores currently purchase automotive products from
        Ozark and participate in the Parts City Auto Parts® program, our proprietary jobber
        service program. As a participant in these programs, a jobber store which meets certain
        financial and operational standards is permitted to indicate its Parts City Auto Parts®
        membership through the display of the respective logo, which is owned by Ozark. We provide
        advertising, promotional assistance, marketing and sales support to Parts City Auto
        Parts® stores purchasing automotive products from Ozark. In return for a commitment to
        purchase automotive products from Ozark, we offer assistance to Parts City Auto Parts®
        jobber stores by making available computer software for business management and inventory
        control.


Management Structure

Each of our stores is staffed with a store manager and one or more assistant
        managers, in addition to the parts specialists and support staff required to meet the
        specific needs of each store. Each of our 177 district managers has general supervisory
        responsibility for an average of 10 stores.

Each district manager receives comprehensive training on a monthly basis,
        focusing on management techniques, new product announcements, advanced automotive systems
        and our policies and procedures. In turn, the information presented at such meetings is
        covered by the district managers at bi-monthly meetings with their store managers. All
        assistant managers and managers in training are required to successfully complete a
        six-month manager-training program, which includes classroom and field training, as a
        prerequisite to becoming a store manager. This program covers all facets of store
        operations, as well as principles of successful management. In addition, all new or
        prospective managers attend a manager development program, at the corporate headquarters in
        Springfield, MO, which includes 40 hours of classroom training. Upon returning to the
        stores, managers are given continuous field training throughout their management
        tenure.

We provide financial incentives to our district managers and all store team
        members through an incentive compensation program. Under our incentive compensation
        program, base salary is augmented by incentive compensation based upon the achievement of
        sales and profitability goals. In addition, each our district and store managers
        participate in the Company’s stock option program. We believe that our incentive
        compensation program significantly increases the motivation and overall performance of our
        Professional Parts People and our ability to attract and retain qualified management and
        other personnel.

Most of our current senior management, district managers and store managers
        were promoted to their positions from within the Company. Our senior management team
        averages 16 years of experience with the Company, corporate managers average over 13 years
        of service and district managers have an average length of service with the Company of over
        10 years.

Professional Parts People

We believe our highly trained team of Professional Parts People is essential
        in providing superior customer service to both DIY and professional installer customers.
        Each of our Professional Parts People is required to be technically proficient in the
        workings and application of automotive products due to the significant portion of our
        business represented by the professional installer. In addition, we have found that the
        typical DIY customer often seeks assistance from a Professional Parts Person, particularly
        in connection with the purchase of hard parts. We believe that the ability of our
        Professional Parts People to provide such assistance to the DIY customer creates a
        favorable impression during a customer's visit to our store and is a significant factor in
        generating repeat DIY business.

We screen prospective team members to identify highly motivated individuals
        either with experience in automotive parts or repairs, or an aptitude for automotive
        knowledge. Each person who becomes a team member first participates in an intensive two-day
        orientation program designed to introduce the team member to our culture and his or her job
        duties before being assigned specific job responsibilities. The successful completion of
        extensive training is required before a team member is deemed qualified as a parts
        specialist and thus able to work the parts counter at our stores. All new parts specialists
        are required to successfully complete a six-month basic automotive systems training course
        and are then enrolled in a six-month advanced automotive systems course for certification
        by the National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence (“ASE”), which
        administers national exams for various automotive specialties and requires ASE certified
        specialists to take recertification exams every five years.

Each of our stores participates in our sales specialist-training program.
        Under this program, selected team members complete two days of extensive sales call
        training for business development, after which these team members will spend one day per
        week calling on existing and new professional installer customers. Additionally, each team
        member engaged in such sales activities participates in quarterly advanced training
        programs for sales and business development.

Customer Service

We seek to provide our customers with an efficient and pleasant in-store
        experience by maintaining attractive stores in convenient locations with a wide selection
        of automotive products. We believe that the satisfaction of DIY and professional installer
        customers is substantially dependent upon our ability to provide, in a timely fashion, the
        specific automotive products requested. Accordingly, each O'Reilly store carries a broad
        selection of automotive products designed to cover a wide range of vehicle specifications.
        We continuously refine the inventory levels and assortments carried in our stores, based in
        large part on the sales movement tracked by our inventory control system, market vehicle
        registration data and management's assessment of the changes and trends in the
        marketplace.


Pricing

We believe that a competitive pricing policy is essential to compete
        successfully. Product pricing is generally established to compete with the pricing policies
        of competitors in the market area served by each store. Most automotive products that we
        sell are priced based on a combination of competitive shops and internal gross margin
        targets and are generally sold at discounts to the manufacturer suggested prices with
        additional savings offered through volume discounts and special promotional pricing.
        Consistent with our low price guarantee, each of our stores will match any verifiable price
        on any in-stock product of the same or comparable quality offered by our
        competitors.

Competition

We compete in both the DIY and professional installer portions of the
        automotive aftermarket. We compete primarily with:

We compete on the basis of customer service, which includes merchandise
        selection and availability, price, helpfulness of store personnel, store layout and
        convenient and accessible store locations.

Team
        Members

As of December 31, 2007, we employed 18,546 full-time team members and 5,030
        part-time team members, of whom 18,914 were employed at our stores, 3,372 were employed at
        our distribution centers and 1,290 were employed at our corporate and regional offices.
        None of our team members are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Our 50 years of
        tradition is to treat all of our team members with honesty and respect and to instill in
        them our “Live Green” Culture. This focus on professionalism and fairness has
        created an industry leading team and we consider our relations with our team members to be
        excellent.

Service Marks and Trademarks

We have registered the service marks O'Reilly Automotive®, Parts
        Payoff®, Parts City Auto Parts®, O'Reilly Auto Parts®, BestTest®,
        MicroGard®, PowerTorque® and Miles Ahead® and the trademarks First Call®,
        SuperStart®, BrakeBest®, Ultima®, Master Pro® and Omnispark®. We
        believe that our business is not otherwise dependent upon any patent, trademark, service
        mark or copyright.

Regulations

Although
        subject to various laws and governmental regulations relating to our business, including
        those related to the environment, compliance with any such laws and regulations has not had
        a material adverse effect on our operations to date. We cannot give any assurance, however,
        that we will not incur significant expenses in the future in order to comply with any such
        law or regulation.


Item 1A.

Risk Factors

Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
        Although the risks described below are the risks that we believe are material, there also
        may be risks of which we are currently unaware, or that we currently regard as immaterial
        based on the information available to us that later may prove to be material. You should be
        aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors, elsewhere in this
        Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission could have a
        material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Actual
        results, therefore, may materially differ from anticipated results described in these
        forward-looking statements.

The automotive aftermarket business is highly competitive, and we may
        have to risk our capital to remain competitive.

Both the DIY and professional installer portions of our business are highly
        competitive, particularly in the more densely populated areas that we serve. Some of our
        competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources. In addition, some
        of our competitors are smaller than we are overall but have a greater presence than we do
        in a particular market. We may have to expend more resources and risk additional capital to
        remain competitive. For a list of our principal competitors, see the ''Competition''
        section of Item 1 of this Form 10-K.

We
        cannot assure future growth will be achieved.

We believe that our ability to open additional stores at a high growth rate
        will be a significant factor in achieving our growth objectives for the future. Our ability
        to accomplish our growth objectives is dependent, in part, on matters beyond our control,
        such as weather conditions, zoning and other issues related to new store site development,
        the availability of qualified management personnel and general business and economic
        conditions. We cannot be sure that our growth plans for 2008 and beyond will be achieved.
        Failure to achieve our growth objectives may negatively impact the trading price of our
        common stock. For a discussion of our growth strategies, see the ''Growth and Expansion
        Strategies'' section of Item 1 of this Form 10-K.

Risks associated with acquisitions may not lead to expected growth and
        could result in increased costs and inefficiencies.

We expect to continue to make acquisitions as an element of our growth
        strategy. Acquisitions involve certain risks that could cause our actual growth to differ
        from our expectations. For example:

We
        are sensitive to regional economic and weather conditions that could reduce our
        sales.

All of our stores are located in the Central, Midwest and Southern United
        States. In particular, approximately 26% of our stores are located in Texas. Therefore, our
        business is sensitive to the economic and weather conditions of those regions. Unusually
        inclement weather, such as significant rain, snow, sleet or freezing rain, has historically
        discouraged our customers from visiting our stores and reduced our sales, particularly to
        DIY customers.

We
        depend on certain key personnel to successfully manage and grow our
        business.

Our success has been largely dependent on the efforts of certain key
        personnel, including David O'Reilly, Ted Wise and Greg Henslee. Our business and results of
        operations could be materially adversely affected by the unexpected loss of the services of
        one or more of these individuals. Additionally, the successful implementation and
        management of our growth and expansion strategies will depend on our ability to continue to
        attract and retain qualified personnel. We cannot be sure that we will be able to continue
        to attract such qualified personnel, which could cause us to be less efficient reducing our
        sales and profitability. For a further discussion of our management and personnel, see the
        ''Business'' section of Item 1 and Item 4a of this Form 10-K and our Proxy Statement on
        Schedule 14A for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, a portion of which is
        incorporated herein.


The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose
        us to securities class action litigation.

The stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide
        fluctuations based on general economic and market conditions. The market price for our
        common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts' expectations. Failure to
        meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of
        our common stock.

In addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the
        market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating
        performance of these companies. Downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our
        common stock to decline. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price
        of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted
        against such a company. If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result
        in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which
        could have an adverse effect on our business.

Sales
        of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale could adversely affect our share
        price.

All of the shares of common stock currently held by our affiliates may be
        sold in reliance upon the exemptive provisions of Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933,
        as amended, subject to certain volume and other conditions imposed by such rule. We cannot
        predict the effect, if any, which future sales of shares of common stock or the
        availability of such shares for sale will have on the market price of the common stock
        prevailing from time to time. We believe sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or
        the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market
        price of the common stock.

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

Not applicable.


Item 2.

Properties

The following table provides certain information regarding our
        administrative offices and distribution centers as of December 31, 2007:

(a)

Occupied under the terms of a lease expiring October 31, 2024,
                    with an unaffiliated party, subject to renewal for ten five-year terms at our
                    option.

(b)

Occupied under the terms of two separate leases the first lease
                    expiring September 30, 2011, with an unaffiliated party, subject to renewal for
                    two three-year terms at our option and the second lease expiring January 31,
                    2012, with an unaffiliated party, subject to renewal for two five-year terms at
                    our option.

(c)

Primary facility owned, additional space leased and occupied
                    under the terms of a lease expiring September 30, 2008, with an unaffiliated
                    party, not subject to renewal.

(d)

Occupied under the terms of a lease expiring March 31, 2012,
                    with an unaffiliated party, subject to renewal for four five-year terms at our
                    option.

(e)

Occupied under the terms of a lease expiring April 30, 2017,
                    with an affiliated party, subject to renewal for three five-year terms at our
                    option

(f)

Occupied under the terms of a lease expiring December 31, 2012,
                    with an unaffiliated party, subject to renewal for ten five-year terms at our
                    option.

(g)

Occupied under the terms of two separate leases both expiring
                    December 31, 2018, with an unaffiliated party, subject to renewal for two
                    five-year terms at our option.

(h)

Primary facility owned, additional space leased and occupied
                    under the terms of lease expiring July 31, 2009, with an unaffiliated party,
                    subject to renewal for two five-year terms at our option.

(i)

Occupied under the terms of a lease expiring March 31, 2010,
                    with an unaffiliated party, not subject to renewal.

(j)

Occupied under the terms of a lease expiring July 31, 2012, with
                    an unaffiliated party, subject to renewal for two five-year terms at our
                    option.

(k)

Occupied under the terms of two separate leases both expiring
                    May 31, 2012, with an unaffiliated party, subject to renewal for four five-year
                    terms at our option.


Of the 1,830 stores that we operated at December 31, 2007, 803 stores were
        owned, 958 stores were leased from unaffiliated parties and 69 stores were leased from one
        of three entities owned by the O'Reilly family. Leases with unaffiliated parties generally
        provide for payment of a fixed base rent, payment of certain tax, insurance and maintenance
        expenses and an original term of 10 years, subject to one or more renewals at our option.
        We have entered into separate master lease agreements with each of the affiliated entities
        for the occupancy of the stores covered thereby. Such master lease agreements with two of
        the three O’Reilly family entities have been modified to extend the term of the lease
        agreement for specific stores. The master lease agreements or modifications thereto expire
        on dates ranging from October 31, 2008 to December 31, 2029. We believe that the lease
        agreements with the affiliated entities are on terms comparable to those obtainable from
        third parties.

We believe that our present facilities are in good condition, are adequately
        insured and, together with those under construction, are suitable and adequate for the
        conduct of our current operations.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

We are involved in various legal proceedings incidental to the ordinary
        conduct of our business. Although we cannot ascertain the amount of liability that we may
        incur from any of these matters, we do not currently believe that, in the aggregate, these
        matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results
        of operations or cash flows.

Item 4.

Submission Of Matters To A Vote Of Security
                    Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders, through the
        solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended
        December 31, 2007.


Item 4A.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following paragraphs discuss information about executive officers of the
        Company who are not also directors:

Gregory L. Henslee

, age 47, Chief Executive
        Officer and Co-President, has been an O’Reilly team member for 23 years. Mr.
        Henslee’s O’Reilly career started as a parts specialist, and during his first
        five years he served in several positions in retail store operations, including district
        manager. From there he advanced to Computer Operations Manager, and over the past ten
        years, he has served as Director of Computer Operations/Loss Prevention, Vice President of
        Store Operations and as Senior Vice President. He has been President of Merchandise,
        Distribution, Information Systems and Loss Prevention since 1999, and in his current
        positions of Chief Executive Officer and Co-President since 2005.

Ted F. Wise

, age 57, Chief Operating Officer
        and Co-President, has been an O’Reilly team member for 37 years. Mr. Wise’s
        primary areas of responsibility are Sales, Operations and Real Estate. He began his
        O’Reilly career in sales in 1970, was promoted to store manager in 1973 and became
        our first district manager in 1977. He continued his progression with O’Reilly as
        Operations Manager, Vice President, Senior Vice President of Operations and Sales, and
        Executive Vice President. He has been President of Sales, Operations and Real Estate since
        1999, and in his current positions of Chief Operating Officer and Co-President since
        2005.

Thomas G. McFall

, age 37, Executive Vice
        President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer has been an O’Reilly team member
        since 2006. Mr. McFall’s primary areas of responsibility are Finance and Accounting.
        Prior to joining O’Reilly, Mr. McFall held the position of Chief Financial Officer
        – Midwest Operation for CSK Auto Corporation (“CSK Auto”), following CSK
        Auto’s acquisition of Murray’s Discount Auto Stores
        (“Murray’s”). Mr. McFall served Murray’s for eight years as
        Controller, Vice President of Finance, and Chief Financial Officer, with direct
        responsibility for finance and accounting, distribution and logistics operations. Prior to
        joining Murray’s, Mr. McFall was an Audit Manager with Ernst & Young, LLP in
        Detroit, Michigan.

Jeff M. Shaw

, age 45, Senior Vice President of
        Sales and Operations, has been an O'Reilly team member for 18 years. Mr. Shaw's primary
        areas of responsibility are managing Store Sales and Operations. His O'Reilly career
        started as a parts specialist, and has progressed through the roles of store manager,
        district manager, regional manager and Vice President of the Southern division. He advanced
        to Vice President of Sales and Operations in 2003 and to his current position as Senior
        Vice President of Sales and Operations in 2004.

Michael D. Swearengin

, age 47, Senior Vice
        President of Merchandise, has been an O'Reilly team member 14 years. Mr. Swearengin's
        primary areas of responsibility are Merchandise, Purchasing and Advertising. His O'Reilly
        career started as a Product Manager, a position he held for four years. From there he
        advanced to Senior Product Manager, Director of Merchandise and Vice President of
        Merchandise with responsibility for product mix and replenishment. He has been in his
        current position as Senior Vice President since 2004.

Gregory D. Johnson

, age 42, Senior Vice
        President of Distribution Operations, has been an O’Reilly team member for 25 years.
        Mr. Johnson’s primary area of responsibility is Distribution. He began his
        O’Reilly career as a part-time stocker in the Nashville DC in 1982 and advanced with
        O’Reilly as Retail Systems Manager, WMS Systems Development Manager, Director of
        Distribution and Vice President of Distribution. He has been in his current position as
        Senior Vice President since September 2007.


PART
        II

Item 5.

Market For Registrant's Common Equity, Related Shareholder
                    Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Common Stock Market Prices and Dividend Information on page 44 of the Annual
        Shareholders’ Report for the year ended December 31, 2007, under the captions
        “Market Prices and Dividend Information” and “Number of
        Shareholders,” are incorporated herein by reference. During fiscal 2007, we made no
        purchases or repurchases of our common stock.

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

Selected Financial Data on pages 14 through 17 of the Annual
        Shareholders’ Report for the year ended December 31, 2007, under the caption
        “Selected Consolidated Financial Data,” is incorporated herein by
        reference.

Item 7.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                    Condition and Results of Operations

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
        Results of Operations on pages 18 through 23 of the Annual Shareholders’ Report for
        the year ended December 31, 2007, under the caption “Management’s Discussion
        and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” is incorporated
        herein by reference.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
                    Risk

As a policy, we do not engage in speculative or derivative transactions, nor
        do we generally hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. We are exposed to
        changes in interest rates primarily as a result of our borrowing activities. Based on our
        outstanding long-term debt balance at December 31, 2007, a 100 basis point change in
        interest rates would not have a material impact on our financial condition.

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
                    Data

Our consolidated financial statements, the notes thereto and the report of
        Ernst & Young LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, on pages 26
        through 40 of the Annual Shareholders' Report for the year ended December 31, 2007, under
        the captions “Consolidated Financial Statements,” “Notes to Consolidated
        Financial Statements” and “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
        Firm,” are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
                    Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Our management, under the supervision and with the participation of our
        chief executive officer and chief financial officer, have reviewed and evaluated the
        effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2007. Based on
        such review and evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have
        concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31,
        2007, to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we
        file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (a) was recorded,
        processed, summarized and reported within the time period specified in the Securities and
        Exchange Commission’s rules and forms and (b) was accumulated and communicated to our
        management, including the principal executive and principal financial officers, as
        appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. There were no changes
        in our internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2007 that
        have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal
        control over financial reporting.

Management’s assessment of our internal control over financial
        reporting and the attestation report of the independent registered public accounting firm
        on pages 24 and 25, respectively, on the Annual Shareholders’ Report for the year
        ended December 31, 2007, under the captions, “Management’s Report on Internal
        Control Over Financial Reporting” and “Report of Independent Registered Public
        Accounting Firm,” are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9B.

Other Information

Not Applicable.


PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
                    Registrant

The information regarding the directors of the Company contained in the
        Company's Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the
        “Proxy Statement”) under the caption “Proposal 1-Election of Class III
        Directors” is incorporated herein by reference. The Proxy Statement will be filed
        with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days of the end of our most recent
        fiscal year. The information regarding executive officers called for by Item 401 of
        Regulation S-K is included in Part I as Item 4A, in accordance with General Instruction G
        (3) to Form 10-K, for our executive officers who are not also directors.

Our Board of Directors has adopted a code of ethics that applies to all of
        our directors, officers (including its chief executive officer, chief operating officer,
        chief financial officer, chief accounting officer, controller and any person performing
        similar functions) and employees. Our Code of Ethics is available on our website at
        www.oreillyauto.com.

The Board of Directors has established an Audit Committee pursuant to
        Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange
        Act”). The Audit Committee currently consists of John Murphy, Paul R. Lederer and
        Ronald Rashkow, each an independent director in accordance with The Nasdaq Stock Market
        Marketplace Rule 4200(a)(15), the standards of Rule 10A-3 of the Exchange Act and the
        requirements of The Nasdaq Stock Market Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(2). In addition, our Board
        of Directors has determined that Mr. Murphy, Chairman of the Audit Committee, qualifies as
        an audit committee financial expert under Item 407(d)(5) of Regulation S-K.

The information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
        Exchange Act of 1934 included in the Company's Proxy Statement under the caption
        “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” is incorporated
        herein by reference.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K will be included in
        the Proxy Statement under the captions “Compensation of Executive Officers” and
        “Director Compensation” and that information is incorporated herein by
        reference.

The information required by Item 407(e)(4) and (e)(5) of Regulation S-K will
        be included in the Proxy Statement under the captions “Compensation Committee
        Interlocks and Insider Participation” and “Compensation Committee Report”
        and that information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
                    Management and Related Shareholder Matters

The information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K regarding our
        equity compensation plans will be included in the Proxy Statement under the caption
        “Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans” and is
        incorporated herein by reference. The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K
        will be included in the Proxy Statement under the captions “Security Ownership of
        Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Security Ownership of Directors and
        Management” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
                    Director Independence

The information required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K will be included in
        the Proxy Statement under the caption “Certain Relationships and Related
        Transactions” and is incorporated herein by reference.

The information required by Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K will be included
        in the Proxy Statement under the caption “Director Independence” and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The information in the Proxy Statement under the caption “Fees Paid to
        Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” is incorporated herein by
        reference.


PART
        IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)

The following documents are filed as part of this Annual
                    Report on Form 10-K:

1.

Financial Statements-O'Reilly
        Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

The following consolidated financial statements of O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.
        and Subsidiaries included in the Annual Shareholders' Report of the registrant for the year
        ended December 31, 2007, incorporated herein by reference in Part II, Item 8:

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (page 26)

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2007, and 2006 (page
        27)

Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2007,
        2006, and 2005 (page 28)

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December
        31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 (page 29)

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2007,
        2006, and 2005 (page 30)

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended December 31,
        2007, 2006, and 2005 (pages 31-40)

2.

Financial Statement Schedule-O'Reilly
        Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

The following consolidated financial statement schedule of O'Reilly
        Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries is included in Item 15(c):

Schedule II-Valuation and qualifying accounts

All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting
        regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related
        instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.

3.

Exhibits

See Exhibit Index on page E-1.


SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

O’REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Col. A

Col. B

Col. C

Col. D

Col. E

Description

Balance at Beginning of Period

Additions – Charged to Costs and Expenses

Additions – Charged to Other Accounts –
                    Describe

Deductions – Describe

Balance at End of Period

(Amounts in thousands)

Year ended December 31, 2007:

Deducted from asset account:

Sales and returns allowances

$

1,540

$


$

--

$

--

$

2,263

Allowance for doubtful accounts

2,861

5,361

--

5,043

(1)

3,179

Year ended December 31, 2006:

Deducted from asset account:

Sales and returns allowances

$

1,176

$


$

--

$

--

$

1,540

Allowance for doubtful accounts

2,778

4,585

--

4,503

(1)

2,861

Year ended December 31, 2005:

Deducted from asset account:

Sales and returns allowances

$

1,176

$

--

$

--

$

--

$

1,176

Allowance for doubtful accounts

3,417

4,968

--

5,607

(1)

2,778

(1) Uncollectible accounts written off


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
        to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
        registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
        thereunto duly authorized.

O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.

(Registrant)

Pursuant
        to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
        following persons on behalf of the registrant in the capacities and on the dates
        indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ David E. O’Reilly

David E. O'Reilly

Director and Chairman of the Board

February 29, 2008

/s/ Lawrence P. O’Reilly

Lawrence P. O'Reilly

Director and Vice-Chairman of the Board

February 29, 2008

/s/ Charles H. O’Reilly, Jr.

Charles H. O'Reilly, Jr.

Director and Vice-Chairman of the Board

February 29, 2008

/s/ Rosalie O’Reilly Wooten

Rosalie O'Reilly Wooten

Director

February 29, 2008

/s/ Jay D. Burchfield

Jay D. Burchfield

Director

February 29, 2008

/s/ Joe C. Greene

Joe C. Greene

Director

February 29, 2008

/s/ Paul R. Lederer

Paul R. Lederer

Director

February 29, 2008

/s/ John Murphy

John Murphy

Director

February 29, 2008

/s/ Ronald Rashkow

Ronald Rashkow

Director

February 29, 2008

/s/ Greg Henslee

Greg Henslee

Chief Executive Officer and Co-President

(principal executive officer)

February 29, 2008

/s/ Ted Wise

Ted Wise

Chief Operating Officer and Co-President

February 29, 2008

/s/ Thomas McFall

Thomas McFall

Executive Vice-President of Finance and

Chief Financial Officer

February 29, 2008

(principal financial officer)


EXHIBIT INDEX

Page
        E-1


EXHIBIT INDEX (continued)

Page
        E-2


EXHIBIT INDEX (continued)

*

Previously filed as Exhibit of same number to the Registration
                    Statement of the Registrant on Form S-1, File No. 33-58948, and incorporated
                    here by this reference.

(a)

Management contract or compensatory plan or
                    arrangement.

Page
        E-3


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders

Selected
        Consolidated Financial Data


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Selected
        Consolidated Financial Data (continued)

(a) Store count for 2002 does not include 27 stores
        acquired from Dick Smith Enterprises and Davie Automotive, Inc. in December
        2002.

(b) Total square footage includes normal selling,
        office, stockroom and receiving space. Sales per weighted-average store and square foot are
        weighted to consider the approximate dates of store openings or expansions.

(c) Same-store sales are calculated based on the
        change in sales of stores open at least one year. Prior to 2000, same-store sales data was
        calculated based on the change in sales of only those stores open during both full periods
        being compared. Percentage increase in same-store sales is calculated based on store sales
        results, which exclude sales of specialty machinery, sales by outside salesmen and sales to
        team members.

(d) 1998 does not include stores acquired from
        Hi/LO. Consolidated sales per weighted-average square foot were $207.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OF
        FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion of our financial condition, results of
        operations and liquidity and capital resources should be read in conjunction with our
        consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information included
        elsewhere in this annual report.

We are one of the largest specialty retailers of automotive aftermarket
        parts, tools, supplies, equipment and accessories in the United States, selling our
        products to both do-it-yourself (DIY) customers and professional installers. Our stores
        carry an extensive product line consisting of new and remanufactured automotive hard parts,
        maintenance items and accessories and a complete line of auto body paint and related
        materials, automotive tools and professional installer service equipment.

We calculate same-store sales based on the change in sales for stores open
        at least one year. We calculate the percentage increase in same-store sales based on store
        sales results, which exclude sales of specialty machinery, sales by outside salesmen and
        sales to team members.

Cost of goods sold consists primarily of product costs and warehouse and
        distribution expenses. Cost of goods sold as a percentage of sales may be affected by
        variations in our product mix, price changes in response to competitive factors and
        fluctuations in merchandise costs and vendor programs.

Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of
        salaries and benefits for store and corporate team members, occupancy costs, advertising
        expenses, depreciation, general and administrative expenses, information technology
        expenses, professional expenses and other related expenses.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OF
        FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with accounting
        policies generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires the
        application of certain estimates and judgments by management. Management bases its
        assumptions, estimates, and adjustments on historical experience, current trends and other
        factors believed to be relevant at the time the consolidated financial statements are
        prepared. Management believes that the following policies are critical due to the inherent
        uncertainty of these matters and the complex and subjective judgments required to establish
        these estimates. Management continues to review these critical accounting policies and
        estimates to ensure that the consolidated financial statements are presented fairly in
        accordance with GAAP. However, actual results could differ from our assumptions and
        estimates and such differences could be material.

•

Vendor concessions

– We
                    receive concessions from our vendors through a variety of programs and
                    arrangements, including co-operative advertising, allowances for warranties,
                    merchandise allowances and volume purchase rebates. Co-operative advertising
                    allowances that are incremental to our advertising program, specific to a
                    product or event and identifiable for accounting purposes, are reported as a
                    reduction of advertising expense in the period in which the advertising
                    occurred. All other material vendor concessions are recognized as a reduction
                    to the cost of inventory. Amounts receivable from vendors also include amounts
                    due to us relating to vendor purchases and product returns. Management
                    regularly reviews amounts receivable from vendors and assesses the need for a
                    reserve for uncollectible amounts based on our evaluation of our vendors’
                    financial position and corresponding ability to meet their financial
                    obligations. Based on our historical results and current assessment, we have
                    not recorded a reserve for uncollectible amounts in our consolidated financial
                    statements, and we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that our
                    ability to collect these amounts will differ from our expectations. The
                    eventual ability of our vendors to pay us the obliged amounts could differ from
                    our assumptions and estimates, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that
                    could be material.

•

Self-Insurance Reserves

– We
                    use a combination of insurance and self-insurance mechanisms to provide for
                    potential liabilities from workers’ compensation, general liability,
                    vehicle liability, property loss, and employee health care benefits. With the
                    exception of employee health care benefit liabilities, which are limited by the
                    design of these plans, we obtain third-party insurance coverage to limit our
                    exposure for any individual claim. When estimating our self-insurance
                    liabilities, we consider a number of factors, including historical claims
                    experience and trend-lines, projected medical and legal inflation, and growth
                    patterns and exposure forecasts. The assumptions made by management as they
                    relate to each of these factors represents our judgment as to the most probable
                    cumulative impact of each factor to our future obligations. Our calculation of
                    our self-insurance liabilities requires management to apply judgment to
                    estimate the ultimate cost to settle reported claims and claims incurred but
                    not yet reported as of the balance sheet date and the application of
                    alternative assumptions would result in a different estimate of these
                    liabilities. Actual claim activity or development may vary from our assumptions
                    and estimates, which may result in material losses or gains. As we obtain
                    additional information that affects the assumptions and estimates we used to
                    recognize liabilities for claims incurred in prior accounting periods, we
                    adjust our self-insurance liabilities to reflect the revised estimates based on
                    this additional information. If self-insurance reserves were changed 10% from
                    our estimated reserves at December 31, 2007, the financial impact would have
                    been approximately $4.7 million or 1.5% of pretax income.

•

Accounts receivable

–
                    Management estimates the allowance for doubtful accounts based on historical
                    loss ratios and other relevant factors. Actual results have consistently been
                    within management’s expectations, and we do not believe that there is a
                    reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future that
                    will require a significant change in the assumptions or estimates we use to
                    calculate our allowance for doubtful accounts. However, if actual results
                    differ from our estimates, we may be exposed to losses or gains. If the
                    allowance for doubtful accounts were changed 10% from our estimated allowance
                    at December 31, 2007, the financial impact would have been approximately $0.3
                    million or 0.1% of pretax income.

•

Taxes

– We operate within
                    multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in these jurisdictions.
                    These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period
                    of time to resolve. We regularly review our potential tax liabilities for tax
                    years subject to audit. The amount of such liabilities is based on various
                    factors, such as differing interpretations of tax regulations by the
                    responsible tax authority, experience with previous tax audits and applicable
                    tax law rulings. Changes in our tax liability may occur in the future as our
                    assessments change based on the progress of tax examinations in various
                    jurisdictions and/or changes in tax regulations. In management’s opinion,
                    adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all years presented.
                    The estimates of our potential tax liabilities contain uncertainties because
                    management must use judgment to estimate the exposures associated with our
                    various tax positions and actual results could differ from our estimates.
                    Alternatively, we could


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OF
        FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES (CONTINUED)

Taxes (continued)

have applied assumptions regarding the eventual outcome of the resolution of
        open tax positions that would differ from our current estimates but that would still be
        reasonable given the nature of a particular position. Our judgment regarding the most
        likely outcome of uncertain tax positions has historically resulted in an estimate of our
        tax liability that is greater than actual results. While our estimates are subject to the
        uncertainty noted in the preceding discussion, our initial estimates of our potential tax
        liabilities have historically not been materially different from actual results except in
        instances where we have reversed liabilities that were recorded for periods that were
        subsequently closed with the applicable taxing authority.

The accounting for our tax reserves changed with the adoption of Financial
        Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in
        Income Taxes - an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48") on January 1, 2007.
        Refer to Note 1 for further discussion of the impact of adopting FIN 48 and change in
        reserves during Fiscal 2007.

•

Share-based compensation –

Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for share-based
                    compensation plans under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion
                    No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to
                    Employees

(“APB No. 25”), as permitted
                    under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and
                    Disclosure - an amendment of FASB Statement
                    No.


. Effective January 1, 2006, we
                    adopted SFAS No. 123R, “Share Based Payment,” under the
                    modified prospective method. Accordingly, prior period amounts have not been
                    restated. Under this application, we record share-based compensation expense
                    for all awards granted on or after the date of adoption and for the portion of
                    previously granted awards that remain unvested at the date of adoption.
                    Currently, our share-based compensation relates to stock option awards,
                    employee share purchase plan discounts, restricted stock awards and shares
                    contributed directly to other employee benefit plans.

Under SFAS No. 123R, we use a Black-Scholes option-pricing model to
        determine the fair value of stock options. The Black-Scholes model includes various
        assumptions, including the expected life of stock options, the expected volatility and the
        expected risk-free interest rate.  These assumptions reflect our best estimates, but
        they involve inherent uncertainties based on market conditions generally outside our
        control. Since our adoption of SFAS No. 123R, share-based compensation cost would not have
        been materially impacted by the variability in the range of reasonable assumptions we could
        have applied to value option award grants, but we anticipate that share-based compensation
        cost could be materially impacted by the application of alternate assumptions in future
        periods. Also, under SFAS No. 123R, we are required to record share-based compensation
        expense net of estimated forfeitures. Our forfeiture rate assumption used in determining
        share-based compensation expense is estimated based on historical data. The actual
        forfeiture rate and corresponding share-based compensation expense could differ from those
        estimates.

•

Inventory Obsolescence and Shrink –

Inventory, which consists of automotive hard parts, maintenance
                    items, accessories and tools is stated at the lower of cost or market. The
                    extended nature of the life cycle of our products is such that the risk of
                    obsolescence of our inventory is minimal. The products that we sell generally
                    have application in our markets for a relatively long period of time in
                    conjunction with the corresponding vehicle population. We have developed
                    sophisticated systems for monitoring the life cycle of a given product and,
                    accordingly, have historically been very successful in adjusting the volume of
                    our inventory in conjunction with a decrease in demand. We do record a reserve
                    to reduce the carrying value of our inventory through a charge to cost of sales
                    in the isolated instances where we believe that the market value of a product
                    line is lower than our recorded cost. This reserve is based on our assumptions
                    about the marketability of our existing inventory and is subject to uncertainty
                    to the extent that we must estimate, at a given point in time, the market value
                    of inventory that will be sold in future periods. Ultimately, our projections
                    could differ from actual results and could result in a material impact to our
                    stated inventory balances. We have historically not had to materially adjust
                    our obsolescence reserves due to the factors discussed above and do not
                    anticipate that we will experience material changes in our estimates in the
                    future.

We also record a reserve to reduce the carrying value of our perpetual
        inventory to account for quantities in our perpetual records above the actual existing
        quantities on hand caused by unrecorded shrink. We estimate this reserve based on the
        results of our extensive and frequent cycle counting programs and periodic, full physical
        inventories at our stores and distribution centers. To


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OF
        FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES (CONTINUED)

Inventory Obsolescence and Shrink (continued)

the extent that our estimates do not accurately reflect the actual inventory
        shrinkage, we could potentially experience a material impact to our inventory balances. We
        have historically been able to provide a timely and accurate measurement of shrink and have
        not experienced material adjustments to our estimates. If unrecorded shrink at December 31,
        2007 were double the estimate that we recorded based on our historical experience, the
        financial impact would have been less than $3 million or less than 1.0% of pretax
        income.


RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

The
        following table sets forth, certain income statement data as a percentage of sales for the
        years indicated:


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OF
        FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

        COMPARED TO 2006

Sales increased $239 million, or 10.5%, from $2.28 billion in 2006 to $2.52
        billion in 2007, due to 190 net additional stores opened during 2007 which contributed
        $72.5 million to the sales increase, a full year of sales for stores opened throughout 2006
        adding $83.5 million and a 3.7% increase in same-store sales for stores open at least one
        year providing $82.6 million of the sales increase. We believe that the increased sales
        achieved by our existing stores are the result of superior inventory availability, offering
        a broader selection of products in most stores, an increased promotional and advertising
        effort through a variety of media and localized promotional events, continued improvement
        in the merchandising and store layouts of most stores, compensation programs for all store
        team members that provide incentives for performance and our continued focus on serving
        professional installers. The same store sales increase in 2007 of 3.7% was greater than the
        prior year’s increase of 3.3%, but below our historical results. The decrease from
        historical trends is the result of challenging external macroeconomic factors in 2006 and
        2007. The external macroeconomic factors, which we believe negatively impacted our sales,
        were constraints on our customers’ discretionary income as a result of increased
        interest rates and higher energy costs. Consumers also encountered higher gas prices which
        resulted in annual miles driven, a key driver of demand for our products, remaining flat in
        comparison to the long term trend of annual increases. We anticipate that continued store
        unit and sales growth consistent with our historical rates will continue in the
        future.

Gross profit increased $113.7 million, or 11.3%, from $1.01 billion (44.1%
        of sales) in 2006 to $1.12 billion (44.4% of sales) in 2007, primarily due to the increase
        in sales resulting from a larger number of stores and increased sales levels at existing
        stores. The increase in gross profit as a percent of sales is the result of improvements in
        product mix, lower product acquisition cost and distribution system efficiencies.
        Improvements in product mix were the result of strategies which differentiated our
        merchandise selections at each store based on customer demand and vehicle demographics in
        the store’s market and through ongoing Team Member training initiatives focused on
        selling products with greater gross margin contribution. Product acquisition cost improved
        due to increased imports from lower cost providers in foreign countries as well as improved
        negotiating leverage with our vendors resulting from our increased purchasing power.
        Improvements in our distribution system were the result of capital projects designed to
        create operating expense efficiencies. We anticipate these trends to continue at a moderate
        rate throughout 2008.

SG&A increased $90.9 million, or 12.6%, from $724.4 million (31.7% of
        sales) in 2006 to $815.3 million (32.3% of sales) in 2007. The increase in these expenses
        was primarily attributable to increased salaries and benefits, rent and other costs
        associated with the addition of employees and facilities to support the increased level of
        our operations. The increase in SG&A as a percentage of sales was the result of
        increased store salaries primarily driven by the timing of new store openings, higher
        advertising costs, increased depreciation expense primarily driven by investment in new
        store technology and increased stock compensation expense.

Other income, net, increased by $2.4 million from ($0.1) million in 2006 to
        $2.3 million in 2007. The increase was primarily due to decreased interest expense on
        long-term debt resulting from a reduction in the interest rate on long-term debt as well as
        increased interest income derived from a higher than average cash balance.

Provision for income taxes increased from $104.2 million in 2006 (36.9%
        effective tax rate) to $113.5 million in 2007 (36.9% effective tax rate). The increase in
        the dollar amount was due to the increase of income before income taxes.

As a result of the impacts discussed above, net income increased $15.9
        million from $178.1 million in 2006 (7.8% of sales) to $194.0 million in 2007 (7.7% of
        sales).


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OF
        FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

        COMPARED TO 2005

Sales increased $238 million, or 11.6%, from $2.05 billion in 2005 to $2.28
        billion in 2006, primarily due to 170 net additional stores opened during 2006 which
        contributed $67.4 million to the sales increase, a full year of sales for stores opened
        throughout 2005 adding $76.1 million and a 3.3% increase in same-store sales for stores
        open at least one year providing $93.5 million of the sales increase. We believe that the
        increased sales achieved by our existing stores are the result of our offering of a broader
        selection of products in most stores, an increased promotional and advertising effort
        through a variety of media and localized promotional events, continued improvement in the
        merchandising and store layouts of most stores and compensation programs for all store team
        members that provide incentives for performance. Also, our continued focus on serving
        professional installers contributed to increased sales. The same store sales increase in
        2006 of 3.3% was below the prior year increase of 7.5% and our historical results. The
        decrease from the prior year is the result of extremely strong same store sales in 2005
        (higher than historical rates) and external macroeconomic factors in 2006. The external
        macroeconomic factors which we believe negatively impacted our sales were constraints on
        our customer's discretionary income as a result of increased interest rates and higher
        energy costs combined with a reduction in the miles driven due to higher gas prices during
        the key summer selling season.

Gross profit increased $114.2 million, or 12.8%, from $892.5 million (43.6%
        of sales) in 2005 to $1.01 billion (44.1% of sales) in 2006, due to the increase in sales.
        The increase in gross profit as a percent of sales is the result of improvements in product
        mix and product acquisition cost. Improvements in product mix were the result of strategies
        which differentiated our merchandise selections at each store based on customer demand and
        vehicle demographics in the store’s market and through ongoing Team Member training
        initiatives focused on selling products with greater gross margin contribution. Product
        acquisition cost improved due to increased imports from lower cost providers in foreign
        countries as well as improved negotiating leverage with our vendors resulting from our
        increased purchasing power.

SG&A increased $84.4 million, or 13.2%, from $640.0 million (31.3% of
        sales) in 2005 to $724.4 million (31.7% of sales) in 2006. The increase in these expenses
        was primarily attributable to increased salaries and benefits, rent and other costs
        associated with the addition of employees and facilities to support the increased level of
        our operations. The increase in SG&A as a percentage of sales was the result of
        increased advertising and energy costs.

Other expense, net, decreased by $1.4 million from $1.5 million in 2005 to
        $0.1 million in 2006. The decrease was primarily due to decreased interest expense on
        long-term debt resulting from a reduction in the interest rate on long-term
        debt.

Provision for income taxes increased from $86.8 million in 2005 (34.6%
        effective tax rate) to $104.2 million in 2006 (36.9% effective tax rate). The increase in
        the dollar amount was primarily due to the increase of income before income taxes. The
        increase in the effective tax rate in 2006 is primarily attributable to a non-cash
        adjustment of $6.1 million in the third quarter of 2005 resulting from the favorable
        resolution of prior year tax uncertainties. This tax benefit was nonrecurring and reflected
        the reversal of previously recorded income tax reserves related to a prior
        acquisition.

As a result of the impacts discussed above, net income increased $13.8
        million from $164.3 million in 2005 (8.0% of sales) to $178.1 million in 2006 (7.8% of
        sales).


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OF
        FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Net cash provided by operating activities was $299.4 million in 2007, $185.9
        million in 2006 and $206.7 million in 2005. The increase in net cash provided by operating
        activities in 2007 was principally due to increased net income and a reduction in net
        inventory investment. Net inventory investment reflects our investment in inventory net of
        the amount of accounts payable to vendors. The reduction in net inventory investment is the
        result of reductions in our per store inventory levels and our ongoing effort to extend
        terms with our vendors. Reductions in our per store inventory levels are driven by our
        continued optimization of inventory selection at our stores and our ability to efficiently
        deploy inventory throughout our distribution network.

The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities in 2006 compared
        to 2005 was primarily due to increases in inventory related to new store growth and a
        decrease in the percentage of inventory funded by accounts payable, partially offset by the
        effect of increased net income in 2006. The decrease in net cash provided by operating
        activities in 2006 was also due to the reclassification of the tax benefit derived from the
        exercise of stock options. In accordance with our prior year adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the
        excess tax benefit from the exercise of stock options of $8.5 million is reflected as cash
        provided by financing activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows for the year
        ended December 31, 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the excess tax benefit
        totaled $7.1 million and was included with net cash provided by operating activities in our
        2005 consolidated statement of cash flows.

Net cash used in investing activities was $300.3 million in 2007, $225.2
        million in 2006 and $262.4 million in 2005. The increase in cash used in investing
        activities in 2007 was due to increases in capital expenditures resulting from our ongoing
        store expansion program, store relocations, enhancements in existing store technology and
        the purchase of $21.7 million in short-term investments. The changes in cash used in
        investing activities during 2006 were the result of changes in capital expenditures and the
        $63 million acquisition in 2005 of Midwest Auto Parts Distributors, Inc.
        (“Midwest”), which included 72 stores and distribution centers in St. Paul,
        Minnesota and Billings, Montana. Capital expenditures were $282.7 million in 2007, $228.9
        million in 2006 and $205.2 million in 2005. These expenditures were primarily related to
        the opening of new stores and distribution centers, as well as the relocation or remodeling
        of existing stores. We opened 190, 170, and 149 (excluding the 72 stores acquired with
        Midwest) net stores in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We remodeled or relocated 55, 31
        and 37 stores in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Enhancements in existing store
        technology include the roll out of our new point of sale system as well as hardware
        upgrades, new in- store starter and alternator testers and the installation of energy
        management systems. We acquired a location and began construction in 2007 on a new
        distribution center that will be located in Lubbock, TX. The new distribution center is
        scheduled to be completed and to begin operations in 2008. We acquired a new facility near
        Minneapolis, Minnesota in 2006 for the relocation of the St. Paul, Minnesota distribution
        center that was completed and began operations in 2007. We acquired a new distribution
        center near Indianapolis, Indiana in 2005 that was subsequently equipped and opened in
        2006.

Our continuing store expansion program requires significant capital
        expenditures and working capital principally for inventory requirements. Our 2008 growth
        plans call for approximately 205 new stores and the addition of one distribution center
        with total capital expenditures of $275 million to $285 million. The costs associated with
        the opening of a new store (including the cost of land acquisition, improvements, fixtures,
        net inventory investment and computer equipment) are estimated to average approximately
        $1.2 million to $1.4 million; however, such costs may be significantly reduced where we
        lease, rather than purchase, the store site. We plan to finance our expansion program
        through cash expected to be provided from operating activities and available borrowings
        under our existing credit facility.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OF
        FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (continued)

On May 15, 2006, we entered into a private placement agreement that allows
        for the issuance of an aggregate of $300 million in unsecured senior notes, issuable in
        series. On May 15, 2006, the Company completed the private placement of $75 million of the
        first series of Senior Notes (the “Series 2006-A Senior Notes”) under the
        Private Placement Agreement. The $75 million of Series 2006-A Senior Notes are due May 15,
        2016 and bear interest at 5.39% per year. Proceeds from the Series 2006-A Senior Notes
        private placement transaction were used to repay certain existing debt of the Company,
        including $75 million of 7.72% Series 2001-A Senior Notes due May 15, 2006.

On July 29, 2005, we entered into an unsecured, five-year syndicated credit
        facility (“Credit Facility”) in the amount of $100 million led by Wells Fargo
        Bank as the Administrative Agent, replacing a three-year $150 million syndicated credit
        facility. The Credit Facility is guaranteed by all of our subsidiaries and may be increased
        to a total of $200 million, subject to the availability of such additional credit from
        either existing banks within the Credit Facility or other banks. The Credit Facility bears
        interest at LIBOR plus a spread ranging from 0.375% to 0.750% (5.25% at December 31, 2007)
        and expires in July 2010. There were no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility at
        December 31, 2007. Outstanding borrowings totaled $9.7 million at December 31, 2006. The
        available borrowings under the Credit Facility are reduced by stand-by letters of credit
        issued by us primarily to satisfy the requirements of workers compensation, general
        liability and other insurance policies. Our aggregate availability for additional
        borrowings under the Credit Facility was $71.4 million and $57.4 million at December 31,
        2007 and 2006, respectively.

OFF
        BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We have utilized various financial instruments from time to time as sources
        of cash when such instruments provided a cost effective alternative to our existing sources
        of cash. We do not believe, however, that we are dependent on the availability of these
        instruments to fund our working capital requirements or our growth plans.

On December 29, 2000, we completed a sale-leaseback transaction with an
        unrelated party. Under the terms of the transaction, we sold 90 properties, including land,
        buildings and improvements, which generated $52.3 million of additional cash. The lease,
        which is being accounted for as an operating lease, provides for an initial lease term of
        21 years and may be extended for one initial ten-year period and two additional successive
        periods of five years each. The resulting gain of $4.5 million has been deferred and is
        being amortized over the initial lease term. Net rent expense during the initial term will
        be approximately $5.5 million annually.

In August 2001, we completed a sale-leaseback with O’Reilly-Wooten
        2000 LLC (an entity owned by certain shareholders of the Company). The transaction involved
        the sale and leaseback of nine O’Reilly Auto Parts stores and resulted in
        approximately $5.6 million of additional cash to us. The transaction did not result in a
        material gain or loss. The lease, which has been accounted for as an operating lease, calls
        for an initial term of 15 years with three five-year renewal options.

On
        September 28, 2007, the Company completed a second amended and restated master agreement to
        its $49 million Synthetic Operating Lease Facility with a group of financial institutions.
        The terms of such lease facility provide for an initial lease period of seven years, a
        residual value guarantee of approximately $39.7 million at December 31, 2007 and purchase
        options on the properties. The lease facility also contains a provision for an event of
        default whereby the lessor, among other things, may require the Company to purchase any or
        all of the properties. Management believes it is reasonable to assume that such an event of
        default will not occur. One additional renewal period of seven years may be requested from
        the lessor, although the lessor is not obligated to grant such renewal. The second amended
        and restated Facility has been accounted for as an operating lease under SFAS No. 13 and
        related interpretations, including FASB Interpretation No. 46R.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
        (CONTINUED)

OFF
        BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS (CONTINUED)

We issue stand-by letters of credit provided by a $50 million sub limit
        under the Credit Facility that reduce our available borrowings. These letters of credit are
        issued primarily to satisfy the requirements of workers compensation, general liability and
        other insurance policies. Substantially all of the outstanding letters of credit have a
        one-year term from the date of issuance and have been issued to replace surety bonds that
        were previously issued. Letters of credit totaling $28.6 million and $32.9 million were
        outstanding at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

We have other liabilities reflected in our balance sheet, including deferred
        income taxes and self-insurance accruals. The payment obligations associated with these
        liabilities are not reflected in the financial commitments table due to the absence of
        scheduled maturities. Therefore, the timing of these payments cannot be determined, except
        for amounts estimated to be payable in 2008 that are included in current liabilities. In
        addition, we have commitments with various vendors for the purchase of inventory as of
        December 31, 2007. The financial commitments table excludes these commitments because they
        are cancelable by their terms.

Our contractual obligations, including commitments for future payments under
        non-cancelable lease arrangements, short and long-term debt arrangements, interest payments
        related to long-term debt and purchase obligations for construction contract commitments,
        are summarized below and are fully disclosed in Notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial
        statements.

We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash expected to be
        provided by operating activities, available bank credit facilities and trade credit will be
        sufficient to fund both our short-term and long-term capital needs for the foreseeable
        future.

INFLATION AND SEASONALITY

We attempt to mitigate the effects of merchandise cost increases principally
        by taking advantage of vendor incentive programs, economies of scale resulting from
        increased volume of purchases and selective forward buying. As a result, we do not believe
        that our operations have been materially affected by inflation. Our business is somewhat
        seasonal, primarily as a result of the impact of weather conditions on customer buying
        patterns. Store sales and profits have historically been higher in the second and third
        quarters (April through September) of each year than in the first and fourth
        quarters.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OF
        FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

QUARTERLY RESULTS

The following table sets forth certain quarterly unaudited operating data
        for fiscal 2007 and 2006. The unaudited quarterly information includes all adjustments
        which management considers necessary for a fair presentation of the information
        shown.

The unaudited operating data presented below should be read in conjunction
        with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this
        annual report, and the other financial information included therein.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OF
        FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

NEW
        ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS
        No. 123R, a revision of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for
        Stock Based Compensation

, that supersedes APB No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.

In
        April 2005, the SEC adopted a rule permitting implementation of SFAS No. 123R at the
        beginning of the first fiscal year commencing after June 15, 2005. Among other items, SFAS
        No. 123R eliminated the use of APB No. 25 and the intrinsic value method of accounting, and
        requires companies to recognize in the financial statements the cost of employee services
        received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, based on the grant date fair value
        of those awards. SFAS No. 123R also requires that the benefits associated with the tax
        deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost be reported as a financing cash flow,
        rather than as an operating cash flow as required under APB No. 25. The Company was
        required to adopt SFAS No. 123R beginning in its quarter ended March 31, 2006. Under the
        provisions of SFAS No. 123R, the Company had the choice of adopting the fair-value-based
        method of expensing of stock options using (a) the “modified prospective
        method”, whereby the Company recognizes the expense only for periods beginning after
        December 31, 2005, or (b) the “modified retrospective method”, whereby the
        Company recognizes the expense for all years and interim periods since the effective date
        of SFAS No. 123. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective method.
        See Note 9, “Share-Based Employee Compensation Plans”, for information
        regarding expensing of stock options in 2006 and 2007 and for pro forma information
        regarding the Company’s accounting for stock options in 2005.

In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FASB
        Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an interpretation of
        FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48"). FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and a
        measurement process for recording in the financial statements the tax benefit of uncertain
        tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For a benefit to be
        recognized, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustainable upon examination
        by the applicable taxing authority. Additionally, FIN 48 provides guidance on
        derecognition, measurement, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure
        requirements for uncertain tax positions. The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 on
        January 1, 2007. No adjustment was required in the liability for unrecognized income tax
        benefits as a result of the implementation of FIN 48. As of January 1, 2007 and December
        31, 2007, the Company had a gross exposure for unrecognized tax benefits (including
        interest and penalties) of $14.9 million and $19.7 million, respectively, all of which
        would affect the Company’s effective tax rate if recognized, generally net of federal
        tax affect. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax
        positions in income tax expense. As of January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2007, the Company
        had accrued approximately $1.7 million and $2.8 million, respectively, of interest and
        penalties related to uncertain tax positions before the benefit of the deduction for
        interest on state and federal returns. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company
        recorded tax expense related to an increase in its liability for interest and penalties of
        $1.3 million. Although unrecognized tax benefits for individual tax positions may increase
        or decrease during 2008, the Company expects a reduction of $0.8 million of unrecognized
        tax benefits during the one-year period subsequent to December 31, 2007 resulting from
        settlement or expiration of the statute of limitations.

The Company’s U.S. federal income tax returns for tax years 2005 and
        beyond remain subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”).
        The IRS concluded an examination of the Company’s consolidated 2002, 2003 and 2004
        federal income tax returns in the first quarter of 2007. The statute of limitations for the
        Company’s federal income tax returns for tax years 2003 and prior have expired. The
        statute of limitations for the Company’s U.S. federal income tax return for 2004 will
        expire on September 15, 2008, unless otherwise extended. The Company’s state income
        tax returns remain subject to examination by various state authorities for tax years
        ranging from 2001 through 2006.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OF
        FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

We claim the protection of the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements
        within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can
        identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “expect,”
        “believe,” “anticipate,” “should,” “plan,”
        “intend,” “estimate,” “project,” “will” or
        similar words. In addition, statements contained within this annual report that are not
        historical facts are forward-looking statements, such as statements discussing among other
        things, expected growth, store development and expansion strategy, business strategies,
        future revenues and future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on
        estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions and are not guarantees of future events and
        results. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including,
        but not limited to, competition, product demand, the market for auto parts, the economy in
        general, inflation, consumer debt levels, governmental approvals, our ability to hire and
        retain qualified employees, risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses,
        weather, terrorist activities, war and the threat of war. Actual results may materially
        differ from anticipated results described or implied in these forward-looking statements.
        Please refer to the Risk Factors sections of the annual report on Form 10-K for the year
        ended December 31, 2007, for additional factors that could materially affect our financial
        performance.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
        REPORTING

The
        management of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries (the “Company”),
        under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s principal executive
        officer and principal financial officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining
        adequate internal control over financial reporting. The Company’s internal control
        system is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
        reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
        with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

Internal
        control over financial reporting includes all policies and procedures that:

•

pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
                    detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
                    assets of the Company;

•

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
                    necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
                    generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
                    the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
                    and directors of the Company; and

•

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
                    detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the
                    Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
                    statements.

Management recognizes that all internal control systems, no matter how well
        designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be
        effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
        preparation and presentation. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
        future periods are subject to risk. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of
        changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or
        procedures.

Under
        the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s principal executive
        officer and principal financial officer, management assessed the effectiveness of the
        Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. In
        making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of
        Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

.
        Based on this assessment, management believes that as of December 31, 2007, the
        Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those
        criteria.

Ernst
        & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, has audited the
        Company’s consolidated financial statements and has issued an attestation report on
        the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, as
        stated in their report which is included herein.

/s/ Greg Henslee

/s/ Thomas McFall

Greg Henslee

Chief Executive Officer &

Co-President

Thomas McFall

Executive Vice President of Finance &

Chief Financial Officer


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

REPORT
        OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The
        Board of Directors and Shareholders of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and
        Subsidiaries:

We have
        audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and
        Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of
        income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
        ended December 31, 2007.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the
        Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
        statements based on our audits.

We
        conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
        Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
        to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
        misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
        and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
        accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
        evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide
        a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our
        opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
        respects, the consolidated financial position of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and
        Subsidiaries at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the consolidated results of their
        operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
        31, 2007, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also
        have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
        Board (United States), O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries’
        internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria
        established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
        Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 27, 2008 expressed
        an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst
        & Young

Kansas
        City, Missouri

February
        27, 2008


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

REPORT
        OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The
        Board of Directors and Shareholders of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and
        Subsidiaries:

We have
        audited O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries’ internal control over
        financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal
        Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
        the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and
        Subsidiaries’ management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control
        over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
        over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal
        Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
        company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We
        conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
        Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
        to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial
        reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
        understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
        material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
        internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
        considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
        basis for our opinion.

A
        company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
        reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
        of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
        accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes
        those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
        reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
        assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
        necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
        accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
        made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
        (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
        acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material
        effect on the financial statements.

Because
        of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
        detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
        periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
        conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
        deteriorate.

In our
        opinion, O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries maintained, in all material
        respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007,
        based onthe COSO criteria

.

We also
        have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
        Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006,
        and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity and cash
        flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007 of O’Reilly
        Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries and our report dated February 27, 2008 expressed an
        unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst
        & Young

Kansas
        City, Missouri

February
        27, 2008


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(In
        thousands, except share data)

See
        accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Consolidated Statements Of Income

(In
        thousands, except per share data)

See
        accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Consolidated Statements Of Shareholders' Equity

(In
        thousands)

See
        accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows

See
        accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        1—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Nature
        of Business

O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. (the “Company”) is a specialty
        retailer and supplier of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies and accessories to
        both the do-it-yourself (“DIY”) customer and the professional installer
        throughout Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky,
        Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Carolina, North
        Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Wisconsin
        and Wyoming.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
        and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant inter-company balances and transactions
        have been eliminated in consolidation.

Revenue Recognition

Over-the-counter retail sales are recorded when the customer takes
        possession of the merchandise. Sales to professional installers, also referred to as
        “commercial sales,” are recorded upon same-day delivery of the merchandise to
        the customer, generally at the customer’s place of business. Wholesale sales to other
        retailers, also referred to as “jobber sales,” are recorded upon shipment of
        the merchandise from a regional distribution center with same-day delivery to the jobber
        customer's location. All sales are recorded net of estimated allowances, discounts and
        taxes.

Use
        of Estimates

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements, in conformity with
        accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”),
        requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in
        the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ
        from those estimates.

Cash
        Equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of investments with maturities of 90
                    days or less at the day of purchase.

Accounts Receivable

The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses
        resulting from the inability of the Company’s customers to make required payments.
        The Company considers the following factors when determining if collection is reasonably
        assured: customer credit-worthiness, past transaction history with the customer, current
        economic industry trends and changes in customer payment terms.

Inventory

Inventory, which consists of automotive hard parts, maintenance items,
        accessories and tools, is stated at the lower of cost or market. Inventory also includes
        related procurement, warehousing and distribution center costs. Cost has been determined
        using the last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) method. The replacement cost of inventory
        was $888,299,000 and $833,626,000 as of December 31, 2007 and 2006,
        respectively.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        1—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

Amounts Receivable from Vendors

The Company receives concessions from its vendors through a variety of
        programs and arrangements, including co-operative advertising, devaluation programs,
        allowances for warranties and volume purchase rebates. Co-operative advertising allowances
        that are incremental to the Company’s advertising program, specific to a product or
        event and identifiable for accounting purposes, are reported as a reduction of advertising
        expense in the period in which the advertising occurred. All other material vendor
        concessions are recognized as a reduction to the cost of inventory. Amounts receivable from
        vendors also includes amounts due to the Company for changeover merchandise and product
        returns. The Company regularly reviews vendor receivables for collectibility and assesses
        the need for a reserve for uncollectible amounts based on an evaluation of the
        Company’s vendors’ financial position and corresponding ability to meet its
        financial obligations. Management does not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that
        the Company will be unable to collect the amounts receivable from vendors and the Company
        did not record a reserve for uncollectible amounts in the consolidated financial statements
        at December 31, 2007 and 2006.

Investments

The Company determines the appropriate classification of marketable equity
        securities at the time of purchase and reevaluates such designation as of each balance
        sheet date. Available-for-sale securities are stated at fair value, with the unrecognized
        gains and losses, net of tax, reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
        Available-for-sale securities in the amount of $10.8 million, stated at fair value, are
        included in Other Current Assets on the Company’s balance sheet at December 31, 2007.
        The Company did not own any material available-for-sale securities on December 31, 2006.
        See Note 2, “Investments”, for information regarding available-for-sale
        securities acquired during 2007.

Property
        and Equipment

Property and equipment are carried at cost. Depreciation is provided on a
        straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Leasehold improvements
        are amortized over the lesser of the lease term or the estimated economic life of the
        assets. The lease term includes renewal options determined by management at lease inception
        for which failure to renew options would result in a substantial economic penalty to the
        Company. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Upon retirement or
        sale, the cost and accumulated depreciation are eliminated and the gain or loss, if any, is
        included in the determination of net income as a component of other income (expense). The
        Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
        circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully
        recoverable.

Property and equipment consists of the following:

The Company capitalizes interest costs as a component of construction in
        progress, based on the weighted-average rates paid for long-term borrowings. Total interest
        costs capitalized for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $2,554,000,
        $2,639,000 and $2,885,000, respectively.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        1—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

Leases

The Company’s policy is to amortize leasehold improvements over the
        lesser of the lease term or the estimated economic life of those assets. Generally, for
        stores the lease term is the base lease term and for distribution centers the lease term
        includes the base lease term plus certain renewal option periods for which renewal is
        reasonably assured and failure to exercise the renewal option would result in a significant
        economic penalty. The calculation for straight-line rent expense is based on the same lease
        term.

Notes
        Receivable

The Company had notes receivable from vendors and other third parties
        amounting to $32,119,000 and $36,955,000 at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The
        notes receivable, which bear interest at rates ranging from 0% to 10%, are due in varying
        amounts through August 2017.

Goodwill

The accompanying consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2007 and 2006
        include goodwill recorded as the result of previous acquisitions. Statement of Financial
        Accounting Standards No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible
        Assets

, requires the Company to assess goodwill for impairment
        rather than systematically amortize goodwill against earnings. The goodwill impairment test
        compares the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. The
        Company operates as one reporting unit, and its fair value exceeds its carrying value,
        including goodwill. Therefore, the Company has determined that no impairment of goodwill
        existed at December 31, 2007 and 2006.

At
        December 31, 2007 and 2006, the carrying value of the Company’s goodwill was as
        follows:

December 31, 2007

December 31, 2006

(In thousands)

Beginning balance

$

49,065

$

48,069

Acquisitions

1,382


Ending balance

$

50,447

$

49,065

Self-Insurance Reserves

The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance mechanisms to
        provide for the potential liabilities for workers’ compensation, general liability,
        vehicle liability, property loss, and employee health care benefits. With the exception of
        employee health care benefit liabilities, which are limited by the design of these plans,
        the Company obtains third-party insurance coverage to limit its exposure. The Company
        estimates its self-insurance liabilities by considering a number of factors, including
        historical claims experience and trend-lines, projected medical and legal inflation, and
        growth patterns and exposure forecasts.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes using the liability method in
        accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109,

Accounting for Income Taxes

, which requires the
        recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences
        of events that have been included in the financial statements. Under this method, deferred
        tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial
        reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rules currently
        scheduled to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.
        The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in
        income in the period of the enactment date.

The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. This
        interpretation provides guidance on measurement, derecognition of benefits, classification,
        interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition and
        requires that income tax positions must meet a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold
        at the effective date to be recognized.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        1—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

Advertising Costs

The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. Advertising expense
        charged to operations amounted to $40,472,000, $34,929,000 and $28,715,000 for the years
        ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Pre-opening Costs

Costs associated with the opening of new stores, which consist primarily of
        payroll and occupancy costs, are charged to operations as incurred.

Share-Based Compensation Plans

The Company currently sponsors share-based employee benefit plans and stock
        option plans. Please see Note 9 for further information concerning these plans. In the
        first quarter of 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
        123R,

Share Based Payment

(“SFAS
        No. 123R”), which is a revision of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting
        for Stock-Based Compensation

(“SFAS No. 123”) and
        supersedes the Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

(“APB No. 25”), using the modified prospective transition method
        and began recognizing compensation expense for its share-based payments based on the fair
        value of the awards. Under this transition method, compensation cost recognized in 2006
        includes the compensation cost for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet
        vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance
        with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123, and compensation cost for all share-based
        payments granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value
        estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123R. Results for prior periods
        have not been restated. Share-based payments include stock option awards issued under the
        Company’s employee stock option plan, director stock option plan, stock issued
        through the Company’s employee stock purchase plan and stock awarded to employees
        through other benefit programs. Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted for
        share-based payments using the intrinsic value based recognition method in accordance with
        APB No. 25. Under APB No. 25, no compensation expense for stock option awards was
        recognized since the exercise price of the Company’s stock options equaled the market
        price of the underlying stock on the date of grant.

As a result of adopting SFAS No. 123R on January 1, 2006, the
        Company’s income before income taxes and net income for the year ended December 31,
        2006, are approximately $2.8 million and $1.7 million lower, respectively, than if it had
        continued to account for share-based compensation under APB No. 25. Basic and diluted
        earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2006 are $0.02 lower than if the Company
        had continued to account for share-based compensation under APB No. 25.

In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Board of Directors approved the
        accelerated vesting of all unvested stock options previously awarded to employees and
        executive officers. Option awards granted subsequent to the Board’s action are not
        included in the acceleration and will vest equally over the service period established in
        the award, typically four years. The primary purpose of the accelerated vesting was to
        enable the Company to avoid recognizing future compensation expense associated with these
        options upon the planned adoption of SFAS No. 123R in 2006. As a result of the vesting
        acceleration, options to purchase approximately 4.2 million shares of O’Reilly Common
        Stock became exercisable immediately. O’Reilly’s Board of Directors took this
        action with the belief that it is in the best interest of shareholders as it will reduce
        the Company’s reported non-cash compensation expense in future periods.

In order to limit unintended personal benefits to employees and officers,
        the Board of Directors imposed restrictions on any shares received through the exercise of
        accelerated options held by those individuals. These restrictions prevent the sale of any
        stock obtained through exercise of an accelerated option prior to the earlier of the
        original vesting date or the individual’s termination of employment. The Company
        recorded pre-tax share-based compensation expense of $2.2 million in 2005 based on the
        intrinsic value of in-the-money options subject to acceleration and the Company’s
        estimate of awards that would have expired unexercisable absent the
        acceleration.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        1—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

Stock
        Option Plans (continued)

For purposes of pro forma disclosures required under SFAS No. 123 for the
        year ended December 31, 2005, the estimated fair value of the stock options was assumed to
        be amortized to expense over the stock options’ vesting periods. For unvested stock
        option awards that were included in the acceleration in the fourth quarter of 2005, any
        unamortized estimated fair value is assumed to be fully recognized as compensation expense
        in the year ended December 31, 2005 for purposes of pro forma disclosure. The pro forma
        effects of recognizing estimated compensation expense under the fair value method on net
        income and earnings per common share were as follows:

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R in 2006, the Company presented all
        tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise of stock options as operating cash
        flows in the accompanying consolidated statement of cash flows. SFAS No. 123R requires
        excess tax benefits, the cash flow resulting from the tax deductions in excess of the
        compensation cost recognized for those options, to be classified as financing cash flows.
        The excess tax benefit was $6.8 million and $8.5 million for the years ended December 31,
        2007 and 2006, respectively.

Earnings per Share

Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted-average outstanding common
        shares. Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted-average outstanding shares
        adjusted for the effect of common stock equivalents. Common stock equivalents that could
        potentially dilute basic earnings per share in the future that were not included in the
        fully diluted computation because they would have been antidilutive were 1,613,000, 448,000
        and 226,750 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        1—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations
        of credit risk consist primarily of cash, cash equivalents, accounts receivable and notes
        receivable.

The Company grants credit to certain customers who meet the Company's
        pre-established credit requirements. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to these
        receivables are limited because the Company’s customer base consists of a large
        number of smaller customers, thus spreading the credit risk. The Company controls credit
        risk through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures. Generally, the
        Company does not require security when credit is granted to customers. Credit losses are
        provided for in the Company's consolidated financial statements and consistently have been
        within management's expectations.

The carrying value of the Company's financial instruments, including cash
        and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and long-term debt, as reported
        in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, approximates fair value.

Reclassifications

The accompanying consolidated financial statements for prior years contain
        certain reclassifications to conform to the presentation used in 2007.

New
        Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS
        No. 123R, a revision of SFAS No. 123 that supersedes APB No. 25. In April 2005,
        the SEC adopted a rule permitting implementation of SFAS No. 123R at the beginning of the
        first fiscal year commencing after June 15, 2005. Among other items, SFAS No. 123R
        eliminated the use of APB No. 25 and the intrinsic value method of accounting, and requires
        companies to recognize in the financial statements the cost of employee services received
        in exchange for awards of equity instruments, based on the grant date fair value of those
        awards. SFAS No. 123R also requires that the benefits associated with the tax deductions in
        excess of recognized compensation cost be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as
        an operating cash flow as required under APB No. 25. The Company was required to adopt SFAS
        No. 123R beginning in its quarter ended March 31, 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No.
        123R, the Company had the choice of adopting the fair-value-based method of expensing of
        stock options using (a) the “modified prospective method”, whereby the Company
        recognizes the expense only for periods beginning after December 31, 2005, or (b) the
        “modified retrospective method”, whereby the Company recognizes the expense for
        all years and interim periods since the effective date of SFAS No. 123. The Company adopted
        SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective method. See Note 9, “Share-Based
        Employee Compensation Plans”, for information regarding expensing of stock options in
        2006 and 2007 and for pro forma information regarding the Company’s accounting for
        stock options in 2005.

In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FASB
        Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an interpretation of
        FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48"). FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and a
        measurement process for recording in the financial statements the tax benefit of uncertain
        tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For a benefit to be
        recognized, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustainable upon examination
        by the applicable taxing authority. Additionally, FIN 48 provides guidance on
        derecognition, measurement, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure
        requirements for uncertain tax positions. The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 on
        January 1, 2007. No adjustment was required in the liability for unrecognized income tax
        benefits as a result of the implementation of FIN 48. As of January 1, 2007 and December
        31, 2007, the Company had a gross exposure for unrecognized tax benefits (including
        interest and penalties) of $14.9 million and $19.7 million, respectively, all of which
        would affect the Company’s effective tax rate if recognized, generally net of federal
        tax affect. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax
        positions in income tax expense. As of January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2007, the Company
        had accrued approximately $1.7 million and $2.8 million, respectively, of interest and
        penalties related to uncertain tax positions before the benefit of the deduction for
        interest on state and federal returns. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company
        recorded tax expense related to an increase in its liability for interest and penalties of
        $1.3 million. Although unrecognized tax benefits for individual tax positions may increase
        or decrease during 2008, the Company expects a reduction of $0.8 million of unrecognized
        tax benefits during the one-year period subsequent to December 31, 2007 resulting from
        settlement or expiration of the statute of limitations.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        1—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

New
        Accounting Pronouncements (continued)

The Company’s U.S. federal income tax returns for tax years 2005 and
        beyond remain subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”).
        The IRS concluded an examination of the Company’s consolidated 2002, 2003 and 2004
        federal income tax returns in the first quarter of 2007. The statute of limitations for the
        Company’s federal income tax returns for tax years 2003 and prior have expired. The
        statute of limitations for the Company’s U.S. federal income tax return for 2004 will
        expire on September 15, 2008, unless otherwise extended. The Company’s state income
        tax returns remain subject to examination by various state authorities for tax years
        ranging from 2001 through 2006.

A summary of the changes in the gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits,
        excluding interest and penalties, for the year ended December 31, 2007, is shown
        below:

(In thousands)

Balance as of January 1, 2007

$

13,245

Addition based on tax postions related to the current
                    year

3,484

Addition based on tax positions related to prior
                    years


Reduction due to lapse of statute of limitations

(604

)

Balance as of December 31, 2007

$

16,952


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        2 – INVESTMENTS

The following is a summary of available-for-sale securities included in
        Other Current Assets on the Company’s balance sheet at December 31,2007:

Available-for-sale securities held by the Company are securities that are
        publicly traded in active markets and are valued based on quoted closing prices as of
        December 31, 2007.

NOTE 3 -
        ACQUISITION

On May 31, 2005, the Company purchased all of the outstanding stock of W.E.
        Lahr Company and its subsidiary, Midwest Auto Parts Distributors, Inc. and combined
        affiliates (“Midwest”) for approximately $63 million cash, net of cash
        acquired, including acquisition costs. Midwest was a specialty retailer, which supplied
        automotive aftermarket parts in Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin
        and Wyoming. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and
        accordingly, the results of operations of Midwest are included in the consolidated
        statements of income from the date of acquisition. The purchase price was allocated to
        assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values on the date of
        acquisition with the excess allocated to goodwill. The acquisition of Midwest was not
        material for pro forma presentation requirements.

NOTE
        4 – STOCK SPLIT

On May 20, 2005, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a
        two-for-one stock split that was effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend payable to
        all shareholders of record as of May 31, 2005. The stock dividend was paid on June 15,
        2005. Accordingly, this stock split has been recognized by reclassifying $559,000, the par
        value of the additional shares resulting from the split, from retained earnings to common
        stock.

All share and per share information included in the accompanying
        consolidated financial statements has been restated to reflect the retroactive effect of
        the stock split for all periods presented.

NOTE
        5 — RELATED PARTIES

The Company leases certain land and buildings related to 48 of its O'Reilly
        Auto Parts stores under six-year operating lease agreements with O'Reilly Investment
        Company and O'Reilly Real Estate Company, partnerships in which certain shareholders and
        directors of the Company are partners. Generally, these lease agreements provide for
        renewal options for an additional six years at the option of the Company and the lease
        agreements are periodically modified to further extend the lease term for specific stores
        under the agreement. Additionally, the Company leases certain land and buildings related to
        21 of its O’Reilly Auto Parts stores under fifteen-year operating lease agreements
        with O’Reilly-Wooten 2000 LLC, which is owned by certain shareholders and directors
        of the Company. Generally, these lease agreements provide for renewal options for two
        additional five-year terms at the option of the Company (see Note 7). Rent payments under
        these operating leases totaled $3,446,000, $3,413,000 and $3,380,000 in 2007, 2006 and
        2005, respectively.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        6 — LONG-TERM DEBT

On July 29, 2005, the Company entered into an unsecured, five-year
        syndicated credit facility (Credit Facility) in the amount of $100 million led by Wells
        Fargo Bank as the Administrative Agent, replacing a three-year $150 million syndicated
        credit facility. The Credit Facility is guaranteed by all of the Company’s
        subsidiaries and may be increased to a total of $200 million, subject to the availability
        of such additional credit from either existing banks within the Credit Facility or other
        banks. The Credit Facility bears interest at LIBOR plus a spread ranging from 0.375% to
        0.750% (5.25% at December 31, 2007) and expires in July 2010. There were no outstanding
        borrowings under the Credit Facility at December 31, 2007. Outstanding borrowings under the
        Credit Facility at December 31, 2006 totaled $9.7 million.

The Company issues stand-by letters of credit provided by a $50 million sub
        limit under the Credit Facility that reduce available borrowings. These letters of credit
        are issued primarily to satisfy the requirements of workers compensation, general liability
        and other insurance policies. Substantially all of the outstanding letters of credit have a
        one-year term from the date of issuance and have been issued to replace surety bonds that
        were previously issued. Letters of credit totaling $28.6 million and $32.9 million were
        outstanding at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Accordingly, the Company’s
        aggregate availability for additional borrowings under the Credit Facility was $71.4
        million and $57.4 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company is
        subject to a commitment fee ranging from 0.075% to 0.175% (.075% at December 31, 2007) for
        unused borrowings under the Credit Facility.

On May 15, 2006, the Company entered into a private placement agreement that
        allows for the issuance of an aggregate of $300 million in unsecured senior notes, issuable
        in series. On May 15, 2006, the Company completed the private placement of $75 million of
        the first series of Senior Notes (the “Series 2006-A Senior Notes”) under the
        Private Placement Agreement. The $75 million of Series 2006-A Senior Notes are due May 15,
        2016 and bear interest at 5.39% per year. Proceeds from the Series 2006-A Senior Notes
        private placement transaction were used to repay certain existing debt of the Company,
        including $75 million of 7.72% Series 2001-A Senior Notes due May 15, 2006.

On May 16, 2001, the Company completed a $100 million private placement of
        two series of unsecured senior notes (Senior Notes). The Series 2001-A Senior Notes were
        issued for $75 million and were repaid on May 15, 2006 from the proceeds from the issuance
        of the Series 2006-A Senior Notes discussed above. The Series 2001-B Senior Notes were
        issued for $25 million, are due May 16, 2008 and bear interest at 7.92% per
        year.

The Company leases certain computer equipment under a capital lease
        agreement. The lease agreement has a term of 36 months, expiring in 2009. At December 31,
        2007, the monthly installment under this agreement was approximately $28,000. The present
        value of the future minimum lease payments under capital leases totaled approximately
        $469,000 and $779,000 at December 31, 2007 and 2006 respectively, which have been
        classified as long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The
        Company did not acquire any equipment under capital leases during the period ended December
        31, 2007. The Company acquired $943,000 of assets under the capital lease during the
        periods ended December 31, 2006.

Principal maturities of long-term debt are as follows

(amounts in thousands):


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        7—COMMITMENTS

Lease
        Commitments

On September 28, 2007, the Company completed a second amended and restated
        master agreement to its $49 million Synthetic Operating Lease Facility with a group of
        financial institutions. The terms of such lease facility provide for an initial lease
        period of seven years, a residual value guarantee of approximately $39.7 million at
        December 31, 2007 and purchase options on the properties. The lease facility also contains
        a provision for an event of default whereby the lessor, among other things, may require the
        Company to purchase any or all of the properties. One additional renewal period of seven
        years may be requested from the lessor, although the lessor is not obligated to grant such
        renewal. The second amended and restated Facility has been accounted for as an operating
        lease under SFAS No. 13 and related interpretations, including FASB Interpretation No. 46R.
        Future minimum rental commitments under the Facility have been included in the table of
        future minimum annual rental commitments below.

The Company also leases certain office space, retail stores, property and
        equipment under long-term, non-cancelable operating leases. Most of these leases include
        renewal options and some include options to purchase and provisions for percentage rent
        based on sales. At December 31, 2007, future minimum rental payments under all of the
        Company’s operating leases for each of the next five years and in the aggregate are
        as follows

(amounts in
        thousands)

:

Rental expense amounted to $55,358,000, $49,245,000 and $43,047,000 for the
        years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

Other
        Commitments

The Company had construction commitments, which totaled approximately $96.3
        million, at December 31, 2007.

NOTE
        8—LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is involved in various legal proceedings incidental to the
        ordinary conduct of its business. Although the Company cannot ascertain the amount of
        liability that it may incur from any of these matters, it does not currently believe that,
        in the aggregate, these matters will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated
        financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        9—SHARE-BASED EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION PLANS

Stock
        Options

The Company’s employee stock based incentive plan provides for the
        granting of stock options to certain key employees of the Company for the purchase of
        common stock of the Company. A total of 24,000,000 shares have been authorized for issuance
        under this plan. Options are granted at an exercise price that is equal to the market value
        of the Company’s common stock on the date of the grant. Options granted under the
        plan expire after ten years and typically vest 25% a year, over four years. Since the
        adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the Company records compensation expense for the grant date fair
        value of option awards evenly over the vesting period under the straight-line method. A
        summary of the shares subject to currently issued and outstanding stock options under this
        plan is as follows:

The Company maintains a stock based incentive plan for non-employee
        directors of the Company pursuant to which the Company may grant stock options. Up to
        1,000,000 shares of common stock have been authorized for issuance under this plan. Options
        are granted at an exercise price that is equal to the market value of the Company’s
        common stock on the date of the grant. Options granted under the plan expire after seven
        years and vest fully after six months. Since the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the Company
        records compensation expense for the grant date fair value of option awards evenly over the
        vesting period under the straight-line method. A summary of the shares subject to currently
        issued and outstanding stock options under this plan is as follows:

At December 31, 2007, approximately 10,687,000 and 375,000 shares were
        reserved for future issuance under the employee stock option plan and director stock option
        plan, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recognized stock
        option compensation expense related to these plans of $4,882,000 and a corresponding income
        tax benefit of $1,801,000. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recognized
        stock option compensation expense related to these plans of $2,762,000 and a corresponding
        income tax benefit of $1,019,000.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        9— SHARE-BASED EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION PLANS (CONTINUED)

Stock
        Options (continued)

The fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on the date of the
        grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Black-Scholes model requires the
        use of assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, the risk free rate and
        the expected dividend yield. Expected volatility is based upon the historical volatility of
        the Company’s stock. Expected life represents the period of time that options granted
        are expected to be outstanding. The Company uses historical data and experience to estimate
        the expected life of options granted. The risk free interest rate for periods within the
        contractual life of the options are based on the United States Treasury rates in effect for
        the expected life of the options. The following weighted-average assumptions were used for
        grants issued for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:




Risk free interest rate

4.47

%

4.01

%

4.25

%

Expected life

4.4

years

4.7

years

4.0

years

Expected volatility

33.7

%

35.1

%

35.8

%

Expected dividend yield


%


%


%

The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the
        years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $11.81, $11.72 and $8.82, respectively.
        The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2007,
        2006 and 2005 were $19,511,000, $22,985,000 and $19,100,000, respectively. The Company
        recorded cash received from the exercise of stock options of $17,124,000, $15,970,000 and
        $14,915,000, in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The
        remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested awards at December 31, 2007,
        was $18,107,000 and the weighted-average period of time over which this cost will be
        recognized is 2.9 years.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

The Company’s employee stock purchase plan permits all eligible
        employees to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock at 85% of the fair market
        value. Participants may authorize the Company to withhold up to 5% of their annual salary
        to participate in the plan. The stock purchase plan authorizes up to 2,600,000 shares to be
        granted. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company issued 156,466 shares under
        the purchase plan at a weighted average price of $29.12 per share. During the year ended
        December 31, 2006, the Company issued 165,306 shares under the purchase plan at a weighted
        average price of $27.36 per share. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company
        issued 161,903 shares under the purchase plan at a weighted average price of $27.57 per
        share. SFAS No. 123R requires compensation expense to be recognized based on the discount
        between the grant date fair value and the employee purchase price for shares sold to
        employees. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recorded $804,000 of
        compensation cost related to employee share purchases and a corresponding income tax
        benefit of $290,000. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded $799,000
        of compensation cost related to employee share purchases and a corresponding income tax
        benefit of $295,000. At December 31, 2007, approximately 243,000 shares were reserved for
        future issuance.

Other
        Employee Benefit Plans

The Company sponsors a contributory profit sharing and savings plan that
        covers substantially all employees who are at least 21 years of age and have at least six
        months of service. The Company has agreed to make matching contributions equal to 50% of
        the first 2% of each employee’s wages that are contributed and 25% of the next 4% of
        each employee’s wages that are contributed. The Company also makes additional
        discretionary profit sharing contributions to the plan on an annual basis as determined by
        the Board of Directors. The Company’s matching and profit sharing contributions under
        this plan are funded in the form of shares of the Company’s common stock. A total of
        4,200,000 shares of common stock have been authorized for issuance under this plan. During
        the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recorded $6,849,000 of compensation cost for
        contributions to this plan and a corresponding income tax benefit of $2,527,000. During the
        year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded $6,429,000 of compensation cost for
        contributions to this plan and a corresponding income tax benefit of $2,372,000. During the
        year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded $6,606,000 of compensation cost for
        contributions to this plan and a corresponding income tax benefit of $2,444,000. The
        compensation cost recorded in 2007 includes matching contributions made in 2007 and
        profit


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        9— SHARE-BASED EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION PLANS (CONTINUED)

Other
        Employee Benefit Plans (continued)

sharing
        contributions accrued in 2007 to be funded with issuance of shares of common stock in 2008.
        The Company issued 197,431

shares
        in 2007 to fund profit sharing and matching contributions at an average grant date fair
        value of $32.90. The Company issued 204,000 shares in 2006 to fund profit sharing and
        matching contributions at an average grant date fair value of $34.34. The Company issued
        210,461 shares in 2005 to fund profit sharing and matching contributions at an average
        grant date fair value of $25.79. A portion of these shares related to profit sharing
        contributions accrued in prior periods. At December 31, 2007, approximately 863,000 shares
        were reserved for future issuance under this plan.

The Company has in effect a performance incentive plan for the
        Company’s senior management under which the Company awards shares of restricted stock
        that vest equally over a three-year period and are held in escrow until such vesting has
        occurred. Shares are forfeited when an employee ceases employment. A total of 800,000
        shares of common stock have been authorized for issuance under this plan. Shares awarded
        under this plan are valued based on the market price of the Company’s common stock on
        the date of grant and compensation cost is recorded over the vesting period. The Company
        recorded $459,000 of compensation cost for this plan for the year ended December 31, 2007
        and recognized a corresponding income tax benefit of $169,000. The Company recorded
        $416,000 of compensation cost for this plan for the year ended December 31, 2006 and
        recognized a corresponding income tax benefit of $154,000. The Company recorded $289,000 of
        compensation cost for this plan for the year ended December 31, 2005 and recognized a
        corresponding income tax benefit of $107,000. The total fair value of shares vested (at
        vest date) for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $478,000, $503,000 and
        $524,000, respectively. The remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested
        awards at December 31, 2007 was $521,000. The Company awarded 16,189 shares under this plan
        in 2007 with an average grant date fair value of $34.02. The Company awarded 18,698 shares
        under this plan in 2006 with an average grant date fair value of $33.12. The Company
        awarded 14,896 shares under this plan in 2005 with an average grant date fair value of
        $25.41. Compensation cost for shares awarded is recognized over the three-year vesting
        period. Changes in the Company’s restricted stock for the year ended December 31,
        2007 were as follows:

Shares

Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value

Non-vested at December 31, 2006

16,291

$

30.80

Granted during the period

16,189

34.02

Vested during the period

(14,738)

31.05

Forfeited during the period

(2,619)

32.53

Non-vested at December 31, 2007

15,123

$

33.70

At December
        31, 2007, approximately 645,000 shares were reserved for future issuance under this
        plan.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE

—

SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS
        PLAN

On May 7, 2002, the Board of Directors adopted a shareholder rights plan
        whereby one right was distributed for each share of common stock, par value $.01 per share,
        of the Company held by stockholders of record (the “Rights”) as of the close of
        business on May 31, 2002. The Rights initially entitle stockholders to buy a unit
        representing one one-hundredth of a share of a new series of preferred stock of the Company
        for $160 and expire on May 30, 2012. The Rights generally will be exercisable only if a
        person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the Company's common stock
        or commences a tender or exchange offer upon consummation of which such person or group
        would beneficially own 15% or more of the Company's common stock. If a person or group
        acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the Company's common stock, each Right
        (other than Rights held by the acquiror) will, unless the Rights are redeemed by the
        Company, become exercisable upon payment of the exercise price of $160 for an amount of
        common stock of the Company having a market value of twice the exercise price of the Right.
        A copy of the Rights Agreement was filed on June 3, 2002, with the Securities and Exchange
        Commission, as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s report on Form 8-K.

NOTE
        11—INCOME PER COMMON SHARE

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted income
        per common share:


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        12—INCOME TAXES

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences
        between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and
        the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of the Company's deferred
        tax assets and liabilities are as follows at December 31:

The provision for income taxes consists of the following:


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
        12—INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)

A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes to the amounts computed
        at the federal statutory rate is as follows:

The Company's provision for income taxes for 2005 included a non-cash tax
        adjustment of $6.1 million in the third quarter of 2005 resulting from the favorable
        resolution of prior tax uncertainties. The tax benefit realized in 2005 was nonrecurring
        and reflected the reversal of previously recorded income tax reserves related to a prior
        acquisition. In determining the provision for income taxes, the Company uses an estimated
        annual effective tax rate based on expected annual income by jurisdiction and statutory tax
        rates. The impact of significant discrete items, including the tax benefit realized in the
        third quarter of 2005, is separately recognized in the quarter in which they
        occur.

The tax benefit associated with the exercise of non-qualified stock options
        has been reflected as additional paid-in capital in the accompanying consolidated financial
        statements.

NOTE
        13—ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS

The adjustment to unrealized holding loss on available-for-sale securities
        included in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the period ended December 31, 2007
        totaled $10,933,000 with a corresponding tax benefit of $4,133,000 resulting in a net of
        tax effect of $6,800,000.

Changes
        in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the period ended December 31, 2007 consist of
        the following:

Unrealized Losses on Securities

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss

(In thousands)

Balance at December 31, 2006

$

--

$

--

Current-period change

(6,800

)

(6,800

)

Balance at December 31, 2007

$

(6,800

)

$

(6,800

)


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Shareholder Information

CORPORATE ADDRESS

233 South
        Patterson

Springfield, Missouri 65802

417-862-3333

Web site
        – www.oreillyauto.com

REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENT

Computershare Investor Services

P.O. Box

Providence,
        RI 02940-3078

Inquiries
        regarding stock transfers, lost certificates or address changes should be directed to
        Computershare Investor Services at the above address.

INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Ernst &
        Young LLP

One Kansas
        City Place

1200 Main
        Street, Suite 2000

Kansas
        City, Missouri 64105-2143

ANNUAL
        MEETING

The
        annual meeting of shareholders of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. will be held at 10:00
        a.m. local time on May 6, 2008, at the Clarion Hotel, Ballrooms 1 and 2, 3333 South
        Glenstone Ave in Springfield, Missouri. Shareholders of record as of February 28, 2008,
        will be entitled to vote at this meeting.

FORM
        10-K REPORT

The Form
        10-K Report of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. filed with the Securities and Exchange
        Commission and our quarterly press releases are available without charge to shareholders
        upon written request. These requests and other investor contacts should be directed to
        Thomas McFall, Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer, at the
        corporate address.

TRADING
        SYMBOL

The
        Company’s common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol
        ORLY.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        13.1 - Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

NUMBER OF SHAREHOLDERS

As of
        February 28, 2008, O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. had approximately 48,463 shareholders
        based on the number of holders of record and an estimate of the number of individual
        participants represented by security position listings.

ANALYST
        COVERAGE

The
        following analysts provide research coverage of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc.:

BB&T
        Capital Markets – Anthony Cristello

BMO Capital
        Markets U.S. – Richard Weinhart

Credit
        Suisse – Gary Balter

Deutsche
        Bank Research – Michael Baker

FTN Midwest
        Research Securities Corp. – William Keller

Goldman
        Sachs Research – Matthew J. Fassler

Kevin Dann
        & Partners – Cid Wilson

Merriman
        Curhan Ford & Co. – Robert Straus

Morgan
        Stanley – Gregory Melich

Raymond
        James & Associates – Dan Wewer

RBC Capital
        Markets – Scot Ciccarelli

Robert W.
        Baird & Co. – J. David Cumberland

Sidoti
        & Company – Scott Stember

Stifel
        Nicolaus & Company, Incorportated – David Schick

Wachovia
        Securities – Peter Benedict

William
        Blair & Company – Sharon Zackfia

MARKET
        PRICES AND DIVIDEND INFORMATION

The
        prices in the table below represent the high and low sales price for O’Reilly
        Automotive, Inc. common stock as reported by The Nasdaq Global Select Market (see Note 4 in
        the Company’s consolidated financial statements for information concerning the
        Company’s stock split in 2005).

The
        common stock began trading on April 22, 1993. No cash dividends have been declared since
        1992, and the Company does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable
        future.


O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        21.1 - Subsidiaries of the Company

Subsidiary

State of Incorporation

One
        hundred percent of the capital stock of each of the above listed subsidiaries is directly
        owned by O’Reilly Automotive, Inc.


O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit
        23.1 – Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting
        Firm

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

We
        consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of
        O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries of our reports dated February 27, 2008,
        with respect to the consolidated financial statements of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc.
        and Subsidiaries and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of
        O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries, included in the 2007 Annual Report to
        Shareholders of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries.

Our
        audits also included the financial statement schedule of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc.
        and Subsidiaries listed in Item 15(a). This schedule is the responsibility of
        O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries’ management. Our responsibility is
        to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, the financial statement schedule
        referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
        whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
        therein.

We also
        consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration
        Statements:

(1)

Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-63467) pertaining to
                    the O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. Director Stock Option Plan and the
                    O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. 1993 Stock Option Plan;

(2)

Registration Statements (Form S-8 No. 333-59568 and 333-136958)
                    pertaining to the O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. Profit Sharing and Savings
                    Plan;

(3)

Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-111976) pertaining to
                    the O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. 2003 Employee Stock Option Plan,
                    O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. 2003 Director Stock Option Plan, O’Reilly
                    Automotive, Inc. 1993 Employee Stock Option Plan, and the O’Reilly
                    Automotive, Inc. Stock Purchase Plan;

of our
        reports dated February 27, 2008, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of
        O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries and the effectiveness of internal control
        over financial reporting of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries, incorporated
        herein by reference, and our report included in the preceding paragraph with respect to the
        financial statement schedule of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries included
        in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries for
        the year ended December 31, 2007.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Kansas
        City, Missouri

February
        27, 2008


O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit
        31.1 – CEO Certification

CERTIFICATIONS

I, Greg
        Henslee, certify that:

1. I
        have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc.;

2. Based
        on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
        omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
        circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
        period covered by this report;

3. Based
        on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this
        report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
        operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
        report;

4. The
        registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
        maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
        and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
        Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a)
        Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
        procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
        relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
        others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
        prepared;

(b)
        Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
        over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
        assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
        statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
        principles;

(c)
        Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
        presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
        and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
        evaluation; and

(d)
        Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over
        financial reporting that occurred during the registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter
        (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
        materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s
        internal control over financial reporting.

5. The
        registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
        evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and
        the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
        equivalent functions):

a) All
        significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
        control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
        registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
        and

b) Any
        fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
        significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 29, 2008

/s/ Greg Henslee

Greg Henslee, Co-President and

Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)


O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit
        31.2 – CFO Certification

CERTIFICATIONS

I,
        Thomas McFall, certify that:

1. I
        have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc.;

2. Based
        on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
        omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
        circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
        period covered by this report;

3. Based
        on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this
        report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
        operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
        report;

4. The
        registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
        maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
        and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
        Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a)
        Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
        procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
        relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
        others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
        prepared;

(b)
        Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
        over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
        assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
        statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
        principles;

(c)
        Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
        presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
        and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
        evaluation; and

(d)
        Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over
        financial reporting that occurred during the registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter
        (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
        materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s
        internal control over financial reporting.

5. The
        registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
        evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and
        the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
        equivalent functions):

a) All
        significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
        control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
        registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
        and

b) Any
        fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
        significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 29, 2008

/s/ Thomas McFall

Thomas McFall, Executive Vice President of

Finance and Chief Financial Officer (Principal

Financial and Accounting Officer)


O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit
        32.1 – CEO Certification

O’REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO

18 U.S.C.
        SECTION 1350

AS
        ADOPTED PURSUANT TO

SECTION
        906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In
        connection with the Report of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. (the “Company”)
        on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2007, as filed with the Securities and
        Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the “Report”), I, Greg Henslee, Chief
        Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
        pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section
                    13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
        respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.

/s/ Greg Henslee

Greg
        Henslee

Chief
        Executive Officer

February
        29, 2008

This
        certification is made solely for purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, and not for any other
        purpose.


O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit
        32.2 – CFO Certification

O’REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO

18 U.S.C.
        SECTION 1350

AS
        ADOPTED PURSUANT TO

SECTION
        906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In
        connection with the Report of O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. (the “Company”)
        on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2007, as filed with the Securities and
        Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the “Report”), I, Thomas McFall, Chief
        Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
        pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section
                    13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
        respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.

/s/ Thomas McFall

Thomas
        McFall

Chief
        Financial Officer

February
        29, 2008

This
        certification is made solely for purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, and not for any other
        purpose.

69