
10-K
FORM 10-K




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

(X)  ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

                                       OR

( )  TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO SECTION  13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

   For the transition period from ___________________ to ____________________

                         Commission file number 0-21318

                            O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Missouri                                       44-0618012
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(State or other jurisdiction                   (IRS Employer Identification No.)
    of incorporation or
       organization)

                               233 South Patterson
                           Springfield, Missouri 65801
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               (Address of principal executive offices, zip code)

                                               (417) 862-6708
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None

Securities  registered  pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Common Stock, $.01
par value

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  X   No
                                          ---     ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained here, and will not be contained,  to the best
of the registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

At February 29, 2000, an aggregate of  50,838,036  shares of the common stock of
the registrant was  outstanding.  As of that date, the aggregate market value of
the  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the  Company  was  approximately
$711,732,504  based on the last sale price of the common  stock  reported by the
Nasdaq Stock Market (National Market).

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

As provided below,  portions of the registrant's  documents  specified below are
incorporated here by reference:

                       Document                                Part-Form 10-K
- --------------------------------------------------------    --------------------

Portions of the Annual Shareholders' Report for the Year
Ended December 31, 1999                                     Parts II and IV

Proxy Statement for 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
(to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days
of the end of registrant's most recently completed fiscal
year)                                                       Parts I and III



The  information  contained  in this Form  10-K  includes  statements  regarding
matters  which are not  historical  facts  (including  statements as to O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc.'s plans,  beliefs or expectations)  which are  forward-looking
statements  within the  meaning of the federal  securities  laws.  Because  such
forward-looking  statements involve certain risks and uncertainties,  our actual
results and the timing of certain  events  could  differ  materially  from those
discussed  in this  document.  Factors  that could cause or  contribute  to such
differences  include those  discussed in the Sections  captioned  "Business" and
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations"  (incorporated  here by  reference)  and the risk factors  discussed
below. Unless otherwise indicated, "we", "us", "our", and similar terms, as well
as references to the "Company" and "O'Reilly" refer to O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.
and its subsidiaries.


                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  is  one  of  the  largest  specialty  retailers  of
automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies,  equipment and accessories in the
United States, selling our products to both do-it-yourself ("DIY") customers and
professional  installers.  At December 31, 1999 we operated 571 stores in Texas,
Missouri,  Oklahoma, Kansas, Iowa, Arkansas,  Louisiana,  Nebraska and Illinois.
Our stores carry an extensive product line consisting of:

o    new  and  remanufactured   automotive  hard  parts,  such  as  alternators,
     starters,  fuel pumps, water pumps, brake shoes and pads, chassis parts and
     engine parts;

o    maintenance items, such as oil,  antifreeze,  fluids,  engine additives and
     appearance products;

o    accessories,  such as floor mats and seat covers;  and

o    a complete line of autobody paint and related  materials,  automotive tools
     and professional service equipment.

We do not sell tires or perform automotive repairs or installations.

We were founded in 1957 by Charles F.  O'Reilly  and his son,  Charles H. "Chub"
O'Reilly,  Sr. (one of our current  directors),  and  initially  operated from a
single  store in  Springfield,  Missouri.  The  O'Reilly  family has managed the
company since our inception.

Our goal is to  continue  to  achieve  growth  in  sales  and  profitability  by
capitalizing  on  our  competitive  advantages  and  executing  our  growth  and
expansion strategies.

See "Risk  Factors"  beginning  on page 11 for a  description  of certain  risks
relevant to an investment in our common stock. These risk factors include, among
others, risks related to competition in the automotive aftermarket business, our
growth strategy,  our acquisition strategy, our sensitivity to regional economic
and  weather  conditions,  our  dependence  upon key and  other  personnel,  the
significant  voting  control held by our principal  shareholders  and any latent
Year 2000 matters.

Competitive Advantages

Proven Ability to Execute Dual Market  Strategy.  We have an  established  track
record of serving both DIY customers and professional installers. We believe our
ability to execute a dual market  strategy  is a  competitive  advantage,  which
enables us to:

o    target a larger base of consumers of automotive aftermarket parts;

o    capitalize on our existing retail and distribution infrastructure;

o    profitably  operate  both in  large  markets  and  less  densely  populated
     geographic areas which typically attract fewer competitors; and

o    enhance  service  levels  offered to our DIY  customers by offering a broad
     selection of stock keeping units (''SKUs'') and extensive product knowledge
     required by professional installers.

We have been committed to a dual market  strategy for over 20 years and from the
mid-1980's through 1997 derived  approximately 50% of our product sales from our
DIY customers and approximately 50% from our professional  installer  customers.
As a result  of our  acquisition  of Hi-Lo  Automotive,  Inc.  ("Hi/LO"),  which
derived  approximately 65% of its sales from DIY customers and approximately 35%
from  professional  installers  prior to the  acquisition,  for 1999 we  derived
approximately  58% of our product sales from our DIY customers and approximately
42% from our  professional  installer  customers.  As a result of our historical
success in executing  our dual market  strategy and our over 77 full-time  sales
representatives dedicated solely to calling upon and selling to the professional
installer,  we  believe  we will  increase  the former  Hi/LO  stores'  sales to
professional  installers  and  have a  competitive  advantage  over  our  retail
competitors   who  have  only  recently   entered  and  begun  focusing  on  the
professional installer market.

Superior Customer Service. We seek to attract new DIY and professional installer
customers  and to  retain  existing  customers  by  offering  superior  customer
service, the key elements of which include:

o    superior in-store service through highly-motivated,  technically proficient
     store   personnel    (''Professional   Parts   People'')   using   advanced
     point-of-sale systems;

o    an extensive selection of products;

o    attractive stores in convenient locations; and

o    competitive pricing, with a low price guarantee.

Technically   Proficient   Professional  Parts  People.  Our  highly  proficient
Professional Parts People provide us with a significant  competitive  advantage,
particularly over less specialized retail operators. We require our Professional
Parts People to undergo  extensive  and ongoing  training and to be  technically
knowledgeable, particularly with respect to hard parts, in order to better serve
the  technically-oriented  professional  installers with whom they interact on a
daily basis.  Such technical  proficiency  also enhances the customer service we
provide to our DIY customers,  who appreciate the expert assistance  provided by
our Professional Parts People.

Strategic Distribution Systems. We believe that the geographic  concentration of
our store network in nine contiguous states (Missouri,  Iowa, Nebraska,  Kansas,
Oklahoma,  Texas, Louisiana,  Arkansas and Illinois) and the strategic locations
of our five distribution  centers enable us to maintain optimum inventory levels
throughout  our  store  network.  In  addition,  our  inventory  management  and
distribution  systems  electronically  link each of our stores to a distribution
center,   providing  for  efficient   inventory  control  and  management.   Our
distribution  system  provides  each of our  stores  with same day or  overnight
access to over 100,000 SKUs,  many of which are hard to find items not typically
stocked by other parts  retailers.  We believe the availability of a broad range
of products is a key  competitive  advantage in satisfying  customer  demand and
generating repeat business.

Experienced  Management Team. Our management team has a demonstrated  ability to
successfully  execute  our  business  plan,  including  the  identification  and
integration  of  strategic  acquisitions.  We have  experienced  24  consecutive
quarters of  year-to-year  record  sales and earnings  growth.  We have a strong
senior  management  team comprised of 38  professionals  who average 20 years of
experience with O'Reilly. In addition,  our 61 district managers average over 10
years of experience with us.


Growth and Expansion Strategies

Aggressively  Open New Stores.  We intend to continue to  aggressively  open new
stores in order to achieve greater penetration in existing markets and to expand
into new,  contiguous  markets. We plan to open approximately 100 stores in 2000
and  approximately  120 stores in 2001.  All of the sites for our proposed  2000
store  openings and a majority of the sites for our proposed 2001 store openings
have  been  identified.   In  selecting  sites  for  new  stores,   we  seek  to
strategically locate store sites in clusters within geographic areas in order to
achieve  economies  of  scale  in  areas  such as  management,  advertising  and
distribution.

Until 1986, our expansion was targeted to markets with  populations of less than
100,000. We entered into a more densely populated market in August 1986 with the
opening of the first of 29 stores in the greater Kansas City,  Missouri,  market
area.  Of the 80 (net) stores  opened in 1999,  34 are located in Texas,  20 are
located in Iowa, 6 in Nebraska, 5 in Louisiana,  4 in Arkansas, 4 in Oklahoma, 4
in Kansas and 3 in  Missouri.  While we have  faced,  and expect to  continue to
face,  more aggressive  competition in the more densely  populated  markets,  we
believe that we have competed  effectively,  and that we are well  positioned to
continue  to  compete  effectively,  in such  markets  and  achieve  our goal of
continued  sales and profit  growth within these  markets.  We also believe that
because of our dual market  strategy,  we are better  able to operate  stores in
less  densely  populated  areas  within  our  regional  market  which  would not
otherwise  support a national or regional  chain store selling to one portion of
the market or the other. Consequently,  we expect to continue to open new stores
in less densely populated market areas.

To date, we have  experienced no significant  difficulties in locating  suitable
store sites for construction of new stores or identifying  suitable  acquisition
candidates  for  conversion  to O'Reilly  stores.  We typically  open new stores
either (i) by  constructing  a new store at a site which is  purchased or leased
and stocking the new store with fixtures and inventory,  or (ii) by acquiring an
independently owned parts store,  typically by the purchase of substantially all
of the inventory and other assets (other than realty) of such store. Store sites
are strategically  located in clusters within geographic areas, which complement
our  distribution  system in order to achieve  economies of scale in management,
advertising,  and distribution  costs. Other key factors we consider in the site
selection process include  population  density and growth patterns,  age and per
capita  income,  vehicle  traffic  counts,  the  number  and  type  of  existing
automotive repair facilities,  auto parts stores, and other competitors within a
pre-determined  radius, and the operational  strength of such competitors.  When
entering new, more densely  populated  markets,  we generally  seek to initially
open several  stores within a short span of time in order to maximize the effect
of initial promotional programs and achieve further economies of scale.

Same store growth through increased sales and profitability is also an important
part of our growth  strategy.  To achieve  improved sales and  profitability  at
existing  O'Reilly  stores,  we  continually  strive to improve upon the service
provided  to our  customers.  We  believe  that  while  competitive  pricing  is
essential in the competitive environment of the automotive aftermarket business,
it is  customer  satisfaction  (whether  of the  DIY  consumer  or  professional
installer),  resulting from superior  customer service that generates  increased
sales and profitability.

Selectively Pursue Strategic  Acquisitions.  Although the automotive aftermarket
industry is still  highly  fragmented,  we believe  the ability of national  and
regional specialty retail chains, such as O'Reilly,  to operate more efficiently
than  smaller  independent  operators  or  mass  merchandisers  will  result  in
continued  industry  consolidation.   Thus,  we  intend  to  selectively  pursue
acquisition  targets that will  strengthen our position as a leading  automotive
products retailer.

Effective January 31, 1998, we acquired Hi/LO, a specialty retailer and supplier
of automotive  aftermarket products  headquartered in Houston,  Texas. Following
the  acquisition,  we sold seven Hi/LO stores located in California.  Of the 182
stores remaining after such sale, 165 are located in Texas and 17 are located in
Louisiana. Through the Hi/LO acquisition, we also acquired a 425,000 square foot
distribution  center located in Houston.  The Hi/LO operations are contiguous to
our other  operations,  thereby creating a natural  geographic  extension of our
business. In addition, Hi/LO was experienced in serving professional installers,
deriving  approximately  35% of its revenues  from such  customers.  We acquired
Hi/LO for a cash purchase price of approximately  $49.3 million.  At the time of
the acquisition, Hi/LO had $43.2 million of existing debt, which we assumed.

We have  continued to realize the benefits of the completed  integration  of the
182 net stores we acquired through the acquisition of Hi/LO. We have updated the
products  offered at the former Hi/LO stores with a product mix consistent  with
our  existing  stores,  converted  these  stores to our  Management  Information
Systems  and, in some cases,  renovated or  relocated  the former Hi/LO  stores.
Furthermore,  we  intend to  continue  to pursue  business  in the  professional
installer  market and benefit from increased  leverage in purchasing and reduced
overhead expenses.

Continually  Enhance  Store Design and  Location.  Our current  prototype  store
design features  enhancements  such as greater square footage,  higher ceilings,
more convenient  interior store layouts,  brighter  lighting,  increased parking
availability  and  dedicated  counters to serve  professional  installers,  each
designed  to  increase  product  sales and  operating  efficiencies  and enhance
customer service.  We continually update the location and condition of our store
network through  systematic  renovation and relocation of our existing stores to
conform with our prototype  store  design.  In 1999, we renovated or relocated 8
stores, and in 2000 we plan to renovate or relocate  approximately 13 stores. We
believe that our ability to  consistently  achieve  growth in same store product
sales  is due in part to our  commitment  to  maintaining  an  attractive  store
network, which is strategically located to best serve our customers.


Products and Purchasing

Our stores offer DIY and  professional  installer  customers a wide selection of
brand name and private  label  products for  domestic and imported  automobiles,
vans  and  trucks.  We do not  sell  tires  or  perform  automotive  repairs  or
installations.  Our  merchandise  generally  consists of nationally  recognized,
well-advertised,  name brand  products  such as AC Delco,  Moog,  Wagner,  Gates
Rubber,  Federal  Mogul,  Monroe,  Prestone,  Quaker State,  Pennzoil,  Castrol,
Valvoline, STP, BWD, Cardone, Wix, Armor All and Turtle Wax. In addition to name
brand products,  our stores carry a wide variety of  high-quality  private label
products  under the Parts  Master(R)  name brand and our O'Reilly Auto Parts(R),
SuperStart(R),   BrakeBest(R),   Ultima(R),   Thermo-Pro(R)   and   Omnispark(R)
proprietary name brands. Because most of our private label products are produced
by nationally recognized manufacturers in accordance with our specifications, we
believe  that the private  label  products  are  generally  of equal or, in some
cases,  better quality than  comparable name brand  products,  a  characteristic
which is important to our professional  installer clientele.  We further believe
that the private label products are packaged  attractively  to promote  customer
interest and are generally  priced below  comparable name brand products carried
in our stores.

We purchase automotive products from approximately 400 vendors, the five largest
of which  accounted for  approximately  24% of our total  purchases in 1999. Our
largest vendor in 1999 accounted for approximately 6% of our total purchases and
the next four largest vendors each accounted for 4-5% of such purchases. We have
no long-term  contractual purchase commitments with any of our vendors, nor have
we  experienced  difficulty  in obtaining  satisfactory  alternative  sources of
supply for automotive parts. We believe that alternative supply sources exist at
substantially  similar costs, for substantially all automotive  products that we
sell.  It is our  policy  to  take  advantage  of  early  payment  and  seasonal
purchasing  discounts  offered by our vendors,  and to utilize  extended  dating
terms  available  from  vendors  due  to  volume  purchasing.  We  consider  our
relationships with our suppliers to be good.


Store Network

Store  Locations.  As a  result  of our  dual  market  strategy,  we are able to
profitably  operate in both large,  densely  populated  markets and less densely
populated  areas which would not otherwise  support a national or regional chain
selling to just one portion of the automotive  aftermarket.  The following table
sets forth the geographic distribution of our stores:



Our stores on average carry approximately 23,000 SKUs and average  approximately
6,600 total square feet in size. Our stores are served  primarily by the nearest
distribution  center, but also have access to the broader selection of inventory
available  at one of our 37 Master  Inventory  Stores,  which on  average  carry
approximately  37,000 SKUs and average  approximately 8,600 square feet in size.
Master Inventory Stores,  in addition to serving DIY and professional  installer
customers in their  markets,  also  provides our other stores  within their area
access to a greater selection of SKUs on a same day basis.

We believe that our stores are "destination stores" generating their own traffic
rather than  relying on traffic  created by the  presence of other stores in the
immediate vicinity.  Consequently, most of our stores are freestanding buildings
situated on or near major  traffic  thoroughfares,  and offer ample  parking and
easy customer access.

Store  Layout.  We utilize a  computer-assisted  "plan-o-grammed"  store  layout
system to provide a uniform and consistent  merchandise  presentation;  however,
some variation occurs in order to meet the specific needs of a particular market
area.  Merchandise  is  arranged  to provide  easy  customer  access and maximum
selling space, keeping high-turnover products and accessories within view of the
customer.  Aisle displays are generally used to feature  high-demand or seasonal
merchandise, new items and advertised specials.

Store Automation. To enhance store level operations and customer service, we use
IBM AS/400 computer systems in all of our stores.  These systems are linked with
the IBM  AS/400  computers  located  in each of our  distribution  centers.  Our
point-of-sale   terminals  use  bar  code  scanning   technology  to  price  our
merchandise and provide  immediate  access to our electronic  catalog to display
parts and pricing  information by make,  model and year of vehicle.  This system
speeds transaction times,  reduces register lines and provides enhanced customer
service.  Moreover, our store automation systems capture sales information which
assists  in  store  management,   strategic  planning,   inventory  control  and
distribution efficiency.

New  Store  Site  Selection.  In  selecting  sites  for new  stores,  we seek to
strategically locate store sites in clusters within geographic areas in order to
achieve economies of scale in management,  advertising and  distribution.  Other
key factors we consider in the site selection process include:

o    population density and growth patterns;

o    age and per capita income;

o    vehicle traffic counts;

o    the number and type of existing automotive repair facilities; and

o    the  number  of  auto  parts   stores  and  other   competitors   within  a
     pre-determined radius and the operational strength of such competitors.

When  entering  new,  more  densely  populated  markets,  we  generally  seek to
initially  open several  stores within a short span of time in order to maximize
the effect of initial  promotional  programs  and achieve  further  economies of
scale.  After  opening  this  initial  cluster of new  stores,  we seek to begin
penetrating the less densely populated  surrounding areas. This strategy enables
us to achieve  additional  distribution  and  advertising  efficiencies  in each
market.


Distribution System

The following table sets forth the distribution centers we currently operate:


In addition,  adjacent to the  Springfield,  Missouri  distribution  center,  we
operate  a  36,000  square  foot  bulk   merchandise   warehouse  used  for  the
distribution  of  bulk  products  such  as  motor  oil,  antifreeze,  batteries,
lubricants  and other fast  moving  bulk  products,  and an 18,000  square  foot
returned goods processing facility.

Our distribution  centers are equipped with highly automated  conveyor  systems,
which  expedite the  movement of our  products to loading  areas for shipment to
individual  stores  on  a  nightly  basis.  The  distribution   centers  utilize
computer-assisted  technology to  electronically  receive  orders from computers
located in each of our stores.  In  addition to the bar code system  employed in
our stores, we have established a satellite-based  data interchange system among
those stores in which  high-speed  data  transmission  technology is not readily
available, the distribution center, which services such stores and our corporate
headquarters.

We  believe   that  our   distribution   system   assists  us  in  lowering  our
inventory-carrying   costs,   improving  our  store  in-stock   positions,   and
controlling and managing our inventory.  Moreover, we believe that our expanding
network of distribution  centers allows us to more efficiently  service existing
stores,  as well as new stores  planned for opening in contiguous  market areas.
Our  distribution  center  expansion  strategy  also  complements  our new store
opening strategy by supporting newly  established  clusters of stores located in
the regions  surrounding  each  distribution  center.  As part of our continuing
efforts to enhance our distribution network, in 2000 we plan to:

o    pursue our expansion plans for north Texas,  with the opening of a recently
     purchased distribution center in Dallas, Texas;

o    increase  the  number of stores  served by the  distribution  center in Des
     Moines, IA; and

o    implement  a  new  warehouse  management  system  in  certain  distribution
     centers, which will enhance the efficiency of our distribution network.


Marketing

Marketing to the DIY Customer.  We  aggressively  promote sales to DIY customers
through  an  extensive  advertising  program,  which  includes  direct  mail and
newspaper, radio and television advertising in selected markets. We believe that
our  advertising and  promotional  activities have resulted in significant  name
recognition in each of our market areas.  Newspaper and radio advertisements are
generally directed towards specific product and price promotions,  frequently in
connection  with  specific sale events and  promotions.  To promote sales to car
enthusiasts,  who we believe on an  individual  basis  spend more on  automotive
products than the public generally, we sponsor over 48 motorsports shows at over
66 racetracks in nine states,  including  the NASCAR  All-Star Dirt Series,  the
O'Reilly Chili Bowl, the World of Outlaws  Series,  the NASCAR  Craftsmen  Truck
Series, as well as three National Hotrod Racing Association races in Houston and
Dallas. We have found that the more progressive  marketing  concepts utilized in
the DIY portion of our  business  can also be applied to  increase  sales to our
professional installer customers.

Marketing to the  Professional  Installer.  We have over 77  full-time  O'Reilly
sales representatives strategically located in the more densely populated market
areas that we serve, and each is dedicated solely to calling upon and selling to
the professional  installer.  Our First Call program, which is our commitment to
the  professional  customer,   includes  a  dedicated  sales  force,  sales  and
promotions  directed  to  the  professional  installer  and  overnight  delivery
service.  Moreover, each district manager and store manager throughout our store
network calls upon existing and potential new professional  installer  customers
on a  regular  basis.  Our  First  Call  marketing  strategy,  with  respect  to
professional installers, emphasizes our ability to offer:

o    prompt delivery using small trucks or vans operated by most of our stores;

o    a separate counter in most of our stores  dedicated  exclusively to serving
     professional installers;

o    trade credit for qualified professional installers;

o    broad inventory of merchandise and competitive pricing;

o    a  professional  installer  computer  system that connects  directly to our
     inventory system; and

o    seminars concerning topics of interest to professional installers,  such as
     technical updates, safety and general business management.

Marketing to the  Independently  Owned Parts Store.  Along with the operation of
the  distribution  centers and the  distribution  of Automotive  Products to the
O'Reilly  stores,  Ozark  Automotive  Distributors,  Inc.  ("Ozark")  also sells
Automotive  Products to independently owned parts stores whose retail stores are
generally  located in areas not serviced by an O'Reilly  store.  We generally do
not compete with any independently owned parts store to which we sell automotive
products,   but  have,  on  occasion,   acquired  the  business   assets  of  an
independently  owned  parts  store  supplied by Ozark.  Ozark  operates  its own
separate  marketing program to independently  owned parts stores through a staff
of five.

Of the  approximately 60 independently  owned parts stores currently  purchasing
Automotive  Products from Ozark,  56  participate  in the Auto Value(R)  program
through Ozark. As a participant in this program,  an  independently  owned parts
store which  meets  certain  minimum  financial  and  operational  standards  is
permitted to indicate its Auto  Value(R)  membership  through the display of the
Auto Value(R) logo, which is owned by The Alliance, Inc. (formerly known as Auto
Value  Associates,  Inc.), a non-profit buying group consisting of 38 members as
of December 31, 1999, including O'Reilly, engaged in the distribution or sale of
automotive  products.  Additionally,  we  provide  advertising  and  promotional
assistance to Auto Value(R) stores purchasing Automotive Products from Ozark, as
well as marketing  and sales  support.  In return for a  commitment  to purchase
Automotive  Products  from  Ozark,  we  offer  assistance  to an  Auto  Value(R)
independently  owned parts store by  providing  loan  guarantees  and  financing
secured by inventory, furniture and fixtures, making available computer software
for  inventory  control  and  performing   certain  accounting  and  bookkeeping
functions.


Management Structure

Each of our stores is staffed with a store manager and an assistant manager,  in
addition  to the  parts  specialists  and  support  staff  required  to meet the
specific  needs of each  store.  Each of our 61  district  managers  has general
supervisory  responsibility  for an average of 10 stores  within such  manager's
district.

Each district manager  receives  comprehensive  training on a bi-monthly  basis,
focusing  on  management  techniques,   new  product   announcements,   advanced
automotive  systems and our policies and  procedures.  In turn, the  information
covered at such bi-monthly meetings is discussed in full by district managers at
bi-monthly  meetings  with their store  managers.  All  assistant  managers  and
manager  trainees  are  required to  successfully  complete a six-month  manager
training program, which includes classroom and field training, as a prerequisite
to becoming a store manager. This program covers operations extensively, as well
as principles of successful management.  Shortly after becoming a store manager,
all managers attend a manager development  program, at the office  headquarters,
which  includes 72 hours of classroom  training.  Upon  returning to the stores,
managers  are  given  continuous  field  training  throughout  their  management
experience.

We provide  financial  incentives  to our  district  managers,  store  managers,
assistant  managers  and sales  specialists  through an  incentive  compensation
program.  Under our incentive  compensation program, base salary is augmented by
incentive  compensation  based upon the  achievement of sales and  profitability
goals.  We  believe  that  our  incentive   compensation  program  significantly
increases the  motivation  and overall  performance  of our  Professional  Parts
People and our  ability to attract  and retain  qualified  management  and other
personnel.

Most of our current senior management, district managers and store managers were
promoted to their positions from within the Company.  Our senior management team
averages 20 years of experience  with the Company and district  managers have an
average length of service with the Company of over 10 years.


Professional Parts People

We believe our highly trained team of Professional  Parts People is essential in
providing  superior  service both to DIY and professional  installer  customers.
Each of our Professional  Parts People is required to be technically  proficient
in the workings and  application of automotive  products due to the  significant
portion of our business represented by the professional  installer. In addition,
we have found that the typical DIY customer  often seeks  assistance  from sales
persons,  particularly in connection with the purchase of hard parts. We believe
that the ability of our Professional  Parts People to provide such assistance to
the DIY customer creates a favorable impression during a customer's visit to our
store and is a significant factor in generating repeat DIY business.

We screen prospective  employees,  whom we refer to as team members, to identify
highly  motivated  individuals  either with  experience in  automotive  parts or
repairs, or an aptitude for automotive knowledge. Each person who becomes a team
member first participates in an intensive two-day  orientation  program designed
to  introduce  the team member to our  culture and his or her job duties  before
being  assigned  specific job  responsibilities.  The  successful  completion of
additional  training is required  before a team member is deemed  qualified as a
parts  specialist  and  thus  able to work at the  parts  counter  of one of our
stores. All new counter people are required to successfully complete a six-month
basic  automotive  systems  training course and are then enrolled in a six-month
advanced  automotive  systems course for certification by the National Institute
for Automotive Service Excellence  (''ASE''),  which administers  national exams
for various  automotive  specialties  and requires ASE certified  specialists to
take recertification exams every five years.

Each of our stores participates in our sales specialist training program.  Under
this program,  selected team members  complete two days of extensive  sales call
training for business development, after which these team members will spend one
day per week  calling on  existing  and new  professional  installer  customers.
Additionally, each team member engaged in such sales activities will participate
in quarterly advanced training programs for sales and business development.


Customer Service

We seek to  provide  our  customers  with an  efficient  and  pleasant  in-store
experience by maintaining  attractive stores in convenient locations with a wide
selection of automotive  products.  We believe that the  satisfaction of DIY and
professional installer customers is substantially  dependent upon our ability to
provide,  in a  timely  fashion,  the  specific  automotive  product  requested.
Accordingly,  each  O'Reilly  store  carries  a broad  selection  of  automotive
products  designed  to  cover  a  wide  range  of  vehicle  specifications.   We
continuously  refine the inventory levels carried in our stores,  based in large
part on the sales movement shown by our  computerized  inventory  control system
and on management's assessment of the changes and trends in the marketplace.


Pricing

We  believe  that a  competitive  pricing  policy is  essential  within  product
categories  in order to  compete  successfully.  Product  pricing  is  generally
established  to meet the  pricing  policies  of  competitors  in the market area
served  by each  store.  Most  automotive  products  that we sell are  priced at
discounts to the  manufacturer  suggested  prices,  and  additional  savings are
offered through volume  discounts and special  promotional  pricing.  Consistent
with our low price guarantee, each of our stores will match any verifiable price
on any in-stock product of the same or comparable  quality offered by any of our
competitors.

Competition

We compete in both the DIY and professional installer portions of the automotive
aftermarket. We compete primarily with:

o    national and  regional  retail  automotive  parts chains (such as AutoZone,
     Inc., Advance Auto Parts and The Pep Boys-Manny, Moe and Jack, Inc.);

o    independently owned parts stores;

o    wholesalers  or jobber stores (some of which are  associated  with national
     automotive parts distributors or associations such as NAPA and CarQuest);

o    automobile dealers; and

o    mass  merchandisers that carry automotive  replacement  parts,  maintenance
     items and accessories (such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.).

We  compete  on the  basis  of  customer  service,  which  includes  merchandise
selection and  availability,  price,  helpfulness  of store  personnel and store
layout and location.


Team Members

As of December 31, 1999, we had 7,763 full-time team members and 1,720 part-time
team members, of whom 7,086 were employed at our stores,  1,536 were employed at
our   distribution   centers  and  861  were   employed  at  our  corporate  and
administrative  headquarters.  Our team  members are not subject to a collective
bargaining  agreement.  We consider  our  relations  with our team members to be
excellent,  and strive to promote good relations  with our team members  through
various programs designed for such purposes.


Servicemarks and Trademarks

We have  registered  the  servicemarks  O'Reilly  Automotive(R),  O'Reilly  Auto
Parts(R),  and Parts Payoff(R) and the trademarks  SuperStart(R),  BrakeBest(R),
Omnispark(R),   First  Call(R),  Ultima(R),  Master  Pro(R)  and  Thermo-Pro(R).
Further, we are licensed to use the registered  trademarks and servicemarks Auto
Value(R)  and  Parts  Master(R)  owned  by The  Alliance  (formerly  Auto  Value
Associates)  in  connection  with our  marketing  program.  We believe  that our
business is not otherwise dependent upon any patent,  trademark,  servicemark or
copyright.


Regulations

Although  subject to various laws and governmental  regulations  relating to our
business,  including  those related to the  environment,  we do not believe that
compliance with such laws and  regulations has a material  adverse effect on our
operations.  Further, we are unaware of any failure to comply with any such laws
and  regulations,  which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.
No assurance  can be given,  however,  that  significant  expenses  would not be
incurred by us to comply with any such law or regulation in the future.

Risk Factors

Some of the  information in this Form 10-K contains and future reports and press
releases and other public  information  may contain  forward-looking  statements
that  involve  substantial  risks  and  uncertainties.  You can  identify  these
statements  by  forward-looking  words such as  ''may,''  ''will,''  ''expect,''
''anticipate,''  ''believe,''  ''estimate,''  and ''continue'' or similar words.
These  "forward-looking  statements"  are made in reliance  upon the safe harbor
provisions of the Private Securities  Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (See Section
27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.) You should read statements that contain these words carefully  because
they: (1) discuss our future expectations; (2) contain projections of our future
results  of  operations  or of  our  financial  condition;  or (3)  state  other
''forward-looking''  information.  We believe it is important to communicate our
expectations to our investors.  However,  there may be events in the future that
we are not able to accurately predict or over which we have no control. The risk
factors listed in this section,  as well as any cautionary language in this Form
10-K,  provide  examples of risks,  uncertainties  and events that may cause our
actual results to differ  materially  from the  expectations  we describe in our
forward-looking  statements.  You  should be aware  that the  occurrence  of the
events  described  in these risk  factors and  elsewhere in this Form 10-K could
have a material adverse effect on our business,  operating results and financial
condition.

The Automotive Aftermarket Business is Highly Competitive

Both the DIY and  professional  installer  portions of our  business  are highly
competitive,  particularly  in the more densely  populated  areas that we serve.
Some of our  competitors  are  larger  than we are and  have  greater  financial
resources.  In addition, some of our competitors are smaller than we are overall
but have a greater presence than we do in a particular market. For a list of our
principal  competitors,  see the  "Business-Competition"  section of Item 1 of
this Form 10-K.

We Cannot Assure Future Growth

We believe that our ability to open  additional  stores at an  accelerated  rate
will be a significant  factor in achieving our growth objectives for the future.
Failure to achieve our growth objectives may negatively impact the trading price
of our  common  stock.  Our  ability to  accomplish  our  growth  objectives  is
dependent,  in part, on matters beyond our control,  such as weather conditions,
zoning and other issues related to new store site development,  the availability
of qualified  management personnel and general business and economic conditions.
We cannot be sure that our growth  plans for 2000 and beyond  will be  achieved.
For a  discussion  of  our  growth  strategies,  see  the  "Business-Growth  and
Expansion Strategies" section of Item 1 of this Form 10-K.

Acquisitions May Not Lead to Expected Growth

We acquired Hinojosa Auto Parts in April 1999, a distribution  center in Dallas,
Texas in December 1999 and plan to acquire Gateway Auto Supply in April 2000. We
expect to continue to acquire  companies  as an element of our growth  strategy.
Acquisitions  involve certain risks that could cause our actual growth to differ
from  our  expectations.  For  example:  (1) we may not be able to  continue  to
identify suitable  acquisition  candidates or to acquire additional companies at
favorable prices or on other favorable terms; (2) our management's attention may
be  distracted;  (3) we may fail to retain key  acquired  personnel;  (4) we may
assume unanticipated legal liabilities and other problems; and (5) we may not be
able to successfully integrate the operations (accounting and billing functions,
for example) of businesses we acquire to realize economic, operational and other
benefits.

Sensitivity to Regional Economic and Weather Conditions

All of our stores are located in the  Central and  Southern  United  States.  In
particular, approximately 36% of our stores are located in Texas. Therefore, our
business is sensitive to the economic and weather  conditions of these  regions.
Unusually severe or inclement weather tends to reduce sales, particularly to DIY
customers.

Dependence Upon Key and Other Personnel

Our success has been largely  dependent on the efforts of certain key personnel,
including  David E. O'Reilly,  Lawrence P. O'Reilly,  Charles H. O'Reilly,  Jr.,
Rosalie  O'Reilly  Wooten,  Ted F. Wise and Greg L.  Henslee.  Our  business and
results of operations could be materially  adversely affected by the loss of the
services  of one or more of  these  individuals.  Additionally,  our  successful
implementation and management of our growth and expansion strategies will depend
on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel.  We cannot
be sure  that we will be able to  continue  to  attract  such  personnel.  For a
further  discussion of our management and personnel,  see the "Business" section
of Item 1 and Item 4a of this Form 10-K and our Proxy  Statement on Schedule 14A
for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

Significant Voting Control is held by the O'Reilly Family

As of the  date  of  this  Form  10-K  the  O'Reilly  family  beneficially  owns
approximately  25.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result,
the  O'Reilly  family  acting  together  will  continue  to be able to  exercise
significant  voting  control  over the  Company,  including  the election of our
directors and on any other matter being voted on by our shareholders,  including
any merger, sale of assets or other change in control.

Possible Volatility of Our Stock Price

The stock  market and the price of our common  stock may be subject to  volatile
fluctuations based on general economic and market  conditions.  The market price
for our common  stock may also be  affected  by our  ability  to meet  analysts'
expectations.  Failure to meet such expectations,  even slightly,  could have an
adverse  effect on the market  price of our common  stock.  In  addition,  stock
market  volatility  has  had a  significant  effect  on  the  market  prices  of
securities  issued by many  companies  for reasons  unrelated  to the  operating
performance of these companies.  In the past, following periods of volatility in
the market price of a company's  securities,  securities class action litigation
has often been  instituted  against such a company.  If similar  litigation were
instituted  against us, it could result in substantial  costs and a diversion of
our management's attention and resources,  which could have an adverse effect on
our business.


Year 2000 Issue

In prior years, we discussed the nature and progress of our plans to become Year
2000 ready.  In late 1999, we completed our  remediation and testing of systems.
As a result of those  planning and  implementation  efforts,  we  experienced no
significant   disruptions  in  mission  critical   information   technology  and
non-information  technology  systems  and  believe  those  systems  successfully
responded  to the Year  2000 date  change.  The total  cost of the  project  was
approximately  $217,000 during 1999 in connection with  remediating our systems.
Of  the  total  cost,   approximately   $38,000   represented  the  purchase  of
replacements or upgrades of software and hardware,  which were capitalized.  The
remaining  portion of the project cost was expensed as incurred  during 1999. We
are not aware of any material problems  resulting from Year 2000 issues,  either
with our products,  our internal systems,  or the products and services of third
parties. We will continue to monitor our mission critical computer  applications
and those of our suppliers and vendors  throughout  the year 2000 to ensure that
any latent Year 2000 matters that may arise are addressed promptly.

Shares Eligible for Future Sale

All of the shares of common stock  currently  held by our affiliates may be sold
in reliance upon the exemptive  provisions of Rule 144 of the  Securities Act of
1933, as amended, subject to certain volume and other conditions imposed by such
rule.  We cannot  predict the  effect,  if any,  that future  sales of shares of
common stock or the availability of such shares for sale will have on the market
price of the common stock  prevailing  from time to time.  Sales of  substantial
amounts of common stock,  or the perception  that such sales might occur,  could
adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock.

Item 2. Properties

The following table provides certain  information  regarding our  administrative
offices and distribution centers and offices as of December 31, 1999:



(a)  Occupied under the terms of a lease  expiring in 2007 with an  unaffiliated
     party,  subject to renewal  for three  five-year  terms at our  option.  To
     facilitate  construction,  we  loaned  to  the  owner  of the  facility  an
     aggregate of approximately $2.5 million. The principal balance of such loan
     bears  interest  at a rate of 6% per annum,  is  payable  in equal  monthly
     installments through January 2005 and is secured by a first deed of trust.

(b)  Occupied  under the terms of a lease with an  unaffiliated  party  expiring
     March 31,  2001,  subject  to  renewal  for three  three-year  terms at our
     option.

Of the 571 stores that we operated at December 31, 1999,  236 stores were owned,
273 stores were leased from unaffiliated  parties and 62 stores were leased from
one  of  two  real  estate  investment  partnerships  and  a  limited  liability
corporation  formed by the O'Reilly  family.  Leases with  unaffiliated  parties
generally  provide  for  payment of a fixed base rent,  payment of certain  tax,
insurance and maintenance expenses, and an original term of 10 years, subject to
one or more renewals at our option.  The original terms of 15 stores leased from
unaffiliated  parties  expire  prior to the end of 2000.  We have  entered  into
separate  master  lease  agreements  with  each of the  affiliated  real  estate
investment  partnerships for the occupancy of the stores covered  thereby.  Such
master lease  agreements  expired on December 31, 1998, and were renewed through
December 31, 2004. We believe that the lease agreements with the affiliated real
estate investment  partnerships are on terms comparable to those obtainable from
third parties.

We believe that our present  facilities  are in good  condition,  are adequately
insured and together  with those under  construction,  are suitable and adequate
for the conduct of our current operations.


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

We are currently  involved in a lawsuit as a result of a complaint filed against
Hi/LO in May 1997.  The  plaintiff  in this  lawsuit  sought to  certify a class
action on behalf of persons or  entities in the States of Texas,  Louisiana  and
California  that  have  purchased  a battery  from  Hi/LO  since  May 1990.  The
complaint  alleges that Hi/LO  offered and sold  ''old,''  ''used'' and ''out of
warranty''  batteries  as if the  batteries  were new,  resulting  in claims for
violations of deceptive trade practices, breach of contract,  negligence, fraud,
negligent misrepresentation and breach of warranty. The plaintiff is seeking, on
behalf of the class, an unspecified amount of compensatory and punitive damages,
as well as  attorneys'  fees and pre- and  post-judgment  interest.  On July 27,
1998, the Trial Court  certified this class. We appealed the decision to certify
the class in the Court of Appeals for the Ninth  District of Texas.  On February
25, 1999,  the Court of Appeals  issued an opinion  affirming  the Trial Court's
decision to certify the class.  At that time, we appealed the opinion by seeking
a mandamus from the Supreme Court of Texas.  On April 6, 1999, the Supreme Court
of Texas asked the  plaintiff  to file a response,  which was filed on April 14,
1999. On May 3, 1999, we filed a reply to that response.  To date, we have heard
nothing  further from the Texas Supreme Court.  We believe that the  accusations
made in this case are unfounded,  and intend to defend this lawsuit  vigorously.
Although  the extent of damages  suffered by any member of the class is arguably
minimal,  it is  difficult  at this  stage of the case to  determine  the likely
outcome of the case or to quantify the risk that we face from this litigation.

In  addition,  we and our  subsidiaries  are  involved  in various  other  legal
proceedings  incidental  to the  conduct  of our  business.  Although  we cannot
ascertain the amount of liability  that we may incur from any of these  matters,
we do not currently  believe that, in the  aggregate,  they will have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial position,  results of operations or
cash flow.

Item 4        Submission Of Matters To A Vote Of Security Holders

No  matters  were  submitted  to  a  vote  of  security  holders,   through  the
solicitation  of proxies or otherwise,  during the fourth  quarter of the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1999.

Item 4a       Executive Officers of the Company

The following  paragraphs  discuss  information about executive  officers of the
Company who are not also directors:

Ted F. Wise,  age 49,  Co-President,  has been an O'Reilly team member for 30 of
his 49 years.  He began his  O'Reilly  career in sales in 1970,  was promoted to
store manager in 1973, and became the Company's first district  manager in 1977.
He continued  his  progression  through the ranks as  Operations  Manager,  Vice
President, Senior Vice President focusing on Operations and Sales, and Executive
Vice President.  In July 1999, he was promoted to President of Sales, Operations
and Real Estate.

Greg L. Henslee, age 39, Co-President,  has been with the O'Reilly  organization
for 15 years. His O'Reilly career started as a Parts Specialist,  and during his
first  five  years  served in  several  positions  in retail  store  operations,
including  District  Manager.  From there he  advanced  to  Computer  Operations
Manager,  and over the past ten years,  he has served as  Director  of  Computer
Operations/Loss  Prevention,  Vice  President of Store  Operations and as Senior
Vice President. He has been in his current position as President of Merchandise,
Distribution, Information Systems and Loss Prevention since July 1999.

James R.  Batten,  CPA,  age 37,  has  served  as Chief  Financial  Officer  and
Treasurer since March 1994 and, in addition,  as Vice-President of Finance since
October 1997.  Mr. Batten served as our Finance  Manager from January 1993 until
being elected to his current  position.  From September 1986 until joining us in
January 1993, Mr. Batten was employed by the accounting firm of Whitlock,  Selim
& Keehn.


                                     PART II

Item 5 Market For Registrant's Common Equity And Related Shareholder Matters

The material  contained in the  registrant's  annual report to its  shareholders
(the  "Annual  Shareholders'  Report")  under the  captions  "Market  Prices and
Dividend  Information"  and  "Number of  Shareholders"  included  on page 32, is
incorporated here by this reference.

Item 6 Selected Financial Data

The  material  contained  in the Annual  Shareholders'  Report under the caption
"Selected Consolidated Financial Data" included on pages
12 and 13, is incorporated here by this reference.

Item 7 Management's  Discussion And Analysis Of Financial  Condition And Results
Of Operations

The  material  contained  in the Annual  Shareholders'  Report under the caption
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations"  included  on  pages  14  through  18 is  incorporated  here by this
reference.

Item 7(A)Quantitative And Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The  Company's  level of exposure to market risk  through  derivative  financial
instruments and other financial instruments is not material.

Item 8 Financial Statements And Supplementary Data

The  Company's  consolidated  financial  statements,  the notes  thereto and the
report of Ernst & Young  LLP,  independent  auditors,  appearing  in the  Annual
Shareholders'  Report under the captions  "Consolidated  Financial  Statements",
"Notes  to  Consolidated   Financial  Statements"  and  "Report  of  Independent
Auditors"  included  on pages  23  through  53,  are  incorporated  here by this
reference.

Item 9 Changes In And Disagreements With Accountants On Accounting And Financial
Disclosure

None.

                                    PART III

Item 10 Directors And Executive Officers Of The Registrant

The  information  regarding  the  directors  of  the  Company  contained  in the
Company's  Proxy  Statement  on  Schedule  14A for the 2000  Annual  Meeting  of
Shareholders  ("the Proxy  Statement")  under the caption  "Election  of Class I
Directors" is incorporated here by this reference.  The Proxy Statement is being
filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission within 120 days of the end of
the Company's most recent fiscal year end. The information  regarding  executive
officers  called for by item 401 of Regulation S-K is included in Part I as Item
4A, in accordance with General  Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K, for the executive
officers of the Company who are not also directors.

The  information  regarding  compliance  with  Section  16(a) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 included in the Company's Proxy Statement under the caption
"Compliance  with  Section  16(a)  of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934" is
incorporated here by this reference.

Item 11 Executive Compensation

The material in the Proxy Statement under the caption  "Executive  Compensation"
other than the material under the caption "Report of the Compensation Committee"
is incorporated here by this reference.

Item 12 Security Ownership Of Certain Beneficial Owners And Management

The material in the Proxy  Statement  under the caption  "Security  Ownership of
Management  and  Certain   Beneficial  Owners"  is  incorporated  here  by  this
reference.

Item 13 Certain Relationships And Related Transactions

The  material  in the Proxy  Statement  under  the  caption  "Transactions  with
Insiders and Others" is incorporated here by this reference.

                                     PART IV

Item 14 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule And Reports On Form 8-K

(a) 1.  Financial Statements-O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

The following consolidated financial statements of O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and
Subsidiaries  included in the Annual  Shareholders' Report of the registrant for
the year ended  December 31, 1999,  are  incorporated  here by this reference in
Part II, Item 8:

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998

Consolidated  Statements of Income for the years ended  December 31, 1999,  1998
and 1997

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 31,
1999, 1998 and 1997

Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows for the years ended  December  31, 1999,
1998 and 1997

Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for the years ended  December 31,
1999, 1998 and 1997

Report of Independent Auditors


(a) 2.  Financial Statement Schedule-O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

The following  consolidated financial statement schedule of O'Reilly Automotive,
Inc. and subsidiaries is included in Item 14(d):

Schedule II-Valuation and qualifying accounts

All other  schedules for which  provision is made in the  applicable  accounting
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the
related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.


(a) 3.  Management Contracts and Compensatory Plans or Arrangements

Each  of  the  Company's   management   contracts  and  compensatory   plans  or
arrangements is identified in the Exhibit Index on Page E-1.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

The Company did not file any reports on Form 8-K during the last  quarter of the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1999.

(c) Exhibits

See Exhibit Index on page E-1.

d) Financial Statement Schedules


                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                   O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



(1) Uncollectible accounts written off.
(2) Reserves assumed upon acquisition of Hi/LO.
(3) Inventory acquired from Hi/LO written off.



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                         O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.
                                         (Registrant)


                                         Date:  March 30, 2000
                                         By /s/ David E. O'Reilly
                                         -------------------------------------
                                         David E. O'Reilly
                                         Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1934, this report has been
signed  below by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the  registrant  in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.






                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


                                    Page E-2


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
        Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders

                      Selected Consolidated Financial Data















                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                Selected Consolidated Financial Data (continued)


(a)  The number of stores at year-end 1991 and 1992 are net of the  combinations
     in each such year of two stores located within one mile of each other.  Two
     stores were closed  during 1997 and one was closed in 1998. No other stores
     were closed during the periods presented.  Additionally, seven former Hi/LO
     stores located in California were sold in 1998.

(b)  Total  square  footage  includes  normal  selling,  office,  stockroom  and
     receiving  space.  Weighted  average product sales per store and per square
     foot are weighted to consider the  approximate  dates of store  openings or
     expansions.

(c)  Same-store product sales data are calculated based on the change in product
     sales of only those  stores open during both full periods  being  compared.
     Percentage  increase in same-store  product  sales is  calculated  based on
     store sales results,  which exclude sales of specialty machinery,  sales by
     outside salesmen and sales to employees.

(d)  There was no  additional  dilution  until  1993  when  options  were  first
     granted.


                   O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion of our financial  condition,  results of operations and
liquidity  and  capital  resources  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  our
consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information
included elsewhere in this annual report.

We are one of the largest specialty  retailers of automotive  aftermarket parts,
tools,  supplies,  equipment and  accessories in the United States,  selling our
products to both do-it-yourself  ("DIY") customers and professional  installers.
Our stores carry an extensive product line consisting of new and  remanufactured
automotive hard parts, maintenance items and accessories, and a complete line of
autobody paint and related materials,  automotive tools and professional service
equipment.

We calculate  same-store  product  sales based on the change in product sales of
only those stores open during both full periods being compared. We calculate the
percentage  increase in same-store  product sales based on store sales  results,
which exclude sales of specialty machinery,  sales by outside salesmen and sales
to employees.

Cost of goods  sold  consists  primarily  of  product  costs and  warehouse  and
distribution  expenses.  Cost of goods sold as a percentage of product sales may
be  affected by  variations  in our product  mix,  price  changes in response to
competitive factors and fluctuations in merchandise costs and vendor programs.

Operating,  selling,  general and  administrative  expenses consist primarily of
store payroll, store occupancy,  advertising expenses,  other store expenses and
general and administrative expenses,  including salaries and related benefits of
corporate employees,  administrative office occupancy expenses, data processing,
professional expenses and other related expenses.

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth certain income  statement data as a percentage of
product sales for the years indicated:




1999 Compared to 1998

Product sales increased $137.8 million,  or 22.4% from $616.3 million in 1998 to
$754.1 million in 1999 due to 80 net additional stores opened during 1999, and a
$56.4 million, or 9.6% increase in same-store product sales. We believe that the
increased  product  sales  achieved by the existing  stores is the result of our
offering  of a broader  selection  of stock  keeping  units in most  stores,  an
increased  promotional  and  advertising  effort  through a variety of media and
localized promotional events, and continued improvement in the merchandising and
store layouts of most stores.  Also, our continued focus on serving professional
installers contributed to increased sales.

Gross profit  increased 26.2% from $257.9 million (or 41.8% of product sales) in
1998 to $325.3  million  (or 43.1% of product  sales) in 1999.  The  increase in
gross profit margin was primarily  attributable to the continued improvements in
our product acquisition  programs and improved buying power due to the number of
net new stores opened in 1999.

Operating,  selling, general and administrative expenses increased $47.4 million
from $201.0  million (or 32.6% of product  sales) in 1998 to $248.4  million (or
32.9% of product sales) in 1999. The increase in these expenses in dollar amount
and as a  percentage  of sales  primarily  resulted  from higher  costs for team
member medical and workers' compensation  benefits,  the continued conversion of
Hi-Lo Automotive,  Inc. ("Hi/LO") stores and distribution center, as well as the
addition of team members and  facilities to support the  increased  level of our
operations.

Other expense,  net, decreased by $3.1 million from $7.0 million in 1998 to $3.9
million in 1999.  The  decrease  was  primarily  due to the decrease in interest
expense as a result of repayments of  indebtedness  under our syndicated  credit
facility with a portion of the net proceeds of our secondary offering.

Our  provision  for income  taxes was 37.5% and 38.4%,  respectively,  of income
before  income taxes in 1999 and 1998.  The decrease in the  effective  tax rate
primarily  related to a higher  percentage of our sales occurring in states with
lower income tax rates.

Principally as a result of the foregoing,  net income in 1999 was $45.6 million,
or 6.1% of product  sales,  an  increase  of $14.9  million  (or 48.3%) from net
income in 1998 of $30.8 million, or 5.0% of product sales.


1998 Compared to 1997

Product sales increased $299.9 million,  or 94.8% from $316.4 million in 1997 to
$616.3 million in 1998 due to 182 net additional  stores acquired from Hi/LO, 50
net additional stores opened during 1998, and a $33.1 million,  or 6.8% increase
in same store product sales. We believe that the customer acceptance experienced
by these new stores and the  increased  product  sales  achieved by the existing
stores is the result of our  offering of a broader  selection  of stock  keeping
units in most stores, an increased  promotional and advertising effort through a
variety of media and localized  promotional events, and continued improvement in
the merchandising and store layouts of most stores. Also, our continued focus on
serving professional installers contributed to increased sales.

Gross profit  increased 91.6% from $134.6 million (or 42.5% of product sales) in
1997 to $257.9  million  (or 41.8% of product  sales) in 1998.  The  decrease in
gross profit margin was primarily  attributable to the inclusion of 11 months of
Hi/LO  operations,  which  resulted in a higher cost of sales.  The decrease was
offset partially by continued  improvements in our product acquisition  programs
and conversions in the product lines in the Hi/LO stores.

Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $103.4 million
from $97.5  million  (or 30.8% of product  sales) in 1997 to $201.0  million (or
32.6% of product sales) in 1998. The increase in these expenses in dollar amount
and as a percentage of sales primarily  resulted from the Hi/LO  acquisition and
net store  openings,  as well as the addition of team members and  facilities to
support the increased level of our operations.

Other income (expense)  decreased by $7.4 million from income of $0.5 million in
1997 to expense of $7.0 million in 1998,  primarily  due to  increased  interest
expense from higher  balances on long-term debt  principally  resulting from the
Hi/LO acquisition and growth in the scope of our operations.

Our  provision  for income taxes was 38.4% of income before income taxes in 1998
and 1997.

Principally as a result of the foregoing,  net income in 1998 was $30.8 million,
or 5.0% of product sales, an increase of $7.6 million (or 33.0%) from net income
in 1997 of $23.1 million, or 7.3% of product sales.


Liquidity and Capital Resources

Net cash  provided by operating  activities  was $17.9 million in 1997 and $29.7
million in 1999.  Net cash used in  operating  activities  was $19.1  million in
1998. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities in 1999 compared
to 1998 is the result of  increases  in net income,  accrued  expenses,  accrued
payroll and a larger tax benefit resulting from stock option  exercises,  net of
increases  in  inventory  and amounts  receivable  from  vendors  and  decreased
accounts  payable.  The  net  cash  used  in  operating  activities  in  1998 is
principally  the result of  increases  in  inventory,  amounts  receivable  from
vendors,  refundable  income taxes,  accounts  receivable and decreased  accrued
payroll, net of increases in accounts payable and deferred income taxes.

Net cash used in investing  activities was $37.7 million in 1997, $100.8 million
in 1998  and  $77.8  million  in 1999.  The  increase  in cash  used in 1998 was
primarily due to the purchase of Hi/LO and increased capital  expenditures.  The
decrease  in cash used in 1999 was due to the Hi/LO  acquisition  in 1998 and an
increase in payments received on notes receivable, partially offset by increased
purchases of property and equipment.

Capital expenditures were $37.2 million in 1997, $57.7 million in 1998 and $86.0
million in 1999. These expenditures were primarily related to the opening of new
stores,  as well as the relocation or remodeling of existing stores. In 1997, we
opened 40 net stores and remodeled or relocated 28 stores. In 1998, we opened 50
net stores and  renovated or relocated 18 stores.  In 1999, we opened 80 net new
stores and renovated or relocated eight stores. Also, in 1997, 1998 and 1999, we
purchased   real   estate  for  new  stores  and  store   relocations   totaling
approximately  $8.1 million,  $9.9 million and $16.9 million,  respectively.  In
1997, we purchased real estate for the Des Moines  distribution  center totaling
$0.7 million. In December 1999, we acquired a distribution center on 28 acres in
the Dallas area for $5.4 million.  We expect this new distribution  center to be
operational by late 2000.

Our continuing store expansion program requires significant capital expenditures
and working capital principally for inventory requirements. The costs associated
with  the  opening  of a new  store  (including  the  cost of land  acquisition,
improvements,  fixtures,  inventory  and computer  equipment)  are  estimated to
average  approximately  $900,000  to $1.1  million;  however,  such costs may be
significantly  reduced  where we lease,  rather than  purchase,  the store site.
Although the cost to acquire the business of an independently  owned parts store
varies, depending primarily upon the amount of inventory and the amount, if any,
of real estate being acquired, we estimate that the average cost to acquire such
a business  and convert it to one of our stores is  approximately  $400,000.  We
plan to finance our expansion  program through cash expected to be provided from
operating activities and available borrowings.

On July 8, 1997,  our Board of  Directors  declared a  two-for-one  stock  split
effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend to all  shareholders  of record as
of July 31,  1997.  The stock  dividend was paid on August 31,  1997.  Also,  on
November 4, 1999,  the Board of Directors  declared a second  two-for-one  stock
split  effected  in the form of a 100% stock  dividend  to all  shareholders  of
record as of November  15,  1999.  The stock  dividend  was paid on November 30,
1999.

In March 1999, we sold 3,501,000  shares (before the effect of the November 1999
stock  split) of common  stock  through a  secondary  public  offering.  The net
proceeds from that  offering,  which  amounted to $124.6  million,  were used to
repay a portion of our outstanding indebtedness under our bank credit facilities
and to fund our expansion.

In order to fund the Hi/LO acquisition,  our continuing store expansion program,
and our working  capital and general  corporate  needs, we replaced our lines of
credit in January 1998 with an unsecured,  five-year  syndicated credit facility
totaling $173 million,  which was reduced to $165 million in 1999.  The facility
is  comprised of a $125 million  revolving  loan, a $5 million  sublimit for the
issuance of letters of credit and a $40 million term loan.  This credit facility
is guaranteed by our subsidiaries.  At December 31, 1999, the effective interest
rate on the revolving and term loan  portions,  which each mature on January 27,
2003, was 6.68% per annum.  At December 31, 1999,  $62,165,000 in borrowings was
available under this credit facility.

We believe that our existing cash, short-term  investments,  cash expected to be
provided by operating  activities,  available  bank credit  facilities and trade
credit will be sufficient  to fund both our short- and  long-term  capital needs
for the foreseeable future.

Inflation and Seasonality

We  succeeded,  in many cases,  in  reducing  the  effects of  merchandise  cost
increases   principally  by  taking  advantage  of  vendor  incentive  programs,
economies of scale  resulting from  increased  volume of purchases and selective
forward  buying.  As a result,  we do not believe that our operations  have been
materially affected by inflation.

Our business is somewhat seasonal primarily as a result of the impact of weather
conditions on store sales. Store sales and profits have historically been higher
in the second and third quarters (April through  September) of each year than in
the first and fourth quarters.


Quarterly Results

The following table sets forth certain  quarterly  unaudited  operating data for
fiscal  1999  and  1998.  The  unaudited  quarterly   information  includes  all
adjustments which management  considers necessary for a fair presentation of the
information shown.

The unaudited  operating data presented below should be read in conjunction with
our consolidated  financial  statements and related notes included  elsewhere in
this annual report, and the other financial information included here.



Year 2000 Issue

In prior years, we discussed the nature and progress of our plans to become Year
2000 ready.  In late 1999, we completed our  remediation and testing of systems.
As a result of those  planning and  implementation  efforts,  we  experienced no
significant   disruptions  in  mission  critical   information   technology  and
non-information  technology  systems and we believe those  systems  successfully
responded  to the Year  2000 date  change.  The total  cost of the  project  was
approximately  $217,000 during 1999 in connection with  remediating our systems.
Of  the  total  cost,   approximately   $38,000   represented  the  purchase  of
replacements or upgrades of software and hardware,  which were capitalized.  The
remaining  portion of the project cost was expensed as incurred  during 1999. We
are not aware of any material problems  resulting from Year 2000 issues,  either
with our  products,  internal  systems,  or the  products  and services of third
parties. We will continue to monitor our mission critical computer  applications
and those of our suppliers and vendors  throughout  the year 2000 to ensure that
any latent Year 2000 matters that may arise are addressed promptly.

New Accounting Standards

In  1998,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  issued  SFAS  No.  133,
"Accounting  for  Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities,"  which  is
required  to be  adopted  in years  beginning  after  June 15,  2000.  We do not
anticipate  that the adoption of SFAS No. 133 will have a significant  effect on
the financial position or results of operations of our operations.





                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                           Consolidated Balance Sheets









                             See accompanying notes.


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                        Consolidated Statements Of Income






                                                        See accompanying notes.


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                 Consolidated Statements Of Shareholders' Equity









                                                        See accompanying notes.


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows


                             See accompanying notes.



                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997


NOTE 1-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Nature of Business

O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. (''the Company'') is a specialty retailer and supplier
of automotive  aftermarket  parts,  tools,  supplies and accessories to both the
''do-it-yourself''  customer and the professional  installer  throughout  Texas,
Missouri, Oklahoma, Kansas, Iowa, Arkansas, Louisiana, Nebraska and Illinois.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated  financial  statements  include the accounts of the Company and
its  wholly  owned  subsidiaries.  All  significant  intercompany  balances  and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes sales upon shipment of products.

Use of Estimates

The  preparation of the  consolidated  financial  statements in conformity  with
generally accepted  accounting  principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts  reported in the consolidated  financial
statements  and  accompanying  notes.  Actual  results  could  differ from those
estimates.

Inventory

Inventory,   which  consists  of  automotive  hard  parts,   maintenance  items,
accessories and tools,  is stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost has been
determined  using the last-in,  first-out  (''LIFO'')  method.  If the first-in,
first-out  (''FIFO'')  method of costing inventory had been used by the Company,
inventory would have been  $291,077,000 and $246,402,000 as of December 31, 1999
and 1998, respectively.

Amounts Receivable from Vendors

Amounts  receivable from vendors  consists  primarily of amounts due the Company
for changeover merchandise, rebates and other allowances.

Property and Equipment

Property  and  equipment  are  carried  at cost.  Depreciation  is  provided  on
straight-line  and  accelerated  methods over the estimated  useful lives of the
assets.  Service lives for property and equipment  generally range from three to
40 years.  Leasehold improvements are amortized over the terms of the underlying
leases.  Maintenance  and  repairs  are  charged to expense  as  incurred.  Upon
retirement or sale, the cost and accumulated depreciation are eliminated and the
gain or loss,  if any,  is  included  in the  determination  of net  income as a
component of other income (expense).  The Company reviews  long-lived assets for
impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances  indicate  that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable.

The  Company  capitalizes  interest  costs as a  component  of  construction  in
progress,  based on the weighted  average rates paid for  long-term  borrowings.
Total interest costs capitalized for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and
1997, were $1,134,000, $1,213,000 and $527,000, respectively.

Income Taxes

The Company  accounts for income taxes using the liability  method in accordance
with  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  (''SFAS'')  No. 109.  The
liability   method  provides  that  deferred  tax  assets  and  liabilities  are
determined  based on differences  between  financial  reporting and tax bases of
assets and  liabilities  and are  measured  using the enacted tax rates and laws
that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.

Advertising Costs

The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred.  Advertising expense charged
to operations  amounted to  $9,428,000,  $8,326,000 and $3,437,000 for the years
ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Financial Instrument

The Company utilizes  interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk
on  its  floating  rate  debt.   During  1998,  the  Company   entered  into  an
interest-rate  swap  agreement  to modify the  interest  characteristics  of its
outstanding  long-term  debt from a floating  rate to a fixed rate  basis.  This
agreement  involves  the receipt of floating  rate amounts in exchange for fixed
rate interest payments over the life of the agreement without an exchange of the
underlying  principal amount. The differential to be paid or received is accrued
as interest  rates change and  recognized as an  adjustment to interest  expense
related  to the debt.  The  related  amount  payable to or  receivable  from the
counterparty is included in other  liabilities or assets.  The fair value of the
swap agreement is not recognized in the  consolidated  financial  statements and
approximates its carrying cost.

Preopening Costs

Costs  associated  with the opening of new stores,  which  consist  primarily of
payroll and occupancy costs, are charged to operations as incurred.

Stock Option Plans

The Company has elected to follow  Accounting  Principles  Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting   for  Stock   Issued  to   Employees"   ("APB  25"),   and  related
interpretations  in  accounting  for its  employee  stock  options  because,  as
discussed in Note 11, the alternative fair value  accounting  provided for under
SFAS No. 123,  "Accounting  for Stock-Based  Compensation,"  requires the use of
option  valuation  models that were not  developed  for use in valuing  employee
stock options.  Under APB 25, because the exercise price of the Company's  stock
options equals the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no
compensation expense is recognized.

Concentration of Credit Risk

The  Company  grants  credit  to  certain   customers  who  meet  the  Company's
pre-established  credit  requirements.  Generally,  the Company does not require
security when trade credit is granted to  customers.  Credit losses are provided
for in the Company's  consolidated  financial  statements and consistently  have
been within management's expectations.

The  Company  has  provided  long-term  financing  to a company,  through a note
receivable,  for the  construction  of an office building which is leased by the
Company  (see  Note  7).  The  note  receivable,  amounting  to  $2,137,000  and
$2,203,000 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively, bears interest at 6% and
is due in August 2007.

The carrying  value of the  Company's  financial  instruments,  including  cash,
short-term  investments,  accounts  receivable,  accounts  payable and long-term
debt, as reported in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets,  approximates
fair value.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In  1998,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  issued  SFAS  No.  133,
"Accounting  for  Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities,"  which  is
required to be adopted in years  beginning after June 15, 2000. The Company does
not anticipate that the adoption of SFAS No. 133 will have a significant  effect
on its financial position or results of operations.

NOTE 2-ACQUISITION

Effective January 31, 1998, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding capital
stock of Hi-Lo  Automotive,  Inc. and its  subsidiaries  ("Hi/LO").  Hi/LO was a
specialty  retailer  supplying  automotive   aftermarket  tools,   supplies  and
accessories  principally throughout Texas and Louisiana.  The purchase price was
approximately $49.3 million, including acquisition costs. The purchase price was
financed with long-term  borrowings  under the Company's  credit  facility.  The
acquisition  was  accounted  for using the  purchase  method of  accounting  and
accordingly,  the  results  of  operations  of Hi/LO have been  included  in the
Company's  results of  operations  since the date of  acquisition.  The purchase
price was allocated to assets  acquired and  liabilities  assumed based on their
estimated  fair  values.  The excess of net assets  acquired  over the  purchase
price, which totaled approximately $9.7 million, has been applied as a reduction
to the acquired property and equipment. Additional purchase liabilities recorded
included  approximately  $5,622,000  for severance and certain costs  associated
with the closure and  consolidation of certain  acquired  stores,  none of which
remained on the balance sheet at December 31, 1999.

The following  unaudited pro forma financial  information  presents the combined
historical  results of the Company and Hi/LO as if the  acquisition had occurred
at the  beginning of 1998 and 1997 after giving  effect to certain  adjustments,
including the application of the excess of net assets acquired over the purchase
price  to  the  acquired   property  and  equipment  and  resulting   effect  on
depreciation,  increased  interest  expense  on  long-term  debt  related to the
acquisition, and the related income tax effects.


The pro forma  combined  results are not  necessarily  indicative of the results
that  would  have  occurred  if the  acquisition  had been  completed  as of the
beginning of each of the years presented, nor are they necessarily indicative of
future consolidated results.

NOTE 3-SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

The Company's  short-term  investments are classified as  available-for-sale  in
accordance with SFAS No. 115,  "Accounting for Certain  Investments in Debt and
Equity  Securities,"  and are carried at cost, which  approximates  fair market
value.  At  December  31, 1999 and 1998,  short-term  investments  consisted  of
preferred equity securities.

NOTE 4-RELATED PARTIES

The Company leases certain land and buildings related to its O'Reilly Auto Parts
stores under  six-year  operating  lease  agreements  with  O'Reilly  Investment
Company  and  O'Reilly  Real  Estate  Company,  partnerships  in  which  certain
shareholders  of the Company are  partners.  Generally,  these lease  agreements
provide for renewal  options  for an  additional  six years at the option of the
Company.  Additionally, the Company leases certain land and buildings related to
its O'Reilly Auto Parts stores under 15-year  operating  lease  agreements  with
O'Reilly-Wooten 2000 LLC, which is owned by certain shareholders of the Company.
Generally, these lease agreements provide for renewal options for two additional
five-year  terms at the option of the Company (see Note 7). Rent  expense  under
these  operating  leases  totaled  $2,647,000  in 1999,  $2,158,000  in 1998 and
$2,122,000 in 1997.

NOTE 5-NOTE PAYABLE TO BANK

The Company had available a short-term  unsecured bank line of credit  providing
for maximum  borrowings of $5 million,  all of which was outstanding at December
31, 1999 and 1998.  The line of credit bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.50% (6.70%
at December 31, 1999).  The weighted  average  interest rate for the years ended
December 31, 1999 and 1998 was 6.7% and 6.6%,  respectively.  The line of credit
expires on June 22, 2000.

NOTE 6-LONG-TERM DEBT

At December 31, 1999, the Company had available a credit facility  providing for
maximum  borrowings  of $165  million.  The facility is comprised of a revolving
credit facility of $125 million, and a term loan of $40 million. At December 31,
1998,  the  Company  had  available  a credit  facility  providing  for  maximum
borrowings  of $173  million.  The  facility  was  comprised  of a $125  million
revolving  credit facility and a $48 million term loan. At December 31, 1999 and
1998,  $61,560,000  and  $121,401,000,  respectively,  of the  revolving  credit
facility  and $40 million and $48 million,  respectively,  of the term loan were
outstanding.  The credit  facility,  which  bears  interest  at LIBOR plus 0.50%
(6.70% at December 31, 1999), expires in January 2003. Additionally, at December
31, 1998, the Company had outstanding  borrowings  totaling $7,705,000 under its
non-binding  advised line of credit.  This line of credit bore  interest at 6.6%
and expired during 1999.

During  1999 and  1998,  the  Company  leased  certain  office  equipment  under
capitalized leases.  Pursuant to the terms of the lease agreements,  the Company
has  committed to pay  approximately  $157,000  per month over three years.  The
present  value of the future  minimum  lease  payments  under  these  agreements
totaled  $3,362,000 and $1,496,000 at December 31, 1999 and 1998,  respectively,
which has been  classified as long-term  debt in the  accompanying  consolidated
financial  statements.  During 1999, the Company purchased  $2,676,000 of assets
under capitalized leases.

Additionally,  the Company has various  unsecured  notes payable to individuals,
amounting to $140,000 and $255,000, at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
The notes bear interest at rates ranging from 7.75% to 9% and are due in monthly
installments of  approximately  $6,800 including  interest.  The notes mature in
varying amounts between 2000 and 2008.

Indirect borrowings under letters of credit provided by a $5,000,000 sublimit of
the revolving credit facility totaled  $1,275,000 and $1,990,000 at December 31,
1999 and 1998,  respectively.  These letters of credit reduced  availability  of
borrowings at December 31, 1999 and 1998.

Principal  maturities  of long-term  debt for each of the next five years ending
December 31 are as follows (amounts in thousands):



Cash paid by the Company for interest  during the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997 amounted to $6,134,000, $8,509,000 and $642,000, respectively.

NOTE 7-COMMITMENTS

Lease Commitments

During  1999,   the  Company   entered  into  a  Master  Lease   Agreement  with
O'Reilly-Wooten  2000  LLC (an  entity  owned  by  certain  shareholders  of the
Company)  related  to  the  sale  and  leaseback  of  certain  properties.   The
transaction  closed on January 4, 1999,  with a purchase price of  approximately
$5.5 million. The lease calls for an initial term of 15 years with two five-year
renewal options.

The Company leases certain office space,  retail stores,  property and equipment
under long-term,  noncancelable  operating leases.  Most of these leases include
renewal  options  and some  include  options  to  purchase  and  provisions  for
percentage  rent  based on sales.  Future  minimum  rental  payments,  including
commitments  of  $1,499,000  per  year  through  2004  in  connection  with  the
related-party leases described in Note 4, for each of the next five years ending
December 31 and in the aggregate are as follows (amounts in thousands):



Rental expense amounted to $14,122,000, $13,862,000 and $4,136,000 for the years
ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Other Commitments

During January 2000, the Company announced that it had entered into a definitive
agreement  to  purchase   the  assets  of  Gateway   Auto  Supply   ("Gateway"),
headquartered  in Fort Worth,  Texas.  Gateway is a  specialty  retailer of auto
parts and accessories  that operates 14 stores in Texas.  Under the terms of the
agreement,  the Company will purchase the inventory,  fixtures and certain other
assets of Gateway for  approximately  $5 million in cash.  The Company  will not
assume any  liabilities  of Gateway.  It is expected that the  transaction  will
close in April 2000.

The Company also had construction commitments, which totaled approximately $29.7
million, at December 31, 1999.

NOTE 8-LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is currently involved in litigation as a result of a complaint filed
against  Hi/LO in May 1997.  The  plaintiff in this lawsuit  sought to certify a
class action on behalf of persons or entities in the states of Texas,  Louisiana
and  California  that have  purchased a battery  from Hi/LO since May 1990.  The
complaint  alleges that Hi/LO  offered and sold  ''old,''  ''used'' and ''out of
warranty''  batteries  as if the  batteries  were new,  resulting  in claims for
violations of deceptive trade practices, breach of contract,  negligence, fraud,
negligent misrepresentation and breach of warranty. The plaintiff is seeking, on
behalf of the class, an unspecified amount of compensatory and punitive damages,
as well as  attorneys'  fees and pre- and  post-judgment  interest.  On July 27,
1998, the Trial Court certified this class. The Company appealed the decision to
certify  the class in the Court of Appeals for the Ninth  District of Texas.  On
February 25, 1999,  the Court of Appeals  issued an opinion  affirming the Trial
Court's  decision to certify the class.  At that time, the Company  appealed the
opinion by seeking a mandamus from the Supreme Court of Texas. On April 6, 1999,
the Supreme  Court of Texas asked the  plaintiff  to file a response,  which was
filed on April 14,  1999.  On May 3,  1999,  the  Company  filed a reply to that
response.  To date, the Company has heard nothing further from the Texas Supreme
Court.  The  Company  believes  that  the  accusations  made  in this  case  are
unfounded,  and  intends  to defend  this  lawsuit  vigorously.  Although  it is
difficult at this stage to determine the likely outcome of the case, the Company
believes  that  this  lawsuit  will not have a  material  adverse  effect on the
Company's consolidated results of operations or financial position.

In  addition,  the  Company is  involved  in  various  other  legal  proceedings
incidental to the conduct of its business. Although the Company cannot ascertain
the amount of liability that it may incur from any of these matters, it does not
currently  believe that,  in the  aggregate,  they will have a material  adverse
effect on the  consolidated  financial  position,  results of operations or cash
flows of the Company.

NOTE 9-INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT

The Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement to effectively  convert
a portion of its floating  rate  long-term  debt to a fixed rate basis,  thereby
reducing the impact of interest rate changes on future income.  Pursuant to this
pay-fixed  swap  agreement,   the  Company  agreed  to  exchange,  at  specified
intervals,  the difference  between the fixed and the floating  interest amounts
calculated  on the  notional  amount of the swap  agreement  which  totaled  $50
million  and $100  million,  respectively,  at December  31, 1999 and 1998.  The
Company's  fixed  interest  rate  under  the swap  agreement  was  5.66% and the
counterparty's floating rate was 6.20% at December 31, 1999.

NOTE 10-EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

The Company sponsors a contributory  profit sharing and savings plan that covers
substantially  all employees who are 21 years of age with at least six months of
service. Employees may contribute up to 15% of their annual compensation subject
to Internal  Revenue  Code maximum  limitations.  The Company has agreed to make
matching  contributions  equal  to  50%  of  the  first  2% of  each  employee's
contribution and 25% of the next 2% of each employee's contribution.  Additional
contributions  to the plan may be made as  determined  annually  by the Board of
Directors.  After three years of service,  Company  contributions  and  earnings
thereon vest at the rate of 20% per year of service  with the  Company.  Company
contributions  charged to operations amounted to $2,618,000 in 1999,  $1,818,000
in 1998 and  $1,485,000 in 1997.  Company  contributions,  in the form of common
stock,  to the profit sharing and savings plan to match  employee  contributions
during the years ended December 31 were as follows:



Profit sharing  contributions  accrued at December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997 were
funded in the next year through issuance of shares of the Company's common stock
as follows:



The Company also sponsors an unfunded  noncontributory  defined  benefit  health
care  plan,  which  provides  certain  health  benefits  to  retired  employees.
According to the terms of this plan,  retirees'  annual  benefits are limited to
$1,000 per employee  starting at age 66 for  employees  with 20 or more years of
service.  Postretirement  benefit costs for each of the years ended December 31,
1999, 1998 and 1997 amounted to $12,000.

NOTE 10-EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)

Additionally,  the  Company  has  adopted  a stock  purchase  plan  under  which
1,000,000  shares of common stock are reserved  for future  issuance.  Under the
plan,  substantially all employees and non-employee  directors have the right to
purchase shares of the Company's common stock monthly at a price equal to 85% of
the fair market value of the stock. Under the plan, 78,927 shares were issued at
an average  price of $18.90 per share during 1999,  74,632 shares were issued at
an average price of $15.05 per share during 1998,  and 65,168 shares were issued
at an average price of $8.75 per share during 1997.

The Company has in effect a performance  incentive plan for the Company's senior
management  under which  400,000  shares of  restricted  stock are  reserved for
future  issuance.  Under the plan,  6,796 shares,  5,358 shares and 2,772 shares
were issued during 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

NOTE 11-STOCK OPTION PLANS

The Company  has a stock  option plan under  which  incentive  stock  options or
nonqualified  stock  options may be granted to officers  and key  employees.  An
aggregate  of 6,000,000  shares of common stock is reserved for future  issuance
under this plan.  The exercise  price of options  granted shall not be less than
the fair  market  value of the stock on the date of grant and the  options  will
expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant.  Options granted  pursuant
to the plan become exercisable no sooner than six months from the date of grant.
In the case of a shareholder  owning more than 10% of the  outstanding  stock of
the Company, the exercise price of an incentive option may not be less than 110%
of the fair  market  value of the stock on the date of grant,  and such  options
will expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant.  Also,  the aggregate
fair market value of the stock with respect to which incentive stock options are
exercisable  for the first time by any  individual  in any calendar year may not
exceed $100,000. A summary of outstanding stock options is as follows:



Options to purchase  394,230,  855,100 and 1,043,400 shares of common stock were
exercisable at December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

The Company also maintains a stock option plan for non-employee directors of the
Company  under which  300,000  shares of common  stock are  reserved  for future
issuance.  All  director  stock  options are granted at fair market value on the
date of grant and expire on the earlier of termination of service to the Company
as a director or seven years. Options granted under this plan become exercisable
six months from the date of grant. A summary of outstanding  stock options is as
follows:



All options  under this plan were  exercisable  at December 31,  1999,  1998 and
1997.

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by
SFAS No. 123, and has been  determined  as if the Company had  accounted for its
employee and non-employee  director stock options under the fair value method of
that SFAS.

The fair values for these  options  were  estimated at the date of grant using a
Black-Scholes   option   pricing  model  with  the  following   weighted-average
assumptions for 1999, 1998 and 1997,  respectively:  risk-free interest rates of
6.54%,  4.74% and 5.53%;  volatility factors of the expected market price of the
Company's common stock of .247, .221, .200; and  weighted-average  expected life
of the  options of 8.0,  8.0 and 6.4 years.  The  Company  assumed a 0% dividend
yield over the expected life of the options. The weighted-average fair values of
options  granted  during the years ended  December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997 were
$10.22,  $6.44  and  $4.14,   respectively.   The   weighted-average   remaining
contractual  life at December 31, 1999,  for all  outstanding  options under the
Company's stock option plans is 7.48 years. The weighted-average  exercise price
for all outstanding options under the Company's stock option plans was $16.15 at
December 31, 1999.

The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the
fair value of traded options,  which have no vesting  restrictions and are fully
transferable.  In addition,  option valuation models require the input of highly
subjective assumptions,  including the expected stock price volatility.  Because
the Company's stock options have  characteristics  significantly  different from
those of traded options and because changes in the subjective input  assumptions
can materially  affect the fair value  estimate,  in management's  opinion,  the
existing  model does not  necessarily  provide a reliable  single measure of the
fair value of its employee stock options.

For purposes of pro forma  disclosures,  the estimated fair value of the options
is  amortized  to expense  over the  options'  vesting  period.  The  effects of
applying  SFAS  No.  123  for  pro  forma  disclosures  are  not  likely  to  be
representative of the effects on reported net income or losses for future years.
The  Company's  pro forma  information  follows:



NOTE 12-INCOME PER COMMON SHARE

The following  table sets forth the  computation of basic and diluted income per
common share:



NOTE 13-INCOME TAXES

Deferred  income  taxes  reflect  the net tax effects of  temporary  differences
between the carrying  amounts of assets and liabilities for financial  reporting
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of
the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows at December 31:



The provision for income taxes consists of the following:



A  reconciliation  of the provision for income taxes to the amounts  computed at
the federal statutory rate is as follows:



The tax benefit associated with the exercise of non-qualified  stock options has
been reflected as additional  paid-in capital in the  accompanying  consolidated
financial statements.

During  the years  ended  December  31,  1999,  1998 and 1997,  cash paid by the
Company for income taxes amounted to $17,151,000,  $16,229,000 and  $12,168,000,
respectively.

NOTE 14-STOCK SPLIT

On November 8, 1999,  the  Company's  Board of Directors  declared a two-for-one
stock split to be effected in the form of a 100% stock  dividend  payable to all
shareholders  of record as of November 15, 1999.  The stock dividend was paid on
November  30,  1999.  Accordingly,  this  stock  split  has been  recognized  by
reclassifying  $254,000,  the par value of the additional  shares resulting from
the split, from retained earnings to common stock.

All share and per share  information  included in the accompanying  consolidated
financial  statements has been restated to reflect the retroactive effect of the
stock split for all periods presented.

NOTE 15-PUBLIC OFFERING OF COMMON STOCK

In March 1999, the Company  completed a secondary  public  offering of 3,501,000
shares (pre-stock split) of common stock. Pursuant to this offering, the Company
issued 3,501,000 shares of common stock resulting in net proceeds to the Company
of  $124,570,000.  A portion  of the  proceeds  was used to repay the  Company's
outstanding indebtedness under its bank credit facilities. The remaining portion
of the proceeds was used to fund the Company's expansion.

NOTE 16-QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA-UNAUDITED



The  above  quarterly  financial  data  is  unaudited,  but  in the  opinion  of
management,  all adjustments  necessary for a fair  presentation of the selected
data for these interim periods presented have been included.


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                         Report Of Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

We have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets  of  O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc. and  Subsidiaries  as of December  31, 1999 and 1998,  and the
related consolidated  statements of income,  shareholders' equity and cash flows
for each of the  three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,  1999.  These
financial  statements are the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial  statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial  statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial  statement
presentation.  We believe  that our audits  provide a  reasonable  basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion,  the financial  statements  referred to above present fairly, in
all  material  respects,   the  consolidated   financial  position  of  O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  at  December  31,  1999 and 1998,  and the
consolidated  results of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.


                                                              ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Kansas City, Missouri
February 29, 2000


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Exhibit 21.1 - Subsidiaries of the Company



One  hundred  percent  of  the  capital  stock  of  each  of  the  above  listed
subsidiaries is directly owned by O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
        Exhibit 23.1 - Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors




We consent to the  incorporation  by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
of O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. and Subsidiaries of our report dated February 29,
2000, included in the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders of O'Reilly Automotive,
Inc.

Our  audits  also  included  the  financial   statement   schedule  of  O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc. and  Subsidiaries  listed in Item 14(a).  This schedule is the
responsibility of the company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion based on our audits. In our opinion,  the financial  statement  schedule
referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole,  presents fairly in all material  respects the information set
forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(Form S-3 No. 333-73377,  Form S-8 No. 33-61632,  Form S-8 No. 33-73892 and Form
S-8 No. 33-91022) of O'Reilly Automotive,  Inc. of our report dated February 29,
2000 with respect to the consolidated  financial statements  incorporated herein
by reference, and our report included in the preceding paragraph with respect to
the consolidated  financial  statement  schedule  included in this Annual Report
(Form 10-K) of O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 1999.

                                                               ERNST & YOUNG LLP




Kansas City, Missouri
March 30, 2000

