
10-K
0001.txt
O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC. 12/31/00 FORM 10-K


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

(X)  ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

                                       OR

( )  TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO SECTION  13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

   For the transition period from ___________________ to ____________________

                         Commission file number 0-21318

                            O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                       Missouri                           44-0618012
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (State or other jurisdiction      (IRS Employer Identification No.)
                  of incorporation or
                     organization)

                               233 South Patterson
                           Springfield, Missouri 65802
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               (Address of principal executive offices, zip code)

                                 (417) 862-6708
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None

Securities  registered  pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Common Stock, $.01
par value

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No ______

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained here, and will not be contained,  to the best
of the registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ X ]

At February 28, 2001, an aggregate of  51,618,936  shares of the common stock of
the registrant was  outstanding.  As of that date, the aggregate market value of
the  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the  Company  was  approximately
$977,533,600  based on the last sale price of the common  stock  reported by the
Nasdaq Stock Market (National Market).

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

As provided below,  portions of the registrant's  documents  specified below are
incorporated here by reference:

                 Document                                   Part-Form 10-K
- --------------------------------------------          --------------------------
- --------------------------------------------          --------------------------

Portions of the Annual Shareholders' Report for the Year
Ended December 31, 2000                                          Parts II and IV

Proxy Statement for 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
(to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days
of the end of registrant's most recently completed fiscal year)  Parts I and III

Forward Looking Information

The  information  contained  in this Form  10-K  includes  statements  regarding
matters  which are not  historical  facts  (including  statements as to O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc.'s plans,  beliefs or expectations)  which are  forward-looking
statements  within the  meaning of the federal  securities  laws.  Because  such
forward-looking  statements involve certain risks and uncertainties,  our actual
results and the timing of certain  events  could  differ  materially  from those
discussed  in this  document.  Factors  that could cause or  contribute  to such
differences  include those  discussed in the Sections  captioned  "Business" and
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations"  (incorporated  here by reference) and the "Risk Factors"  discussed
below. Unless otherwise indicated, "we", "us", "our", and similar terms, as well
as references to the "Company" and "O'Reilly" refer to O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.
and its subsidiaries.


                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

      O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. is one of the largest  specialty  retailers of
automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies,  equipment and accessories in the
United States, selling our products to both do-it-yourself ("DIY") customers and
professional installers.  At December 31, 2000, we operated 672 stores in Texas,
Missouri,  Oklahoma, Kansas, Iowa, Arkansas,  Louisiana,  Nebraska and Illinois.
Our stores carry an extensive product line consisting of:

o    new  and  remanufactured   automotive  hard  parts,  such  as  alternators,
     starters,  fuel pumps, water pumps, brake shoes and pads, chassis parts and
     engine parts;
o maintenance  items,  such as oil,  antifreeze,  fluids,  engine  additives and
appearance products; o accessories,  such as floor mats and seat covers; and o a
complete  line of autobody  paint and related  materials,  automotive  tools and
professional service equipment.

 We do not sell tires or perform automotive repairs or installations.

     We were  founded  in 1957 by Charles F.  O'Reilly  and his son,  Charles H.
"Chub" O'Reilly, Sr. (one of our current directors), and initially operated from
a single store in  Springfield,  Missouri.  The O'Reilly  family has managed the
Company since our inception.

      Our goal is to continue to achieve  growth in sales and  profitability  by
capitalizing  on  our  competitive  advantages  and  executing  our  growth  and
expansion strategies.

      See "Risk Factors" beginning on page 11 for a description of certain risks
relevant to our  business.  These risk  factors  include,  among  others,  risks
related  to  competition  in the  automotive  aftermarket  business,  our growth
strategy,  our acquisition  strategy,  our sensitivity to regional  economic and
weather  conditions,  our  dependence  upon  key  and  other  personnel  and the
significant voting control held by our principal shareholders.

Competitive Advantages

      Proven  Ability to Execute Dual Market  Strategy.  We have an  established
track record of serving both  do-it-yourself  ("DIY") customers and professional
installers.  We  believe  our  ability to execute a dual  market  strategy  is a
competitive advantage, which enables us to:

o       target a larger base of consumers of automotive aftermarket parts;
o       capitalize on our existing retail and distribution infrastructure;
o       profitably operate both in large markets and less densely populated geo-
        graphic areas which typically attract fewer competitors; and
o       enhance  service  levels  offered  to our  DIY  customers  by offering a
        broad  selection of stock keeping units ("SKUs") and  extensive  product
        knowledge required by professional installers.



      We have been  committed  to a dual market  strategy  for over 20 years and
from the mid-1980's through 1997 derived  approximately 50% of our product sales
from our DIY customers and  approximately  50% from our  professional  installer
customers.  Prior to our acquisition of Hi-Lo Automotive,  Inc. ("Hi/LO"), Hi/Lo
derived  approximately 65% of its sales from DIY customers and approximately 35%
from  professional  installers.  For 2000, we derived  approximately  57% of our
product sales from our DIY customers and approximately 43% from our professional
installer customers. As a result of our historical success in executing our dual
market  strategy  and our over 106  full-time  sales  representatives  dedicated
solely to calling upon and selling to the professional  installer, we believe we
will increase the former Hi/LO stores' sales to professional installers and have
a  competitive  advantage  over our retail  competitors  who have only  recently
entered and begun focusing on the professional installer market.

      Superior  Customer  Service.  We seek to attract new DIY and  professional
installer  customers  and to retain  existing  customers  by  offering  superior
customer service, the key elements of which include:

o       superior  in-store  service  through highly-motivated,  technically pro-
        ficient  store personnel  ("Professional  Parts People") using  advanced
        point-of-sale systems;
o       an  extensive  selection of  products;  o attractive  stores in conve-
        nient locations; and
o       competitive  pricing,  with  a  low  price guarantee.

      Technically  Proficient  Professional  Parts People. Our highly proficient
Professional Parts People provide us with a significant  competitive  advantage,
particularly over less specialized retail operators. We require our Professional
Parts People to undergo  extensive  and ongoing  training and to be  technically
knowledgeable, particularly with respect to hard parts, in order to better serve
the  technically-oriented  professional  installers with whom they interact on a
daily basis.  Such technical  proficiency  also enhances the customer service we
provide to our DIY customers,  who appreciate the expert assistance  provided by
our Professional Parts People.

      Strategic   Distribution   Systems.   We  believe   that  the   geographic
concentration of our store network in nine contiguous  states  (Missouri,  Iowa,
Nebraska,  Kansas,  Oklahoma,  Texas, Louisiana,  Arkansas and Illinois) and the
strategic  locations  of our seven  distribution  centers  enable us to maintain
optimum  inventory  levels  throughout  our  store  network.  In  addition,  our
inventory  management and distribution  systems  electronically link each of our
stores to a distribution  center,  providing for efficient inventory control and
management. Our distribution system provides each of our stores with same day or
overnight  access to over 100,000 SKUs, many of which are hard to find items not
typically  stocked by other parts  retailers.  We believe the  availability of a
broad range of products is a key  competitive  advantage in satisfying  customer
demand and generating repeat business.

      Experienced  Management  Team.  Our  management  team  has a  demonstrated
ability to successfully  execute our business plan, including the identification
and integration of strategic acquisitions. We have experienced eight consecutive
years of record revenues and earnings growth. We have a strong senior management
team  comprised  of 40  professionals  who average 19 years of  experience  with
O'Reilly.  In  addition,  our 70  district  managers  average  over 10  years of
experience with us.

Growth and Expansion Strategies

      Aggressively  Open New Stores.  We intend to continue to aggressively open
new stores in order to achieve  greater  penetration in existing  markets and to
expand into new, contiguous markets. We plan to open approximately 120 stores in
2001 and  approximately  145 stores in 2002.  All of the sites for our  proposed
2001 store  openings  and a majority  of the sites for our  proposed  2002 store
openings have been  identified.  In selecting  sites for new stores,  we seek to
strategically locate store sites in clusters within geographic areas in order to
achieve  economies  of  scale  in  areas  such as  management,  advertising  and
distribution.



     Until 1986, our expansion was targeted to markets with  populations of less
than  100,000.  We entered into a more densely  populated  market in August 1986
with the opening of the first of 29 stores in the greater Kansas City, Missouri,
market area.  Of the 101 net new stores opened in 2000, 63 are located in Texas,
13 are located in Iowa, 3 in Nebraska, 8 in Louisiana,  10 in Arkansas, and 4 in
Oklahoma.  While we have faced,  and expect to continue to face, more aggressive
competition  in the more  densely  populated  markets,  we believe  that we have
competed  effectively,  and that we are well  positioned  to continue to compete
effectively,  in such markets and achieve our goal of continued sales and profit
growth  within  these  markets.  We also believe that because of our dual market
strategy,  we are better able to operate stores in less densely  populated areas
within our  regional  market  which  would not  otherwise  support a national or
regional  chain  store  selling  to one  portion  of the  market  or the  other.
Consequently, we expect to continue to open new stores in less densely populated
market areas.

     To date,  we have  experienced  no  significant  difficulties  in  locating
suitable  store sites for  construction  of new stores or  identifying  suitable
acquisition  candidates for conversion to O'Reilly stores. We typically open new
stores  either (i) by  constructing  a new store at a site which is purchased or
leased  and  stocking  the new store with  fixtures  and  inventory,  or (ii) by
acquiring  an  independently  owned parts  store,  typically  by the purchase of
substantially  all of the inventory and other assets (other than realty) of such
store.  Store  sites are  strategically  located in clusters  within  geographic
areas, which complement our distribution system in order to achieve economies of
scale in management,  advertising,  and distribution costs. Other key factors we
consider in the site selection  process  include  population  density and growth
patterns, age and per capita income, vehicle traffic counts, the number and type
of  existing  automotive  repair  facilities,   auto  parts  stores,  and  other
competitors within a pre-determined radius, and the operational strength of such
competitors.  When entering new, more densely  populated  markets,  we generally
seek to initially  open several  stores  within a short span of time in order to
maximize  the  effect  of  initial  promotional  programs  and  achieve  further
economies of scale.

     Same store growth  through  increased  sales and  profitability  is also an
important  part  of  our  growth   strategy.   To  achieve  improved  sales  and
profitability at existing O'Reilly stores, we continually strive to improve upon
the service provided to our customers. We believe that while competitive pricing
is  essential  in the  competitive  environment  of the  automotive  aftermarket
business,   it  is  customer  satisfaction  (whether  of  the  DIY  consumer  or
professional installer), resulting from superior customer service that generates
increased sales and profitability.

      Selectively  Pursue  Strategic   Acquisitions.   Although  the  automotive
aftermarket  industry  is still  highly  fragmented,  we believe  the ability of
national and regional specialty retail chains, such as O'Reilly, to operate more
efficiently than smaller independent operators or mass merchandisers will result
in continued  industry  consolidation.  Thus,  we intend to  selectively  pursue
acquisition  targets that will  strengthen our position as a leading  automotive
products retailer.

      Effective  January 31, 1998, we acquired  Hi/LO, a specialty  retailer and
supplier of automotive  aftermarket  products  headquartered in Houston,  Texas.
Following the acquisition,  we sold seven Hi/LO stores located in California. Of
the 182 stores  remaining  after such sale,  165 are located in Texas and 17 are
located in Louisiana.  Through the Hi/LO acquisition, we also acquired a 425,000
square foot  distribution  center located in Houston.  The Hi/LO  operations are
contiguous  to our other  operations,  thereby  creating  a  natural  geographic
extension  of our  business.  In  addition,  Hi/LO was  experienced  in  serving
professional  installers,  deriving  approximately 35% of its revenues from such
customers.  We acquired Hi/LO for a cash purchase price of  approximately  $49.3
million.  At the time of the  acquisition,  Hi/LO had $43.2  million of existing
debt, which we assumed.

      We have continued to realize the benefits of the completed  integration of
the 182 net stores we acquired through the acquisition of Hi/LO. We have updated
the products  offered at the former  Hi/LO stores with a product mix  consistent
with our existing stores,  converted these stores to our Management  Information
Systems  and, in some cases,  renovated or  relocated  the former Hi/LO  stores.
Furthermore,  we  intend to  continue  to pursue  business  in the  professional
installer  market and benefit from increased  leverage in purchasing and reduced
overhead expenses.



      Continually Enhance Store Design and Location. Our current prototype store
design features  enhancements  such as greater square footage,  higher ceilings,
more convenient  interior store layouts,  brighter  lighting,  increased parking
availability  and  dedicated  counters to serve  professional  installers,  each
designed  to  increase  product  sales and  operating  efficiencies  and enhance
customer service.  We continually update the location and condition of our store
network through  systematic  renovation and relocation of our existing stores to
conform  with our  prototype  store  design.  We  believe  that our  ability  to
consistently  achieve  growth in same store  product sales is due in part to our
commitment to maintaining an attractive  store network,  which is  strategically
located to best serve our customers.


Products and Purchasing

      Our stores offer DIY and professional installer customers a wide selection
of brand name and private label products for domestic and imported  automobiles,
vans  and  trucks.  We do not  sell  tires  or  perform  automotive  repairs  or
installations.  Our  merchandise  generally  consists of nationally  recognized,
well-advertised,  name brand  products  such as AC Delco,  Moog,  Wagner,  Gates
Rubber,  Federal  Mogul,  Monroe,  Prestone,  Quaker State,  Pennzoil,  Castrol,
Valvoline, STP, BWD, Cardone, Wix, Armor All and Turtle Wax. In addition to name
brand products,  our stores carry a wide variety of  high-quality  private label
products  under the Parts  Master(R)  name brand and our O'Reilly Auto Parts(R),
SuperStart(R), BrakeBest(R), Ultima(R) and Omnispark(R) proprietary name brands.
Because most of our private label products are produced by nationally recognized
manufacturers in accordance with our specifications, we believe that the private
label  products are  generally of equal or, in some cases,  better  quality than
comparable  name brand  products,  a  characteristic  which is  important to our
professional  installer  clientele.  We further  believe that the private  label
products  are  packaged  attractively  to  promote  customer  interest  and  are
generally priced below comparable name brand products carried in our stores.

         We purchase  automotive  products from  approximately 400 vendors,  the
 five largest of which accounted for approximately 24% of our total purchases in
 2000. Our largest vendor in 2000  accounted for  approximately  5% of our total
 purchases  and the next four largest  vendors each  accounted  for 4-5% of such
 purchases.  We have no long-term  contractual  purchase commitments with any of
 our vendors,  nor have we  experienced  difficulty  in  obtaining  satisfactory
 alternative sources of supply for automotive parts. We believe that alternative
 supply sources exist at  substantially  similar costs,  for  substantially  all
 automotive  products that we sell. It is our policy to take  advantage of early
 payment  and  seasonal  purchasing  discounts  offered by our  vendors,  and to
 utilize extended dating terms available from vendors due to volume  purchasing.
 We consider our relationships with our suppliers to be good.

Store Network

      Store Locations.  As a result of our dual market strategy,  we are able to
profitably  operate in both large,  densely  populated  markets and less densely
populated  areas which would not otherwise  support a national or regional chain
selling to just one portion of the automotive  aftermarket.  The following table
sets forth the geographic distribution of our stores:




      Our  stores  on  average  carry  approximately  23,000  SKUs  and  average
approximately  6,700 total square feet in size. Our stores are served  primarily
by the  nearest  distribution  center,  but  also  have  access  to the  broader
selection of inventory available at one of our 43 Master Inventory Stores, which
on average  carry  approximately  37,000  SKUs and average  approximately  8,700
square feet in size.  Master  Inventory  Stores,  in addition to serving DIY and
professional  installer  customers  in their  markets,  also  provides our other
stores  within  their area access to a greater  selection  of SKUs on a same day
basis.

      We believe that our stores are "destination  stores"  generating their own
traffic  rather than relying on traffic  created by the presence of other stores
in the immediate  vicinity.  Consequently,  most of our stores are  freestanding
buildings  situated  on or near major  traffic  thoroughfares,  and offer  ample
parking and easy customer access.

      Store Layout. We utilize a computer-assisted "plan-o-grammed" store layout
system to provide a uniform and consistent  merchandise  presentation;  however,
some variation occurs in order to meet the specific needs of a particular market
area.  Merchandise  is  arranged  to provide  easy  customer  access and maximum
selling space, keeping high-turnover products and accessories within view of the
customer.  Aisle displays are generally used to feature  high-demand or seasonal
merchandise, new items and advertised specials.

      Store Automation.  To enhance store level operations and customer service,
we use IBM AS/400  computer  systems in all of our  stores.  These  systems  are
linked  with  the IBM  AS/400  computers  located  in  each of our  distribution
centers.  Our point-of-sale  terminals use bar code scanning technology to price
our  merchandise  and  provide  immediate  access to our  electronic  catalog to
display parts and pricing  information by make, model and year of vehicle.  This
system speeds  transaction  times,  reduces register lines and provides enhanced
customer  service.   Moreover,   our  store  automation  systems  capture  sales
information which assists in store  management,  strategic  planning,  inventory
control and distribution efficiency.

      New Store Site Selection.  In selecting  sites for new stores,  we seek to
strategically locate store sites in clusters within geographic areas in order to
achieve economies of scale in management,  advertising and  distribution.  Other
key factors we consider in the site selection process include:

o       population density and growth patterns;
o       age and per capita income;
o       vehicle traffic counts;
o       the number and type of existing automotive repair facilities; and
o       the  number  of  auto  parts   stores  and  other competitors  within  a
        pre-determined radius and the operational strength of such competitors.

      When entering new, more densely  populated  markets,  we generally seek to
initially  open several  stores within a short span of time in order to maximize
the effect of initial  promotional  programs  and achieve  further  economies of
scale.  After  opening  this  initial  cluster of new  stores,  we seek to begin
penetrating the less densely populated  surrounding areas. This strategy enables
us to achieve  additional  distribution  and  advertising  efficiencies  in each
market.



Distribution System

      The  following  table sets  forth the  distribution  centers we  currently
operate:


      In addition, adjacent to the Springfield,  Missouri,  distribution center,
we  operate  a  36,000  square  foot  bulk  merchandise  warehouse  used for the
distribution  of  bulk  products  such  as  motor  oil,  antifreeze,  batteries,
lubricants  and other fast  moving  bulk  products,  and an 18,000  square  foot
returned goods  processing  facility.  We also operate a 22,500 square foot bulk
warehouse in McAllen,  Texas, that serves the surrounding  distribution  centers
with bulk motor oil.

      Our  distribution  centers are  equipped  with highly  automated  conveyor
systems,  which  expedite  the  movement of our  products  to loading  areas for
shipment to  individual  stores on a nightly  basis.  The  distribution  centers
utilize  computer-assisted  technology  to  electronically  receive  orders from
computers  located in each of our  stores.  In  addition  to the bar code system
employed in our stores, we have established a  satellite-based  data interchange
system among those stores in which  high-speed data  transmission  technology is
not readily available,  the distribution  center, which services such stores and
our corporate headquarters.

      We  believe  that our  distribution  system  assists  us in  lowering  our
inventory-carrying   costs,   improving  our  store  in-stock   positions,   and
controlling and managing our inventory.  Moreover, we believe that our expanding
network of distribution  centers allows us to more efficiently  service existing
stores,  as well as new stores  planned for opening in contiguous  market areas.
Our  distribution  center  expansion  strategy  also  complements  our new store
opening strategy by supporting newly  established  clusters of stores located in
the regions  surrounding  each  distribution  center.  As part of our continuing
efforts to enhance our distribution network, in 2001 we plan to:

o       initiate full  utilization  of the  Little  Rock and Dallas distribution
        centers to be served by all stores in those surrounding areas
o       implement improvement plans to increase inventory turnover in all dis-
        tribution centers
o       finalize implementation of a new warehouse  management system in the Des
        Moines and Oklahoma City  distribution centers, which  will  enhance the
        efficiency of our distribution network.


Marketing

      Marketing  to the DIY  Customer.  We  aggressively  promote  sales  to DIY
customers through an extensive  advertising program,  which includes direct mail
and newspaper,  radio and television advertising in selected markets. We believe
that our  advertising  and  promotional  activities have resulted in significant
name recognition in each of our market areas. Newspaper and radio advertisements
are generally directed towards specific product and price promotions, frequently
in connection with specific sale events and promotions.  To promote sales to car
enthusiasts,  who we believe on an  individual  basis  spend more on  automotive
products than the public generally,  we sponsor seven nationally televised races
and  over 50  motorsports  races  and car  shows at over 65  racetracks  in nine
states,  including the NASCAR All-Star Dirt Series, the O'Reilly Chili Bowl, the
World of Outlaws Series,  the NASCAR  Craftsmen  Truck Series,  as well as three
National Hotrod Racing  Association  races in Houston and Dallas.  We have found
that the more progressive  marketing concepts utilized in the DIY portion of our
business  can also be applied to increase  sales to our  professional  installer
customers.



      Marketing  to the  Professional  Installer.  We have  over  106  full-time
O'Reilly  sales  representatives  strategically  located  in  the  more  densely
populated  market areas that we serve,  and each is dedicated  solely to calling
upon and selling to the professional installer. Our First Call program, which is
our commitment to the professional  customer,  includes a dedicated sales force,
sales and  promotions  directed  to the  professional  installer  and  overnight
delivery service.  Moreover,  each district manager and store manager throughout
our store network calls upon existing and potential new  professional  installer
customers on a regular basis. Our First Call marketing strategy, with respect to
professional installers, emphasizes our ability to offer:

o       prompt  delivery  using  small  trucks  or  vans operated by most of our
        stores;
o       a separate counter in  most of  our  stores   dedicated   exclusively to
        serving  professional   installers;
o       trade  credit  for  qualified  professional installers;
o       broad inventory of merchandise and competitive  pricing;
o       a professional installer  computer  system  that  connects  directly  to
        our inventory  system; and
o       seminars  concerning  topics of  interest  to  professional  installers,
        such as technical  updates, safety and general business management.

      Marketing to the Independently Owned Parts Store. Along with the operation
of the distribution  centers and the distribution of automotive  products to the
O'Reilly  stores,  Ozark  Automotive  Distributors,  Inc.  ("Ozark")  also sells
automotive  products to independently owned parts stores whose retail stores are
generally  located in areas not serviced by an O'Reilly  store.  We generally do
not compete with any independently owned parts store to which we sell automotive
products,   but  have,  on  occasion,   acquired  the  business   assets  of  an
independently  owned  parts  store  supplied by Ozark.  Ozark  operates  its own
separate  marketing program to independently  owned parts stores through a staff
of three.

      Of  the  approximately  62  independently  owned  parts  stores  currently
purchasing  Automotive  Products from Ozark, 60 participate in the Auto Value(R)
program through Ozark. As a participant in this program,  an independently owned
parts store which meets certain minimum  financial and operational  standards is
permitted to indicate its Auto  Value(R)  membership  through the display of the
Auto Value(R) logo, which is owned by The Alliance, Inc. (formerly known as Auto
Value  Associates,  Inc.), a non-profit buying group consisting of 67 members as
of December 31, 2000, including O'Reilly, engaged in the distribution or sale of
automotive  products.  Additionally,  we  provide  advertising  and  promotional
assistance to Auto Value(R) stores purchasing Automotive Products from Ozark, as
well as marketing  and sales  support.  In return for a  commitment  to purchase
Automotive  Products  from  Ozark,  we  offer  assistance  to an  Auto  Value(R)
independently  owned parts store by  providing  loan  guarantees  and  financing
secured by inventory, furniture and fixtures, making available computer software
for  inventory  control  and  performing   certain  accounting  and  bookkeeping
functions.

Management Structure

      Each of our  stores  is  staffed  with a store  manager  and an  assistant
manager, in addition to the parts specialists and support staff required to meet
the specific needs of each store.  Each of our 70 district  managers has general
supervisory  responsibility  for an average of 10 stores  within such  manager's
district.

      Each  district  manager  receives  comprehensive  training on a bi-monthly
basis, focusing on management techniques,  new product  announcements,  advanced
automotive  systems and our policies and  procedures.  In turn, the  information
covered at such bi-monthly meetings is discussed in full by district managers at
bi-monthly  meetings  with their store  managers.  All  assistant  managers  and
manager  trainees  are  required to  successfully  complete a six-month  manager
training program, which includes classroom and field training, as a prerequisite
to becoming a store manager. This program covers operations extensively, as well
as principles of successful management.  Shortly after becoming a store manager,
all managers attend a manager development  program, at the office  headquarters,
which  includes 72 hours of classroom  training.  Upon  returning to the stores,
managers  are  given  continuous  field  training  throughout  their  management
experience.



      We provide financial incentives to our district managers,  store managers,
assistant  managers  and sales  specialists  through an  incentive  compensation
program.  Under our incentive  compensation program, base salary is augmented by
incentive  compensation  based upon the  achievement of sales and  profitability
goals.  We  believe  that  our  incentive   compensation  program  significantly
increases the  motivation  and overall  performance  of our  Professional  Parts
People and our  ability to attract  and retain  qualified  management  and other
personnel.

      Most  of our  current  senior  management,  district  managers  and  store
managers were promoted to their  positions  from within the Company.  Our senior
management  team averages 19 years of  experience  with the Company and district
managers have an average length of service with the Company of over 10 years.


Professional Parts People

      We  believe  our  highly  trained  team of  Professional  Parts  People is
essential in providing  superior service both to DIY and professional  installer
customers.  Each of our Professional  Parts People is required to be technically
proficient in the workings and  application  of  automotive  products due to the
significant portion of our business  represented by the professional  installer.
In addition,  we have found that the typical DIY customer often seeks assistance
from sales persons,  particularly in connection with the purchase of hard parts.
We believe  that the ability of our  Professional  Parts  People to provide such
assistance  to  the  DIY  customer  creates  a  favorable  impression  during  a
customer's visit to our store and is a significant  factor in generating  repeat
DIY business.

      We screen  prospective  employees,  whom we refer to as team  members,  to
identify highly motivated individuals either with experience in automotive parts
or repairs, or an aptitude for automotive  knowledge.  Each person who becomes a
team member first  participates  in an  intensive  two-day  orientation  program
designed to  introduce  the team member to our culture and his or her job duties
before being assigned specific job  responsibilities.  The successful completion
of additional training is required before a team member is deemed qualified as a
parts  specialist  and  thus  able to work at the  parts  counter  of one of our
stores. All new counter people are required to successfully complete a six-month
basic  automotive  systems  training course and are then enrolled in a six-month
advanced  automotive  systems course for certification by the National Institute
for Automotive Service Excellence ("ASE"),  which administers national exams for
various  automotive  specialties and requires ASE certified  specialists to take
recertification exams every five years.

      Each of our stores  participates in our sales specialist training program.
Under this program,  selected team members  complete two days of extensive sales
call  training  for  business  development,  after which these team members will
spend  one day per week  calling  on  existing  and new  professional  installer
customers.  Additionally, each team member engaged in such sales activities will
participate  in  quarterly  advanced  training  programs  for sales and business
development.


Customer Service

      We seek to provide our customers  with an efficient and pleasant  in-store
experience by maintaining  attractive stores in convenient locations with a wide
selection of automotive  products.  We believe that the  satisfaction of DIY and
professional installer customers is substantially  dependent upon our ability to
provide,  in a  timely  fashion,  the  specific  automotive  product  requested.
Accordingly,  each  O'Reilly  store  carries  a broad  selection  of  automotive
products  designed  to  cover  a  wide  range  of  vehicle  specifications.   We
continuously  refine the inventory levels carried in our stores,  based in large
part on the sales movement shown by our  computerized  inventory  control system
and on management's assessment of the changes and trends in the marketplace.



Pricing

      We believe that a competitive  pricing policy is essential  within product
categories  in order to  compete  successfully.  Product  pricing  is  generally
established  to meet the  pricing  policies  of  competitors  in the market area
served  by each  store.  Most  automotive  products  that we sell are  priced at
discounts to the  manufacturer  suggested  prices,  and  additional  savings are
offered through volume  discounts and special  promotional  pricing.  Consistent
with our low price guarantee, each of our stores will match any verifiable price
on any in-stock product of the same or comparable  quality offered by any of our
competitors.

Competition

      We  compete in both the DIY and  professional  installer  portions  of the
automotive aftermarket. We compete primarily with:

o       national and regional retail automotive  parts chains (such as AutoZone,
        Inc., Advance Auto Parts and The Pep Boys-Manny, Moe and Jack, Inc.);
o       independently owned parts stores;
o       wholesalers or jobber stores (some of which are associated with national
        automotive   parts   distributors  or  associations  such  as  NAPA  and
        CarQuest);
o       automobile dealers; and
o       mass merchandisers that carry automotive replacement parts,  maintenance
        items and accessories (such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.).

      We compete on the basis of customer  service,  which includes  merchandise
selection and  availability,  price,  helpfulness  of store  personnel and store
layout and location.


Team Members

      As of December 31,  2000,  we had 8,937  full-time  team members and 1,871
part-time  team members,  of whom 8,125 were employed at our stores,  1,914 were
employed at our distribution  centers and 769 were employed at our corporate and
administrative  headquarters.  Our team  members are not subject to a collective
bargaining  agreement.  We consider  our  relations  with our team members to be
excellent,  and strive to promote good relations  with our team members  through
various programs designed for such purposes.


Servicemarks and Trademarks

      We have registered the servicemarks O'Reilly Automotive(R),  O'Reilly Auto
Parts(R),  and Parts Payoff(R) and the trademarks  SuperStart(R),  BrakeBest(R),
Omnispark(R),  First  Call(R),  Ultima(R),  and Master Pro(R).  Further,  we are
licensed to use the  registered  trademarks and  servicemarks  Auto Value(R) and
Parts  Master(R)  owned by The  Alliance  (formerly  Auto Value  Associates)  in
connection  with our  marketing  program.  We believe  that our  business is not
otherwise dependent upon any patent, trademark, servicemark or copyright.


Regulations

      Although subject to various laws and governmental  regulations relating to
our business, including those related to the environment, we do not believe that
compliance with such laws and  regulations has a material  adverse effect on our
operations.  Further, we are unaware of any failure to comply with any such laws
and regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations.  We
can not give any assurance, however, that we will not incur significant expenses
in the future in order to comply with any such law or regulation.



Risk Factors

      Some of the  information in this Form 10-K contains and future reports and
press  releases  and  other  public  information  may  contain   forward-looking
statements that involve  substantial risks and  uncertainties.  You can identify
these  statements  by  forward-looking  words such as "may,"  "will,"  "expect,"
"anticipate,"  "believe,"  "estimate,"  and "continue" or similar  words.  These
"forward-looking   statements"  are  made  in  reliance  upon  the  safe  harbor
provisions of the Private Securities  Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (See Section
27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.) You should read statements that contain these words carefully  because
they: (1) discuss our future expectations; (2) contain projections of our future
results  of  operations  or of  our  financial  condition;  or (3)  state  other
"forward-looking"  information.  We believe it is important to  communicate  our
expectations to our investors.  However,  there may be events in the future that
we are not able to accurately predict or over which we have no control. The risk
factors listed in this section,  as well as any cautionary language in this Form
10-K,  provide  examples of risks,  uncertainties  and events that may cause our
actual results to differ  materially  from the  expectations  we describe in our
forward-looking  statements.  You  should be aware  that the  occurrence  of the
events  described  in these risk  factors and  elsewhere in this Form 10-K could
have a material adverse effect on our business,  operating results and financial
condition.

The Automotive Aftermarket Business is Highly Competitive

      Both the DIY and  professional  installer  portions  of our  business  are
highly  competitive,  particularly  in the more densely  populated areas that we
serve. Some of our competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial
resources.  In addition, some of our competitors are smaller than we are overall
but have a greater presence than we do in a particular market. For a list of our
principal competitors, see the "Business--Competition" section of Item 1 of this
Form 10-K.

We Cannot Assure Future Growth

      We believe that our ability to open  additional  stores at an  accelerated
rate will be a  significant  factor in achieving our growth  objectives  for the
future.  Failure to achieve  our growth  objectives  may  negatively  impact the
trading  price of our  common  stock.  Our  ability  to  accomplish  our  growth
objectives is dependent, in part, on matters beyond our control, such as weather
conditions,  zoning and other issues related to new store site development,  the
availability of qualified management personnel and general business and economic
conditions.  We cannot be sure that our growth plans for 2001 and beyond will be
achieved.  For a discussion of our growth strategies,  see the "Business--Growth
and Expansion Strategies" section of Item 1 of this Form 10-K.

Acquisitions May Not Lead to Expected Growth

      We acquired  certain  assets of Gateway Auto Supply in April 2000,  KarPro
Auto Parts in October 2000,  and Rankin  Automotive  Group in November  2000. We
expect to continue to make  acquisitions  as an element of our growth  strategy.
Acquisitions  involve certain risks that could cause our actual growth to differ
from  our  expectations.  For  example:  (1) we may not be able to  continue  to
identify suitable  acquisition  candidates or to acquire additional companies at
favorable prices or on other favorable terms; (2) our management's attention may
be  distracted;  (3) we may fail to retain key  acquired  personnel;  (4) we may
assume unanticipated legal liabilities and other problems; and (5) we may not be
able to successfully integrate the operations (accounting and billing functions,
for example) of businesses we acquire to realize economic, operational and other
benefits.

Sensitivity to Regional Economic and Weather Conditions

      All of our stores are located in the Central and Southern  United  States.
In particular,  approximately 40% of our stores are located in Texas. Therefore,
our  business is  sensitive  to the  economic  and weather  conditions  of these
regions.   Unusually  severe  or  inclement   weather  tends  to  reduce  sales,
particularly to DIY customers.



Dependence Upon Key and Other Personnel

      Our  success  has been  largely  dependent  on the  efforts of certain key
personnel,  including  David E.  O'Reilly,  Lawrence  P.  O'Reilly,  Charles  H.
O'Reilly,  Jr., Rosalie O'Reilly  Wooten,  Ted F. Wise and Greg L. Henslee.  Our
business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the
loss of the  services  of one or more of these  individuals.  Additionally,  our
successful  implementation and management of our growth and expansion strategies
will  depend  on our  ability  to  continue  to  attract  and  retain  qualified
personnel.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to continue  to attract  such
personnel.  For a further  discussion of our management  and personnel,  see the
"Business"  section  of Item 1 and  Item  4a of this  Form  10-K  and our  Proxy
Statement on Schedule 14A for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, a portion
of which is incorporated herein.

Significant Voting Control is held by the O'Reilly Family

      As of the date of this Form 10-K the  O'Reilly  family  beneficially  owns
approximately  19.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result,
the  O'Reilly  family  acting  together  will  continue  to be able to  exercise
significant  voting  control  over the  Company,  including  the election of our
directors and on any other matter being voted on by our shareholders,  including
any merger, sale of assets or other change in control.

Possible Volatility of Our Stock Price

      The stock  market  and the price of our  common  stock may be  subject  to
volatile  fluctuations  based on general  economic  and market  conditions.  The
market  price for our common  stock may also be  affected by our ability to meet
analysts' expectations.  Failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could
have an adverse  effect on the market  price of our common  stock.  In addition,
stock market  volatility  has had a  significant  effect on the market prices of
securities  issued by many  companies  for reasons  unrelated  to the  operating
performance of these companies.  In the past, following periods of volatility in
the market price of a company's  securities,  securities class action litigation
has often been  instituted  against such a company.  If similar  litigation were
instituted  against us, it could result in substantial  costs and a diversion of
our management's attention and resources,  which could have an adverse effect on
our business.


Shares Eligible for Future Sale

      All of the shares of common stock  currently held by our affiliates may be
sold in reliance upon the exemptive provisions of Rule 144 of the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended,  subject to certain volume and other conditions  imposed by
such rule. We cannot predict the effect,  if any, that future sales of shares of
common stock or the availability of such shares for sale will have on the market
price of the common stock  prevailing  from time to time.  Sales of  substantial
amounts of common stock,  or the perception  that such sales might occur,  could
adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock.



Item 2.  Properties

      The  following   table   provides   certain   information   regarding  our
administrative  offices and distribution  centers and offices as of December 31,
2000:


      Of the 672 stores that we operated at December 31,  2000,  225 stores were
owned,  385 stores  were  leased  from  unaffiliated  parties and 62 stores were
leased  from  one of two  real  estate  investment  partnerships  and a  limited
liability  corporation  formed by the O'Reilly family.  Leases with unaffiliated
parties generally  provide for payment of a fixed base rent,  payment of certain
tax,  insurance  and  maintenance  expenses,  and an original  term of 10 years,
subject to one or more renewals at our option.  The original  terms of 27 stores
leased  from  unaffiliated  parties  expire  prior to the end of  2001.  We have
entered into separate  master lease  agreements with each of the affiliated real
estate investment  partnerships for the occupancy of the stores covered thereby.
Such master lease  agreements  expired on December  31,  1998,  and were renewed
through  December  31,  2004.  We  believe  that the lease  agreements  with the
affiliated real estate investment  partnerships are on terms comparable to those
obtainable from third parties.

      We  believe  that  our  present  facilities  are in  good  condition,  are
adequately insured and together with those under construction,  are suitable and
adequate for the conduct of our current operations.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

      We are  currently  involved in a lawsuit as a result of a complaint  filed
against  Hi/LO in May 1997.  The  plaintiff in this lawsuit  sought to certify a
class action on behalf of persons or entities in the States of Texas,  Louisiana
and  California  that have  purchased a battery  from Hi/LO since May 1990.  The
complaint  alleges  that  Hi/LO  offered  and  sold  "old,"  "used"  and "out of
warranty"  batteries  as if the  batteries  were new,  resulting  in claims  for
violations of deceptive trade practices, breach of contract,  negligence, fraud,
negligent misrepresentation and breach of warranty. The plaintiff is seeking, on
behalf of the class, an unspecified amount of compensatory and punitive damages,




as well as  attorneys'  fees and pre- and  post-judgment  interest.  On July 27,
1998, the Trial Court  certified this class. We appealed the decision to certify
the class in the Court of Appeals for the Ninth  District of Texas.  On February
25, 1999,  the Court of Appeals  issued an opinion  affirming  the Trial Court's
decision to certify the class.  At that time, we appealed the opinion by seeking
a mandamus from the Supreme Court of Texas.  On April 6, 1999, the Supreme Court
of Texas asked the  plaintiff  to file a response,  which was filed on April 14,
1999. On May 3, 1999, we filed a reply to that  response.  On June 6, 2000,  the
Supreme Court of Texas denied the appeal for a mandamus. On January 15, 2001, we
reached  a  favorable  verbal  settlement  with  the  plaintiffs'  counsel.  The
settlement  documents  are currently  being  prepared and will be subject to the
approval  of the Trial  Court.  We  believe  that this  lawsuit  will not have a
material  adverse  effect on our  consolidated  financial  position,  results of
operations or cash flows.

      In addition,  we and our  subsidiaries are involved in various other legal
proceedings  incidental  to the  conduct  of our  business.  Although  we cannot
ascertain the amount of liability  that we may incur from any of these  matters,
we do not currently  believe that, in the  aggregate,  they will have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial position,  results of operations or
cash flows.

Item 4.  Submission Of Matters To A Vote Of Security Holders

      No matters  were  submitted  to a vote of  security  holders,  through the
solicitation  of proxies or otherwise,  during the fourth  quarter of the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2000.

Item 4a. Executive Officers of the Company

      The following  paragraphs discuss  information about executive officers of
the Company who are not also directors:

      Ted F. Wise, age 50, Co-President, has been an O'Reilly team member for 30
of his 50 years.  He began his O'Reilly career in sales in 1970, was promoted to
store manager in 1973, and became the Company's first district  manager in 1977.
He continued  his  progression  through the ranks as  Operations  Manager,  Vice
President, Senior Vice President focusing on Operations and Sales, and Executive
Vice President.  In July 1999, he was promoted to President of Sales, Operations
and Real Estate.

       Greg L.  Henslee,  age 40,  Co-President,  has  been  with  the  O'Reilly
organization  for 15 years.  His O'Reilly career started as a Parts  Specialist,
and  during his first five years  served in several  positions  in retail  store
operations,  including  District  Manager.  From there he  advanced  to Computer
Operations  Manager,  and over the past ten years,  he has served as Director of
Computer Operations/Loss  Prevention,  Vice President of Store Operations and as
Senior Vice  President.  He has been in his current  position  as  President  of
Merchandise,  Distribution,  Information  Systems and Loss Prevention since July
1999.

      James R. Batten,  CPA, age 38, has served as Chief  Financial  Officer and
Treasurer since March 1994 and, in addition,  as Vice-President of Finance since
October 1997.  Mr. Batten served as our Finance  Manager from January 1993 until
being elected to his current  position.  From September 1986 until joining us in
January 1993, Mr. Batten was employed by the accounting firm of Whitlock,  Selim
& Keehn.


                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market For Registrant's Common Equity And Related Shareholder Matters

Common Stock Market Prices and Dividends on page 36 of the Annual  Shareholders'
Report for the year ended December 31, 2000, under the captions,  "Market Prices
and Dividend  Information" and "Number of Shareholders," are incorporated herein
by reference.



Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

Selected  Financial Data on pages 13 and 14 of the Annual  Shareholders'  Report
for the year ended December 31, 2000, under the caption  "Selected  Consolidated
Financial Data," is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results
         Of Operations

Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations  on pages 15 through 19 of the  Annual  Shareholders'  Report for the
year ended December 31, 2000,  under the caption,  "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations,"  is  incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 7(A).  Quantitative And Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The  Company's  level of exposure to market risk  through  derivative  financial
instruments and other financial instruments is not material.

Item 8.  Financial Statements And Supplementary Data

The  Company's  consolidated  financial  statements,  the notes  thereto and the
report of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors, on pages 20 through 33 of the
Annual  Shareholders'  Report for the year ended  December 31,  2000,  under the
captions,  "Consolidated Financial Statements," "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements"  and "Report of Independent  Auditors," are  incorporated  herein by
this reference.

Item 9.  Changes In And Disagreements With Accountants On Accounting And
         Financial Disclosure

None.

                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors And Executive Officers Of The Registrant

The  information  regarding  the  directors  of  the  Company  contained  in the
Company's  Proxy  Statement  on  Schedule  14A for the 2001  Annual  Meeting  of
Shareholders  ("the Proxy  Statement")  under the caption  "Election  of Class I
Directors" is incorporated here by this reference.  The Proxy Statement is being
filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission within 120 days of the end of
the Company's most recent fiscal year end. The information  regarding  executive
officers  called for by item 401 of Regulation S-K is included in Part I as Item
4A, in accordance with General  Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K, for the executive
officers of the Company who are not also directors.

The  information  regarding  compliance  with  Section  16(a) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 included in the Company's Proxy Statement under the caption
"Compliance  with  Section  16(a)  of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934" is
incorporated here by this reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The material in the Proxy Statement under the caption  "Executive  Compensation"
other than the material under the caption "Report of the Compensation Committee"
is incorporated here by this reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership Of Certain Beneficial Owners And Management

The material in the Proxy  Statement  under the caption  "Security  Ownership of
Management  and  Certain   Beneficial  Owners"  is  incorporated  here  by  this
reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships And Related Transactions

The  material  in the Proxy  Statement  under  the  caption  "Transactions  with
Insiders and Others" is incorporated here by this reference.



                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule And Reports On Form 8-K

(a) 1.  Financial Statements-O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

     The following  consolidated  financial  statements of O'Reilly  Automotive,
     Inc. and Subsidiaries  included in the Annual  Shareholders'  Report of the
     registrant for the year ended December 31, 2000, are  incorporated  here by
     this reference in Part II, Item 8:

     Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2000 and 1999

     Consolidated  Statements  of Income for the years ended  December 31, 2000,
     1999, and 1998

     Consolidated  Statements  of  Shareholders'  Equity  for  the  years  ended
     December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,2000,
     1999, and 1998

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended December 31,
     2000, 1999, and 1998

     Report of Independent Auditors


(a) 2.  Financial Statement Schedule-O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

     The  following   consolidated  financial  statement  schedule  of  O'Reilly
     Automotive, Inc. and subsidiaries is included in Item 14(d):

     Schedule II-Valuation and qualifying accounts

All other  schedules for which  provision is made in the  applicable  accounting
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the
related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.


(a) 3.  Management Contracts and Compensatory Plans or Arrangements

     Each of the  Company's  management  contracts  and  compensatory  plans  or
arrangements is identified in the Exhibit Index on Page E-1.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

     The Company did not file any reports on Form 8-K during the last quarter of
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000.

(c) Exhibits

     See Exhibit Index.

(d) Financial Statement Schedules





                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE, INC.
                                                       (Registrant)


                                                Date:  March 30, 2001
                                                By /s/ David E. O'Reilly
                                                   -----------------------------
                                                       David E. O'Reilly
                                                       Co-Chairman and
                                                       Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1934, this report has been
signed  below by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the  registrant  in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                                       Title                 Date


/s/David E. O'Reilly                   Director, Co-Chairman of   March 30, 2001
- ------------------------------------   the Board and Chief
David E. O'Reilly                      Executive Officer
                                       (principal executive officer)


/s/Lawrence P. O'Reilly                Director, Co-Chairman of   March 30, 2001
- ------------------------------------   Chief Operating Officer
Lawrence P. O'Reilly


/s/Charles H. O'Reilly, Jr,            Director and Vice-         March 30, 2001
- ------------------------------------   Chairman of the Board
Charles H. O'Reilly, Jr.


/s/Rosalie O'Reilly Wooten             Director and Executive     March 30, 2001
- ------------------------------------   Vice-President
Rosalie O'Reilly Wooten


/s/ Charles H. O'Reilly, Sr.           Director and               March 30, 2001
- ------------------------------------   Chairman Emeritus
Charles H. O'Reilly, Sr.


/s/Ted F. Wise                         Co-President               March 30, 2001
- ------------------------------------
Ted F. Wise


/s/Greg Henslee                        Co-President               March 30, 2001
- ------------------------------------
Greg Henslee


/s/James R. Batten                     Vice-President of          March 30, 2001
- ------------------------------------   Finance
James R. Batten                        Chief Financial Officer
                                       and Treasurer
                                       (principal financial officer)


/s/ Jay D. Burchfield                  Director                   March 30, 2001
- ------------------------------------
Jay D. Burchfield


/s/ Joe C. Greene                      Director                   March 30, 2001
- ------------------------------------
Joe C. Greene


/s/ Paul R. Lederer                    Director                   March 30, 2001
- ------------------------------------
Paul R. Lederer


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit
Number      Description

 2.1*       Plan of Reorganization  Among the  Registrant, Greene County  Realty
            Co.("Greene County Realty") and Certain Shareholders.

 2.2        Agreement  and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 23, 1997, by and
            among  O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.,  Shamrock  Acquisition, Inc. and
            Hi/LO Automotive, Inc.,  filed as Exhibit (c)(1) to the Registrant's
            Tender  Offer Statement on  Schedule  14D-1 dated December 23, 1997,
            are incorporated here by this reference.

 3.1*       Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant.

 3.2*       Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant.

 3.3        Restated  Articles  of Incorporation  of the Registrant, as Amended,
            filed  as  Exhibit  3.3  to  the  Registrant's  quarterly  report on
            Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,1999, are  incorporated
            here by this reference.

 4.1*       Form of Stock Certificate for Common Stock.

10.1*(a)    Form of  Employment Agreement  between the  Registrant  and David E.
            O'Reilly, Lawrence P. O'Reilly, Charles H. O'Reilly, Jr. and Rosalie
            O'Reilly Wooten.

10.2*       Lease between the Registrant and O'Reilly Investment Company.

10.3*       Lease between the Registrant and O'Reilly Real Estate Company.

10.4(a)     Form  of  Retirement  Agreement  between the Registrant and David E.
            O'Reilly, Lawrence P. O'Reilly, Charles H. O'Reilly, Jr. and Rosalie
            O'Reilly  Wooten, filed as  Exhibit 10.4 to  the Registrant's Annual
            Shareholders'  Report on  Form 10-K for  the year ended December 31,
            1997, is incorporated here by this reference.

10.7(a)     O'Reilly  Automotive, Inc. Profit Sharing and Savings Plan, filed as
            Exhibit 4.1 to the  Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8,
            File No. 33-73892, is incorporated here by this reference.

10.8*(a)    O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. 1993 Stock Option Plan.

10.9*(a)    O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. Stock Purchase Plan.

10.10*(a)   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. Director Stock Option Plan.

10.11*      Commercial and Industrial Real Estate Sale Contract between Westing-
            house Electric Corporation and Registrant.

10.12*      Form of Assignment, Assumption and Indemnification Agreement between
            Greene County Realty and Shamrock Properties, Inc.

10.13       Loan  commitment and  construction loan  agreement between the Regi-
            strant and  Deck Enterprises,  filed as  Exhibit 10.13 to the  Regi-
            strant's Annual Shareholders' Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
            December 31, 1993, are incorporated here by this reference.

10.14       Lease between the Registrant and  Deck Enterprises, filed as Exhibit
            10.14 to the Registrant's Annual  Shareholders' Report  on Form 10-K
            for the year ended December 31, 1993, is  incorporated  here by this
            reference.

10.15       Amended  Employment Agreement between the  Registrant and Charles H.
            O'Reilly, Jr.,  filed as  Exhibit  10.17 to  the Registrant's Annual
            Shareholders'  Report  on  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
            1996, is incorporated here by this reference.

10.16       O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  Performance  Incentive  Plan,  filed as
            Exhibit 10.18 (a) to the Registrant's Annual Shareholders' Report on
            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, is incorporated here
            by this reference.


                           EXHIBIT INDEX (continued)

10.17(a)    Second Amendment to the O'Reilly  Automotive, Inc. 1993 Stock Option
            Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.20 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on
            Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997, is incorporated  here
            by this reference.

10.18       Credit Agreement between the Registrant and NationsBank, N.A., dated
            October 16, 1997, filed as Exhibit 10.17 to  the Registrant's  Quar-
            terly Report on  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1997,
            is incorporated here by this reference.

10.19       Credit Agreement between the Registrant and NationsBank, N.A., dated
            January 27, 1998, filed  as Exhibit 10.20 to  the Registrant's Quar-
            terly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998, is
            incorporated here by this reference.

10.20(a)    Third Amendment  to  the O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. 1993 Stock Option
            Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.21 to  the Registrant's  Amended Quarterly
            Report on  Form 10-Q/A for  the quarter ended March 31, 1998, is in-
            corporated here by this reference.

10.21(a)    First Amendment to  the O'Reilly  Automotive, Inc.  Directors' Stock
            Option  Plan,  filed  as  Exhibit 10.22 to  the Registrant's Amended
            Quarterly  Report  on  Form 10-Q/A  for the  quarter ended March 31,
            1998, is incorporated here by this reference.

10.22(a)    O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.  Deferred Compensation  Plan, filed as Ex-
            hibit 10.23 to  the  Registrant's Quarterly Report  on Form 10-Q for
            the  quarter ended  March 31, 1998, is  incorporated  here  by  this
            reference.

10.23       Trust Agreement between the Registrant's Deferred  Compensation Plan
            and Bankers Trust, dated February 2, 1998, filed as Exhibit 10.24 to
            the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
            March 31, 1998, is incorporated here by this reference.

13.1        Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders, filed herewith.

21.1        Subsidiaries of the Registrant, filed herewith.

23.1        Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors, filed herewith.

- --------------------

*           Previously   filed as  Exhibit  of same  number to the  Registration
            Statement of  the  Registrant  on Form S-1, File No.  33-58948,  and
            incorporated here by this reference.

(a)         Management  contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to
            be filed pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.



                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
        Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders




                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

      The following discussion of our financial condition, results of operations
and  liquidity  and capital  resources  should be read in  conjunction  with our
consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information
included elsewhere in this annual report.

      We are one of the largest  specialty  retailers of automotive  aftermarket
parts, tools, supplies,  equipment and accessories in the United States, selling
our  products  to  both   do-it-yourself   ("DIY")  customers  and  professional
installers.  Our stores carry an extensive  product line  consisting  of new and
remanufactured  automotive hard parts, maintenance items and accessories,  and a
complete  line of autobody  paint and related  materials,  automotive  tools and
professional service equipment.

      Beginning in January 2000, we calculate  same-store product sales based on
the change in product sales for stores open at least one year. We also calculate
same-store  product  sales  based on the change in  product  sales of only those
stores open during both full periods being compared. We calculate the percentage
increase in both  same-store  product sales based on store sales results,  which
exclude  sales of specialty  machinery,  sales by outside  salesmen and sales to
employees.

      Cost of goods sold  consists  primarily of product costs and warehouse and
distribution  expenses.  Cost of goods sold as a percentage of product sales may
be  affected by  variations  in our product  mix,  price  changes in response to
competitive factors and fluctuations in merchandise costs and vendor programs.

      Operating,  selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily
of store payroll,  store occupancy,  advertising expenses,  other store expenses
and general and administrative expenses, including salaries and related benefits
of corporate  team  members,  administrative  office  occupancy  expenses,  data
processing, professional expenses and other related expenses.


Results of Operations

      The  following  table  sets  forth  certain  income  statement  data  as a
percentage of product sales for the years indicated:



                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

2000 Compared to 1999

      Product sales increased  $136.3  million,  or 18.1% from $754.1 million in
1999 to $890.4 million in 2000,  due to 101 net additional  stores opened during
2000,  and a $28.0  million,  or 4.0% increase in  same-store  product sales for
stores opened in both full periods.  We believe that the increased product sales
achieved  by the  existing  stores are the result of our  offering  of a broader
selection of products in most stores,  an increased  promotional and advertising
effort  through  a  variety  of media  and  localized  promotional  events,  and
continued  improvement  in the  merchandising  and store layouts of most stores.
Also,  our continued  focus on serving  professional  installers  contributed to
increased sales.

      Gross  profit  increased  17.6% from  $325.3  million (or 43.1% of product
sales) in 1999 to $382.7 million (or 43.0% of product sales) in 2000.

      Operating,  selling,  general and administrative  expenses increased $44.3
million  from  $248.4  million  (or  32.9% of  product  sales) in 1999 to $292.7
million (or 32.9% of product  sales) in 2000.  The increase in these expenses in
dollar amount was  primarily  attributable  to increased  salaries and benefits,
rent and other costs associated with the addition of employees and facilities to
support the increased level of our operations.

      Other expense, net, increased by $3.0 million from $3.9 million in 1999 to
$6.9  million in 2000.  The increase was  primarily  due to interest  expense on
increased borrowings under our credit facility.

      Provision  for income taxes  increased  from $27.4  million in 1999 (37.5%
effective  tax rate) to $31.5 million in 2000 (37.8%  effective  tax rate).  The
increase in the dollar amount was primarily due to the increase of income before
income taxes.  The nominal  increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due
to changes in the  apportionment  of sales  between  states with  differing  tax
rates.

      Principally  as a result of the  foregoing,  net  income in 2000 was $51.7
million (or 5.8% of product sales),  an increase of $6.1 million (or 13.3%) from
net income in 1999 of $45.6 million (or 6.1% of product sales).


1999 Compared to 1998

      Product sales increased  $137.8  million,  or 22.4% from $616.3 million in
1998 to $754.1 million in 1999,  due to 80 net  additional  stores opened during
1999, and a $56.4  million,  or 9.6% increase in same-store  product  sales.  We
believe that the increased product sales achieved by the existing stores are the
result of our offering of a broader  selection  of products in most  stores,  an
increased  promotional  and  advertising  effort  through a variety of media and
localized promotional events, and continued improvement in the merchandising and
store layouts of most stores.  Also, our continued focus on serving professional
installers contributed to increased sales.

      Gross  profit  increased  26.2% from  $257.9  million (or 41.8% of product
sales)  in 1998 to  $325.3  million  (or 43.1% of  product  sales) in 1999.  The
increase in gross profit  margin was  primarily  attributable  to the  continued
improvements in our product  acquisition  programs and improved buying power due
to the number of net new stores opened in 1999.

      Operating,  selling,  general and administrative  expenses increased $47.4
million  from  $201.0  million  (or  32.6% of  product  sales) in 1998 to $248.4
million (or 32.9% of product  sales) in 1999.  The increase in these expenses in
dollar amount and as a percentage of sales primarily  resulted from higher costs
for  employee  medical  and  workers'  compensation   benefits,   the  continued
conversion of Hi-Lo Automotive,  Inc. ("Hi/LO") stores and distribution  center,
as well as the addition of employees  and  facilities  to support the  increased
level of our operations.



                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

      Other expense, net, decreased by $3.1 million from $7.0 million in 1998 to
$3.9 million in 1999. The decrease was primarily due to the decrease in interest
expense as a result of repayments of  indebtedness  under our syndicated  credit
facility with a portion of the net proceeds of our secondary offering.

      Our  provision  for  income  taxes was 37.5% and 38.4%,  respectively,  of
income before  income taxes in 1999 and 1998.  The decrease in the effective tax
rate primarily  related to a higher  percentage of our sales occurring in states
with lower income tax rates.

      Principally  as a result of the  foregoing,  net  income in 1999 was $45.6
million (or 6.1% of product sales), an increase of $14.9 million (or 48.3%) from
net income in 1998 of $30.8 million (or 5.0% of product sales).


Liquidity and Capital Resources

      Net cash  provided by  operating  activities  was $5.8 million in 2000 and
$29.7 million in 1999.  Net cash used in operating  activities was $19.1 million
in 1998. The decrease in cash provided by operating  activities in 2000 compared
to 1999 is the  result  of an  increase  in  inventory  and to a lesser  extent,
increases in accounts receivable and amounts receivable from vendors,  partially
offset by increases in net income,  accounts  payable and accrued  payroll.  The
increase in net cash  provided by operating  activities in 1999 compared to 1998
is the  result of  increases  in net  income,  accrued  payroll,  other  current
liabilities  and a larger tax benefit  resulting  from stock  option  exercises,
offset by increases in amounts receivable from vendors and inventory.

      Net cash used in investing  activities  was $40.5  million in 2000,  $77.8
million in 1999 and $100.8  million in 1998.  The  decrease in cash used in 2000
was  primarily  due  to  the  sale  of  90  properties  for  $52  million  in  a
sale-leaseback  transaction.  The  decrease  in cash used in 1999 was due to the
Hi/LO  acquisition  in 1998  and an  increase  in  payments  received  on  notes
receivable,  partially offset by increased  purchases of property and equipment.
The increase in cash used in 1998 was primarily due to the purchase of Hi/LO and
increased capital expenditures.

      On December 29, 2000, we completed a sale-leaseback transaction. Under the
terms of the transaction,  we sold 90 properties,  including land, buildings and
improvements,  for $52.3 million.  The lease, which is being accounted for as an
operating  lease,  provides  for an  initial  lease  term of 21 years and may be
extended for one initial ten-year period and two additional  successive  periods
of five years each.  The resulting gain of $4.5 million has been deferred and is
being amortized over the initial lease term. Net rent expense during the initial
term will be approximately $5.5 million annually and is included in the table of
future minimum annual rental commitments under non-cancelable  operating leases.
Proceeds from the transaction were used to reduce  outstanding  borrowings under
our Revolving Credit Facility.

      Capital expenditures were $82.0 million in 2000, $86.0 million in 1999 and
$57.7 million in 1998. These  expenditures were primarily related to the opening
of new stores,  as well as the relocation or remodeling of existing  stores.  We
opened  101,  80 and 50 net  stores  in 2000,  1999 and 1998,  respectively.  We
remodeled or relocated 8 stores in both 2000 and in 1999, and 18 stores in 1998.
Two new  distribution  centers were  acquired;  one in October 2000,  located in
Little Rock, Arkansas, and the other in December 1999, located in Dallas, Texas.

      On December 15, 2000,  we entered into a $50 million  Synthetic  Operating
Lease  Facility  ("Synthetic  Facility"  or  "the  Facility")  with a  group  of
financial  institutions.  Under the  Facility,  the Lessor  acquires  land to be
developed  for O'Reilly Auto Parts stores and funds our  development  thereof as
the Construction  Agent and Guarantor.  We subsequently  lease the property from
the  lessor for an initial  term of five  years with two  additional  successive
renewal  periods of five years each. The Facility  provides for a residual value
guarantee and purchase  options on the properties.  It also contains a provision
for an event of default whereby the Lessor,  among other things,  may require us
to purchase  any or all of the  properties.  We plan to utilize the  Facility to
finance a portion  of our  planned  store  growth  for 2001.  Funding  under the
Facility at December 31, 2000, totaled $1.0 million.



                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

      Our  continuing  store  expansion  program  requires  significant  capital
expenditures  and working capital  principally for inventory  requirements.  The
costs  associated  with the opening of a new store  (including  the cost of land
acquisition,  improvements,  fixtures,  inventory  and computer  equipment)  are
estimated to average approximately $900,000 to $1.1 million; however, such costs
may be  significantly  reduced where we lease,  rather than purchase,  the store
site.  Although the cost to acquire the business of an independently owned parts
store varies,  depending  primarily upon the amount of inventory and the amount,
if any, of real estate  being  acquired,  we estimate  that the average  cost to
acquire  such a business  and  convert it to one of our stores is  approximately
$400,000.  We plan to finance our expansion  program through cash expected to be
provided from operating  activities and available  borrowings under our existing
credit facilities and the Synthetic facility.

      On November 4, 1999, the Board of Directors  declared a two-for-one  stock
split  effected  in the form of a 100% stock  dividend  to all  shareholders  of
record as of November  15,  1999.  The stock  dividend  was paid on November 30,
1999.

      In March  1999,  we sold  7,002,000  shares  of  common  stock  through  a
secondary public offering.  The net proceeds from that offering,  which amounted
to $124.6 million, were used to repay a portion of our outstanding  indebtedness
under our bank credit facilities and to fund our expansion.

      In order to fund the Hi/LO  acquisition,  our continuing  store  expansion
program,  and our working capital and general  corporate  needs, we replaced our
lines of credit in January 1998 with an unsecured,  five-year  syndicated credit
facility totaling $175 million. The facility was reduced to $165 million in 1999
and further  reduced to $152.5  million in 2000.  The facility is comprised of a
$125 million  revolving loan, a $5 million  sublimit for the issuance of letters
of credit and a $27.5 million term loan.  This credit  facility is guaranteed by
our  subsidiaries.  At December 31, 2000,  the  effective  interest  rate on the
revolving  and term loan  portions,  which each mature on January 27, 2003,  was
7.0% per annum.  At December 31, 2000,  $50.2 in borrowings was available  under
this credit facility.

      We believe that our existing cash, short-term  investments,  cash expected
to be provided by operating  activities,  available  bank credit  facilities and
trade credit will be sufficient  to fund both our short- and  long-term  capital
needs for the foreseeable future.

Inflation and Seasonality

      We succeeded,  in many cases, in reducing the effects of merchandise  cost
increases   principally  by  taking  advantage  of  vendor  incentive  programs,
economies of scale  resulting from  increased  volume of purchases and selective
forward  buying.  As a result,  we do not believe that our operations  have been
materially affected by inflation.

      Our business is somewhat seasonal,  primarily as a result of the impact of
weather  conditions  on store sales.  Store sales and profits have  historically
been higher in the second and third quarters  (April through  September) of each
year than in the first and fourth quarters.

Quarterly Results

      The following table sets forth certain quarterly  unaudited operating data
for fiscal 2000 and 1999.  The  unaudited  quarterly  information  includes  all
adjustments which management  considers necessary for a fair presentation of the
information shown.



                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

      The unaudited operating data presented below should be read in conjunction
with our consolidated  financial statements and related notes included elsewhere
in this annual report, and the other financial information included here.



New Accounting Standards

      In 1998,  the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board issued SFAS No. 133,
"Accounting  for  Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities,"  which  is
required  to be  adopted  in years  beginning  after  June 15,  2000.  We do not
anticipate  that the adoption of SFAS No. 133 will have a significant  effect on
the financial position or the results of our operations.



                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                           Consolidated Balance Sheets




                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                     Consolidated Balance Sheets (continued)


                             See accompanying notes.



                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                        Consolidated Statements Of Income

                             See accompanying notes.


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                 Consolidated Statements Of Shareholders' Equity





                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                      Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows





                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Nature of Business

      O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc.  ("the  Company") is a specialty  retailer and
supplier of automotive  aftermarket  parts,  tools,  supplies and accessories to
both the "DIY"  customer and the  professional  installer  throughout  Arkansas,
Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Missouri, Nebraska, Oklahoma and Texas.

Principles of Consolidation

      The consolidated  financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its wholly owned  subsidiaries.  All significant  intercompany  balances and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Revenue Recognition

      The Company recognizes sales upon shipment of products.

Use of Estimates

      The preparation of the consolidated  financial  statements,  in conformity
with accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the United States  ("GAAP"),
requires  management to make estimates and  assumptions  that affect the amounts
reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

Inventory

      Inventory,  which consists of automotive  hard parts,  maintenance  items,
accessories and tools,  is stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost has been
determined  using the  last-in,  first-out  ("LIFO")  method.  If the  first-in,
first-out  ("FIFO")  method of costing  inventory  had been used by the Company,
inventory would have been $369,869,000 and $291,077,000 as of December 31, 2000,
and 1999, respectively.

Amounts Receivable from Vendors

      Amounts  receivable  from  vendors  consist  primarily  of amounts due the
Company for changeover merchandise, rebates and other allowances.

Property and Equipment

      Property and  equipment are carried at cost.  Depreciation  is provided on
 straight-line  and accelerated  methods over the estimated  useful lives of the
 assets.  Service lives for property and equipment generally range from three to
 forty  years.  Leasehold  improvements  are  amortized  over  the  terms of the
 underlying leases.  Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred.
 Upon retirement or sale, the cost and accumulated  depreciation  are eliminated
 and the gain or loss, if any, is included in the determination of net income as
 a component of other income  (expense).  The Company reviews  long-lived assets
 for impairment  whenever events or changes in  circumstances  indicate that the
 carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable.

      The Company  capitalizes  interest costs as a component of construction in
progress,  based on the  weighted-average  rates paid for long-term  borrowings.
Total interest costs capitalized for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and
1998, were $1,354,000, $1,134,000 and $1,213,000, respectively.

Income Taxes

      The  Company  accounts  for income  taxes  using the  liability  method in
accordance with Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS") No. 109.
The  liability  method  provides that  deferred tax assets and  liabilities  are
determined  based on differences  between  financial  reporting and tax bases of
assets and  liabilities  and are  measured  using the enacted tax rates and laws
that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)


Advertising Costs

      The Company expenses  advertising costs as incurred.  Advertising  expense
charged to operations amounted to $12,150,000, $9,428,000 and $8,326,000 for the
years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Financial Instrument

      The Company utilizes interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate
risk on its  floating  rate debt.  During  1998,  the  Company  entered  into an
interest-rate  swap  agreement  to modify the  interest  characteristics  of its
outstanding  long-term  debt from a floating  rate to a fixed rate  basis.  This
agreement  involves  the receipt of floating  rate amounts in exchange for fixed
rate interest payments over the life of the agreement without an exchange of the
underlying  principal amount. The differential to be paid or received is accrued
as interest  rates change and  recognized as an  adjustment to interest  expense
related  to the debt.  The  related  amount  payable to or  receivable  from the
counterparty is included in other  liabilities or assets.  The fair value of the
swap agreement is not recognized in the  consolidated  financial  statements and
approximates its carrying cost.

Pre-opening Costs

      Costs associated with the opening of new stores,  which consist  primarily
of payroll and occupancy costs, are charged to operations as incurred.

Stock Option Plans

      The Company has elected to follow Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No.
25,  "Accounting  for  Stock  Issued  to  Employees"  ("APB  25"),  and  related
interpretations  in  accounting  for its  employee  stock  options  because,  as
discussed in Note 11, the alternative fair value  accounting  provided for under
SFAS No. 123,  "Accounting  for Stock-Based  Compensation,"  requires the use of
option  valuation  models that were not  developed  for use in valuing  employee
stock options.  Under APB 25, because the exercise price of the Company's  stock
options equals the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no
compensation expense is recognized.

Concentration of Credit Risk

      The Company  grants  credit to certain  customers  who meet the  Company's
pre-established  credit  requirements.  Generally,  the Company does not require
security when trade credit is granted to  customers.  Credit losses are provided
for in the Company's  consolidated  financial  statements and consistently  have
been within management's expectations.

      The Company has provided long-term financing to a company,  through a note
receivable,  for the  construction  of an office building which is leased by the
Company  (see  Note  7).  The  note  receivable,  amounting  to  $2,066,000  and
$2,137,000 at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively, bears interest at 6% and
is due in August 2017.

      The carrying value of the Company's financial instruments, including cash,
short-term  investments,  accounts  receivable,  accounts  payable and long-term
debt, as reported in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets,  approximates
fair value.

Reclassifications

The  reclassifications  of certain  amounts  have been made to the 1999 and 1998
consolidated financial statements to conform to the 2000 presentation.

New Accounting Pronouncements

         In 1998, the Financial  Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative  Instruments  and Hedging  Activities" as deferred by
SFAS No. 137, which is required to be adopted in years  beginning after June 15,
2000.  The Company  does not  anticipate  that the adoption of SFAS No. 133 will
have a significant effect on its financial position or results of operations.


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 2--ACQUISITION

      Effective  January 31, 1998, the Company  acquired 100% of the outstanding
capital stock of Hi-Lo Automotive,  Inc. and its subsidiaries  ("Hi/LO").  Hi/LO
was a specialty retailer supplying  automotive  aftermarket tools,  supplies and
accessories  principally throughout Texas and Louisiana.  The purchase price was
approximately $49.3 million, including acquisition costs. The purchase price was
financed with long-term  borrowings  under the Company's  credit  facility.  The
acquisition  was  accounted  for using the  purchase  method of  accounting  and
accordingly,  the  results  of  operations  of Hi/LO have been  included  in the
Company's  results of  operations  since the date of  acquisition.  The purchase
price was allocated to assets  acquired and  liabilities  assumed based on their
estimated  fair  values.  The excess of net assets  acquired  over the  purchase
price, which totaled approximately $9.7 million, has been applied as a reduction
to the acquired property and equipment. Additional purchase liabilities recorded
included  approximately  $5,622,000  for severance and certain costs  associated
with the closure and  consolidation of certain  acquired  stores,  none of which
remained on the balance sheet at December 31, 1999.

      The  following  unaudited  pro forma  financial  information  presents the
combined  historical  results of the Company and Hi/LO as if the acquisition had
occurred  at January  1,  1998,  after  giving  effect to  certain  adjustments,
including the application of the excess of net assets acquired over the purchase
price  to  the  acquired   property  and  equipment  and  resulting   effect  on
depreciation,  increased  interest  expense  on  long-term  debt  related to the
acquisition, and the related income tax effects.

                                                                    ------------
                                                                  (In thousands,
                                                                     except per
                                                                     share data)
    Product sales                                                      $ 634,072
    Net income                                                         $  29,443
    Net income per share - assuming dilution                           $    0.68

      The pro forma  combined  results  are not  necessarily  indicative  of the
results that would have  occurred if the  acquisition  had been  completed as of
January 1, 1998.



NOTE 3--SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

      The Company's short-term  investments are classified as available-for-sale
in accordance with SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity  Securities,"  and are carried at cost,  which  approximates  fair market
value.  At December  31, 2000,  and 1999,  short-term  investments  consisted of
preferred equity securities.

NOTE 4--RELATED PARTIES

      The Company leases certain land and buildings related to its O'Reilly Auto
Parts stores under six-year operating lease agreements with O'Reilly  Investment
Company  and  O'Reilly  Real  Estate  Company,  partnerships  in  which  certain
shareholders  of the Company are  partners.  Generally,  these lease  agreements
provide for renewal  options  for an  additional  six years at the option of the
Company.  Additionally, the Company leases certain land and buildings related to
its O'Reilly Auto Parts stores under 15-year  operating  lease  agreements  with
O'Reilly-Wooten 2000 LLC, which is owned by certain shareholders of the Company.
Generally, these lease agreements provide for renewal options for two additional
five-year  terms at the option of the Company (see Note 7). Rent  expense  under
these operating  leases totaled  $2,671,000,  $2,647,000 and $2,158,000 in 2000,
1999 and 1998, respectively.

NOTE 5--NOTE PAYABLE TO BANK

      At December 31, 2000, the Company had available  short-term unsecured bank
lines of credit  providing for maximum  borrowings of $10 million,  all of which
was outstanding at December 31, 2000, and $5 million of which was outstanding at
December 31, 1999.  The lines of credit bear interest at LIBOR plus 0.50% (7.25%
at December 31,  2000).  Additionally,  at December  31,  2000,  the Company had
available a short-term line of credit in the amount of $25 million, all of which
was  outstanding  at December 31, 2000.  This line of credit was paid in full on
January 9, 2001. The line of credit bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.75% (7.45% at
December 31, 2000). The  weighted-average  interest rate for all lines of credit
for the years ended December 31, 2000, and 1999 was 7.2% and 6.7%, respectively.


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 6--LONG-TERM DEBT

      At December  31,  2000,  the Company had  available  an  unsecured  credit
facility  providing for maximum  borrowings of $152.5  million.  The facility is
comprised of a revolving  credit  facility of $125  million,  and a term loan of
$27.5 million. At December 31, 1999, the Company had available a credit facility
providing for maximum borrowings of $165 million.  The facility was comprised of
a $125  million  revolving  credit  facility  and a $40  million  term loan.  At
December 31, 2000, and 1999, $74,755,000 and $61,560,000,  respectively,  of the
revolving  credit facility and $27.5 million and $40 million,  respectively,  of
the term loan were  outstanding.  The credit  facility,  which bears interest at
LIBOR plus 0.50% (7.0% at December 31, 2000), expires in January 2003.

      During 2000 and 1999, the Company leased certain computer  equipment under
capitalized leases. The lease agreements are three-year terms expiring from 2001
to 2003. At December 31, 2000, the monthly  installments  under these agreements
were  approximately  $180,000.  The present  value of the future  minimum  lease
payments under these  agreements  totaled  $2,232,000 and $3,362,000 at December
31, 2000, and 1999, respectively, which has been classified as long-term debt in
the accompanying  consolidated  financial statements.  During 2000 and 1999, the
Company  purchased  $800,000  and  $2,676,000,  respectively,  of  assets  under
capitalized leases.

      Additionally,   the  Company  has  various   unsecured  notes  payable  to
individuals,  amounting to $97,000 and $140,000, at December 31, 2000, and 1999,
respectively.  The notes bear  interest at rates  ranging from 7.75% to 9.0% and
are due in monthly installments of approximately $1,500 including interest. Only
one note remained at December 31, 2000, which matures in 2008.

      Indirect  borrowings  under  letters of credit  provided  by a  $5,000,000
sublimit of the revolving  credit  facility  totaled  $648,510 and $1,275,000 at
December 31,  2000,  and 1999,  respectively.  These  letters of credit  reduced
availability of borrowings at December 31, 2000, and 1999.

      Principal  maturities  of  long-term  debt for each of the next five years
ending December 31 are as follows (amounts in thousands):

                 2001                    $  14,121
                 2002                       11,715
                 2003                       78,684
                 2004                           13
                 2005                           14
                 Thereafter                     37
                                         ---------
                                         $ 104,584

      Cash paid by the Company for interest  during the years ended December 31,
2000,  1999  and  1998  amounted  to  $8,240,000,  $6,134,000,  and  $8,509,000,
respectively.


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 7--COMMITMENTS

Lease Commitments

      During  1999,  the Company  entered  into a Master  Lease  Agreement  with
O'Reilly-Wooten  2000  LLC (an  entity  owned  by  certain  shareholders  of the
Company)  related  to  the  sale  and  leaseback  of  certain  properties.   The
transaction  closed on January 4, 1999,  with a purchase price of  approximately
$5.5 million. The lease calls for an initial term of 15 years with two five-year
renewal options.

         On  December  29,  2000,   the  Company   completed  a   sale-leaseback
transaction. Under the terms of the transaction, the Company sold 90 properties,
including land, buildings and improvements,  for $52.3 million. The lease, which
is being accounted for as an operating lease, provides for an initial lease term
of 21  years  and  may be  extended  for one  initial  ten-year  period  and two
additional  successive  periods of five years each.  The resulting  gain of $4.5
million has been  deferred and is being  amortized  over the initial lease term.
Net rent  expense  during the initial  term will be  approximately  $5.5 million
annually  and  is  included  in  the  table  of  future  minimum  annual  rental
commitments under non-cancelable operating leases. Proceeds from the transaction
were used to reduce outstanding  borrowings under the Company's Revolving Credit
Facility.

      On December 15,  2000,  the Company  entered into a $50 million  Synthetic
Operating   Lease   Facility  ("the   Facility")   with  a  group  of  financial
institutions.  Under the Facility,  the Lessor acquires land to be developed for
O'Reilly Auto Parts stores and funds the  development  thereof by the Company as
the  Construction  Agent and  Guarantor.  The  Company  subsequently  leases the
property  from the Lessor for an initial term of five years with two  additional
successive  renewal  periods of five years each.  The  Facility  provides  for a
residual  value  guarantee  and  purchase  options  on the  properties.  It also
contains a provision  for an event of default  whereby  the Lessor,  among other
things, may require the Company to
purchase any or all of the properties. The Company plans to utilize the Facility
to finance a portion of its planned  store  growth for 2001.  Funding  under the
Facility at December 31, 2000, totaled $1.0 million.

      The Company also leases certain office space, retail stores,  property and
equipment under long-term, non-cancelable operating leases. Most of these leases
include  renewal options and some include options to purchase and provisions for
percentage  rent based on sales.  At December 31, 2000,  future  minimum  rental
payments under all of the Company's  operating  leases for each of the next five
years and in the aggregate are as follows (amounts in thousands):

                       Related        Non-related
                       Parties          Parties            Total

        2001          $   2,032        $  19,823        $  21,855
        2002              1,957           18,239           20,196
        2003              1,160           16,874           18,034
        2004              1,001           15,436           16,437
        2005                665           13,273           13,938
        Thereafter        5,575          112,305          117,880
                      ---------        ---------        ---------
                      $  12,390        $ 195,950        $ 208,340
                      =========        =========        =========

      Rental expense  amounted to  $16,219,000,  $14,122,000 and $13,862,000 for
the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

Other Commitments

      The Company had construction commitments, which totaled approximately $7.0
million, at December 31, 2000.


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 8--LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      The Company is currently involved in litigation as a result of a complaint
filed against Hi/LO in May 1997. The plaintiff in this lawsuit sought to certify
a class  action  on  behalf  of  persons  or  entities  in the  states of Texas,
Louisiana  and  California  that have  purchased a battery  from Hi/LO since May
1990.  The complaint  alleges that Hi/LO offered and sold "old," "used" and "out
of warranty"  batteries as if the  batteries  were new,  resulting in claims for
violations of deceptive trade practices, breach of contract,  negligence, fraud,
negligent misrepresentation and breach of warranty. The plaintiff is seeking, on
behalf of the class, an unspecified amount of compensatory and punitive damages,
as well as  attorneys'  fees and pre- and  post-judgment  interest.  On July 27,
1998, the Trial Court certified this class. The Company appealed the decision to
certify  the class in the Court of Appeals for the Ninth  District of Texas.  On
February 25, 1999,  the Court of Appeals  issued an opinion  affirming the Trial
Court's  decision to certify the class.  At that time, the Company  appealed the
opinion by seeking a mandamus from the Supreme Court of Texas. On April 6, 1999,
the Supreme  Court of Texas asked the  plaintiff  to file a response,  which was
filed on April 14,  1999.  On May 3,  1999,  the  Company  filed a reply to that
response.  On June 6, 2000,  the Supreme  Court of Texas denied the appeal for a
mandamus. On January 15, 2001, the Company reached a favorable verbal settlement
with the  plaintiffs'  counsel.  The  settlement  documents are currently  being
prepared and will be subject to the approval of the Trial Court.

The Company  believes that this lawsuit will not have a material  adverse effect
on the Company's consolidated financial position,  results of operations or cash
flows.

      In addition,  the Company is involved in various  other legal  proceedings
incidental to the conduct of its business. Although the Company cannot ascertain
the amount of liability that it may incur from any of these matters, it does not
currently  believe that,  in the  aggregate,  they will have a material  adverse
effect on the  consolidated  financial  position,  results of operations or cash
flows of the Company.

NOTE 9--INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT

      The Company  entered into an interest rate swap  agreement to  effectively
convert a portion of its  floating  rate  long-term  debt to a fixed rate basis,
thereby reducing the impact of interest rate changes on future income.  Pursuant
to this pay-fixed swap agreement,  the Company agreed to exchange,  at specified
intervals,  the difference  between the fixed and the floating  interest amounts
calculated  on the  notional  amount of the swap  agreement  which  totaled  $50
million,  $50  million and $100  million,  respectively,  at January  27,  2000,
December 31, 1999,  and 1998.  The Company's  fixed interest rate under the swap
agreement  was 5.66% and the  counterparty's  floating rate was 6.20% at January
27, 2000, and December 31, 1999. The swap agreement expired on January 27, 2000.

NOTE 10--EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

      The Company  sponsors a contributory  profit sharing and savings plan that
covers  substantially  all  employees  who are 21 years of age with at least six
months  of  service.  Employees  may  contribute  up  to  15%  of  their  annual
compensation subject to Internal Revenue Code maximum  limitations.  The Company
has agreed to make matching  contributions  equal to 50% of the first 2% of each
employee's contribution and 25% of the next 2% of each employee's  contribution.
Additional  contributions to the plan may be made as determined  annually by the
Board of  Directors.  After three years of service,  Company  contributions  and
earnings thereon vest at the rate of 20% per year. Company contributions charged



                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 10--EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (continued)

to operations amounted to $2,454,000 in 2000,  $2,618,000 in 1999 and $1,818,000
in 1998.  Company  contributions,  in the form of common  stock,  to the  profit
sharing and savings plan to match employee  contributions during the years ended
December 31 were as follows:

                    Year                               Market
                 Contributed         Shares            Value
                 ---------------------------------------------
                    2000             49,891          $ 724,000
                    1999             29,481            658,000
                    1998             31,438            514,000

      Profit sharing  contributions accrued at December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998
funded in the next year through the issuance of shares of the  Company's  common
stock were as follows:

                    Year                               Market
                   Funded             Shares           Value
                   --------------------------------------------
                    2000            132,890         $ 1,919,000
                    1999             60,640           1,300,000
                    1998             72,386           1,070,000


      The Company also  sponsors an unfunded  non-contributory  defined  benefit
health care plan, which provides  certain health benefits to retired  employees.
According to the terms of this plan,  retirees'  annual  benefits are limited to
$1,000 per employee  starting at age 66 for  employees  with 20 or more years of
service.  Post-retirement benefit costs for each of the years ended December 31,
2000, 1999, and 1998 amounted to $12,000.

      Additionally,  the Company has adopted a stock  purchase  plan under which
1,000,000  shares of common stock are reserved  for future  issuance.  Under the
plan,  substantially all employees and non-employee  directors have the right to
purchase shares of the Company's common stock monthly at a price equal to 85% of
the fair market value of the stock.  Under the plan,  147,315 shares were issued
at a weighted- average price of $12.83 per share during 2000, 78,927 shares were
issued at a  weighted-average  price of $18.90 per share during 1999, and 74,632
shares were issued at a weighted-average price of $15.05 per share during 1998.

      The Company has in effect a performance  incentive  plan for the Company's
senior  management  under which 400,000 shares of restricted  stock are reserved
for future  issuance.  Under the plan,  12,164  shares,  6,796  shares and 5,358
shares were issued during 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

NOTE 11--STOCK OPTION PLANS

      The Company has a stock option plan under which incentive stock options or
non-qualified  stock  options may be granted to officers and key  employees.  An
aggregate  of 6,000,000  shares of common stock is reserved for future  issuance
under this plan.  The exercise  price of options  granted shall not be less than
the fair  market  value of the stock on the date of grant and the  options  will
expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant.  Options granted  pursuant
to the plan become exercisable no sooner than six months from the date of grant.
In the case of a shareholder  owning more than 10% of the  outstanding  stock of
the Company, the exercise price of an incentive option may not be less than 110%
of the fair  market  value of the stock on the date of grant,  and such  options



                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 11--STOCK OPTION PLANS (continued)

will expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant.  Also,  the aggregate
fair market value of the stock with respect to which incentive stock options are
exercisable  for the first time by any  individual  in any calendar year may not
exceed $100,000. A summary of outstanding stock options is as follows:

                                                                         Number
                                          Price per Share              of Shares
                                          --------------------------------------
  Outstanding at December 31, 1997        $  4.38 - 14.00             2,672,400
           Granted                          12.38 - 22.91               823,750
           Exercised                         4.38 - 16.07              (238,600)
           Canceled                          4.38 - 20.88               (68,700)
           Forfeitures                               4.38                (5,000)
                                                                      ----------
  Outstanding at December 31, 1998           5.94 - 22.91             3,183,850
           Granted                          18.44 - 26.75             1,148,000
           Exercised                         5.94 - 18.75              (948,620)
           Canceled                          6.75 - 26.38               (35,750)
           Forfeitures                               6.07                (1,000)
                                                                      ----------
  Outstanding at December 31, 1999           6.07 - 26.75             3,346,480
           Granted                          10.56 - 24.38               581,250
           Exercised                         6.07 - 22.75              (361,875)
           Canceled                         10.00 - 25.88              (206,625)
                                                                      ----------
  Outstanding at December 31, 2000.       $  8.00 - 26.75             3,359,230
                                                                      ==========

         Options to purchase 1,729,033,  1,171,888, and 855,100 shares of common
 stock were exercisable at December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

      The Company also maintains a stock option plan for non-employee  directors
of the Company  under which  300,000  shares of common  stock are  reserved  for
future issuance.  All director stock options are granted at fair market value on
the date of grant and  expire on the  earlier of  termination  of service to the
Company as a director or seven  years.  Options  granted  under this plan become
exercisable  six months from the date of grant. A summary of  outstanding  stock
options is as follows:

                                                                         Number
                                          Price per Share              of Shares
                                          --------------------------------------
  Outstanding at December 31, 1997        $  4.38 -  9.10                60,000
           Granted                                  13.50                20,000
           Exercised                                 4.38               (10,000)
           Canceled                                     -                     -
                                                                      ----------
  Outstanding at December 31, 1998           6.56 - 13.50                70,000
           Granted                                  23.91                20,000
           Exercised                                    -                     -
           Canceled                                     -                     -
                                                                      ----------
  Outstanding at December 31, 1999           6.56 - 23.91                90,000
           Granted                                  12.44                20,000
           Exercised                         6.56 -  6.75               (20,000)
           Canceled                                     -                     -
                                                                      ----------
  Outstanding at December 31, 2000        $  9.09 - 23.91                90,000
                                                                      ==========

      All options under this plan were  exercisable at December 31, 2000,  1999,
and 1998.


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 11--STOCK OPTION PLANS (CONTINUED)

      Pro forma  information  regarding  net  income and  earnings  per share is
required  by SFAS  No.  123,  and has  been  determined  as if the  Company  had
accounted  for its employee and  non-employee  director  stock options under the
fair value method of that SFAS.

      The fair  values for these  options  were  estimated  at the date of grant
using a Black-Scholes  option pricing model with the following  weighted-average
assumptions for 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively;  risk-free interest rates of
5.02%,  6.54% and 4.74%;  volatility factors of the expected market price of the
Company's  common stock of .442,  .247, and 221; and  weighted-average  expected
life of the options of 8.9, 8.0 and 8.0 years. The Company assumed a 0% dividend
yield over the expected life of the options. The weighted-average fair values of
options  granted during the years ended  December 31, 2000,  1999, and 1998 were
$9.24,  $10.22  and  $6.44,   respectively.   The   weighted-average   remaining
contractual  life at December 31, 2000,  for all  outstanding  options under the
Company's stock option plans is 7.1 years. The  weighted-average  exercise price
for all outstanding options under the Company's stock option plans was $16.12 at
December 31, 2000.

      The  Black-Scholes  option  valuation  model  was  developed  for  use  in
estimating the fair value of traded options,  which have no vesting restrictions
and are fully  transferable.  In addition,  option  valuation models require the
input of highly  subjective  assumptions,  including  the  expected  stock price
volatility.   Because  the   Company's   stock   options  have   characteristics
significantly  different from those of traded options and because changes in the
subjective input assumptions can materially  affect the fair value estimate,  in
management's opinion, the existing model does not necessarily provide a reliable
single measure of the fair value of its employee stock options.

      For purposes of pro forma  disclosures,  the  estimated  fair value of the
options is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period. The effects of
applying  SFAS  No.  123  for  pro  forma  disclosures  are  not  likely  to  be
representative of the effects on reported net income or losses for future years.
The Company's pro forma information follows:

                                           2000          1999          1998
                                        --------------------------------------
                                         (In thousands, except per share data)

      Pro forma net income              $ 48,177       $ 43,501       $ 29,242
                                        ======================================
      Pro forma basic net
        income per share                $   0.94       $   0.89       $   0.69
                                        ======================================
      Pro forma net income per
        share - assuming dilution       $   0.93       $   0.88       $   0.67
                                        ======================================



                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 12--INCOME PER COMMON SHARE

      The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted income
per common share:


                                               Years ended December 31,
                                           2000          1999          1998
                                        --------------------------------------
                                         (In thousands, except per share data)

Numerator (basic and diluted):
     Net income                         $ 51,708       $ 45,639       $ 30,772
                                        ======================================

Denominator:
     Denominator for basic income
       per common share -
        weighted-average shares           51,168         48,674         42,476
     Effect of stock options (Note 11).      560          1,041            728
                                        ---------------------------------------

     Denominator for diluted income
       per common share - Adjusted
       weighted-average shares and
       assumed conversion                 51,728         49,715         43,204
                                        =======================================

Basic net income per common share       $   1.01       $   0.94       $   0.72
                                        =======================================

Net income per common share -
  assuming dilution                     $   1.00       $   0.92       $   0.71
                                        =======================================

NOTE 13--INCOME TAXES

      Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences
between the carrying  amounts of assets and liabilities for financial  reporting
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of
the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows at December 31:


                                                         2000             1999
                                                      --------------------------
                                                             (In thousands)
Deferred tax assets:
    Current:
       Allowance for doubtful accounts............... $     51          $   226
       Other accruals.................................   2,960            3,586
                                                      --------------------------
                                                         3,011            3,812
    Noncurrent:
       Other...............................................834            1,306
                                                      --------------------------
               Total deferred tax assets.................3,845            5,118

Deferred tax liabilities:
    Current:
       Inventory carrying value.......................   1,609            2,036

    Noncurrent:
       Property and equipment...................         4,920            2,521

       Total deferred tax liabilities                    6,529            4,557
                                                      --------------------------
       Net deferred tax assets (liabilities)          $ (2,684)         $   561
                                                      ==========================


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 13--INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)

      The provision for income taxes consists of the following:

                                  Current           Deferred             Total
                                 ----------------------------------------------
                                                 (In thousands)

2000:
     Federal                     $ 25,120           $ 2,946            $ 28,066
     State                          3,086               299               3,385
                                 ----------------------------------------------
                                 $ 28,206           $ 3,245            $ 31,451
                                 ==============================================

1999:
     Federal                     $ 19,934           $ 4,959            $ 24,893
     State                          1,996               496               2,492
                                 ----------------------------------------------
                                 $ 21,930           $ 5,455            $ 27,385
                                 ==============================================
1998:
     Federal                     $ 10,386           $ 6,852            $ 17,238
     State                          1,156               777               1,933
                                 ----------------------------------------------
                                 $ 11,542           $ 7,629            $ 19,171
                                 ==============================================


      A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes to the amounts computed
at the federal statutory rate is as follows:

                                             2000          1999          1998
                                           ------------------------------------
                                                     (In thousands)

Federal income taxes at statutory rate     $ 29,106      $ 25,558      $ 17,480
State income taxes, net of federal tax
  benefit                                     2,200         1,625         1,256
Other items, net                                145           202           435
                                           ------------------------------------
                                           $ 31,451      $ 27,385      $ 19,171
                                           ====================================

      The tax  benefit  associated  with the  exercise  of  non-qualified  stock
options has been  reflected as additional  paid-in  capital in the  accompanying
consolidated financial statements.

      During the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998, cash paid by the
Company for income taxes amounted to $24,244,000,  $17,151,000 and  $16,229,000,
respectively.

NOTE 14--STOCK SPLIT

      On  November  8,  1999,  the  Company's  Board  of  Directors  declared  a
two-for-one  stock  split to be  effected  in the form of a 100% stock  dividend
payable  to all  shareholders  of  record as of  November  15,  1999.  The stock
dividend was paid on November 30, 1999.  Accordingly,  this stock split has been
recognized by  reclassifying  $254,000,  the par value of the additional  shares
resulting from the split, from retained earnings to common stock.

      All  share  and  per  share  information   included  in  the  accompanying
consolidated  financial  statements has been restated to reflect the retroactive
effect of the stock split for all periods presented.



                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 15--PUBLIC OFFERING OF COMMON STOCK

      In March 1999,  the  Company  completed  a  secondary  public  offering of
7,002,000 shares of common stock. Pursuant to this offering,  the Company issued
7,002,000  shares of common  stock  resulting  in net proceeds to the Company of
$124,570,000.  A  portion  of the  proceeds  was  used to  repay  the  Company's
outstanding indebtedness under its bank credit facilities. The remaining portion
of the proceeds was used to fund the Company's expansion.

NOTE 16--QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA--UNAUDITED


      The above  quarterly  financial  data is unaudited,  but in the opinion of
management,  all adjustments  necessary for a fair  presentation of the selected
data for these interim periods presented have been included.




                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

                         Report Of Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries

      We have audited the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc. and  Subsidiaries  as of December 31, 2000,  and 1999, and the
related consolidated  statements of income,  shareholders' equity and cash flows
for each of the  three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,  2000.  These
financial  statements are the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance  with auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates  made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.

      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all  material  respects,  the  consolidated  financial  position  of O'Reilly
Automotive,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  at December 31,  2000,  and 1999,  and the
consolidated  results of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.


                                                   /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Kansas City, Missouri
February 23, 2001


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Exhibit 13.1 - Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (continued)

Shareholder Information

CORPORATE ADDRESS

233 South Patterson
Springfield, Missouri 65802
417/862-3333
Web site - www.oreillyauto.com

REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENT

UMB Bank
928 Grand Boulevard
Kansas City, Missouri 64141-0064

Inquiries regarding stock transfers, lost certificates or address changes should
be directed to UMB Bank at the above address.

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Ernst and Young LLP
One Kansas City Place
Kansas City, Missouri 64105-2143

LEGAL COUNSEL

Gallop Johnson & Neuman, L.C.
101 South Hanley Road, Suite 1600
St. Louis, Missouri 63105

Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
333 West Wacker Drive, Suite 2100
Chicago, Illinois 60606

ANNUAL MEETING

The annual meeting of shareholders of O'Reilly Automotive,  Inc. will be held at
10:00 a.m. local time on May 8, 2001, at the University Plaza Convention Center,
333 John Q. Hammons Parkway in Springfield, Missouri. Sharedholders of record as
of February 28, 2001, will be entitled to vote at this meeting.

FORM 10-K REPORT

The Form 10-K Report of O'Reilly Automotive,  Inc. filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission  and our quarterly  press  releases are  available  without
charge to shareholders  upon written request.  These requests and other investor
contacts should be directed to James R. Batten,  Vice President of Finance/Chief
Financial Officer, at the corporate address.

TRADING SYMBOL

The  Company's  common  stock is traded on The  Nasdaq  Stock  Market  (National
Market) under the symbol ORLY.

NUMBER OF SHAREHOLDERS

As of February 28, 2001,  O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. had  approximately  19,500
shareholders  based on the number of holders  of record and an  estimate  of the
number of individual participants represented by security position listings.

ANALYST COVERAGE

The following analysts provide research coverage of O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.

Credit Suisse First Boston - Gary Balter
William Blair & Co. - Ellen Baras
A.G. Edwards - Mark Johnson
Merrill Lynch - Douglas Neviera
Advest - Brett Jordan
Smith Moore & Co. - John Rast

MARKET PRICES AND DIVIDEND INFORMATION

The  prices  in the  table  below  represent  the high and low  sales  price for
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. common stock as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market.

The common stock began  trading on April 22, 1993. No cash  dividends  have been
declared  since  1992,  and the  Company  does not  anticipate  paying  any cash
dividends in the forseeable future.

                              2000                               1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        High        Low                    High        Low
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

First Quarter        $ 22-1/8     $  8-1/4              $ 26-3/8     $ 12-5/8
Second Quarter         15-7/16      11-3/4                25-3/4       20
Third Quarter          16-1/8       13-1/8                27-5/16      17-7/8
Fourth Quarter         27-1/4       14                    24-3/8       19-7/16
For the Year           27-1/4        8-1/4                27-5/16      17-7/8



                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Exhibit 21.1 - Subsidiaries of the Company

              Subsidiary                  State of Incorporation

Ozark Automotive Distributors, Inc.                Missouri
Greene County Realty Co.                           Missouri
O'Reilly II Aviation, Inc.                         Missouri
Hi-Lo Automotive, Inc.                             Delaware


        One  hundred  percent of the capital  stock of each of the above  listed
subsidiaries is directly owned by O'Reilly Automotive, Inc.


                   O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and Subsidiaries
        Exhibit 23.1 - Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors

We consent to the  incorporation  by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
of O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. and Subsidiaries of our report dated February 23,
2001, included in the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders of O'Reilly Automotive,
Inc.

Our audits  also  included  the  consolidated  financial  statement  schedule of
O'Reilly  Automotive,  Inc. and Subsidiaries listed in Item 14(a). This schedule
is the  responsibility  of the Company's  management.  Our  responsibility is to
express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion,  the financial statement
schedule  referred to above,  when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements  taken as a whole,  presents  fairly  in all  material  respects  the
information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(Form S-8 No.  33-61632,  Form S-8 No.  33-73892  and Form S-8 No.  33-91022) of
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. of our report dated February 23, 2001, with respect to
the consolidated financial statements incorporated herein by reference,  and our
report  included in the  preceding  paragraph  with respect to the  consolidated
financial  statement  schedule  included  in this Annual  Report  (Form 10-K) of
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2000.


                               /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP



Kansas City, Missouri
March 27, 2001



