Item 1A. Risk Factors



Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause our
actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements we make. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the matters discussed
below identify the material risk factors affecting our







business. However, the risks and uncertainties we face are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to
be immaterial (but that later become material) may also adversely affect our business.



The success of our business is significantly related to general economic conditions and, accordingly, our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by economic
slowdowns, liquidity crises, fiscal or political uncertainty and possible subsequent downturns in commercial real estate asset values, property sales and leasing activities in one or more of the geographies or industry sectors that we or our clients
serve.



Periods of economic weakness or
recession, significantly rising interest rates, fiscal or political uncertainty, market volatility, declining employment levels, declining demand for commercial real estate, falling real estate values, disruption to the global capital or credit
markets or the public perception that any of these events may occur, may negatively affect the performance of some or all of our business lines.



Our business is significantly affected by generally prevailing economic conditions in the markets where we principally operate, which can
result in a general decline in real estate acquisition, disposition and leasing activity, as well as a general decline in the value of commercial real estate and in rents, which in turn reduces revenue from asset services fees and commissions
derived from property sales, leasing, valuation and financing, as well as revenues associated with development or investment management activities. Our businesses could also suffer from political or economic disruptions that affect interest rates or
liquidity or create financial, market or regulatory uncertainty. For example, the U.K.’s vote to withdraw from the European Union, commonly known as “Brexit,” and speculation about the terms and consequences of this exit or that of
other European Union members has caused and may continue to cause market volatility and currency fluctuations and adversely impact our clients’ confidence, which may result in a deterioration in our U.K. and other European businesses as leasing
and investing activity slow down.



Adverse
economic conditions or political or regulatory uncertainty could also lead to a decline in property sales prices as well as a decline in funds invested in existing commercial real estate assets and properties planned for development, which in turn
could reduce the commissions and fees that we earn. In addition, our development and investment strategy often entails makingco-investmentsalongside our investor clients. During an economic downturn, capital
for our investment activities is usually constrained and it may take longer for us to dispose of real estate investments or selling prices may be lower than originally anticipated. As a result, the value of our commercial real estate investments may
be reduced, and we could realize losses or diminished profitability. In addition, economic downturns may reduce the amount of loan originations and related servicing by our Capital Markets business.



The performance of our asset services line of business
depends upon how well the properties we manage perform. This is because our fees are generally based on a percentage of rent collections from these properties. Rent collections may be affected by many factors, including: (i) real estate and
financial market conditions prevailing generally and locally; (ii) our ability to attract and retain creditworthy tenants, particularly during economic downturns; and (iii) the magnitude of defaults by tenants under their respective
leases, which may increase during distressed economic conditions.



In continental Europe and Asia Pacific, the economies in certain countries can be fragile, which may adversely affect our financial performance.



Economic, political and regulatory uncertainty as well as significant changes and volatility in the financial
markets and business environment, and in the global landscape, make it increasingly difficult for us to predict our financial performance into the future. As a result, any guidance or outlook that we provide on our performance is based on
then-current conditions, and there is a risk that such guidance may turn out to be inaccurate.







Adverse developments in the credit markets may harm our business, results of
operations and financial condition.



Our
Global Investment Management, Development Services and Capital Markets (including property sales and mortgage and structured financing services) businesses are sensitive to credit cost and availability as well as marketplace liquidity. Additionally,
the revenues in all of our businesses are dependent to some extent on the overall volume of activity (and pricing) in the commercial real estate market.



Disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect our business of providing advisory services to owners, investors and occupiers of
real estate in connection with the leasing, disposition and acquisition of property. If our clients are unable to procure credit on favorable terms, there may be fewer completed leasing transactions, dispositions and acquisitions of property. In
addition, if purchasers of commercial real estate are not able to procure favorable financing resulting in the lack of disposition opportunities for our funds and projects, our Global Investment Management and Development Services businesses may be
unable to generate incentive fees, and we may also experience losses ofco-investedequity capital if the disruption causes a permanent decline in the value of investments made.



Our operations are subject to social, political and
economic risks in foreign countries as well as foreign currency volatility.



period-to-period



Additional circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect our business, financial
condition or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following factors:



•difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations among diverse geographies, languages and cultures;



•currency restrictions, transfer pricing regulations and adverse tax consequences, which may affect our ability to transfer capital and profits to the
United States;



•adverse changes in regulatory or tax requirements and regimes or uncertainty about the application of or the future of such regulatory or tax
requirements and regimes;



•the responsibility of complying with numerous, potentially conflicting and frequently complex and changing laws in multiple jurisdictions,e.g.,
with respect to corrupt practices, embargoes, trade sanctions, employment and licensing;



•the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability;







•greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable in some geographic regions such as Asia, where many countries have underdeveloped insolvency laws;



•a tendency for clients to delay payments in some European and Asian countries;



•political and economic instability in certain countries;



•foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in certain countries, particularly in Asia Pacific, or the risk that such restrictions will
be adopted in the future; and



•changes in U.S. laws or policies governing foreign trade or investment and use of foreign operations or workers, and any negative sentiments towards
the United States as a result of any such changes to laws or policies.



We maintain anti-corruption and anti-money-laundering compliance programs and programs designed to enable us to comply with applicable government economic sanctions, embargoes and other import/export
controls throughout the company. But, coordinating our activities to deal with the broad range of complex legal and regulatory environments in which we operate presents significant challenges. We may not be successful in complying with regulations
in all situations and violations may result in criminal or civil sanctions, including material monetary fines, penalties, equitable remedies (including disgorgement), and other costs against us or our employees, and may have a material adverse
effect on our reputation and business.



We have
committed additional resources to expand our worldwide sales and marketing activities, to globalize our service offerings and products in select markets and to develop local sales and support channels. If we are unable to successfully implement
these plans, maintain adequate long-term strategies that successfully manage the risks associated with our global business or adequately manage operational fluctuations, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In
addition, we have penetrated, and seek to continue to enter into, emerging markets to further expand our global platform. However, we may not be successful in effectively evaluating and monitoring the key business, operational, legal and compliance
risks specific to those markets. The political and cultural risks present in emerging countries could also harm our ability to successfully execute our operations or manage our businesses there.



Our success depends upon the retention of our senior
management, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced employees.



sign-on







We have numerous local and global competitors across all of our business lines and the
geographies that we serve, and further industry consolidation could lead to significant future competition.



in-house



Our growth has benefited significantly from acquisitions, which may not perform as expected and similar opportunities may not be
available in the future.



A significant
component of our growth over time has been generated by acquisitions. Any future growth through acquisitions will depend in part upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and
conditions, which may not be available to us, as well as sufficient liquidity and credit to fund these acquisitions. We may incur significant additional debt from time to time to finance any such acquisitions, subject to the restrictions contained
in the documents governing our then-existing indebtedness. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage, including our ability to service our then-existing debt, would increase. Acquisitions involve risks that business
judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired may prove incorrect. Future acquisitions and any necessary related financings also may involve significant transaction-related expenses, which include severance, lease
termination, transaction and deferred financing costs, among others.



We have had, and may continue to experience, challenges in integrating operations and information technology systems acquired from other companies. This could result in the diversion of management’s
attention from other business concerns and the potential loss of our key employees or clients or those of the acquired operations. The integration process itself may be disruptive to our business and the acquired company’s businesses as it
requires coordination of geographically diverse organizations and implementation of new accounting and information technology systems. We believe that most acquisitions will initially have an adverse impact on operating and net income. Acquisitions
also frequently involve significant costs related to integrating information technology and accounting and management services.



We complete acquisitions with the expectation that they will result in various benefits, including enhanced or more stable revenues, a
strengthened market position, cross-selling opportunities, cost synergies, tax benefits and accretion to our adjusted income per share. Achieving the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the
realization of accretive benefits in the timeframe anticipated and whether we can successfully integrate the acquired business. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could







result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our overall
business, financial condition and operating results.



Our joint venture activities and affiliate program involve unique risks that are often outside of our control and that, if realized, could harm our business.



We have utilized joint ventures for commercial investments,
select local brokerage and other affiliations both in the United States and internationally, and we may acquire interests in other joint ventures in the future. Under our affiliate program, we enter into contractual relationships with local
brokerage, asset services or other operations pursuant to which we license to that operation our name and make available certain of our resources, in exchange for a royalty or economic participation in that operation’s revenue, profits or
transactional activity. In many of these joint ventures and affiliations, we may not have the right or power to direct the management and policies of the joint ventures or affiliates, and other participants or operators of affiliates may take action
contrary to our instructions or requests and against our policies and objectives. In addition, the other participants and operators may become bankrupt or have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours. If a joint
venture participant or affiliate acts contrary to our interest, it could harm our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition.



Our real estate investment andco-investmentactivities in our Global Investment Management
as well as Development Services businesses subject us to real estate investment risks which could cause fluctuations in earnings and cash flow.



An important part of the strategy for our Global Investment Management business involvesco-investingour capital in certain real estate investments with our clients, and there is an inherent risk of loss of our investments. As of December 31, 2016, we had committed $31.6 million to fund
futureco-investmentsin our Global Investment Management business, $25.5 million of which is expected to be funded during 2017. In addition to required future capital contributions, some of theco-investmententities may request additional capital from us and our subsidiaries holding investments in those assets. However, our debt instruments contain restrictions that may limit our ability to provide
capital to the entities holding direct or indirect interests inco-investments.The failure to provide these contributions could have adverse consequences to our interests in these investments, including
damage to our reputation with ourco-investmentpartners and clients, as well as the necessity of obtaining alternative funding from other sources that may be on disadvantageous terms for us and the otherco-investors.Participating as aco-investoris an important part of our Global Investment Management business, which might suffer if we were unable to make these investments.



Selective investment in real estate projects is
an important part of our Development Services business strategy, and there is an inherent risk of loss of our investments. As of December 31, 2016, we had nine real estate projects consolidated in our financial statements. In addition, at
December 31, 2016, we were involved as a principal (in most cases,co-investingwith our clients) in approximately 60 unconsolidated real estate subsidiaries with invested equity of $121.9 million
and had committed additional capital to these unconsolidated subsidiaries of $23.0 million. As of December 31, 2016, we also guaranteed outstanding notes payable of these unconsolidated subsidiaries with outstanding balances of
$15.7 million.



During the ordinary course of
our Development Services business, we provide numerous completion and budget guarantees requiring us to complete the relevant project within a specified timeframe and/or within a specified budget, with us potentially being liable for costs to
complete in excess of such timeframe or budget. While we generally have “guaranteed maximum price” contracts with reputable general contractors with respect to projects for which we provide these guarantees (which are intended to pass most
of the risk to such contractors), there can be no assurance that we will not have to perform under any such guarantees. If we are required to perform under a significant number of such guarantees, it could harm our business, results of operations
and financial condition.







Because the disposition of a single significant investment can affect our financial
performance in any period, our real estate investment activities could cause fluctuations in our net earnings and cash flow. In many cases, we have limited control over the timing of the disposition of these investments and the recognition of any
related gain or loss, or incentive participation fee.



Poor performance of the investment programs that our Global Investment Management business manages would cause a decline in our revenue, net income and cash flow and could adversely affect our
ability to raise capital for future programs.



The revenue, net income and cash flow generated by our Global Investment Management business can be volatile period over period, primarily due to the fact that management, transaction and incentive fees
can vary as a result of market movements from one period to another. In the event that any of the investment programs that our Global Investment Management business manages were to perform poorly, our revenue, net income and cash flow could
decline because the value of the assets we manage would decrease, which would result in a reduction in some of our management fees, and our investment returns would decrease, resulting in a reduction in the incentive compensation we earn. Moreover,
we could experience losses onco-investmentsof our own capital in such programs as a result of poor performance. Investors and potential investors in our programs continually assess our performance, and our
ability to raise capital for existing and future programs and maintaining our current fee structure will depend on our continued satisfactory performance.



Our debt instruments impose operating and financial restrictions on us, and in the event of a default, all of our borrowings would
become immediately due and payable.



We
have debt and related debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2016, our total debt, excluding notes payable on real estate (which are generally nonrecourse to us) and warehouse lines of credit (which are recourse only to our wholly-owned
subsidiary, CBRE Capital Markets, and are secured by our related warehouse receivables), was approximately $2.6 billion. For the year ended December 31, 2016, our interest expense was approximately $144.9 million.



Our debt instruments, including our credit agreement, impose,
and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on us and many of our subsidiaries. These restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, our ability to:



•plan for or react to market conditions;



•meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and



•finance ongoing operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our
interest, including:



•incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness;



•paying dividends or making distributions on or repurchases of capital stock;



•repurchasing equity interests or debt;



•the payment of dividends or other amounts to us;



•making investments;



•transferring or selling assets, including the stock of subsidiaries;



•engaging in transactions with affiliates;



•issuing subsidiary equity or entering into consolidations and mergers;



•creating liens; and



•entering into sale/leaseback transactions.







Our credit agreement currently requires us to maintain a minimum coverage ratio of EBITDA
(as defined in the credit agreement) to total interest expense of 2.00x and a maximum leverage ratio of total debt less available cash to EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) of 4.25x as of the end of each fiscal quarter. Our coverage ratio
of EBITDA to total interest expense was 12.73x for the year ended December 31, 2016, and our leverage ratio of total debt less available cash to EBITDA was 1.18x as of December 31, 2016. Our ability to meet these financial ratios can be
affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot give assurance that we will be able to meet those ratios when required. We continue to monitor our projected compliance with these financial ratios and other terms of our credit agreement.



A breach of any of these restrictive covenants or
the inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our debt instruments. If any such default occurs, the lenders under our credit agreement may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with
accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under our credit agreement also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. In addition, a default under
our credit agreement could trigger a cross default or cross acceleration under our other debt instruments.



Our credit agreement is jointly and severally guaranteed by us and substantially all of our material domestic subsidiaries.



We have limited restrictions on the amount of
additional recourse debt we are able to incur, which may intensify the risks associated with our leverage, including our ability to service our indebtedness. In addition, in the event of a credit-ratings downgrade, our ability to borrow and the
costs of that borrowing could be adversely affected.



Subject to the maximum amounts of indebtedness permitted by our credit agreement covenants, we are not restricted in the amount of additional recourse debt we are able to incur, and so we may in the
future incur such indebtedness in order to finance our operations and investments. In addition, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, rate our significant outstanding debt. These ratings, and any
downgrades of them, may affect our ability to borrow as well as the costs of our current and future borrowings.



A significant portion of our revenue is seasonal, which could cause our financial results to fluctuate significantly.



A significant portion of our revenue is
seasonal. Historically, our revenue, operating income, net income and cash flow from operating activities tend to be lowest in the first calendar quarter, and highest in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. Earnings and cash flow have generally
been concentrated in the fourth calendar quarter due to the focus on completing sales, financing and leasing transactions prior to calendaryear-end.This variance among periods makes it difficult to compare
our financial condition and results of operations on aquarter-by-quarterbasis. In addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, political, economic or
other unforeseen disruptions occurring in the fourth quarter that impact our ability to close large transactions may have a disproportionate effect on our financial condition and results of operations.



We are subject to various litigation risks and may face
financial liabilities and/or damage to our reputation as a result of litigation.



Our businesses are exposed to various litigation risks. In addition, although we maintain insurance coverage for most of this risk, insurance coverage is unavailable at commercially reasonable pricing for
certain types of exposures. Accordingly, an adverse result in a litigation against us, or a lawsuit that results in a substantial legal liability for us (and particularly a lawsuit that is not insured), could have a disproportionate and material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we depend on our business relationships and our reputation for high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, allegations
against us, irrespective of the ultimate outcome of that allegation, may harm our professional reputation and as such materially damage our business and its prospects.







A failure to appropriately deal with actual or perceived conflicts of interest could
adversely affect our businesses.



Our
company has a global platform with different business lines and a broad client base and is therefore subject to numerous potential, actual or perceived conflicts of interests in the provision of services to our existing and potential clients. For
example, conflicts may arise from our position as broker to both owners and tenants in commercial real estate lease transactions. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts, but these
policies and procedures may not be adequate and may not be adhered to by our employees. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to
gain new clients if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify, disclose and manage potential conflicts of interest, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that in
some jurisdictions regulations could be changed to limit our ability to act for parties where conflicts exist even with informed consent, which could limit our market share in those markets. There can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will
not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us.



Failure to maintain and execute information technology strategies and ensure that our employees adapt to changes in technology could materially and adversely affect our ability to remain competitive
in the market.



Our business relies
heavily on information technology to deliver services that meet the needs of our clients. If we are unable to effectively execute our information technology strategies or adopt new technologies and processes relevant to our service platform, our
ability to deliver high-quality services may be materially impaired. In addition, we make significant investments in new systems and tools to achieve competitive advantages and efficiencies. Implementation of such investments in information
technology could exceed estimated budgets and we may experience challenges that prevent new strategies or technologies from being realized according to anticipated schedules. If we are unable to maintain current information technology and processes
or encounter delays, or fail to exploit new technologies, then the execution of our business plans may be disrupted. Similarly, our employees require effective tools and techniques to perform functions integral to our business. Failure to
successfully provide such tools and systems, or ensure that employees have properly adopted them, could materially and adversely impact our ability to achieve positive business outcomes.



Failure to maintain the security of our information and technology networks, including personally
identifiable and client information, intellectual property and proprietary business information could significantly adversely affect us.



non-compliance







providers, including cloud storage solution providers, resulting in less direct control over our data. Such third parties are also vulnerable to security breaches and compromised security
systems, for which we may not be indemnified and which could materially adversely affect us and our reputation.



Interruption or failure of our information technology, communications systems or data services could impair our ability to provide
our services effectively, which could damage our reputation and materially harm our operating results.





The infrastructure disruptions we describe above
may also disrupt our ability to manage real estate for clients or may adversely affect the value of real estate investments we make on behalf of clients. The buildings we manage for clients, which include some of the world’s largest office
properties and retail centers, are used by numerous people daily. As a result, fires, earthquakes, floods, other natural disasters, defects and terrorist attacks can result in significant loss of life, and, to the extent we are held to have been
negligent in connection with our management of the affected properties, we could incur significant financial liabilities and reputational harm.



Our business relies heavily on the use of commercial real estate data. A portion of this data is purchased or licensed from third-party
providers for which there is no certainty of uninterrupted availability. A disruption of our ability to provide data to our professionals and/or our clients or an inadvertent exposure of proprietary data could damage our reputation and competitive
position, and our operating results could be adversely affected.



Our goodwill and other intangible assets could become impaired, which may require us to take significantnon-cashcharges against earnings.



Under current accounting guidelines, we
must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets has been impaired. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets as a result of such analysis would result in anon-cashcharge against earnings, and such charge could materially adversely affect our reported results of operations, stockholders’ equity and our stock price. A significant and sustained decline in our
future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the economic environment, slower growth rates or if our stock price falls below our net book value per share for a sustained period, could result in the need to perform additional impairment
analysis in future periods. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets is necessary, then we would record such additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.







Our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be
adversely affected by new laws or regulations or by changes in existing laws or regulations or the application thereof. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations applicable to us, or make incorrect determinations in complex tax regimes, we may
incur significant financial penalties.



We
are subject to numerous federal, state, local andnon-U.S.laws and regulations specific to the services we perform in our business. Brokerage of real estate sales and leasing transactions and the provision of
asset services and valuation services require us and our employees to maintain applicable licenses in each U.S. state and certainnon-U.S.jurisdictions in which we perform these services. If we and our
employees fail to maintain our licenses or conduct these activities without a license, or violate any of the regulations covering our licenses, we may be required to pay fines (including treble damages in certain states) or return commissions
received or have our licenses suspended or revoked. A number of our services, including the services provided by our indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, CBRE Capital Markets and CBRE Global Investors, are subject to regulation by the SEC, FINRA or
other self-regulatory organizations and state securities regulators and compliance failures or regulatory action could adversely affect our business. We could be subject to disciplinary or other actions in the future due to claimed noncompliance
with these regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability.



We are also subject to laws of broader applicability, such as tax, securities, environmental and employment laws, including the Fair Labor
Standards Act, occupational health and safety regulations and U.S. statewage-and-hourlaws. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the imposition of
significant fines by governmental authorities, awards of damages to private litigants and significant amounts paid in legal fees or settlements of these matters.



We operate in many jurisdictions with complex and varied tax
regimes, and are subject to different forms of taxation resulting in a variable effective tax rate. In addition, from time to time we engage in transactions across different tax jurisdictions. Due to the different tax laws in the many jurisdictions
where we operate, we are often required to make subjective determinations. The tax authorities in the various jurisdictions where we carry on business may not agree with the determinations that are made by us with respect to the application of
tax law. Such disagreements could result in disputes and, ultimately, in the payment of additional funds to the government authorities in the jurisdictions where we carry on business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of
operations. In addition, changes in tax rules or the outcome of tax assessments and audits could have an adverse effect on our results in any particular quarter.



As the size and scope of our business has increased
significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with numerous licensing and other regulatory requirements and the possible loss resulting fromnon-compliancehave
increased. The global economic crisis has resulted in increased government and legislative activities, including the introduction of new legislation and changes to rules and regulations, which we expect will continue into the future. New or revised
legislation or regulations applicable to our business, both within and outside of the United States, as well as changes in administrations or enforcement priorities may have an adverse effect on our business, including increasing the costs of
regulatory compliance or preventing us from providing certain types of services in certain jurisdictions or in connection with certain transactions or clients. We are unable to predict how any of these new laws, rules, regulations and proposals will
be implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to laws or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable
ways and could have an adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.



We may be subject to environmental liability as a result of our role as a property or facility manager or developer of real estate.



Various laws and regulations impose
liability on real property owners or operators for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at a property. In







our role as a property or facility manager or developer, we could be held liable as an operator for such costs. This liability may be imposed without regard to the legality of the original
actions and without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. If we fail to disclose environmental issues, we could also be liable to a buyer or lessee of a property. If we incur any
such liability, our business could suffer significantly as it could be difficult for us to develop or sell such properties, or borrow funds using such properties as collateral. In the event of a substantial liability, our insurance coverage might be
insufficient to pay the full damages, or the scope of available coverage may not cover certain of these liabilities. Additionally, liabilities incurred to comply with more stringent future environmental requirements could adversely affect any or all
of our lines of business.



Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking
Statements



This Annual Report on Form10-Kincludes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the
Exchange Act. The words “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “should,” “propose,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,”
“predict,” “project,” “will” and similar terms and phrases are used in this Annual Report on Form10-Kto identify forward-looking statements. Except for historical information
contained herein, the matters addressed in this Annual Report on Form10-Kare forward-looking statements. These statements relate to analyses and other information based on forecasts of future results and
estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies.



These forward-looking statements are made based on our management’s expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us
and are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. These uncertainties and factors could cause our actual results to
differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements.



The following factors are among those, but are not only those, that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements:



•disruptions in general economic and business conditions, particularly in geographies where our business may be concentrated;



•volatility and disruption of the securities, capital and credit markets, interest rate increases, the cost and availability of capital for investment
in real estate, clients’ willingness to make real estate or long-term contractual commitments and other factors affecting the value of real estate assets, inside and outside the United States;



•increases in unemployment and general slowdowns in commercial activity;



•trends in pricing and risk assumption for commercial real estate services;



•the effect of significant movements in average cap rates across different property types;



•a reduction by companies in their reliance on outsourcing for their commercial real estate needs, which would affect our revenues and operating
performance;



•client actions to restrain project spending and reduce outsourced staffing levels;



•declines in lending activity of U.S. Government Sponsored Enterprises, regulatory oversight of such activity and our mortgage servicing revenue from
the commercial real estate mortgage market;



•our ability to diversify our revenue model to offset cyclical economic trends in the commercial real estate industry;



•our ability to attract new user and investor clients;



•our ability to retain major clients and renew related contracts;







•our ability to leverage our global services platform to maximize and sustain long-term cash flow;



•our ability to maintain EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margins that enable us to continue investing in our platform and client service offerings;



•our ability to control costs relative to revenue growth;



•economic volatility and market uncertainty globally related to uncertainty surrounding the implementation and effect of the United Kingdom’s
referendum to leave the European Union, including uncertainty in relation to the legal and regulatory framework that would apply to the United Kingdom and its relationship with the remaining members of the European Union;



•foreign currency fluctuations;



•our ability to retain and incentivize key personnel;



•our ability to compete globally, or in specific geographic markets or business segments that are material to us;



•our ability to identify, acquire and integrate synergistic and accretive businesses;



•costs and potential future capital requirements relating to businesses we may acquire;



•integration challenges arising out of companies we may acquire;



•the ability of our Global Investment Management business to maintain and grow assets under management and achieve desired investment returns for our
investors, and any potential related litigation, liabilities or reputational harm possible if we fail to do so;



•our ability to manage fluctuations in net earnings and cash flow, which could result from poor performance in our investment programs, including our
participation as a principal in real estate investments;



•our leverage under our debt instruments as well as the limited restrictions therein on our ability to incur additional debt, and the potential
increased borrowing costs to us from a credit-ratings downgrade;



•the ability of CBRE Capital Markets to periodically amend, or replace, on satisfactory terms, the agreements for its warehouse lines of credit;



•variations in historically customary seasonal patterns that cause our business not to perform as expected;



•litigation and its financial and reputational risks to us;



•our exposure to liabilities in connection with real estate advisory and property management activities and our ability to procure sufficient insurance
coverage on acceptable terms;



•liabilities under guarantees, or for construction defects, that we incur in our Development Services business;



•our and our employees’ ability to execute on, and adapt to, information technology strategies and trends;



•changes in domestic and international law and regulatory environments (including relating to anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, trade sanctions,
currency controls and other trade control laws), particularly in Russia, Eastern Europe and the Middle East, due to the rising level of political instability in those regions;



•our ability to comply with laws and regulations related to our global operations, including real estate licensure, tax, labor and employment laws and
regulations, as well as the anti-corruption laws and trade sanctions of the U.S. and other countries;



•our ability to maintain our effective tax rate at or below current levels;



•changes in applicable tax or accounting requirements, including potential tax reform under the current U.S. administration;



•the effect of implementation of new accounting rules and standards; and







•the other factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form10-K,included under the headings
“Risk Factors”, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies,” “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” or as
described in the other documents and reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.



Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made. You should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking
statements. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except to the extent required by applicable securities
laws. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning these and other risks and
uncertainties is contained in our other periodic filings with the SEC.



