ITEM 1.BUSINESS

BACKGROUND

The Separation

The Company

News Corp is a global diversified media and information services company focused on creating and distributing authoritative and engaging content to consumers and businesses throughout the English-speaking
world, as well as increasingly in other countries across the globe. The Company is comprised of leading businesses across a range of media, including: news and information services, cable network programming in Australia, digital real estate
services, book publishing, and pay-TV distribution in Australia, that are distributed under some of the world’s most recognizable and respected brands, includingThe Wall Street Journal, Dow Jones,Herald Sun,The Sun,The Times,HarperCollins Publishers, FOX SPORTS Australia, realestate.com.au, and many others. The Company is also a rapidly developing provider of digital education content, assessment and delivery services. The Company’s commitment to
premium content makes its properties a trusted source of news and information and a premier destination for consumers across various media. Many of these properties deliver broad reach and high audience engagement levels in their respective markets,
making them attractive advertising vehicles for the Company’s advertising customers.

The Company delivers its premium
content to consumers across numerous distribution platforms consisting not only of traditional print and television, but also through an expanding array of digital platforms including websites, electronic readers and applications for tablets and
mobile devices. The Company is focused on pursuing integrated strategies across its businesses to continue to capitalize on the transition from print to digital consumption of high-quality content. The Company believes that the increasing
availability of high-speed Internet access, electronic readers and connected mobile devices will allow it to continue to deliver its content in a more engaging, timely and personalized manner, provide opportunities to more effectively monetize its
content via strong customer relationships and more compelling and engaging advertising solutions and reduce its physical production and distribution costs as it continues to shift to digital platforms.

The Company’s diversified revenue base consists of recurring subscriptions, circulation copies, licensing fees, affiliate fees and
direct sales, as well as the sale of advertising and sponsorships. The Company manages its businesses to take advantage of opportunities to share technologies and practices across geographies and







businesses and bundle selected offerings to provide greater value to consumers and advertising partners. Headquartered in New York, the Company operates primarily in North America, Australia and
the U.K., and its content is distributed and consumed worldwide. The Company’s operations are organized into five reporting segments: (i) News and Information Services; (ii) Cable Network Programming; (iii) Digital Real Estate
Services; (iv) Book Publishing; and (v) Other, which includes Amplify, the Company’s digital education business, the Company’s corporate Strategy and Creative Group, general corporate overhead expenses and costs related to the
U.K. Newspaper Matters, as defined in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” The Company also owns a 50% stake in Foxtel, which is accounted for as an equity investment.

The Company maintains a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to June 30 in each year. All references to June 30, 2013, June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011 relate to the
12-month periods ended June 30, 2013, July 1, 2012 and July 3, 2011, respectively. For convenience purposes, the Company continues to date its financial statements as of June 30. The Company’s principal executive
offices are located at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, and its telephone number is (212) 416-3400. More information regarding the Company is or will be available on its website atwww.newscorp.com, including the
Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the “Exchange Act”), which are or will be available free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements







BUSINESS OVERVIEW

The Company’s five reporting segments are described below. In addition, the Company owns a 50% stake in Foxtel, which is accounted for as an equity investment. For financial information regarding the
Company’s segments and operations in geographic areas, see Note 16 to the Company’s Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements.



For the year ended June 30, 2013RevenuesSegmentEBITDA(in millions)News and Information Services$6,731$795Cable Network Programming(a)32463Digital Real Estate Services345168Book Publishing1,369142Other122(480)Total$8,891$688



(a)As a result of the acquisition of Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd. (“CMH”), the Company’s ownership interest in FOX SPORTS Australia
increased to 100% and accordingly, the results of FOX SPORTS Australia have been included in a new Cable Network Programming segment since November 2012.

News and Information Services

The Company’s News and Information
Services segment consists of Dow Jones, News Corp Australia (which includes News Limited and its subsidiaries), News UK (formerly known as News International), theNew York Postand News America Marketing. The News and Information
Services segment generates revenue primarily through print and digital advertising sales and through circulation and subscriptions to its print and digital products.

Dow Jones

Dow Jones is a global provider of news and business
information, which distributes its content and data through a variety of media channels including newspapers, newswires, websites, electronic readers, mobile applications, newsletters, magazines, proprietary databases, conferences, radio and video.
Dow Jones offers products targeting individual consumer and enterprise customers, includingThe Wall Street Journal, DJX, Dow Jones Newswires, Factiva,Barron’sand MarketWatch, and its revenue is diversified across
business-to-consumer and business-to-business subscriptions, advertising, and licensing fees for its print and digital products.

Through its premier brands and authoritative journalism, Dow Jones products targeting individual consumers provide insights, research and understanding that customers need in order to be informed and make
educated financial decisions. With a focus on the financial markets, investing and other professional services, many of these products offer advertisers an attractive customer demographic. Products targeting consumers include the following:



•The Wall Street Journal (WSJ).The Wall Street Journal, the Dow Jones flagship product, is available in print, online at WSJ.com, and
across multiple mobile, electronic reader and tablet devices, and covers business developments and trends, national and international news along with analysis, economics, financial markets, investing, opinion, lifestyle, culture and sports.The
Wall Street Journalis the leading circulation daily newspaper in the U.S., with total average print and digital circulation of 2,378,827 for the six months ended March 31, 2013 based on Alliance for Audited Media (“AAM”) data.
WSJ is printed at plants located around the U.S., including nine owned by the Company. WSJ sells regional advertising in three major U.S. regional editions (Eastern, Central and Western) and 21 smaller
sub-







regional editions. WSJ.com, which offers both free and premium content, averaged more than 69 million visits per month for the year ended June 30, 2013 according to Adobe Omniture, and
includes local language editions in Chinese, Japanese, German, Spanish, Portuguese, Bahasa, Turkish and Korean. Print and digital products under the WSJ brand include:

Print:The Wall Street Journal(including its Asia and Europe editions), The Wall Street Journal Sunday,andWSJ.Magazine.

Digital: WSJ.com (includesRisk & Compliance Journal,CIO JournalandCFO Journal), WSJ.com international sites (asia.WSJ.com, Europe.WSJ.com, WSJ.de (Germany), cn.WSJ.com (China), jp.WSJ.com (Japan), kr.wsj.com (Korea), indo.wsj.com (Indonesia), india.wsj.com, wsj.com.tr (Turkey) and Latin American and Brazil
local language editions available through WSJ.com).

Video:WSJ Live(live and on-demand news online through
WSJ.com and other platforms including Internet-connected TV and set-top boxes).



•Barron’s.Barron’sis available in print, online at Barrons.com, and on electronic reader and mobile devices, and delivers
news, analysis, investigative reporting, company profiles and insightful statistics for investors and others interested in the investment world. Print and digital products under theBarron’s brand include:

Print:Barron’s(weekly magazine with an average paid weekly circulation of 305,513 for the six months ended
June 30, 2013 based on AAM data).

Digital:Barrons.com (offers both free and premium content providing in-depth
analysis and commentary on the markets, updated every business day online, along with alerts and tools) andBarron’siPad application (paid application which resembles the website). Barrons.com had over 170,000 paid subscribers on
average for the year ended June 30, 2013.



•The Wall Street Journal Digital Network. WSJDN comprises business and financial news websites and mobile applications. WSJDN had more than
1.3 million paid subscribers on average for the year ended June 30, 2013 and, during that same period, averaged more than 137 million visits per month with more than 523 million page views per month according to Adobe Omniture.
In addition to WSJ.com and Barrons.com, discussed above, WSJDN includes MarketWatch, AllThingsD and related services.

Marketwatch.com.Marketwatch.com is an investing and financial news website targeting active investors. It also provides real-time commentary and investment tools and data. Products include an iPad
application (paid application), MarketWatch Mobile (free iPhone application and mobile site), MarketWatch Premium Newsletter (paid newsletter on a variety of investing topics), Big Charts (free investment charting website) and Virtual Stock Exchange
(free stock simulation game through the website). MarketWatch.com averaged more than 37 million visits per month for the year ended June 30, 2013 according to Adobe Omniture.

AllThingsD.com.AllThingsD.com is a personal technology site that features breaking technology news, in-depth coverage of Silicon
Valley and the media industry, and product reviews and analysis.



•Dow Jones Local Media. In September 2013, the Company sold the Dow Jones Local Media Group, which operates eight daily and 15 weekly newspapers
in seven states, to an affiliate of Fortress Investment Group.







Dow Jones Institutional products, which target enterprise customers, combine news and
information with technology and tools that inform decisions and aid awareness, research and understanding. These products are designed to be integral to the success of Dow Jones’ enterprise customers, and Dow Jones expects to sustain strong
retention rates by providing high levels of service and continued innovation through news, data and tools that meet its customers’ specific needs. These products include the following:



•DJX. DJX was launched in April 2013 as a bundle of underlying products, including Factiva, Dow Jones Newswires (including the new DJ Dominant
wire), certain Private Markets products (e.g., VentureSource, LP Source), certain Risk & Compliance products, WSJ.com and Barrons.com. Over the coming year, Dow Jones intends to begin consolidating the content within these products such
that DJX is no longer a bundle of products, but instead, offers one unified product experience. DJX represents a change in Dow Jones’ institutional business strategy, particularly with respect to the enterprise market. In the future, Dow Jones
expects that some of the individual products within DJX will no longer generally be available separately for sale or renewal, including the main Factiva product, the DJ Dominant wire, VentureSource, LP Source and Risk & Compliance –
Risk Database Research. Certain products such as Dow Jones Newswires (other than DJ Dominant), the feeds associated with Factiva (but not the main Factiva product), WSJ.com and Barrons.com are expected to remain available for sale separately. More
information on Factiva, Dow Jones Newswires, Private Markets products and Risk & Compliance products is provided below:

Factiva.Factiva is a leading provider of global business content, built on an archive of important, original publishing sources. This combination of business news and information, plus
sophisticated tools, helps professionals find, monitor, interpret and share essential information. As of June 30, 2013, there were approximately 1.1 million activated Factiva users, including both institutional and individual accounts.
Many of the institutional accounts have multiple individual users. Factiva offers content from over 32,000 global news and information sources from nearly 200 countries and in 28 languages. Thousands of Factiva’s sources are not available for
free on the Internet and more than 3,800 sources make information available via Factiva on or before the date of publication by the source. Factiva leverages complex metadata extraction and text-mining to help its customers build precise searches
and alerts to access and monitor this data.

Dow Jones Newswires.Dow Jones Newswires distributes real-time business
news, information, analysis, commentary and statistical data to financial professionals and investors worldwide. It publishes, on average, over 19,000 news items in 13 languages each day via terminals and trading platforms reaching hundreds of
thousands of financial professionals. This content also reaches millions of individual investors via customer portals and intranets of brokerage and trading firms, as well as digital media publishers. DJ Dominant is a new newswire feature that
delivers certain exclusive news and analysis from Dow Jones journalists to DJX users before subscribers to other Dow Jones newswires and products.

Private Markets.Dow Jones Private Markets products provide news and comprehensive data on venture and private-equity backed private companies, and their investors, to help venture capitalists,
financial professionals and other service providers identify deal and partnership opportunities, perform comprehensive due diligence and examine trends in venture capital investment, fund-raising and liquidity. Products include VentureSource, LP
Source, VentureWire, Private Equity Analyst and LBO Wire.

Risk & Compliance.Dow Jones Risk &
Compliance products provide data solutions for customers focused on anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and monitoring embargo and sanction lists. Dow Jones’ solutions allow customers to filter their business transactions against its data to
identify regulatory, corporate and reputational risk, and request follow-up due diligence reports. Products include Dow Jones Watchlist, Dow Jones Anti-Corruption, Dow Jones Sanction Alert and Dow Jones Due Diligence.







News Corp Australia

News Corp Australia is one of the leading news and information providers in Australia by readership and circulation, owning over 120 newspapers covering a national, regional and suburban footprint. As of
June 30, 2013, its daily, Sunday, weekly and bi-weekly newspapers accounted for more than 59% of the total circulation of newspapers in Australia, and during the year ended June 30, 2013, its Sunday newspaper network was read by
approximately 4.8 million Australians on average every week. In addition, its digital mastheads and other websites are among the leading digital properties in Australia based on monthly site visits. News Corp Australia’s news portfolio
includes:



•The AustralianandThe Weekend Australian(National).The Australianis published Monday through Friday, andThe Weekend
Australianis published on Saturday. Based on Audit Bureau of Circulations (“ABC”) data, average daily paid circulation for the year ended June 30, 2013 was approximately 121,000 forThe Australianand 266,000 forThe Weekend Australian. In addition,The AustralianandThe Weekend Australianhad a total unduplicated print and digital audience of over 3.1 million for the month of June 2013 based on average monthly Enhanced Media
Metrics Australia (“EMMA”) combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended June 30, 2013 and total unique website audience in June 2013 according to Nielsen monthly total audience ratings. The Company believes EMMA
data, which incorporates more frequent sampling and combines both online and print usage into a single metric, more accurately and comprehensively reflects consumption of its publications.



•The Daily TelegraphandThe Sunday Telegraph(Sydney). The Daily Telegraphis published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC
data, average daily paid circulation for the year ended June 30, 2013 was approximately 320,000 forThe Daily Telegraphand 575,000 forThe Sunday Telegraph. In addition,The Daily TelegraphandThe Sunday Telegraphhad a total unduplicated print and digital audience of over 4.0 million for the month of June 2013 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended June 30, 2013 and total unique website
audience in June 2013 according to Nielsen monthly total audience ratings.



•Herald SunandSunday Herald Sun(Melbourne).Herald Sunis published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average daily
paid circulation for the year ended June 30, 2013 was approximately 438,000 forHerald Sunand 507,000 forSunday Herald Sun. In addition,Herald SunandSunday Herald Sunhad a total unduplicated print and digital
audience of almost 4.1 million for the month of June 2013 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended June 30, 2013 and total unique website audience in June 2013 according to Nielsen
monthly total audience ratings.



•The Courier MailandThe Sunday Mail(Brisbane).The Courier Mailis published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average
daily paid circulation for the year ended June 30, 2013 was approximately 190,000 forThe Courier Mailand 433,000 forThe Sunday Mail. In addition,The Courier MailandThe Sunday Mailhad a total unduplicated print
and digital audience of over 2.8 million for the month of June 2013 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended June 30, 2013 and total unique website audience in June 2013 according to
Nielsen monthly total audience ratings.



•The AdvertiserandSunday Mail(Adelaide).The Advertiseris published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average daily
paid circulation for the year ended June 30, 2013 was approximately 172,000 forThe Advertiserand 256,000 forSunday Mail. In addition,The AdvertiserandSunday Mailhad a total unduplicated print and digital
audience of over 1.4 million for the month of June 2013 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended June 30, 2013 and total unique website audience in June 2013 according to Nielsen
monthly total audience ratings.



•A large number of community newspapers in all major capitol cities, as well as leading regional publications in Cairns, Gold Coast, Townsville and
Geelong and in the other capitol cities of Perth, Hobart and Darwin.







News Corp Australia has launched paid-for digital platforms forHerald Sun,Sunday Herald Sun,The Daily Telegraph (Perth),The Sunday Telegraph,The Courier Mail,The Sunday Mail,The Advertiser,Sunday Mailand the FOX SPORTS website, which are encompassed under News Corp
Australia’snews+digital product brand. News Corp Australia’s broad portfolio of digital properties also comprises a number of other premier assets, including leading general interest sites in Australia such as news.com.au, which
provides business, entertainment, lifestyle, news and sports information, taste.com.au, a leading food and recipe site, and kidspot.com.au, a leading parenting website. Other digital media assets include a 50% stake in CareerOne.com.au (a joint
venture with Monster.com), a 50% stake in carsguide.com.au (a joint venture with a consortium of leading car dealers), an 89.5% stake in the SportingPulse (which supplies a scheduling tool for sports organizations), and 100% ofBusiness
SpectatorandEureka Report(online business and investment news and commentary services).

News UK

News UK publishesThe Sun,The TimesandThe Sunday Times,which are leading newspapers in the U.K.As of
June 30, 2013, sales of these three titles accounted for approximately one-third of all national newspaper sales in the U.K. News UK’s newspapers (except some Saturday and Sunday supplements) are printed at News UK’s world-class
printing facilities in England, Scotland and Ireland. In addition to revenue from the sale of advertising, circulation and subscriptions to its print and digital products, News UK also generates revenue by providing third party printing services
through these facilities and is one of the largest contract printers in the U.K. In addition, News UK has developed a portfolio of highly complementary ancillary product offerings, including Sun Bingo, the U.K.’s largest online bingo platform,
as well as newer products such as Sunday Times Driving, a digital classified offering, and The Times and The Sunday Times Whisky Club, which supplies premium products and accompanying editorial content.



•The Sun.The Sunnewspaper is published Monday through Saturday and on Sunday since February 2012. Based on National Readership Survey
data for the six months ended June 30, 2013,The Sunis the most read national newspaper in the U.K., with an average issue readership of approximately 6,200,000 Monday through Saturday forThe Sunand 5,500,000 forThe Sunon Sunday. Average daily paid print circulation for the six months ended June 30, 2013 based on ABC data was approximately 2,228,000 forThe Sunand 1,914,000 forThe Sunon Sunday.



•The Times. The Timesnewspaper is published Monday through Saturday with an average issue readership of approximately 1,200,000 for the six
months ended June 30, 2013 based on National Readership Survey data. Average daily paid print circulation for the six months ended June 30, 2013 based on ABC data was approximately 396,000, consisting of approximately 153,000 paid print
subscribers and approximately 243,000 circulation copies. As of June 30, 2013,The Timesalso had approximately 140,000 paid digital subscribers based on internal sources. News UK also publishesThe Times Literary Supplement, a
weekly literary review.



•The Sunday Times.The Sunday Timesis the leading broadsheet Sunday newspaper in the U.K. with an average issue readership of
approximately 2,500,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2013 based on National Readership Survey data. Average daily paid print circulation for the six months ended June 30, 2013 based on ABC data was approximately 867,000, consisting of
approximately 185,000 paid print subscribers and approximately 682,000 circulation copies. As of June 30, 2013,The Sunday Timesalso had approximately 135,000 paid digital subscribers based on internal sources.

News UK also distributes content through its digital platforms, including its websites, thesun.co.uk,
thetimes.co.uk and thesundaytimes.co.uk, as well as mobile applications. In August 2013, News UK launchedThe SuniPad edition and Sun+, the title’s new digital bundle, which delivers exclusive digital entertainment, including
Barclay’s Premier League match clips and Sun+ perks, a collection of perks, downloads, offers and competitions.The Sunis the first tabloid newspaper to be fully paid-for across every platform. News UK continues to enhance its online
and mobile offerings, including through its recent acquisition of the rights to show Football Association match clips across its digital platforms for four years, beginning in 2014.







New York Post

TheNew York Post(the “Post”) is the oldest continuously published daily newspaper in the U.S., with a focus on coverage of the New York metropolitan area. The print version
of thePostis primarily distributed in New York and throughout the Northeast, as well as Florida and California. ThePostprovides a variety of general interest content ranging from breaking news to business analysis, and is known in
particular for its comprehensive sports coverage, famous headlines and its iconic Page Six section, an authority on celebrity news. ThePost’s digital platforms feature all the sections of the print version as well as continually
updated breaking news and other content and extend the reach of thePostto a national audience. For the six months ended March 31, 2013, average weekday circulation, including digital editions, was 500,520. ThePostis printed in
a printing facility in the Bronx, New York and uses third party printers in its other markets in the U.S. The Company’s Community Newspaper Group also owns several local newspapers and other publications distributed in the New York metropolitan
area.

News America Marketing (“NAM”)

NAM is a leading provider of coupon promotions, advertising programs, special offers and other direct consumer marketing solutions through a network of more than 1,700 publications, 50,000 retail stores
and 400 partner sites including SmartSource.com as well as through the expanding audience for its app, SmartSource Xpress for iPad and iPhone. NAM offers direct consumer marketing solutions for companies that include consumer packaged goods
manufacturers, financial services, pharmaceutical manufacturers, quick-service and casual restaurants, retailers and other marketers in the U.S. and Canada. NAM has developed broad, long-standing relationships with many well-known retailers and
brands, including Procter & Gamble, General Mills, Kraft, GlaxoSmithKline, Walmart, Kroger, American Express, Target, Loblaws and DirectTV.

NAM’s marketing solutions are available via multiple distribution channels, including publications, in stores and online, primarily under the SmartSource brand name. NAM provides customers with
“one-stop shopping” for their direct-to-consumer marketing needs through its three primary business areas:



•Free-Standing Inserts:Free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, rebates and other consumer offers, which
are distributed to consumers through insertion primarily into local Sunday publications. NAM is one of the two largest publishers of free-standing inserts in the U.S. Advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay NAM to produce free-standing
inserts where their offers are featured, often on an exclusive basis within their product category. NAM contracts with and pays newspaper publishers, among others, to include the free-standing inserts in their papers. NAM’s free-standing insert
products, which are distributed under the SmartSource Magazine®brand, have a circulation of almost
74 million based on internal sources and are distributed 43 times a year.



•In-Store Advertising and Merchandising: NAM is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged
goods manufacturers. NAM’s marketing products include: at-shelf advertising such as coupon, information and sample-dispensing machines, as well as floor and shopping cart advertising, among others, and are found in approximately 50,000
supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, office supply stores and mass merchandisers across North America. NAM also provides in-store merchandising services, including production and installation of instant-redeemable coupons, on-pack stickers,
shipper assembly, display set-up and refilling, shelf management and new product cut-ins.



•SmartSource Digital:SmartSource Digital manages NAM’s portfolio of database and electronic marketing solutions. The database marketing
business, branded SmartSource Direct, provides direct-mail solutions via access to a national network of retailer frequent-shopper card databases offering information on the purchase behavior of more than 100 million cardholders. The
SmartSource Savings Network, which includes SmartSource.com and SmartSource Xpress, encompasses all of NAM’s electronic couponing and sampling solutions accessed through the web, mobile and tablet-based programming.







NAM believes its programs have key advantages when compared to other marketing options
available to packaged goods companies, retailers and other marketers. NAM offers cost-effective programs that reach a national audience of engaged consumers who are actively seeking coupons or discounts and who are at a critical moment in their
purchase decision. By delivering an immediate incentive or brand message to shoppers as they are making brand decisions, NAM believes free-standing inserts and in-store advertising have an advantage over competing forms of mass media such as radio
or television.

The Company’s News and Information Services products compete with a wide range of media businesses,
including both print publications and digital media and information services.

DJX and other Dow Jones Institutional products that
target enterprise customers compete with various information service providers and global financial newswires, including Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg L.P., LexisNexis, as well as many other Internet-based providers of news and information.

NAM competes against other providers of advertising, marketing and merchandising products and services, including those that provide
promotional or advertising inserts, direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, providers of point-of-purchase and other in-store programs and providers of savings and/or grocery-focused digital applications, as well as other traditional
media such as television, magazines, outdoor displays and radio. Competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of markets, quality of products and services provided and their effectiveness, rate of coupon redemption, store
coverage and other factors. The Company believes that based on the circulation of its free-standing inserts, the reach of its in-store marketing products and the audience for its online programs, NAM provides broader consumer access than many of its
competitors.

Cable Network Programming

The Company’s Cable Network Programming segment consists of FOX SPORTS Australia, the leading sports programming provider in Australia based on total subscribers as of June 30, 2013. FOX SPORTS
Australia is focused on live national and international sports events and provides featured original and licensed premium sports content tailored to the Australian market, including live sports such as National Rugby League, the domestic football
league, English Premier League, international cricket, as well as the NFL. FOX SPORTS Australia offers seven standard definition television channels, high definition versions of five of those channels, an interactive viewing application and one IPTV
channel. Its channels consist of FOX SPORTS 1, FOX SPORTS 2, FOX SPORTS 3, FOX FOOTY, FOX SPORTS NEWS, FUEL TV and SPEED that broadcast an average of 23 hours of live sports per day reaching FOXTEL, Telstra and Optus subscription
television customers. FOX SPORTS Australia is distributed via longstanding carriage agreements with pay-TV providers







(mainly Foxtel) in Australia and generates revenue primarily through affiliate fees payable under these carriage agreements, as well as advertising sales. FOX SPORTS Australia’s access to
compelling local and international sports programming, as well as its production of high-quality original sports content has made it the leading sports programming provider in Australia. FOX SPORTS Australia also operates foxsports.com.au, a leading
general sports website in Australia, and offers an IPTV channel and several interactive mobile and tablet applications that extend the reach of its content across multiple new platforms.

Prior to November 2012, the Company owned a 50% interest in FOX SPORTS Australia, which it accounted for as an equity investment. In
November 2012, the Company acquired CMH, an Australian media investment company that owned the remaining 50% interest in FOX SPORTS Australia. As a result of the CMH acquisition, the Company’s ownership interest in FOX SPORTS Australia
increased to 100% and accordingly, the results of FOX SPORTS Australia have been included in a new Cable Network Programming segment since November 2012.

FOX SPORTS Australia competes primarily with ESPN, the Free-To-Air (“FTA”) channels and certain telecommunications companies in Australia.

Digital Real Estate Services

The Company’s Digital Real Estate Services segment consists of its 61.6% interest in REA Group, a publicly-traded company on ASX (ASX: REA) that is a leading digital advertising business specializing
in real estate services. Established in Melbourne in 1995, REA Group owns and operates Australia’s largest residential property website, realestate.com.au, and Australia’s largest commercial property site, realcommercial.com.au, which
together have approximately 20.6 million desktop visits each month based on Nielsen average monthly total traffic ratings for the year ended June 30, 2013. REA Group also operates a market-leading Italian property site, casa.it, and other
property sites and apps in Europe and in Hong Kong, and its portfolio of property sites is used by approximately 21,000 real estate agents.

REA Group’s Australian operations are comprised primarily of realestate.com.au, realcommercial.com.au and REA Media. Realestate.com.au derives the majority of its revenue via residential monthly
advertising subscriptions and advertising listing upgrades from real estate offices. Agents subscribing to the website may upload unlimited listings for sale or rent and purchase a selection of upgrade products to increase the prominence of their
listings on the site. Additionally, realestate.com.au offers a variety of targeted products, including brand-building services for real estate agents. Realcommercial.com.au generates revenue through three main sources, agent subscription revenue,
agent branding revenue and listing revenue. REA Media offers unique advertising opportunities on both realestate.com.au and realcommercial.com.au, as well as via mobile ad placements. Its revenue is generated primarily from commercial developers and
banks / financial institutions which benefit from being able to target REA Group’s substantial audience base.

REA
Group’s other operations include property sites in Italy, Luxembourg, France, Germany and Hong Kong. Casa.it, with approximately 7.8 million visits each month based on Adobe Omniture SiteCatalyst average monthly site visits for the year
ended June 30, 2013, is Italy’s leading residential property site. Casa.it’s award winning social media strategy saw it named one of the 10 most popular brands in Italy. Squarefoot.com.hk is REA Group’s English and Chinese
language property site in Hong Kong with approximately 345,000 visits per month based on Adobe Omniture SiteCatalyst average monthly site visits for the year ended June 30, 2013. The atHome Group operates atHome.lu and atOffice.lu, leading
property sites in the Greater Luxembourg area, as well as sites in France and Germany. AtHome.lu, atOffice.lu, atHome.de and immoRegion.fr had combined visits of 798,000 based on Adobe Omniture SiteCatalyst average monthly site visits for the year
ended June 30, 2013.

REA Group competes primarily with other real estate websites in its geographic markets, including
domain.com.au in Australia.







Book Publishing

The Company’s Book Publishing segment consists of HarperCollins Publishers (together with its subsidiaries and affiliates, “HarperCollins”), one of the largest English-language consumer
publishers in the world based on global revenue, with operations in the U.S., the U.K., Canada, Australia, New Zealand and India. HarperCollins publishes and distributes consumer books globally through print, digital and audio formats. Its digital
formats include electronic books, also referred to as e-books, for devices such as the Apple iPad, Amazon’s Kindle, Google’s Nexus and Barnes & Noble’s NOOK as well as audio downloads for smartphones and MP3 players.
HarperCollins owns over 60 branded imprints, including Avon, Harper, HarperCollins Children’s Publishers, William Morrow and Christian publishers Zondervan and Thomas Nelson, which HarperCollins acquired in July 2012. HarperCollins publishes
works by well-known authors such as J.R.R. Tolkien, Paulo Coelho, Rick Warren and Agatha Christie and popular titles such asThe Hobbit,Goodnight MoonandTo Kill a Mockingbird. Its active print and digital global catalog
includes over 50,000 publications and approximately 100,000 SKUs, including various print and digital editions of the same title. HarperCollins publishes fiction and nonfiction, with a focus on general, children’s and religious content.
Additionally, in the U.K., HarperCollins publishes titles for the equivalent of the K-12 educational market.

HarperCollins is
rapidly transitioning from print production to digital with leading e-book offerings. As of June 30, 2013, HarperCollins offered approximately 30,000 e-book titles, which accounted for approximately 19% of global revenues in the quarter (up
from approximately 16% in the prior year period). Nearly all of HarperCollins’ titles published in the last four years, as well as the majority of its entire catalog, are available in electronic reader and tablet formats. With the rapid
adoption of electronic formats by consumers, HarperCollins is publishing many titles in digital formats before, or instead of, publishing a print edition. For example, through its popular romance imprint, Avon, HarperCollins launched a
“digital-first” series which releases one new title per week in the romance category. The series has already generated threeNew York Timeselectronic bestsellers since its launch.

During fiscal 2013, HarperCollins U.S. had 167 titles on theNew York Timesbestseller list, with 16 titles hitting number one,
includingAmerican Sniperby Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice, Divergentby Veronica Roth, Insurgentby Veronica Roth, Pete the Cat: Rocking in My School Shoesby Eric Litwin, The Night Before Christmasby Clement C. Moore, The Fallen Angelby Daniel Silva,The 100by Jorge Cruise,Heaven is For Realby Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent,America the Beautifulby Ben Carson with Candy Carson,Beautiful Ruinsby Jess
Walters,Microby Michael Crichton and Richard Preston,The One and Only Ivan, by Katherine Applegate,Pete the Cat Saves Christmasby Eric Litwin,Emeraldaliciousby Victoria Kann, andThe Eliteby Kiera Cass.

HarperCollins derives its revenue from the sale of print and digital books to a customer base that includes global technology
companies, traditional brick and mortar booksellers, wholesale clubs and discount stores, including Amazon, Apple, Barnes & Noble and Tesco. As Harper Collins’ digital products continue to account for more of its business, it expects
to benefit from increased profit contribution and improved working capital dynamics due to diminishing physical plant requirements, inventory and returns related to its print business, as well as faster payment for e-books.

The book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market that is quickly changing and continues to see technological
innovations, including e-book devices sold by Amazon, Apple, Google and Barnes & Noble. HarperCollins competes with other large publishers, such as Penguin Random House, Simon & Schuster and Hachette Livre, as well as with numerous
smaller publishers, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities; competition could also come from new entrants, since barriers to entry in book publishing are low. In addition, HarperCollins competes for readership with
other media formats and sources. The Company believes HarperCollins is well positioned in the evolving book publishing market with significant size and brand recognition across multiple categories and geographies and as an early adopter of the
digital model, where it is an industry leader with approximately 30,000 e-book titles. Furthermore, HarperCollins is a leader in children’s and religious books, categories which have been less impacted by the transition to digital consumption.







Other

The Other segment includes Amplify, the Company’s digital education business, the Company’s corporate Strategy and Creative Group, general corporate overhead expenses and costs related to the
U.K. Newspaper Matters.

Amplify

In July 2012, the Company launched Amplify, the brand for its digital education business. Amplify is dedicated to improving K-12 education by creating digital products and services that empower teachers,
students and parents in new ways. Its products serve more than 200,000 educators and three million students in all 50 states. Amplify is focused on transforming teaching and learning by creating and scaling digital innovations in three areas:



•Amplify Insight:Amplify’s successful data and analytics business, which formerly operated under the brand Wireless Generation, commenced
operations in 2000 and was acquired in 2010. Amplify Insight provides powerful assessment products and services to support staff and technology development, including student assessment tools and analytic technologies, intervention programs,
enterprise education information systems, and professional development and consulting services. Key products includemClassTM, a suite of products that enable teachers to easily and quickly monitor individual and class progression through goals
and standards and access detailed analysis, custom grouping and instructional planning tools.



•Amplify Learning: Amplify’s nascent digital curriculum business is developing new content in English Language Arts, Science and Math,
including software that will combine interactive, game-like experiences with rigorous analytics, all driven by adaptive technologies that respond to individual students’ needs as they evolve. Amplify Learning’s digital curriculum will
incorporate the new Common Core State Standards that is expected to be implemented in 45 states beginning with the 2014-2015 school year. Amplify launched pilots of its new digital English and Science curriculum for students in the middle grades
during the 2013 fiscal year and is expected to launch additional pilots in fiscal 2014.



•Amplify Access:Amplify’s distribution platform business, which is developing new distribution and delivery mechanisms, consists of an open
tablet-based distribution platform that will offer curated third-party as well as proprietary curricular and extracurricular content, sophisticated analytic capabilities, a tablet, and 4G connectivity through a subscription-based bundle optimized
for the K-12 market to facilitate personalized instruction and enable anywhere, anytime learning. Amplify launched pilots of its new distribution platform for the classroom during fiscal 2013 and began a commercial rollout in fiscal 2014.

Amplify’s digital products are or will generally be available on a subscription basis. The Company
also expects to market and sell some supplemental print-based materials, as well as instructional and information technology-related services. In addition, while each of Amplify’s products will be available on a stand-alone basis, the Company
also anticipates that it will have the ability to cross-sell products between Amplify’s three business areas and offer bundled solutions to its customers.

Amplify competes with existing K-12 education publishers and content providers such as Pearson plc and McGraw-Hill Education, large platform companies such as Google, Apple, and Amazon that market their
tablet or e-reader products for educational use, as well as a number of smaller content, analytics and distribution platform companies. The Company believes that Amplify’s capabilities across analytics and assessment, content and curriculum and
distribution and delivery make it well-positioned to offer schools a unique integrated learning solution.







Corporate Strategy and Creative Group

The Company’s corporate Strategy and Creative Group was formed to identify new products and services across the Company’s
businesses to increase revenues and profitability and to target and assess potential acquisitions and investments. Recent initiatives include the launch of the Company’s BallBall mobile app in Japan, Indonesia and Vietnam, which combines the
Company’s rights to exclusive football highlight clips, expert coverage, commentary and analysis fromThe Times,The Sunday TimesandThe Sun, as well as the recently announced News Corp Global Exchange, the Company’s
new global programmatic advertising exchange that will enable marketers to leverage the Company’s leading online and mobile products and first-party data for real-time bidding.

Equity Investments

Foxtel

The Company and Telstra, an ASX-listed telecommunications company, each own 50% of Foxtel, the largest pay-TV provider in Australia.
Foxtel has approximately 2.4 million subscribing households throughout Australia, or over 30% of the country’s population, as of June 30, 2013 through cable, satellite and IPTV distribution.

Foxtel delivers more than 200 channels (including standard definition channels, high definition versions of some of those channels, and
audio and interactive channels) covering news, sport, general entertainment, movies, documentaries, music and children’s programming. Foxtel’s premium content includes FOX SPORTS Australia’s suite of sports channels such as FOX SPORTS
1, FOX SPORTS 2 and FOX SPORTS 3 and TV shows from HBO, FOX and Universal, among others. Foxtel also owns and operates 26 channels, including general entertainment and movie channels, and sources an extensive range of movie programming through
arrangements with major U.S. studios. Foxtel’s channels are distributed to subscribers via both Telstra’s hybrid fibrecoaxial cable network and a long-term contracted satellite platform provided by Optus. Foxtel offers limited versions of
its services via broadband through Foxtel Play (an Internet television service), the Xbox platform, Telstra’s T-Box platform, select Samsung televisions, a number of Virgin Australia aircraft, and mobile devices and tablets (including iPads and
iPhones via Foxtel Go), as well as via the Internet to personal computers. Foxtel customers are also able to access their electronic programming guide via their tablet, mobile devices and personal computers to remotely record programming.

Foxtel generates revenue primarily through subscription revenue as well as advertising revenue. For the year ended
June 30, 2013, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), Foxtel recorded revenues of $3.2 billion, net income before income taxes of $267 million, net interest expense of $231 million,
depreciation and amortization of $441 million, calculated before purchase accounting adjustments, and equity earnings of affiliates and other, net, of $7 million. Foxtel’s EBITDA, which is calculated by excluding interest expense,
depreciation and amortization and equity earnings of affiliates and other, net, from net income before income taxes, was $932 million for the year ended June 30, 2013. Management believes that EBITDA is an appropriate measure for
evaluating the operating performance of this business for the reasons set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Segment Analysis” with respect
to Segment EBITDA.

In the year ended June 30, 2013, Foxtel’s average residential recurring subscription revenue per
user, or ARPU, was $97 per month (as calculated by Foxtel), and its annualized residential subscriber churn rate based on data for the year ended June 30, 2013 was 14.2% (as calculated by Foxtel). In addition, Foxtel had $2.0 billion of
indebtedness outstanding as of June 30, 2013 (excluding $825 million of shareholder loans due to Telstra and the Company, which includes accrued interest payable of $15 million), and paid distributions of $159 million to the
Company during the year ended June 30, 2013. In November 2012, the Company’s stake in Foxtel increased from 25% to 50% as a result of the CMH acquisition. The amount included for Foxtel in the Company’s Equity earnings of affiliates
was $66 million for the year ended June 30, 2013.







The Company and Telstra each have the right to appoint one-half of the board of directors of
Foxtel. In addition, the Company has the right to appoint the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Foxtel, while Telstra has the right to terminate these officers.

Foxtel competes primarily with the three major commercial FTA networks and two major government-funded FTA broadcasters in Australia for
subscribers, as well as other pay-TV operators and IPTV providers. Foxtel provides a 200-plus channel selection with premium and exclusive content and a wide array of digital and mobile features that are not available to viewers on the FTA networks.
Through innovations such as digital HD channels, the extension of pay-TV programming to mobile devices and the use of DVR and Electronic Program Guide technology, the Company believes Foxtel offers subscribers a compelling alternative to FTA TV and
Foxtel’s other competitors.

Governmental Regulation

General

Various aspects of the Company’s activities are subject to
regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. The Company believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations described herein. The introduction of new laws and regulations in countries
where the Company’s products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the Company’s interests.

Australian Media Regulation

The Company’s subscription television interests are subject to Australia’s regulatory framework for the broadcasting industry. The key regulatory body for the Australian broadcasting industry is
the Australian Communications and Media Authority (“ACMA”).







U.K. Press Regulation

On July 13, 2011, Prime Minister David Cameron announced a two-part inquiry into the U.K. press and appointed Lord Justice Leveson as Chairman of the Inquiry. The inquiry was triggered by allegations
of illegal voicemail interception at the Company’s former publication,The News of the World. Hearings opened on November 14, 2011 with respect to the first part of the inquiry, and Lord Justice Leveson published his report on
November 29, 2012.

The report made recommendations on the future of press regulation and governance in the U.K., which
have been the subject of debate in the U.K. parliament, as well as discussion both among newspaper groups (including News UK) and the industry and the government.

On March 18, 2013, the U.K. Government published a draft Royal Charter on Self-Regulation of the Press which, if granted, would establish a Recognition Panel that would be responsible for
recognizing, overseeing and monitoring a new press regulatory body. The new press regulatory body, a majority of the members of which would be independent of the industry, would be responsible for overseeing the U.K. press and would replace the
existing Press Complaints Commission. The U.K. Government has also proposed legislation which would ensure that the Royal Charter could only be altered by a two-thirds majority of parliament. In addition to the Royal Charter and establishment of a
new regulatory body, rules have been proposed which, if adopted, would result in publishers who do not participate in this new U.K. press regulatory system being potentially liable for exemplary damages in certain cases where such damages are not
currently awarded.

On April 24, 2013, an alternative proposed form of Royal Charter was published by a group
representing a significant majority of the U.K. press, including News UK. This contained many similar provisions but omitted or varied several others, including the requirement for any future alteration to be approved by a two-thirds majority of
parliament. While a new regulatory regime is supported by the primary political parties in the U.K. and is likely to be introduced, at this time it remains unclear what precise form the new regime will take and when it will come into force.

The new U.K. press regulatory body is likely to, among other things, introduce and oversee a revised press code, require
members to implement appropriate internal governance processes and require self-reporting of any failures, provide a complaints handling service, have the ability to require publications to print corrections, have the power to investigate serious or
systemic breaches of the press code and be able to levy fines. It may also introduce an arbitration service to resolve claims against publications. Changes may also be made to U.K. data protection legislation. If adopted, the proposed new regulatory
regime may impose burdens on the print media, including the Company’s newspaper businesses in the U.K., that represent competitive disadvantages versus other forms of media and may increase the costs of compliance. A date has yet to be set for
the second part of the inquiry.

Internet

In the U.S., the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (“COPPA”) prohibits websites from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without
prior parental consent. In addition, the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (“CAN-SPAM”) regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or “spam.” Online services provided
by the Company may be subject to COPPA and CAN-SPAM requirements.

U.S. federal regulators’ interest in issues of
privacy, cybersecurity and data security has been steadily increasing. On February 23, 2012, the Obama administration issued a white paper on consumer data privacy that includes a Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights. The Obama administration is
convening a multi-stakeholder process to implement the Bill of Rights through industry codes of conduct that would be enforceable by the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and State Attorneys General. The Obama administration also announced
it would work with Congress to implement these rights through legislation. On March 26, 2012, the FTC released a report







Foreign governments are raising similar privacy and data security concerns. In particular, the EU
has proposed a new privacy regulation (the “EU Regulation”) that would replace the current Data Protection Directive, would tighten regulation of the collection, use and security of online data and would continue to restrict the
trans-border flow of data. European industry has implemented a self-regulatory regime for online behavioral advertising that is largely consistent with the U.S. self-regulatory framework. The proposed EU Regulation will not be effective for at least
two or three years and may undergo many changes before it is adopted. It is unclear how the final EU Regulation would affect the Company’s business.

The Company monitors pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments.

Education

The
availability of funding for K-12 education is affected by changes in legislation, both at the federal and state level, as well as changes in the state procurement process. Future changes in federal funding and the state and local tax base could
create an unfavorable environment, leading to budget issues resulting in a decrease in educational funding.

Intellectual Property

The Company’s intellectual property assets include: copyrights in newspapers, books, television programming and other
content and technologies; trademarks in names and logos; domain names; and licenses of intellectual property rights. In addition, its intellectual property assets include patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products,
business methods and/or services, none of which are material to its financial condition or results of operations. The Company derives value and revenue from these assets through, among other things, print and digital newspaper and magazine
subscriptions and sales, the sale, distribution and/or licensing of print and digital books, the sale of subscriptions to its content and information services, the operation of websites and other digital properties and the distribution and/or
licensing of its television programming to cable and satellite television services.

The Company devotes significant resources
to protecting its intellectual property in the U.S., the U.K., Australia and other foreign territories. To protect these assets, the Company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and other laws
and contract provisions. However, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products, services and content and related intellectual property
is often







difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the Company’s intellectual property. The Company seeks to limit that threat
through a combination of approaches, including pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and
intellectual property laws. Piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property.

Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the Company’s intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights.
Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations. Moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable
or limited in certain foreign territories. Therefore, the Company engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and
remedies for infringement.

Raw Materials

As a major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the Company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. In order to obtain the best available prices,
substantially all of the Company’s paper purchasing is done on a regional, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. The Company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of
paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate.

Employees

As of June 30, 2013, the Company had approximately 24,000 employees, of whom approximately 9,000 were located in the U.S., 4,000 were
located in the U.K. and 9,000 were located in Australia. Of the Company’s employees, approximately 6,000 were represented by various employee unions. The contracts with such unions will expire during various times over the next several years.
The Company believes its current relationships with employees are generally good.



