ITEM 1. BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

The Company

News Corporation (the “Company,” “News Corp,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a global diversified media and
information services company focused on creating and distributing authoritative and engaging content and other products and services to consumers and businesses throughout the world. The Company comprises businesses across a range of media,
including news and information services, subscription video services in Australia, book publishing and digital real estate services, that are distributed under some of the world’s most recognizable and respected brands, includingThe Wall
Street Journal, Dow Jones,The Australian,Herald Sun,The Sun,The Times,HarperCollins Publishers, Foxtel, FOX SPORTS Australia, realestate.com.au,
realtor.com®, talkSPORT and many others.

The Company’s commitment to premium content makes
its properties a premier destination for news, information and entertainment. The Company distributes its content and other products and services to consumers across various platforms consisting of traditional print and television, as well as an
array of digital platforms including websites, applications for mobile devices and tablets, social media ande-bookdevices. The Company believes that the increasing number of media choices and formats will
allow it to continue to deliver its content and other products and services in a more engaging, timely and personalized manner and provide opportunities for more effective monetization via strong customer relationships and more compelling and
engaging advertising solutions. The Company is pursuing multiple strategies to exploit these opportunities, including sharing technologies and practices across geographies and businesses and bundling selected offerings to provide greater value to
consumers and advertising partners.

The Company’s diversified revenue base includes recurring subscriptions, circulation sales, advertising sales,
sales of real estate listing products, licensing fees and other consumer product sales. Headquartered in New York, the Company operates primarily in the United States, Australia and the U.K., with its content and other products and services
distributed and consumed worldwide. The Company’s operations are organized into five reporting segments: (i) News and Information Services; (ii) Subscription Video Services; (iii) Book Publishing; (iv) Digital Real Estate
Services; and (v) Other, which includes the Company’s general corporate overhead expenses, corporate Strategy Group and costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters (as defined in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”).

The Company maintains a52-53week fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to June 30 in each year. Fiscal 2019,
fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 each included 52 weeks. Unless otherwise noted, all references to the fiscal years ended June 30, 2019, June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017 relate to the fiscal years ended June 30, 2019, July 1, 2018
and July 2, 2017, respectively. For convenience purposes, the Company continues to date its financial statements as of June 30.

Corporate Information

News Corporation is a Delaware
corporation originally organized on December 11, 2012 in connection with its separation (the “Separation”) from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. (formerly named News Corporation) (“21st Century Fox”), which was completed on
June 28, 2013 (the “Distribution Date”). In connection with the Separation, the Company assumed the name “News Corporation.” Unless otherwise indicated, references in this Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 (the “Annual Report”) to the “Company,” “News Corp,” “we,” “us,” or “our” means News Corporation
and its subsidiaries. The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, and its telephone number is(212) 416-3400.The Company’s
Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed on The Nasdaq Global







Select Market (“Nasdaq”) under the trading symbols “NWSA” and “NWS,” respectively, and CHESS Depositary Interests (“CDIs”) representing the Company’s
Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (“ASX”) under the trading symbols “NWSLV” and “NWS,” respectively. More information regarding the Company is available on its
website atwww.newscorp.com, including the Company’s Annual Reports on Form10-K,Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q,Current Reports on Form8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are available, free of charge,
as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The information on the Company’s website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part
of this Annual Report or incorporated into any other filings it makes with the SEC.

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

The Company’s five reporting
segments are described below. For information regarding revenues generated by the principal products and services of each segment, refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.”



For the fiscal yearended June 30, 2019RevenuesSegmentEBITDA(in millions)News and Information Services$4,956$417Subscription Video Services2,202380Book Publishing1,754253Digital Real Estate Services1,159384Other3(190)

News and Information Services

The Company’s News and Information Services segment consists primarily of Dow Jones, News Corp Australia, News UK, theNewYork
Postand News America Marketing. This segment also includes Unruly, a global video







advertising marketplace, Wireless Group, operator of talkSPORT, the leading sports radio network in the U.K., and Storyful, a social media content agency that enables the Company to source
real-time video content through social media platforms. The News and Information Services segment generates revenue primarily through sales of print and digital advertising and circulation and subscription sales of its print and digital products.
Advertising revenues at the News and Information Services segment are subject to seasonality, with revenues typically highest in the Company’s second fiscal quarter due to theend-of-yearholiday season in its main operating geographies.

Dow
Jones

Dow Jones is a global provider of news and business information, which distributes its content and data through a variety of media channels
including newspapers, newswires, websites, applications, or apps, for mobile devices, tablets ande-bookreaders, newsletters, magazines, proprietary databases, live journalism, video and podcasts. Dow
Jones’s products, which target individual consumer and enterprise customers, includeThe Wall Street Journal, Factiva, Dow Jones Risk & Compliance, Dow Jones Newswires,Barron’sand MarketWatch. Dow Jones’s
revenue is diversified acrossbusiness-to-consumerandbusiness-to-businesssubscriptions, circulation, advertising, including custom content and sponsorships, licensing fees for its print and digital products and participation fees for its live journalism events. For the year ended June 30, 2019, consumer products and
professional information products represented approximately 73% and 27%, respectively, of total Dow Jones revenues, and approximately 62% of total Dow Jones revenues was generated by digital sales.

Consumer Products

Through its premier brands and
authoritative journalism, Dow Jones’s products targeting individual consumers provide insights, research and understanding that enable customers to stay informed and make educated financial decisions. Dow Jones continues to capitalize on new
digital distribution platforms and technologies for these products as consumer preferences for content consumption evolve. Digital revenues accounted for 55% and 40% of consumer circulation and advertising revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2019.
With a focus on the financial markets, investing and other professional services, many of these products offer advertisers an attractive customer demographic. Products targeting consumers include the following:



•The Wall Street Journal (WSJ). WSJ, Dow Jones’s flagship product, is available in print, online and
across multiple mobile, tablet ande-bookdevices. WSJ covers national and international news and provides analysis, commentary and opinions on a wide range of topics, including business developments and
trends, economics, financial markets, investing, science and technology, lifestyle, culture and sports. WSJ’s print products are printed at plants located around the U.S., including seven owned by the Company. WSJ sells regional advertising in
three major U.S. regional editions (Eastern, Central and Western) and 21 smallersub-regionaleditions. WSJ’s digital products offer both free and premium content and are comprised of WSJ.com, WSJ mobile
products, including a responsive design website and apps for multiple mobile devices (WSJ Mobile), and live andon-demandvideo through WSJ.com and other platforms such as YouTube, internet-connected
television andset-topboxes (WSJ Video), as well as podcasts. WSJ also distributes content through third party subscription andnon-subscriptionplatform providers,
such as Apple News+, which is referred to asoff-platformdistribution. For the year ended June 30, 2019, WSJ Mobile (including WSJ.com accessed via mobile devices, as well as apps, and excludingoff-platformdistribution) accounted for approximately 58% of visits to WSJ’s digital news and information products according to Adobe Analytics.



•Barron’s Group. The Barron’s Group focuses on Dow Jones consumer brands outside of The Wall
Street Journal franchise, includingBarron’sand MarketWatch, among other properties.

Barron’s. Barron’s, which is available in print, online and on multiple mobile, tablet ande-bookdevices, delivers news, analysis, investigative reporting, company profiles and insightful statistics for investors and others interested in the investment world.







MarketWatch.MarketWatch is an investing and financial news website
targeting active investors. It also provides real-time commentary and investment tools and data. Products include mobile and tablet apps, a mobile site and MarketWatch Premium Newsletters.



•The Wall Street Journal Digital Network (WSJDN). WSJDN offers advertisers the opportunity to reach Dow
Jones’s audience across a number of brands, including the WSJ.com, Barrons.com and MarketWatch.com websites.



•Live Journalism. Dow Jones offers a number of conferences and events each year, including WSJ TechD-Live,itsC-suiteconferences such as CEO and CFO Council, the Women In series, the Future Of series, Global Food Forum and Barron’s Summits. These live journalism
events offer advertisers and sponsors the opportunity to reach a select group of influential leaders from industry, finance, government and policy. Many of these programs also earn revenue from participation fees charged to attendees.

The following table provides information regarding issue sales and subscriptions (excludingoff-platformdistribution) for certain Dow Jones consumer products:



TheWallStreetJournal(1)Barron’s(1)(in 000’s)AverageGlobal IssueSales(2)AverageGlobalSubscriptionsAverageGlobal IssueSales(2)AverageGlobalSubscriptionsPrint(3)1,005799290280Digital Only1,8291,818299299Total2,8342,617589579



(1)Based on internal data for the period from April 1, 2019 to June 30, 2019, with independent assurance
provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP UK.

(2)Average Global Issue Sales includes subscription andnon-subscriptioncategories.Non-subscriptioncategories include, but are not limited to, single copy (newsstand) sales and copies purchased by hotels for distribution to guests.

(3)In addition to their print and digital-only products,The Wall Street JournalandBarron’ssell print and digital products bundled into one subscription, which is counted only once, under “Print,” in the table above.

The following table provides information regarding the digital platforms (excludingoff-platformdistribution) for
certain Dow Jones consumer products:



FY2019 AverageMonthly Visits(1)FY2019 AverageMonthly Page Views(2)FY2019 AverageMonthly Unique Users(3)WSJ91 million272 million38 millionMarketWatch68 million165 million29 millionWSJDN170 million460 million75 million



(1)Includes visits via websites and mobile device and tablet apps based on Adobe Analytics for the 12 months ended
June 30, 2019.

(2)Includes page views via websites and mobile device and tablet apps based on Adobe Analytics for the 12 months
ended June 30, 2019.

(3)Includes aggregate unique users accessing websites and mobile device and tablet apps based on Adobe Analytics
for the 12 months ended June 30, 2019. See “Part I. Business—Explanatory Note Regarding Certain Key Metrics” for more information regarding the calculation of unique users.

Professional Information Products

Dow Jones’s
professional information products, which target enterprise customers, combine news and information with technology and tools that inform decisions and aid awareness, research and understanding.







These products consist of its Knowledge and Insight, Dow Jones Risk & Compliance and Dow Jones Newswires products, which represented 45%, 31% and 24%, respectively, of fiscal 2019
professional information product revenues. Specific products include the following:



•Knowledge and Insight. Dow Jones Knowledge and Insight products consist primarily of Factiva, a leading
provider of global business content, built on an archive of important original and licensed publishing sources. Factiva offers content from over 33,000 global news and information sources from over 200 countries and in 28 languages. This combination
of business news and information, plus sophisticated tools, helps professionals find, monitor, interpret and share essential information. As of June 30, 2019, there were approximately 1.2 million activated Factiva users, including both
institutional and individual accounts.



•Dow Jones Risk& Compliance. Dow Jones Risk & Compliance products provide
data solutions for customers focused on anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, monitoring embargo and sanction lists and other compliance requirements. Dow Jones’s solutions allow customers to filter their business transactions and partners
against its data to identify regulatory, corporate and reputational risk, and requestfollow-updue diligence reports. Products include online risk data and negative news searching tools such as Risk Database
Search/Research/Premium and the Risk & Compliance Portal for batch screening. Dow Jones also provides an online solution for supplier risk assessment, RiskCenter KYBP (Know Your Business Partner), which provides customers with automated
risk and compliance checks via questionnaires and embedded scoring. Feed services include Dow Jones Watchlist, Dow Jones Anti-Corruption, Dow Jones Sanction Alert and Adverse Media Entities. In addition, Dow Jones produces customized Due Diligence
Reports to assist its customers with regulatory compliance.



•Dow Jones Newswires. Dow Jones Newswires distributes real-time business news, information, analysis,
commentary and statistical data to financial professionals and investors worldwide. It publishes, on average, over 14,000 news items each day, which are distributed via terminals, trading platforms and websites reaching hundreds of thousands of
financial professionals. This content also reaches millions of individual investors via customer portals and the intranets of brokerage and trading firms, as well as digital media publishers.

News Corp Australia

News Corp Australia is one of
the leading news and information providers in Australia by readership, owning over 150 newspapers covering a national, regional and suburban footprint. During the year ended May 31, 2019, its daily, Sunday, weekly andbi-weeklynewspapers were read by over 7.7 million Australians on average every week. In addition, its digital mastheads are among the leading digital news properties in Australia based on monthly unique
audience data and had approximately 517,300 aggregate closing subscribers as of June 30, 2019.

News Corp Australia’s news portfolio includesThe AustralianandThe Weekend Australian(National),The Daily TelegraphandThe Sunday Telegraph(Sydney),Herald SunandSunday Herald Sun(Melbourne),The Courier MailandThe Sunday Mail(Brisbane) andThe AdvertiserandSunday Mail(Adelaide), as well as paid digital platforms for each. In addition, News Corp Australia owns a large number of community newspapers in all major capital cities and leading regional
publications in Geelong, across the state of Queensland and in the capital cities of Hobart and Darwin.







The following table provides information regarding key properties within News Corp Australia’s
portfolio:



Average Daily PaidPrint Circulation(1)Total Paid Subscribers forCombined Masthead(Print and 
Digital)(2)Total Monthly Audiencefor Combined Masthead(Print and 
Digital)(3)The Australian (Mon – Fri)83,684164,9683.7 millionThe Weekend Australian (Sat)207,837The Daily Telegraph (Mon – Sat)167,78587,5604.3 millionThe Sunday Telegraph299,352Herald Sun (Mon – Sat)245,255107,8164.1 millionSunday Herald Sun295,514The Courier Mail (Mon – Sat)104,87981,9492.5 millionThe Sunday Mail228,467The Advertiser (Mon – Sat)97,17381,1671.8 millionSunday Mail153,496



(1)For the year ended June 30, 2019, based on internal sources.

(2)As of June 30, 2019, based on internal sources.

(3)Based on Enhanced Media Metrics Australia (“EMMA”) average monthly print readership data for the year
ended May 31, 2019 and Nielsen desktop, mobile and tablet audience data for May 2019. EMMA data incorporates more frequent sampling and combines both online usage derived from Nielsen data and print usage into a single metric that removes any
audience overlap.

News Corp Australia’s broad portfolio of digital properties also includes news.com.au, the leading general
interest site in Australia that provides breaking news, finance, entertainment, lifestyle, technology and sports news and delivers an average monthly unique audience of approximately 9.9 million based on Nielsen monthly total audience ratings
for the year ended June 30, 2019. In addition, News Corp Australia owns other premier properties such as taste.com.au, a leading food and recipe site, and kidspot.com.au, a leading parenting website, as well as various other digital media
assets. As of June 30, 2019, News Corp Australia’s other assets included a 14.6% interest in HT&E Limited, which operates a portfolio of Australian radio and outdoor media assets, and a 30.2% interest in Hipages Group Pty Ltd., which
operates a leadingon-demandhome improvement services marketplace.

News UK

News UK publishesThe Sun,The Sun on Sunday,The TimesandThe Sunday Times,which are leading newspapers in the U.K that together
accounted for approximatelyone-thirdof all national newspaper sales as of June 30, 2019.The Sunis the most read national paid print news brand in the U.K., andThe TimesandThe
SundayTimesare the most read national newspapers in the U.K. quality market. Together, across print and digital, these brands now reachtwo-thirdsof adult news readers in the U.K., or
approximately 32 million people, based on PAMCo data for the year ended March 31, 2019. News UK’s newspapers (except some Saturday and Sunday supplements) are printed at News UK’s world-class printing facilities in England,
Scotland and Ireland. In addition to revenue from advertising, circulation and subscription sales for its print and digital products, News UK generates revenue by providing third party printing services through these facilities and is one of the
largest contract printers in the U.K. News UK also distributes content through its digital platforms, including its websites, thesun.co.uk, thetimes.co.uk and thesundaytimes.co.uk, as well as mobile and tablet apps. News UK’s online and mobile
offerings during the year included the rights to show English Premier League Football match







clips across its digital platforms. In addition, News UK has assembled a portfolio of complementary ancillary product offerings, including Sun Bingo. The following table provides information
regarding News UK’s news portfolio:



PrintAverage IssueReadership(1)Average Daily PaidPrint Circulation(2)Paid Subscribers(3)Monthly Global UniqueUsers(5)The Sun (Mon – Sat)2,740,0001,483,991N/A113 millionThe Sun on Sunday2,188,0001,245,106N/AThe Times (Mon – Sat)943,000411,884165,493 (print)(4)292,655 (digital)N/AThe Sunday Times1,673,000728,344203,612 (print)(4)283,233 (digital)N/A



(1)Based on Publishers Audience Measurement Company (“PAMCo”) data for the 12 months ended
March 31, 2019.

(2)Based on Audit Bureau of Circulation (“ABC”) data for the six months ended June 30, 2019.

(3)As of June 30, 2019, based on internal sources.

(4)In addition to their print and digital-only products,The TimesandThe Sunday Timessell print
and digital products bundled into one subscription, which is counted only once, under “print,” in the table above.

(5)Includes aggregate unique users accessing websites and mobile device and tablet apps based on Google Analytics
data for the month ended June 30, 2019. See “Part I. Business—Explanatory Note Regarding Certain Key Metrics.” News UK transitioned from ABC Electronic (Omniture) to Google Analytics in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019. Google
made certain algorithm changes during the quarter that contributed to an increase in the number of unique users reported. As a result, the Google Analytics user data provided in the table above is not directly comparable to the data provided in the
prior year’s Annual Report.

New York Post

NYP Holdings (“NYP”) is the publisher of theNew York Post(the “Post”), NYPost.com, PageSix.com, Decider.com and related
mobile and tablet apps and social media channels. ThePostis the oldest continuously published daily newspaper in the U.S., with a focus on coverage of the New York metropolitan area. ThePostprovides a variety of general interest
content ranging from breaking news to business analysis, and is known in particular for its comprehensive sports coverage, famous headlines and its iconic Page Six section, an authority on celebrity news. The print version of thePostis
primarily distributed in New York, where it is printed at its Bronx printing facility, as well as throughout the Northeast, Florida and California, where it uses Dow Jones’s printing facilities and third party printers. For the three months
ended June 30, 2019, average weekday circulation based on Alliance for Audited Media data, including mobile and tablet app digital editions, was 418,503. In addition, the Post Digital Network, which includes NYPost.com, PageSix.com and
Decider.com, reached approximately 101.4 million unique users on average each month during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 according to Google Analytics. See “Part I. Business—Explanatory Note Regarding Certain Key
Metrics” for information regarding the calculation of unique users and note 5 in the preceding table regarding algorithm changes made by Google.

News America Marketing

News America Marketing
(“NAM”) is a premier marketing partner of some of the world’s most well-known brands, and its broad network of shopper media, incentive platforms and custom merchandising services influences the purchasing decisions of online and
offline shoppers across the U.S. and Canada. NAM’s marketing solutions are available via multiple distribution channels, including publications, in stores and online, primarily under the SmartSource brand name and through the Checkout 51 mobile
app.







NAM provides customers with solutions across the shopper’s path to purchase, focusing primarily on the
following three business areas:



•In-StoreAdvertising and Merchandising(53% of fiscal 2019 NAM
revenues). NAM is a leading provider ofin-storemarketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged goods manufacturers. NAM’s marketing products includeat-shelfadvertising such as coupon, information and sample-dispensing machines, as well as floor and shopping cart advertising, among others, and are found in thousands of shopping locations, including
supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, office supply stores, mass merchandisers and specialty stores across North America. NAM also providesin-storemerchandising services, including production and
installation of instant-redeemable coupons,on-packstickers, shipper assembly, displayset-upand refilling, shelf management and new productcut-ins.



•Home-Delivered(41% of fiscal 2019 NAM revenues). NAM is one of the leading providers of home-delivered
shopper media, including free-standing inserts and direct mail products. Free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, rebates and other consumer offers, which are distributed to millions of households under the
SmartSource Magazine®brand through insertion primarily into local Sunday publications. Advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay NAM to produce free-standing inserts where
their offers are featured, often on an exclusive basis within their product category. NAM contracts with and pays publishers as well as printers, among others, to produce and/or distribute free-standing inserts in their papers.



•Mobile/Digital(6% of fiscal 2019 NAM revenues). NAM’s digital marketing solutions include
SmartSource Digital, which encompasses secure printable couponing,load-to-cardcouponing, targeted email campaigns and programmatic digital display, and the Checkout 51
mobile app, a leading receipt recognition app that enables packaged goods companies and brands to reach consumers with highly personalized marketing campaigns.

NAM believes its programs have key advantages when compared to other marketing options available to packaged goods companies, retailers and other marketers.
NAM offers effective and targeted programs that reach a national audience of consumers who are actively seeking incentives or information at critical points along the path to purchase. The Company recently announced that it is reviewing strategic
options for NAM, including a potential sale. There is no assurance regarding the timing of any action or transaction, nor that the strategic review will result in a transaction or other strategic change.

The Company’s News and Information Services products compete with a wide range of media businesses, including print publications, digital media and
information services.

app-based

off-platform

e-book







information is consumed, require the Company to continually innovate and improve upon its own products, services and platforms in order to remain competitive. The Company believes that these
changes will continue to pose opportunities and challenges, and that it is well positioned to leverage its global reach, brand recognition and proprietary technology to take advantage of the opportunities presented by these changes.

Dow Jones professional information products that target enterprise customers compete with various information service providers, compliance data providers and
global financial newswires, including Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg L.P., LexisNexis and Refinitiv, as well as many other providers of news, information and compliance data.

NAM competes against other providers of advertising, marketing and merchandising products and services, including those that provide promotional or
advertising inserts, direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, providers ofpoint-of-purchaseand otherin-storeprograms and providers of savings and/or grocery-focused digital apps, as well as other marketing products and services. Competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of markets, quality of products and services provided and their
effectiveness, rate of coupon redemption, store coverage and other factors. The Company believes that based on the scale of NAM’s home-delivered products, the reach of itsin-storemarketing products and
the growing audience for its digital marketing platform, NAM provides broader consumer access than many of its competitors. The Company is also actively investing in shopper research and data-based insights that enable an advanced understanding of
how to apply the Company’s media and incentive network to achieve the greatest impact and value for clients and partners.

Subscription Video
Services

The Company’s Subscription Video Services segment provides video sports, entertainment and news services topay-TVsubscribers and other commercial licensees, primarily via cable, satellite and internet distribution. This segment consists of (i) the Company’s 65% interest in NXE Australia Pty Limited, which was
formed to combine News Corp and Telstra Corporation Limited’s interests in the Foxtel Group and FOX SPORTS Australia and is referred to herein as “Foxtel” (the remaining 35% interest in Foxtel is held by Telstra), and
(ii) Australian News Channel (“ANC”).

Foxtel

Foxtel is the largestpay-TVprovider in Australia, delivering nearly 200 channels (including standard definition
channels, high definition versions of some of those channels, audio channels and one 4K Ultra HD channel) covering sports, general entertainment, movies, documentaries, music, children’s programming and news. Foxtel offers the leading sports
programming content in Australia, with unique rights across key sports and a suite of channels that includes FOX LEAGUE, FOX SPORTS 503, FOX FOOTY, FOX SPORTS 505, FOX SPORTS 506, FOX SPORTS MORE, FOX SPORTS NEWS and its new FOX CRICKET
channel. Foxtel’s channels together broadcast approximately 15,000 hours of live sports programming per year, encompassing both live national and international licensed sports events such as National Rugby League, Australian Football League,
Cricket Australia, the domestic football league, the Australian Rugby Union and various motorsports programming, as well as other featured original and licensed premium sports content tailored to the Australian market. Foxtel’s premium
entertainment and news content includes television programming from HBO, FOX and NBCUniversal, as well as Foxtel-produced dramas, and 29 channels owned and operated by Foxtel, including general entertainment and movie channels (which provide an
extensive range of movie programming sourced through arrangements with major U.S. studios).

Foxtel’s content is available through channels and
on-demand and is currently distributed to broadcast subscribers using either cable networks accessed through Telstra or Optus’s satellite platform via Foxtel’sset-topboxes, including the iQ4
(satellite only) and iQ3. Foxtel intends to migrate all broadcast subscribers to satellite or internet delivery over the next several years. Broadcast subscribers can also access Foxtel’s content using a







companion service app on mobile devices and tablets. In addition, as part of its strategy to reach new segments of the Australian population, Foxtel also offers its pay-TV service via the
internet through Foxtel Now, an over-the-top, or OTT, television service available on a number of compatible devices (including the Foxtel Now box, mobile devices, tablets, personal computers, Chromecast, Telstra TV, Sony PlayStation, Xbox One and
select smart TVs), as well as Kayo, its recently launched sports-only OTT service that allows subscribers to stream over 50 sports live and on demand. Foxtel also offers a triple play bundle product, which consists of Foxtel’s existing
broadcastpay-TVservice, sold together with broadband and telephone services. In addition to itspay-TVservices, Foxtel operates foxsports.com.au, a leading general
sports website in Australia, and Watch NRL and Watch AFL, subscription services that provide live streaming andon-demandreplays of National Rugby League and Australian Football League matches,
internationally.

Foxtel generates revenue primarily through subscription revenue as well as advertising revenue. Foxtel’s business generally is not
highly seasonal, though results can fluctuate due to the timing and mix of its local and international sports programming, as expenses associated with licensing certain programming rights are recognized during the applicable season or event. The
following table provides information regarding certain key performance indicators for Foxtel (see “Part I. Business—Explanatory Note Regarding Certain Key Metrics” for more information regarding the calculation of these performance
indicators):



FY 2019(in 000’s, exceptARPU and Churn)Broadcast SubscribersResidential(1)2,104Commercial(2)264OTT Subscribers (Total (Paid))Foxtel Now(3)460 (446 Paid)Kayo(4)382 (331 Paid)Broadcast ARPU(5)A$78 (US$55)Broadcast Subscriber Churn(6)15%



(1)Subscribing households throughout Australia as of June 30, 2019.

(2)Residential equivalent business units throughout Australia as of June 30, 2019.

(3)Total and Paid Foxtel Now subscribers as of June 30, 2019. Paid Foxtel Now subscribers excludes customers
receiving service for no charge under certain new subscriber promotions.

(4)Total and Paid Kayo subscribers as of June 30, 2019. Paid Kayo subscribers excludes customers receiving
service for no charge under certain new subscriber promotions.

(5)Average monthly broadcast residential subscription revenue per user (excluding Optus) (Broadcast ARPU) for the
year ended June 30, 2019.

(6)Broadcast residential subscriber churn rate (Broadcast Subscriber Churn) for the year ended June 30, 2019.
Broadcast subscriber churn represents the number of cable and satellite residential subscribers whose service is disconnected, expressed as a percentage of the average total number of cable and satellite residential subscribers, presented on an
annual basis.

Foxtel competes primarily with a variety of other video content providers, such as traditional Free To Air
(“FTA”) TV operators in Australia, including the three major commercial FTA networks and two major government-funded FTA broadcasters, and new content providers that deliver video programming over the internet. These providers include
Internet Protocol television, or IPTV, and subscriptionvideo-on-demand,or SVOD, providers such as Fetch TV, Netflix, Stan and Amazon Prime Video; streaming services
offered through digital media providers, such as YouTube and Facebook; as well as programmers and distributors, such as CBS, Disney and the FTA networks, that provide, or have indicated an intention to provide, content, including smaller, lower-cost
or free programming packages, directly to consumers over the internet. The Company believes that Foxtel’s premium and exclusive content, wide array of products and services,set-topbox features that
enable subscribers to record, rewind, discover and watch content, its investment in On Demand capability and







programming and benefits through broadband bundling enable it to offer subscribers a compelling alternative to its competitors. In addition, Foxtel continues to develop new features and products
to improve the value proposition of its broadcast television packages and expand its subscriber base, including its iQ4set-topbox, 4K Ultra HD service, planned upgrades to its user interface to make content
discovery easier and integrate third-party apps, and its OTT services such as Foxtel Now and the new sports streaming service Kayo.

Australian News
Channel

ANC operates 10 channels featuring the latest in news, politics, sports, entertainment, public affairs, business and weather. ANC is
licensed by Sky International AG to use Sky trademarks and domain names in connection with its operation and distribution of channels and services. ANC’s channels consist of Sky News Live, Fox Sports News, Sky News Weather, Sky News UK, Sky
News Extra, Sky News Extra 1, Sky News Extra 2, Sky News Extra 3, Sky News New Zealand and Sky News on WIN. ANC channels are distributed throughout Australia and New Zealand and available on Foxtel and Sky Network Television NZ. Sky News on WIN is
available on the regional FTA WIN network in Australia. ANC also owns and operates the international Australia Channel IPTV service and offers content across a variety of digital media platforms, including mobile, podcasts and social media websites.
ANC primarily generates revenue through monthly affiliate fees received frompay-TVproviders based on the number of subscribers and advertising.

ANC competes primarily with other news providers in Australia and New Zealand via its subscription television channels, third party content arrangements and
free domain website. Its Australia Channel IPTV service also competes against OTT and IPTV subscription-based news providers in regions outside of Australia and New Zealand.

Book Publishing

The Company’s Book Publishing
segment consists of HarperCollins, the second largest consumer book publisher in the world based on global revenue, with operations in 17 countries. HarperCollins publishes and distributes consumer books globally through print, digital and audio
formats. Its digital formats includee-booksand downloadable audio books for tablets,e-bookreaders and mobile devices. HarperCollins owns more than 120 branded
imprints, including Harper, William Morrow, HarperCollins Children’s Books, Avon, Harlequin and Christian publishers Zondervan and Thomas Nelson.

HarperCollins publishes works by well-known authors such as Harper Lee, Chip and Joanna Gaines, Rick Warren, Sarah Young and Agatha Christie and popular
titles such asThe Hobbit,Goodnight Moon,To Kill a Mockingbird,Jesus CallingandHillbilly Elegy. Its print and digital global catalog includes more than 200,000 publications in different formats, in 16
languages, and it licenses rights for its authors’ works to be published in more than 50 languages around the world. HarperCollins publishes fiction and nonfiction, with a focus on general, children’s and religious content. Additionally,
in the U.K., HarperCollins publishes titles for the equivalent of theK-12educational market.

As of
June 30, 2019, HarperCollins offered approximately 100,000 publications in digital formats, and nearly all of HarperCollins’ new titles, as well as the majority of its entire catalog, are available ase-books.Digital sales, comprising revenues generated through the sale ofe-booksas well as downloadable audio books, represented approximately 20% of global consumer
revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. With the widespread adoption of electronic formats by consumers, HarperCollins is publishing a number of titles in digital formats before, or instead of, publishing a print edition.

During fiscal 2019, HarperCollins U.S. had 141 titles on theNew York Timesprint and digital bestseller lists, with 22 titles hitting number one,
includingGirl, Wash Your FaceandGirl, Stop Apologizingby Rachel Hollis,Homebody,Magnolia TableandWe Are the Gardenersby Joanna Gaines,The Hate U GiveandOn the Come Upby Angie Thomas,Everything is F*ckedby Mark Manson,The Russia Hoaxby Gregg Jarrett,The Other Woman







by Daniel Silva, TheWoman in the Windowby A.J. Finn,The Tattooist of Auschwitzby Heather Morris,Sapiensby Yuval Noah Harari,You Are My Happyby Hoda
Kotbe,Dear Boyby Paris Rosenthal & Jason Rosenthal,The Good Eggby Jory John andKitchen Confidentialby Anthony Bourdain.

HarperCollins derives its revenue from the sale of print and digital books to a customer base that includes global technology companies, traditional brick and
mortar booksellers, wholesale clubs and discount stores, including Amazon, Apple, Barnes & Noble and Tesco. Revenues at the Book Publishing segment are significantly affected by the timing of releases and the number of HarperCollins’
books in the marketplace, and are typically highest during the Company’s second fiscal quarter due to increased demand during theend-of-yearholiday season in its
main operating geographies.

The book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market that is quickly changing and continues to see
technological innovations. HarperCollins competes with other large publishers, such as Penguin Random House, Simon & Schuster and Hachette Livre, as well as with numerous smaller publishers, for the rights to works by well-known authors and
public personalities; competition could also come from new entrants as barriers to entry in book publishing are low. In addition, HarperCollins competes for consumers with other media formats and sources such as movies, television programming,
magazines and mobile content. The Company believes HarperCollins is well positioned in the evolving book publishing market with significant size and brand recognition across multiple categories and geographies. Furthermore, HarperCollins is a leader
in children’s and religious books, categories which have been less impacted by the transition to digital consumption.

Digital Real Estate
Services

The Company’s Digital Real Estate Services segment consists of its 61.6% interest in REA Group, a publicly-traded company listed on ASX
(ASX: REA), and its 80% interest in Move. The remaining 20% interest in Move is held by REA Group.

REA Group

REA Group is a market-leading digital media business specializing in property, with operations focused on property and property-related advertising and
services, as well as financial services.

Property and Property-Related Advertising and Services

co-working

Realestate.com.au and realcommerical.com.au derive the majority of their revenue from their core property advertising listing products and monthly advertising
subscriptions from real estate agents and property







developers. Realestate.com.au and realcommercial.com.au offer a product hierarchy which enables real estate agents and property developers to upgrade listing advertisements to increase their
prominence on the site, as well as a variety of targeted products, including media display advertising products. Flatmates.com.au and spacely.com.au derive the majority of their revenue from their shared space advertising listing products and
booking fees. The media business offers unique advertising opportunities on REA Group’s websites to property developers and other relevant markets, including utilities and telecommunications, insurance, finance, automotive and retail. REA Group
also provides residential property data services to the financial sector through its Hometrack data services business.

REA Group’s international
operations consist of property sites throughout Asia, including leading property portals in Malaysia, Indonesia, Hong Kong and Thailand, and prominent portals in Singapore and China. In fiscal 2019, REA Group consolidated its two brands in Hong Kong
and launched a new squarefoot.com.hk, which became Hong Kong’s leading property portal in June 2019. In Malaysia, iproperty.com.my became the first major property portal to offer a search experience in the local Bahasa language, enabling the
business to reach more than 69% of the local population. REA Group also operates Chinese site myfun.com, which supports REA Group’s businesses in other geographic markets by showcasing residential property listings to Chinese buyers and
investors, and delivers leads to agents. REA Group’s other assets include an approximate 13% interest in Elara Technologies Pte. Ltd. (“Elara”), a leading online real estate services provider in India that owns and operates
PropTiger.com, Housing.com and Makaan.com, and a 20% interest in Move, as referenced above.

Financial Services

REA Group’s financial services business encompasses realestate.com.au Home Loans, anend-to-enddigital property search and financing experience, and mortgage broking services, both through an integrated mortgage broking solution, as well as Smartline
Home Loans Pty Limited, one of Australia’s premier mortgage broking companies. The financial services business generates revenue primarily through fees and commissions from lenders, mortgage brokers and other customers. Since launching
realestate.com.au Home Loans in 2017, applications for more than A$1.8 billion (approximately US$1.3 billion) of loans have been received.

REA
Group competes primarily with other property websites in its geographic markets, including domain.com.au in Australia.

Move

Move is a leading provider of online real estate services in the U.S. Move primarily operates
realtor.com®, a premier real estate information and services marketplace, under a perpetual agreement and trademark license with the National Association of Realtors®(“NAR”). Through realtor.com®, consumers have access to over 135 million properties across the U.S., including an extensive
collection of homes and properties listed and displayed for sale and a large database of“off-market”properties. Realtor.com®and its related
mobile apps display approximately 98% of all Multiple Listing Services (“MLS”)-listed,for-saleand rental properties in the U.S., which are primarily sourced directly from relationships with MLSs
across the country. Approximately 95% of itsfor-salelistings are updated at least every 15 minutes, on average, with the remaining listings updated daily. Realtor.com®’s content attracts a highly engaged consumer audience. Based on internal data, realtor.com®and its mobile sites had 72 million
average monthly unique users during the quarter ended June 30, 2019. See “Part I. Business—Explanatory Note Regarding Certain Key Metrics.” These users viewed an average of over two billion pages and spent an average of over
two billion minutes on the realtor.com®website and mobile apps each month.

Realtor.com®generates the majority of its revenues through the sale of listing advertisement products, including ConnectionsSMPlus and AdvantageSMPro, as well as its recently acquired Opcity performance and subscription-based services. Listing advertisement products
allow real estate agents, brokers and franchises to enhance, prioritize and connect with consumers onfor-saleproperty listings within the realtor.com®website and mobile







apps. Listing advertisements are typically sold on a subscription basis. Opcity’s concierge-based business model leverages its proprietary technology and platform to connect real estate
professionals and other service providers, such as lenders and insurance companies, to Opcity’spre-vettedconsumers. Opcity’s performance-based services connect real estate agents and brokers with
these consumers and typically generate success fees upon completion of the associated real estate transaction, while the subscription-based services give service providers access to the same highly qualified home shoppers. Realtor.com®also derives revenue from sales ofnon-listingadvertisement, or Media, products to real estate, finance, insurance, home improvement and other
professionals that enable those professionals to connect with realtor.com®’s highly engaged and valuable consumer audience. Media products include sponsorships, display advertisements,
text links, directories and Digital Advertising Package.Non-listingadvertisement pricing models include cost per thousand, cost per click, cost per unique user and subscription-based sponsorships of specific
content areas or targeted geographies.

In addition to realtor.com®, Move also offers a number of
professional software and services products. These include the Top Producer®productivity and lead management tools and services, which are tailored to real estate agents and sold on a
subscription basis, as well as the ListHubTMservice, which syndicatesfor-salelisting information from MLSs and other reliable data sources, such as real
estate brokerages, and distributes that content to an array of web sites. Listing syndication pricing includes fixed- or variable-pricing models based on listing counts, while ListHubTM’s
advanced reporting products are sold on a monthly subscription basis.

Move competes primarily with other real estate websites and mobile apps focused on
the U.S. real estate market, including zillow.com and trulia.com.

Other

The Other segment includes the Company’s general corporate overhead expenses, corporate Strategy Group and costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters.
The Company’s Strategy Group identifies new products and services across the Company’s businesses to increase revenues and profitability and targets and assesses potential acquisitions, investments and dispositions. Initiatives include
News IQ, the Company’s data-driven digital advertising platform that enables targeting and engagement of premium audiences at scale across the Company’s network of assets. As part of its ongoing role in assessing potential acquisitions and
investments, the Strategy Group also oversaw the Company’s acquisitions of Move, a leading provider of online real estate services in the U.S., Unruly, a global video advertising marketplace, and Wireless Group, operator of talkSPORT, the
leading sports radio network in the U.K. The Strategy Group also oversees the Company’s strategic digital investments in India, including Elara, which owns PropTiger.com, Housing.com and Makaan.com.

Governmental Regulation

General

Various aspects of the Company’s activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. The introduction of new laws and
regulations in countries where the Company’s products and services are produced or distributed, and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries, could have a negative impact on the Company’s interests.

Australian Media Regulation

The Company’s
subscription television interests are subject to Australia’s regulatory framework for the broadcasting industry, including the Australian Broadcasting Services Act 1992 (Cth) (the “Broadcasting Services Act”) and the
Telecommunications Act 1997 (Cth) (the “Telecommunications Act”) and associated Codes. The key regulatory body for the Australian broadcasting industry is the Australian Communications and Media Authority.

Key regulatory issues for subscription television providers include: (a) anti-siphoning restrictions—currently under the ‘anti-siphoning’
provisions of the Broadcasting Services Act, subscription television providers are







prevented from acquiring rights to televise certain listed events (for example, the Olympic Games and certain Australian Rules football and cricket matches) unless national or commercial
television broadcasters have not obtained these rights 26 weeks before the start of the event or the rights are held by commercial television licensees whose television broadcasting services cover more than 50% of the Australian population or the
rights are held by one of Australia’s two major government-funded broadcasters; and (b) other parts of the Broadcasting Services Act that may impact the Company’s ownership structure and operations and restrict its ability to take
advantage of acquisition or investment opportunities. Foxtel is also subject to various consumer protection regimes under the Telecommunications Act and associated Codes, which apply to Foxtel as a telecommunications service provider.

Data Privacy and Security

The Company’s business
activities are subject to laws and regulations governing the collection, use, sharing, protection and retention of personal data, which continue to evolve and have implications for how such data is managed. For example, in the U.S., certain of the
Company’s websites, mobile apps and other online business activities are subject to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998, which prohibits the collection of personally identifiable information online from children under age
13 without prior parental consent. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission continues to expand its application of general consumer protection laws to commercial data practices, including to the use of personal and profiling data from online users
to deliver targeted internet advertisements. More state and local governments are also expanding, enacting or proposing data privacy laws that govern the collection and use of personal data of their residents and increase penalties and afford
private rights of action to individuals in certain circumstances for failure to comply, and most states have enacted legislation requiring businesses to provide notice to state agencies and to individuals whose personally identifiable information
has been disclosed as a result of a data breach. The California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which will take effect on January 1, 2020, is one such example, putting greater restrictions on how the Company can collect and use
personal information.

non-compliance

(e-Privacy)

opt-outs.

In 2016, the
European Commission adopted a new mechanism for the transfer of personal data from the European Union to the United States called the Privacy Shield. Other than for one business unit operating an advertising exchange, the Company has not certified
to, and does not rely on, the Privacy Shield framework for data transfers among the Company’s businesses and instead relies on other mechanisms. However, certain of the Company’s service providers do rely on the Privacy Shield. The Privacy
Shield is subject to significant uncertainty, including an annual review procedure by U.S. and E.U. authorities and a legal challenge scheduled to be heard by the General Court of the E.U. in July 2019, that could affect the Company’s or its
service providers’ obligations thereunder. The other mechanisms that the Company and certain of its service providers rely on to address the European data protection requirements for transfers of data, including the European Union







Standard Contractual Clauses, are also subject to uncertainty and legal challenges. Challenges to existing data transfer mechanisms, and any future legal challenges to data transfer mechanisms
that may be adopted, could cause the Company to incur additional costs, require it to change business practices or affect the manner in which it provides its services.

In Australia, data privacy laws impose additional requirements on organizations that handle personal data by, among other things, requiring the disclosure of
cross-border data transfers, placing restrictions on direct marketing practices and imposing mandatory data breach reporting, and additional data privacy and security requirements and industry standards are under consideration.

Industry participants in the U.S., Europe and Australia have taken steps to increase compliance with relevant industry-level standards and practices,
including the implementation of self-regulatory regimes for online behavioral advertising that impose obligations on participating companies, such as the Company, to give consumers a better understanding of advertisements that are customized based
on their online behavior.

The interpretation and application of data privacy and security laws are often uncertain, in flux, and evolving in the United
States and internationally. The Company continues to monitor pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments, including any changes
required in the Company’s data privacy and security compliance programs.

U.K. Press Regulation

As a result of the implementation of recommendations of the Leveson inquiry into the U.K. press, a Press Recognition Panel responsible for approving,
overseeing and monitoring a new press regulatory body or bodies was established. Once approved by the Press Recognition Panel, the new press regulatory body or bodies would be responsible for overseeing participating publishers. In addition to the
Press Recognition Panel, certain legislation provides that publishers who are not members of an approved regulator may be liable for exemplary damages in certain cases where such damages are not currently awarded and, if Section 40 of the Crime
and Courts Act 2013 is enacted, the payment of costs for both parties in libel actions in certain circumstances.

Press regulator IMPRESS was recognized
as an approved regulator by the Press Recognition Panel on October 25, 2016. However, publications representing the majority of the industry in the U.K., including News UK, entered into binding contracts to form an alternative regulator, the
Independent Press Standards Organisation, or IPSO, in September 2014. IPSO currently has no plans to apply for recognition from the Press Recognition Panel. IPSO has an independent chairman and a12-memberboard, the majority of which are independent. IPSO oversees the Editors’ Code of Practice, requires members to implement appropriate internal governance processes and requires self-reporting of any failures, provides a complaints handling
service, has the ability to require publications to print corrections and has the power to investigate serious or systemic breaches of the Editors’ Code of Practice and levy fines of up to £1 million. IPSO has also introduced an
arbitration scheme to resolve claims against publications. The burdens IPSO imposes on its print media members, including the Company’s newspaper publishing businesses in the U.K., may result in competitive disadvantages versus other forms of
media and may increase the costs of regulatory compliance.

U.K. Radio Broadcasting Regulation

The Company’s radio stations in the U.K. and Ireland are also subject to governmental regulation by the relevant broadcast authorities as the Company is
required to obtain and maintain licenses from such authorities to operate these stations. Although the Company expects its licenses will, where relevant, be renewed in the ordinary course upon their expiration, there can be no assurance that this
will be the case.Non-complianceby the Company with the requirements associated with such licenses or other applicable laws and regulations, including of the relevant authority, could result in fines,
additional license conditions, license revocation or other adverse regulatory actions.







Intellectual Property

set-top

pay-TV

®

®

pay-TV

pay-TV

Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the Company’s intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the
limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations.

Raw Materials

As a major publisher of newspapers,
magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the Company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. In order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the Company’s paper purchasing is done on a regional, volume
purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. The Company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate.

Employees

As of June 30, 2019, the Company had
approximately 28,000 employees, of whom approximately 10,000 were located in the U.S., 4,000 were located in the U.K. and 10,000 were located in Australia. Of the Company’s







employees, approximately 5,000 were represented by various employee unions. The contracts with such unions will expire during various times over the next several years. The Company believes its
current relationships with employees are generally good.

Explanatory Note Regarding Certain Key Metrics

Unique Users

For purposes of this Annual Report,
the Company counts unique users the first time an individual accesses a product’s website using a browser during a calendar month and the first time an individual accesses a product’s mobile or tablet app using a mobile or tablet device
during a calendar month. If the user accesses more than one of a product’s desktop websites, mobile websites, mobile apps and/or tablet apps, the first access to each such website or app is counted as a separate unique user. In addition, users
accessing a product’s websites through different browsers, users who clear their browser cache at any time and users who access a product’s websites and apps through different devices are also counted as separate unique users. For a group
of products such as WSJDN, a user accessing different products within the group is counted as a separate unique user for each product accessed.

Broadcast Subscribers

Broadcast subscribers
consist of residential subscribers and commercial subscribers, which are calculated as described below.

Residential Subscribers

Total number of residential subscribers represents total residential subscribers to the Company’spay-TVservices
through cable and satellite distribution, including subscribers obtained through third-party distribution relationships.

Commercial Subscribers

Commercial subscribers for the Company’spay-TVbusiness are calculated as residential equivalent
business units, which are derived by dividing total recurring revenue from these subscribers by an estimated average Broadcast ARPU which is held constant through the year. Total number of commercial subscribers represents total commercial
subscribers to the Company’spay-TVservices through cable and satellite distribution, including subscribers obtained through third-party distribution relationships.

Broadcast ARPU

The Company calculates Broadcast
ARPU for itspay-TVbusiness by dividing broadcast package revenues for the period, net of customer credits, promotions and other discounts, by average cable and satellite residential subscribers for the
period and dividing by the number of months in the period. Average cable and satellite residential subscribers, or “Average Broadcast Subscribers,” for a given period is calculated by first adding the beginning and ending cable and
satellite residential subscribers for each month in the period and dividing by two and then adding each of those monthly average subscriber numbers and dividing by the number of months in the period.

Broadcast Subscriber Churn

The Company calculates
Broadcast Subscriber Churn for itspay-TVbusiness by dividing the total number of disconnected cable and satellite residential subscribers for the period, net of reconnects and transfers, by the Average
Broadcast Subscribers for the period, calculated as described above. This amount is then divided by the number of days in the period and multiplied by 365 days to present churn on an annual basis.







