ITEM1A–RISKFACTORS

We are subject to a number of risks potentially impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows. Indeed, as a financial services organization, certain elements of risk are inherent in every one of our transactions and are present in every business decision we make. Thus, we encounter risk as part of the normal course of our
business, and we design risk management processes to help manage these risks.

There are risks that are known to exist at the outset of a
transaction. For example, every loan transaction presents credit risk (the risk that the borrower may not perform in accordance with contractual terms) and interest rate risk (a potential loss in earnings or economic value due to adverse movement in
market interest rates or credit spreads), with the nature and extent of these risks principally depending on the identity of the borrower and overall economic conditions. These risks are inherent in every loan transaction; if we wish to make loans,
we must manage these risks through the terms and structure of the loans and through management of our deposits and other funding sources.

Risk management is an important part of our business model. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to identify, understand and manage the risks presented by our business activities so that we can balance appropriately
revenue generation and profitability with these inherent risks. Our shareholders have been well served by our focus on maintaining a moderate risk profile. At December 31, 2008 with an economy then in severe recession and with our then recent
acquisition of National City, our Consolidated Balance Sheet did not reflect that desired risk profile. However, by December 31, 2009 we had made significant progress in bringing our risk issues back into alignment and in transitioning our
balance sheet to reflect our business model. We remain committed to returning to a moderate risk profile characterized by disciplined credit management and limited exposure to earnings volatility resulting from interest rate fluctuations and the
shape of the interest rate yield curve. We discuss our principal risk management processes and, in appropriate places, related historical performance in the Risk Management section included in Item 7 of this Report.

The following are the key risk factors that affect us. In general, each of these risk factors presents the risk of a material impact on our results of
operations or financial condition, in addition to other possible consequences described below. These risk factors and other risks are also discussed further in other parts of this Report.

Risks related to current economic conditions

The failure or slowing of the current modest economic recovery from recessionary conditions, or further turmoil or volatility in the financial markets, would likely have an adverse effect on our
business, financial position and results of operations.



The economy in the United States and globally began to recover from severe recessionary conditions near
mid-year 2009 and is currently in the midst of a modest economic recovery. The sustainability of the modest recovery is dependent on a number of factors that are not within our control, such as a return to private sector job growth, strengthening of
housing sales and construction, continuation of the economic recovery globally, and the timing of the exit from government credit easing policies. We continue to face risks resulting from the aftermath of the severe recession generally and the
modest pace of the current recovery. A slowing or failure of the economic recovery could bring a return to some or all of the adverse effects of the earlier recessionary conditions.

Since the middle of 2007 and with a heightened level of activity in 2008 and 2009, there has been disruption and turmoil in financial markets around the world. Throughout much of the United States there
were dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, and deepening recessionary conditions in the economy led to increased unemployment and underemployment and to reduced earnings, or in some cases
losses, for businesses across many industries, with reduced investments in growth.

This overall environment resulted in significant stress
for the financial services industry, and led to distress in credit markets, reduced liquidity for many types of securities, and concerns regarding the financial strength and adequacy of the capitalization of financial institutions. Some financial
institutions around the world have failed, some have needed significant additional capital, and others have been forced to seek acquisition partners.

Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, as well as concern about their own capital and liquidity positions, many lenders and institutional investors reduced or ceased
providing funding to borrowers. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets exacerbated the state of economic distress and hampered, and to some extent continues to hamper, efforts
to bring about and sustain an economic recovery.

The United States and other governments have taken unprecedented steps to stabilize and
restore confidence in the financial system, including making significant investments in financial institutions and guaranteeing or otherwise supporting troubled assets held by financial institutions. The US federal government has continued in its
efforts to provide economic stimulus and financial market stability and to enhance the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions and markets, as well as to protect consumers and investors from financial abuse. These efforts, which will
continue to evolve and which have impacted and will likely continue to impact PNC and its stakeholders, include EESA, the Recovery Act, and the Credit








CARD Act, among other legislative, administrative and regulatory initiatives, and also include changes in or additions to the statutes or regulations related to these and other programs.

These economic conditions have had an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. While the economy is currently in a modest
recovery, we expect these conditions to continue to have an ongoing negative impact on us. A slowing or failure of the economic recovery would likely aggravate the adverse effects of these difficult economic and market conditions on us and on others
in the financial institutions industry.

In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with the current economic and market
environment:

•We have seen and expect to face further increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the EESA, the Recovery Act, the Credit CARD Act,
and other current or future initiatives intended to provide economic stimulus, financial market stability and enhanced regulation of financial services companies and to enhance the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions and markets.
Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, reduce our revenue, and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.

•Investors may have less confidence in the equity markets in general and in financial services industry stocks in particular, which could place downward
pressure on PNC’s stock price and resulting market valuation.

•Economic and market developments may further affect consumer and business confidence levels and may cause declines in credit usage and adverse changes
in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates.

•Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our
customers become less predictive of future behaviors.

•The process we use to estimate losses incurred in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including the review of
economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process.

•We could suffer decreases in customer desire to do business with us, whether as a result of a decreased demand for loans or other financial products
and services or decreased deposits or other investments in accounts with PNC.

•Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial

services companies in connection with current market conditions. Governmental support provided to financial institutions could alter the competitive landscape.

•Increased regulation of compensation at financial services companies as part of government efforts to reform the industry may hinder our ability to
attract and retain well-qualified individuals in key positions.

•We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments have significantly depleted
the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Higher premiums may also result from FDIC proposals regarding risk-based premiums.

•Investors in mortgage loans that we sell are more likely to seek indemnification against losses on loans or otherwise seek to have us share in such
losses or to request us to repurchase loans that the investors do not believe comply with applicable representations.

•We may be subject to additional fees and taxes as the government seeks to recover some of the costs of its recovery efforts, in particular from the
financial services industry.

Some of these risks and others are discussed in more detail below.

The failure or slowing of the current modest recovery from recessionary conditions, as well as the lingering effects of the recession, would likely
adversely affect our lending businesses and the value of the loans and debt securities we hold.

Given the high percentage of our assets
represented directly or indirectly by loans, and the importance of lending to our overall business, the aftermath of recessionary conditions is likely to continue to have a negative impact on our business and our results of operations as the
positive effects of economic recovery are likely to be slow and uneven in spreading to our customers. This could adversely impact loan utilization rates as well as delinquencies, defaults and customer ability to meet obligations under the loans.

Further, a failure or slowing of the current modest recovery from recessionary conditions would likely have a negative impact on our
business, our ability to serve our customers, and our results of operations. Such conditions are likely to lead to increases in the number of borrowers who become delinquent or default or otherwise demonstrate a decreased ability to meet their
obligations under their loans. This would result in higher levels of non-performing loans, net charge-offs, provision for credit losses and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. The value to us of other assets such as investment securities,
most of which are debt securities or represent securitizations of loans, similarly would be negatively impacted by widespread decreases in credit quality resulting from a weakening of the economy.








Our regional concentrations make us particularly at risk for economic conditions in our primary retail
banking footprint.

Although many of our businesses are national and some are international in scope, our retail banking business is
concentrated within our retail branch network footprint, located primarily in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Maryland, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Missouri, Virginia, Delaware, Washington, D.C., and Wisconsin. Thus, we are
particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions in these states or the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions more generally.

Our business and performance are vulnerable to the impact of continued volatility in debt and equity markets.

As most of our
assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be particularly sensitive to the performance of the financial markets. Since the middle of 2007 and with a heightened level of activity during 2008 and 2009, there has been unprecedented
turmoil, volatility and illiquidity in worldwide financial markets, accompanied by uncertain prospects for sustaining the modest economic recovery that began mid-year 2009. In addition, there have been dramatic changes in the competitive landscape
of the financial services industry during this time. This turmoil and volatility has been a contributory factor to overall economic conditions, leading to some of the risks discussed above, including impairing the ability of borrowers and other
counterparties to meet obligations to us. Financial market volatility also can have some of the following adverse effects on PNC and our business and financial performance:

•It can affect the value or liquidity of our on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments.

•It can affect the value of servicing rights, including those we carry at fair value.

•It can affect, to the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business and overall liquidity position, the cost of such funds or
our ability to raise such funds. The inability to access capital markets at a desirable cost could affect our liquidity or results of operations.

•It can affect the value of the assets that we manage or otherwise administer for others or the assets for which we provide processing and information
services. Although we are not directly impacted by changes in the value of assets that we manage or administer for others or for which we provide processing and information services, decreases in the value of those assets would affect our fee income
relating to those assets and could result in decreased demand for our services.

•It can affect the required funding of our pension obligations to the extent that the value of the assets supporting those obligations drops below
minimum levels.

•In general, it can impact the nature, profitability or risk profile of the financial transactions in which we engage.

Volatility in the markets for real estate and other assets commonly securing financial products has been and is likely to continue to be a significant
contributor to overall volatility in financial markets.

Our business and financial performance is impacted significantly by market
interest rates and movements in those rates. The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance over which we have no
control and which we may not be able to predict adequately.

As a result of the high percentage of our assets and liabilities that are in
the form of interest-bearing or interest-related instruments, changes in interest rates, in the shape of the yield curve or in spreads between different market interest rates can have a material effect on our business, our profitability and the
value of our financial assets and liabilities. For example:

•Changes in interest rates or interest rate spreads can affect the difference between the interest that we earn on assets and the interest that we pay
on liabilities, which impacts our overall net interest income.

•Such changes can affect the ability of borrowers to meet obligations under variable or adjustable rate debt instruments.

•Such changes may decrease the demand for interest-rate based products and services, including loans and deposit accounts.

•Such changes can also affect our ability to hedge various forms of market and interest rate risk and may decrease the profitability or increase the
risk associated with such hedges.

•Movements in interest rates also affect mortgage prepayment speeds and could result in impairments of mortgage servicing assets.

The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant
impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. These governmental policies can thus affect the activities and results of operations of banking companies such as PNC. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the
national supply of bank credit and market interest rates. The actions of the Federal Reserve influence the rates of interest that we charge on loans and that we pay on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of our
on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Both due to the impact on rates and by controlling access to direct funding from the Federal Reserve Banks, the Federal Reserve’s policies also influence, to a significant extent,
our cost of funding. We cannot predict the








nature or timing of future changes in monetary, tax and other policies or the effect that they may have on our activities and financial results.

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.

Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely
execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit
risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or
derivative exposure due us.

Risks resulting from 2008-2010 transactions

Our acquisition of National City presents substantial risks and uncertainties, which could limit our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from this
transaction.

On December 31, 2008, we acquired National City through a merger in which PNC continued as the surviving entity. We
provide additional information about this acquisition in Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures included in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.

This acquisition presents us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition itself and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC. These risks and uncertainties
include the following risks to PNC:

•Like PNC, National City was a large financial institution with retail and other banking operations in numerous markets in which PNC had little or no
experience. National City also had major operations in areas in which PNC did not have a significant presence, including residential mortgage lending, residential mortgage servicing, credit card lending and equipment leasing. Prior to completion of
the merger, PNC and National City operated as separate independent entities, and National City operated under its own systems and procedures, operating models and controls. As a result of these factors as well as the relative size of the
acquisition, there are significant integration-related risks, which are greater than in other recent acquisitions by PNC.

•Prior to our acquisition, National City’s results were impacted negatively by a significant amount of asset impairments. Our results following the
acquisition depend on our ability to manage these assets, which require special servicing and management oversight, including disposition if appropriate. As the integration process continues, we may identify other

issues with respect to National City’s asset valuation or accounting procedures that may lead to further impairments or write-downs.

•National City’s pre-acquisition financial performance and resulting stock price performance and other pre-acquisition activities have led to legal
proceedings and other claims and governmental investigations and more may be made or commenced in the future. As a result of this acquisition, we now bear the risks associated with legal proceedings and other claims and governmental investigations
relating to National City’s business and activities before the acquisition, the full extent of the potential adverse impact of which cannot currently be predicted with reasonable certainty. See Note 24 Legal Proceedings in the Notes To
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information.

Our failure to complete the
sale of GIS by November 1, 2010 would result in a requirement that we sell other assets or raise additional common equity.

As part
of the regulatory approval for the redemption of the Series N Preferred Stock issued to the US Treasury, we will be required to raise additional Tier 1 common capital through the sale of assets approved by the Federal Reserve Board or through the
issuance of additional common stock if the sale of GIS has not been completed by November 1, 2010. We will need to raise this additional Tier 1 common capital by November 1 in the amount of $700 million.

Risks related to the ordinary course of PNC’s business

We operate in a highly competitive environment, both in terms of the products and services we offer, the geographic markets in which we conduct business, as well as our labor markets and competition
for talented employees. Competition could adversely impact our customer acquisition, growth and retention, as well as our credit spreads and product pricing, causing us to lose market share and deposits and revenues.

We are subject to intense competition from various financial institutions as well as from non-bank entities that engage in similar activities without being
subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions. This competition is described in Item 1 of this Report under “Competition.”

In all, the principal bases for competition are pricing (including the interest rates charged on loans or paid on interest-bearing deposits), product structure, the range of products and services offered, and the quality of customer service
(including convenience and responsiveness to customer needs and concerns). The ability to access and use technology is an increasingly important competitive factor in the financial services industry. Technology is important not only with respect to
delivery of financial services but also in








processing information. Each of our businesses consistently must make significant technological investments to remain competitive.

A failure to address adequately the competitive pressures we face could make it harder for us to attract and retain customers across our businesses. On the other hand, meeting these competitive pressures
could require us to incur significant additional expenses or to accept risk beyond what we would otherwise view as desirable under the circumstances. In addition, in our interest sensitive businesses, pressures to increase rates on deposits or
decrease rates on loans could reduce our net interest margin with a resulting negative impact on our net interest income.

We grow our
business in part by acquiring from time to time other financial services companies, and these acquisitions present us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transactions themselves and to the integration of the
acquired businesses into PNC after closing.

Acquisitions of other financial services companies in general present risks to PNC in
addition to those presented by the nature of the business acquired. We describe some of the integration risks presented by our acquisition of National City above. Many of these risks are common to some extent in acquisition transactions.

In general, acquisitions may be substantially more expensive to complete (including unanticipated costs incurred in connection with the integration of
the acquired company) and the anticipated benefits (including anticipated cost savings and strategic gains) may be significantly harder or take longer to achieve than expected. In some cases, acquisitions involve our entry into new businesses or new
geographic or other markets, and these situations also present risks resulting from our inexperience in these new areas. As a regulated financial institution, our pursuit of attractive acquisition opportunities could be negatively impacted due to
regulatory delays or other regulatory issues. Regulatory and/or legal issues relating to the pre-acquisition operations of an acquired business may cause reputational harm to PNC following the acquisition and integration of the acquired business
into ours and may result in additional future costs or regulatory limitations arising as a result of those issues.

The performance of our
asset management businesses may be adversely affected by the relative performance of our products compared with alternative investments as well as by overall economic and market conditions.

Asset management revenue is primarily based on a percentage of the value of assets under management and, in some cases, performance fees, in most cases
expressed as a percentage of the returns realized on assets under management, and thus is impacted by general changes in capital markets valuations as

well as by customer preferences and needs. In addition, investment performance is an important factor influencing the level of assets under management. Poor investment performance could impair
revenue and growth as existing clients might withdraw funds in favor of better performing products. Also, performance fees could be lower or nonexistent. Additionally, the ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish.
Overall economic conditions may limit the amount that customers are able or willing to invest.

The failure or negative performance of
products of other financial institutions could lead to a loss of confidence in similar products offered by us without regard to the performance of our products. Such a negative contagion could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in
such products and have a material adverse impact on our assets under management and asset management revenues and earnings.

The
performance of our fund servicing business may be adversely affected by changes in investor preferences, or changes in existing or potential fund servicing clients or alternative providers.

Fund servicing fees are primarily derived from the market value of the assets and the number of shareholder accounts that we administer for our clients. The
performance of our fund processing business is thus partially dependent on the underlying performance of its fund clients and, in particular, their ability to attract and retain customers. Changes in interest rates or a sustained weakness, weakening
or volatility in the debt and equity markets could (in addition to affecting directly the value of assets administered as discussed above) influence an investor’s decision to invest or maintain an investment in a particular mutual fund or other
pooled investment product. Other factors beyond our control may impact the ability of our fund clients to attract or retain customers or customer funds, including changes in preferences as to certain investment styles. Further, to the extent that
our fund clients’ businesses are adversely affected by ongoing governmental investigations into the practices of the mutual and hedge fund industries, our fund processing business’ results also could be adversely impacted. As a result of
these types of factors, fluctuations may occur in the level or value of assets for which we provide processing services. In addition, this regulatory and business environment is likely to continue to result in operating margin pressure for our
various services.

As a regulated financial services firm, we are subject to numerous governmental regulations and to comprehensive
examination and supervision by regulators, which affects our business as well as our competitive position.

PNC is a bank and financial
holding company and is subject to numerous governmental regulations involving both its








business and organization. PNC services its obligations primarily with dividends and advances that it receives from its subsidiaries.

Our businesses are subject to regulation by multiple bank regulatory bodies as well as multiple securities industry regulators. Applicable laws and
regulations restrict our ability to repurchase stock or to receive dividends from subsidiaries that operate in the banking and securities businesses and impose capital adequacy requirements. They also restrict permissible activities and investments
and require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, mutual fund and other customers, and for the protection of customer information, among other things. The consequences of noncompliance can include substantial monetary
and nonmonetary sanctions as well as damage to our reputation and businesses.

In addition, we are subject to comprehensive examination and
supervision by banking and other regulatory bodies. Examination reports and ratings (which often are not publicly available) and other aspects of this supervisory framework can materially impact the conduct, growth, and profitability of our
businesses.

Due to the current economic environment and issues facing the financial services industry, we anticipate new legislative and
regulatory initiatives over the next several years, including many focused specifically on banking and other financial services in which we are engaged. These initiatives will be in addition to the actions already taken by Congress and the
regulators, including EESA, the Recovery Act, the Credit CARD Act, and the SAFE Act, as well as changes to the regulations implementing the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Federal Truth in Lending Act, and the Electronic Fund Transfer
Act. Developments to date, as well as those that come in the future, have had and are likely to continue to have an impact on the conduct of our business. This impact could include rules and regulations that affect the nature and profitability of
our business activities, how we use our capital, how we compensate and incent our employees, and other matters potentially having a negative effect on our overall business results and prospects.

Under the regulations of the Federal Reserve, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a
result of this regulatory policy, the Federal Reserve might require PNC to commit resources to PNC Bank, N.A. when doing so is not otherwise in the interests of PNC or its shareholders or creditors.

Our ability to pay dividends to shareholders is largely dependent on dividends from our operating subsidiaries, principally PNC Bank, N.A. Banks are subject
to regulation on the amount and circumstances of dividends they can pay to their holding companies.



We discuss these and other regulatory issues applicable to PNC, including some particular areas of current
regulatory focus or concern, in the Supervision and Regulation section included in Item 1 of this Report and in Note 23 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report and here by reference.

A failure to have adequate procedures to comply with regulatory requirements could expose us to damages, fines and regulatory penalties,
which could be significant, and could also injure our reputation with customers and others with whom we do business.

We must comply with
generally accepted accounting principles established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, accounting, disclosure and other rules set forth by the SEC, income tax and other regulations established by the US Department of the Treasury, and
revenue rulings and other guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, which affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Changes in accounting standards, or interpretations of those standards, can impact our revenue recognition and expense policies and affect our estimation methods used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. Changes in income tax
regulations, revenue rulings, revenue procedures, and other guidance can impact our tax liability and alter the timing of cash flows associated with tax deductions and payments. New guidance often dictates how changes to standards and regulations
are to be presented in our consolidated financial statements, as either an adjustment to beginning retained earnings for the period or as income or expense in current period earnings. In some cases, changes may be applied to previously reported
disclosures.

The determination of the amount of loss allowances and impairments taken on our assets is highly subjective and could
materially impact our results of operations or financial position.

The determination of the amount of loss allowances and asset
impairments varies by asset type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information
becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of
impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.








Our asset valuation may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in
changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.

We must use estimates,
assumptions, and judgments when financial assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and the
information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs provided by independent third-party sources, when available. When such third-party information is
not available, we estimate fair value primarily by using cash flows and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relevant inputs. Changes in underlying factors,
assumptions, or estimates in any of the areas underlying our estimates could materially impact our future financial condition and results of operations.

During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be more difficult to value certain of our
assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In
such cases, certain asset valuations may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented
credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of assets as reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly.

Our business and financial results could be impacted materially by adverse results in legal proceedings.

Many aspects of our business involve substantial risk of legal liability. We have been named as defendants in various legal proceedings arising from our
business activities (and in some cases from the activities of companies we have acquired). In addition, we are regularly the subject of governmental investigations and other forms of regulatory inquiry. The results of these legal proceedings and
governmental investigations and inquiries could lead to significant monetary damages or penalties, restrictions on the way in which we conduct our business, or reputational harm.

Some of our customers could be adversely affected by climate-related conditions which could have an impact on our business.

Our business could be negatively impacted by adverse changes in the creditworthiness of our customers and by

adverse changes in customer demand for our products and services to the extent that our customers are negatively impacted by climate-related physical changes and hazards or by legislative and
regulatory initiatives relating to climate change or other conditions.

Our business and financial performance could be adversely affected,
directly or indirectly, by natural disasters, by terrorist activities or by international hostilities.

The impact of natural disasters,
terrorist activities and international hostilities cannot be predicted with respect to severity or duration. However, any of these could impact us directly (for example, by causing significant damage to our facilities or preventing us from
conducting our business in the ordinary course), or could impact us indirectly through a direct impact on our borrowers, depositors, other customers, suppliers or other counterparties. We could also suffer adverse consequences to the extent that
natural disasters, terrorist activities or international hostilities affect the economy and capital and other financial markets generally. These types of impacts could lead, for example, to an increase in delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults that
could result in our experiencing higher levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provisions for credit losses.

Our ability to
mitigate the adverse consequences of such occurrences is in part dependent on the quality of our resiliency planning, including our ability to anticipate the nature of any such event that occurs. The adverse impact of natural disasters or terrorist
activities or international hostilities also could be increased to the extent that there is a lack of preparedness on the part of national or regional emergency responders or on the part of other organizations and businesses that we deal with,
particularly those that we depend upon.

