ITEM1A –RISKFACTORS

We are subject to a number of risks potentially impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a financial services organization, certain elements of risk are
inherent in our transactions and operations and are present in the business decisions we make. Thus, we encounter risk as part of the normal course of our business, and we design risk management processes to help manage these risks.

Our success is dependent on our ability to identify, understand and manage the risks presented by our business activities so that we can appropriately
balance revenue generation and profitability. These risks include, but are not limited to, credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, model risk, technology, compliance and legal risk, and strategic and reputation risk. We discuss
our principal risk management processes and, in appropriate places, related historical performance in the Risk Management section included in Item 7 of this Report.

The following are the key risk factors that affect us. Any one or more of these risk factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows,
in addition to presenting other possible adverse consequences, including those described below. These risk factors and other risks are also discussed further in other sections of this Report.

Difficult economic conditions or volatility in the financial markets would likely have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.

As a financial services company, PNC’s business and overall financial performance are vulnerable to the impact of poor or





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K13




weak economic conditions, particularly in the United States but also to some extent in the global economy. The extreme recessionary conditions that began in 2007 and ended in 2009 had a negative
financial impact across the financial services industry, including on PNC. Such severe economic conditions can lead to turmoil and volatility in financial markets, which can increase the adverse impact on financial institutions such as PNC. A return
to recessionary economic conditions in the United States would likely adversely affect PNC, its business and financial performance, perhaps in ways more detrimental than the effects of the last recession.

The economic recovery from the last recession continued in 2013, but at a pace below trend for other recent recoveries from recessions. Job growth has
not yet been sufficient to significantly reduce high unemployment in the United States. Consumer and business confidence is improving but remains in the cautious zone.

Although Congress and the President reached agreement on a budget and on the U.S. government’s debt ceiling in early 2014, significant long-term issues remain with respect to federal budgetary and
spending matters, and these current resolutions only have temporary effect. For example, the new budget only covers the period through the end of September 2014. Uncertainty resulting from these issues and the recent difficulties in resolving these
types of matters could contribute to slower economic growth. Another period where the Congress and the President cannot reach resolution of key federal budgetary and spending matters, leading to events such as actual or threatened government
shutdowns or defaults, could adversely affect the U.S. economy. In recent years, a downgrade in the ratings for U.S. Treasury securities by a credit rating agency, an extended government shutdown, and substantial spending cuts through sequestration
have resulted from government stalemate on budgetary issues.

The global recession and disruption of the financial markets led to concerns
over the solvency of certain European countries, affecting these countries’ capital markets access and in some cases sovereign credit ratings, as well as market perception of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect
exposure to these countries. These concerns continue even as the global economy is recovering. If measures to address sovereign debt and financial sector problems in Europe are inadequate, they may result in a delayed economic recovery, the exit of
one or more member states from the Eurozone, or more severe economic and financial conditions. If realized, these risk scenarios could contribute to severe financial market stress or a global recession, likely affecting the economy and capital
markets in the United States as well.

Other Risk Factors, presented below, address specific ways in which we may be adversely impacted by
economic conditions.



Our business and financial results are subject to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our
customers and counterparties.

Credit risk is inherent in the financial services business and results from, among other things, extending
credit to customers, purchasing securities, and entering into financial derivative transactions and certain guarantee contracts. Credit risk is one of our most significant risks, particularly given the high percentage of our assets represented
directly or indirectly by loans, and the importance of lending to our overall business. We manage credit risk by assessing and monitoring the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties and by diversifying our loan portfolio. Many factors
impact credit risk.

A borrower’s ability to repay a loan can be adversely affected by individual factors, such as business performance,
job losses or health issues. A weak or deteriorating economy and changes in the United States or global markets also could adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to repay outstanding loans. Any decrease in our borrowers’ ability to repay
loans would result in higher levels of nonperforming loans, net charge-offs, provision for credit losses and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale.

Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely
execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit
risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client.

Despite maintaining a diversified loan portfolio, in the ordinary course of
business, we may have concentrated credit exposure to a particular person or entity, industry, region or counterparty. Events adversely affecting specific customers, industries, regions or markets, a decrease in the credit quality of a customer base
or an adverse change in the risk profile of a market, industry, or group of customers could adversely affect us.

Our credit risk may be
exacerbated when collateral held by us to secure obligations to us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us.

In part due to improvement in economic conditions, as well as actions taken by PNC to manage its portfolio, PNC’s provision for credit losses has
declined substantially every year since the end of the recent recession. If we were to once again experience higher levels of provision for credit losses, it could result in lower levels of net income.





14The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




Our business and financial performance is impacted significantly by market interest rates and movements
in those rates. The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance over which we have no control and which we may not be
able to predict adequately.

As a result of the high percentage of our assets and liabilities that are in the form of interest-bearing or
interest-related instruments, changes in interest rates, in the shape of the yield curve, or in spreads between different market interest rates can have a material effect on our business, our profitability and the value of our financial assets and
liabilities. For example:

•Changes in interest rates or interest rate spreads can affect the difference between the interest that we earn on assets and the interest that we pay
on liabilities, which impacts our overall net interest income and profitability.

•Such changes can affect the ability of borrowers to meet obligations under variable or adjustable rate loans and other debt instruments, and can, in
turn, affect our loss rates on those assets.

•Such changes may decrease the demand for interest rate-based products and services, including loans and deposit accounts.

•Such changes can also affect our ability to hedge various forms of market and interest rate risk and may decrease the effectiveness of those hedges in
helping to manage such risks.

•Movements in interest rates also affect mortgage prepayment speeds and could result in impairments of mortgage servicing assets or otherwise affect the
profitability of such assets.

The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the
Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. These governmental policies can thus affect the activities and results of operations of banking companies such as PNC. An important function of
the Federal Reserve is to regulate the national supply of bank credit and certain interest rates. The actions of the Federal Reserve influence the rates of interest that we charge on loans and that we pay on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits
and can also affect the value of our on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Both due to the impact on rates and by controlling access to direct funding from the Federal Reserve Banks, the Federal Reserve’s policies also
influence, to a significant extent, our cost of funding. We cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary, tax and other policies or the effects that they may have on our activities and financial results. The continuation of the
current very low interest rate environment, which is expected to continue at least through mid-year 2015 based on statements by the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, could affect consumer and

business behavior in ways that are adverse to us and could also hamper our ability to increase our net interest income.

Recently, the British Bankers’ Association (BBA) took steps to change the process for determining LIBOR. The method for determining how LIBOR is formulated and its use in the market may change,
including, but not limited to, reducing the currencies and tenors for which LIBOR is calculated and requiring banks to provide LIBOR submissions based on actual transaction data. It is uncertain what changes, if any, will be required in the method
for determining LIBOR and the impact such changes will have on our LIBOR-linked debt or preferred securities, or any of our loans, derivatives or other financial assets or obligations.

Our business and financial performance are vulnerable to the impact of changes in the values of financial assets.

As a financial institution, a substantial majority of PNC’s assets and liabilities are financial in nature (items such as loans, securities, servicing rights, deposits and borrowings). Such assets
and liabilities will fluctuate in value, often significantly, due to movements in the financial markets or market volatility as well as developments specific to the asset or liability in question.

Credit-based assets and liabilities will fluctuate in value due to changes in the perceived creditworthiness of the borrowers and also due to changes in
market interest rates. A lessening of confidence in the creditworthiness of the United States or other governments whose securities we hold could impact the value of those holdings. Changes in loan prepayment speeds, usually based on fluctuations in
market interest rates, could adversely impact the value of our mortgage servicing rights. The financial strength of counterparties, with whom we have hedged some of our exposure to certain types of assets, could affect the value of such transactions
and assets. Additionally, the underlying value of an asset under lease may decrease due to supply and demand for the asset or the condition of the asset at the end of the lease. This could cause our recorded lease value to decline.

In many cases, PNC marks its assets and liabilities to market on its financial statements, either through its Net income and Retained earnings or through
adjustments to Accumulated other comprehensive income on its balance sheet. We may need to record losses in value of financial assets even where our expectation of realizing the face value of the underlying instrument has not changed.

In addition, asset management revenue is primarily based on a percentage of the value of the assets being managed and thus is impacted by general changes
in market valuations. Thus, although we are not directly impacted by changes in the value of such assets, decreases in the value of those assets would affect related fee income.





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K15




Our business and financial performance are dependent on our ability to attract and retain customers for
our products and services, which may be negatively impacted by lack of consumer and business economic confidence as well as our actions, including our ability to anticipate and satisfy customer demands for products and services.

As a financial institution, our performance is subject to risks associated with the loss of customer confidence and demand. Economic and market
developments, in the United States, Europe or elsewhere, may affect consumer and business confidence levels. If customers lose confidence due to a weak or deteriorating economy or uncertainty surrounding the future of the economy, the demand for our
products and services could suffer.

We may also fail to attract or retain customers if we are unable to develop and market products and
services that meet evolving customer needs or demands or if we are unable to deliver them effectively to our customers, particularly to the extent that our competitors are able to do so.

News or other publicity that impairs our reputation, or the reputation of our industry generally also could cause a loss of customers.

If we fail to attract and retain customers, demand for our loans and other financial products could decrease, we could experience adverse changes in payment patterns and consumers may not seek investments
with us. We could lose interest income from a decline in credit usage and fee income from a decline in investments and other transactions. PNC’s customers could remove money from checking and savings accounts and other types of deposit accounts
in favor of other banks or other types of investment products. Deposits are a low cost source of funds. Therefore, losing deposits could increase our funding costs and reduce our net interest income.

For several years, the United States has been in a very low interest rate environment. This situation has decreased the attractiveness of alternatives to
bank checking and savings accounts, some of which historically have provided higher yields but may lack deposit insurance and some of the convenience associated with more traditional banking products. If interest rates were to rise significantly,
customers may be less willing to maintain balances in non-interest bearing or low interest bank accounts, which could result in a loss of deposits or a relatively higher cost of funds to PNC. This could also result in a loss of fee income.

In our asset management business, investment performance is an important factor influencing the level of assets that we manage. Poor
investment performance could impair revenue and growth as existing clients might withdraw funds in favor of better performing products. Additionally, the ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish. Overall economic
conditions may limit the amount that customers are

able or willing to invest as well as the value of the assets they do invest. The failure or negative performance of products of other financial institutions could lead to a loss of confidence in
similar products offered by us without regard to the performance of our products. Such a negative contagion could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in such products and have a material adverse impact on our assets under
management and asset management revenues and earnings.

As a regulated financial services firm, we are subject to numerous governmental
regulations, and the financial services industry as a whole is subject to significant regulatory reform initiatives in the United States and elsewhere.

PNC is a bank holding company and a financial holding company and is subject to numerous governmental regulations involving both its business and organization.

Our businesses are subject to regulation by multiple banking, consumer protection and securities regulatory bodies. Applicable laws and regulations
restrict our ability to repurchase stock or to receive dividends from subsidiaries that operate in the banking and securities businesses and impose capital adequacy requirements. PNC’s ability to service its obligations and pay dividends to
shareholders is largely dependent on the receipt of dividends and advances from its subsidiaries, primarily PNC Bank, N.A. The Federal Reserve requires a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary
banks. The Federal Reserve could require PNC to commit resources to PNC Bank, N.A. when doing so is not otherwise in the interests of PNC or its shareholders or creditors.

Applicable laws and regulations restrict permissible activities and investments and require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, mutual fund and other customers, and for
the protection of customer information, among other things. We are also subject to laws and regulations designed to combat money laundering, terrorist financing, and transactions with persons, companies or foreign governments designated by U.S.
authorities.

Starting shortly after the beginning of the financial crisis in 2007, we have faced, and expect to continue to face for the
foreseeable future, increased regulation of the financial services industry as a result of initiatives intended to promote the safety and soundness of financial institutions, financial market stability, the transparency and liquidity of financial
markets, and consumer and investor protection. We also expect, in many cases, more intense scrutiny from bank and consumer protection supervisors in the examination process and more aggressive enforcement of laws and regulations on both the federal
and state levels. Compliance with regulations and other supervisory initiatives will likely increase the company’s costs and reduce its revenue, and may limit the company’s ability to pursue certain desirable business





16The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




opportunities. New reforms will also introduce additional legal risk (including as a result of newly applicable antifraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action), affect
regulatory oversight, holding company capital requirements, and residential mortgage products. The consequences of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions as well as damage to our
reputation and businesses.

A number of reform provisions are likely to significantly impact the ways in which banks and bank holding
companies, including PNC, do business. Some of the reform initiatives have led to the formation of new regulatory bodies, such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which has authority to regulate consumer financial products and
services sold by banks and non-bank companies and to supervise banks with assets of more than $10 billion and their affiliates for compliance with Federal consumer protection laws. Other agencies have significant new powers relevant to PNC, such as
the authority now held by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to regulate non security-based swaps, which, among other things, led PNC Bank, N.A. to register with the CFTC as a swap dealer in early 2013.

See Supervision and Regulation in Item 1 of this Report for more information concerning the regulation of PNC and recent initiatives to reform
financial institution regulation, including some of the matters discussed in this Risk Factor. Note 22 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report also discusses some of the regulation
applicable to PNC.

The following describes the key risks associated with some of the initiatives recently undertaken as part of the
regulatory reform initiatives affecting the financial services industry, either where pending rules have not yet been finalized or where the impact of new rules has not been substantially realized.

•In December 2013, the U.S. banking agencies, the SEC and the CFTC adopted regulations implementing the Volcker Rule provisions of Dodd-Frank. The
Volcker Rule prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in some types of proprietary trading and restricts the ability of banks and their affiliates to sponsor, invest in or have specified other financial relationships with certain types of
private funds (referred to as covered funds). We discuss the Volcker Rule in the Supervision and Regulation section included in Item 1 of this Report. PNC discontinued its designated proprietary trading operations several years ago. While we
continue to assess the implications of the final regulations, we currently do not expect the proprietary trading aspects of the final regulations to have a material effect on PNC’s businesses or revenue. Nevertheless, the Volcker Rule
regulations place limits and conditions on many types of permissible trading

activities, including transactions conducted for purposes of hedging, liquidity management, underwriting or to facilitate customer transactions. These limits and restrictions could cause PNC to
forego engaging in hedging or other transactions that it would otherwise undertake in the ordinary course of business and, thus, to some extent, may limit the ability of PNC to most effectively hedge its risks, manage its balance sheet or provide
products or services to its customers.

•In addition, as of December 31, 2013, PNC held interests in private equity and hedge funds that appear to be covered funds subject to the Volcker
Rule regulations totaling approximately $806 million, including three sponsored funds with total invested capital of approximately $317 million. Certain of PNC’s REIT Preferred Securities also were issued by statutory trusts that, as currently
structured, are considered covered funds. PNC will need to sell, restructure, or otherwise conform substantially all of these investments and cease sponsoring covered funds by July 21, 2015, although this compliance date may be extended,
potentially for several years, with the approval of the Federal Reserve. Moreover, it is likely that at least some of the amounts invested in these funds will reduce over time in the ordinary course before compliance is required. A forced sale or
restructuring of PNC’s investments due to the Volcker Rule would likely result in PNC receiving less value than it would otherwise have received or experiencing other adverse consequences. As of December 31, 2013, PNC also held
approximately $2.4 billion of senior debt interests in collateralized loan obligation (CLO) funds that may be considered covered funds. At December 31, 2013, the unrealized loss associated with the aforementioned CLO funds was approximately $14
million. The agencies are currently reviewing the treatment of CLO funds under the final regulations.

•On February 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve issued final rules that establish new enhanced prudential standards relating to liquidity risk and overall
risk management for bank holding companies (like PNC) that have $50 billion or more in consolidated total assets. These rules also implement the provisions of Dodd-Frank that require the Federal Reserve to impose a maximum 15-to-1 debt to equity
ratio on a bank holding company if the FSOC determines that the company poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States and that the imposition of such a debt-to-equity requirement would mitigate such risk. The Federal Reserve,
however, continues to develop the other enhanced prudential standards that are required under Dodd-Frank for bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated total assets, including the counterparty credit exposure limits and early
remediation requirements that were





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K17




the subject of proposed rules issued in December 2011. Under these proposed rules, PNC could be subject to increasingly stringent actions by the Federal Reserve if its financial condition or risk
management deteriorated as reflected by the company’s current or projected post-stress capital levels, compliance with supervisory liquidity and risk management standards and, in some instances, market-based indicators, such as credit default
swap spreads. In addition, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it intends to continue to develop the set of enhanced prudential standards that apply to large bank holding companies in order to further promote the resiliency of such firms and the
U.S. financial system. Until the Federal Reserve’s rules and initiatives to establish these enhanced prudential standards are completed, we are unable to fully estimate their impact on PNC, although we expect these initiatives will result in
increased compliance costs.

•Regulatory agencies have proposed rules to implement the Dodd-Frank provisions requiring retention of credit risk by certain securitization
participants through holding interests in the securitization vehicles, but the rules are not yet finalized or effective. As a result, the ultimate impact of these Dodd-Frank provisions on PNC remains unpredictable. That impact on PNC could be
direct, by requiring PNC to hold interests in a securitization vehicle or other assets that represent a portion of the credit risk of the assets held by the securitization vehicle, or indirect, by impacting markets in which PNC participates and
increasing the costs associated with loan origination. Since the beginning of the financial crisis, there has been and continues to be substantially less private (that is, non-government backed) securitization activity than had previously been the
case. It is unclear at present whether and to what extent the private securitization markets will rebound. If the markets for private securitizations rebound and PNC decides to increase its participation in those markets, we would likely be required
under the regulations to retain more risk than would otherwise have been the case, and as a result could be required to consolidate certain securitization vehicles on our balance sheet, with currently an uncertain financial impact.

On the indirect impact side, PNC originates loans of a variety of types, including residential and
commercial mortgages, credit card, auto, and student, that historically have commonly been securitized, and PNC is also a significant servicer of residential and commercial mortgages held by others, including securitization vehicles. PNC anticipates
that the risk retention requirements will impact the market for loans of types that historically have been securitized, potentially affecting the volumes of loans securitized, the types of loan products made available, the terms

on which loans are offered, consumer and business demand for loans, and the need for third-party loan servicers. It should be noted that the risk retention rules themselves could have the effect
of slowing the rebound in the securitization markets. One effect of having substantially reduced opportunities to securitize loans would likely be a reduction in the willingness of banks, including PNC, to make loans due to balance sheet management
requirements. Any of these potential impacts of the Dodd-Frank risk retention rules could affect the way in which PNC conducts its business, including its product offerings.

A failure to comply, or to have adequate policies and procedures designed to comply, with regulatory requirements could expose us to damages, fines and regulatory penalties and other regulatory actions,
which could be significant, and could also injure our reputation with customers and others with whom we do business.

New capital and
liquidity standards will result in banks and bank holding companies needing to maintain more and higher quality capital and greater liquidity than has historically been the case.

We are subject to the regulatory capital requirements established by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. These requirements are currently undergoing significant changes as a result of the final rules adopted
by the U.S. banking agencies in July 2013 to implement the new international guidelines for determining regulatory capital established by the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision (“BCBS”) known as “Basel III,” as well as to
implement certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Significant parts of these rules became effective for PNC on January 1, 2014, while other aspects will become effective on January 1, 2015 or thereafter.

In November 2013, the U.S. banking agencies also requested comment on proposed rules that would implement the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR), a new,
short-term quantitative liquidity requirement included in the BCBS Basel III framework. The proposal would require PNC and PNC Bank, N.A. to maintain an amount of qualifying high-quality liquid assets sufficient to cover the entity’s projected
net cash outflows over a 30-day stress period using inflow, outflow and maturity assumptions included in the rule. Under the proposal, the LCR would become effective and begin to be phased-in on January 1, 2015, with the standard being fully
implemented on January 1, 2017. The comment period on the proposed rules ended on January 31, 2014, and final rules have not yet been issued. Although the impact of the LCR on PNC will not be fully known until the rules are final, PNC has
taken several actions to prepare for implementation of the LCR, and we expect to be in compliance with the rules when they become effective. In February 2014, the Federal Reserve also adopted new liquidity risk management requirements for bank
holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated total





18The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




assets (like PNC), which become effective on January 1, 2015. We discuss these new capital requirements and liquidity standards in the Supervision and Regulation section included in Item 1
of this Report.

The U.S. banking agencies also have proposed, or are considering, additional rules that would require certain U.S. banking
organizations to maintain a supplemental leverage ratio in excess of the level required by the July 2013 rules, to hold additional capital to the extent the organizations engage in certain activities deemed to present special risks (such as relying
on short-term wholesale funding), or to maintain a certain aggregate level of capital and long-term unsecured debt to facilitate a resolution of the institution. In January 2014, the BCBS also requested comment on another liquidity component of the
international Basel III framework, the net stable funding ratio, which is designed to ensure that banking organizations maintain a stable, long-term funding profile in relation to their asset composition and off-balance sheet activities.

We depend on information systems, both internally and through third-parties, to conduct our business and could suffer a material adverse impact from interruptions in the effective operation of, or
security breaches affecting, those systems.

As a large financial company, we handle a substantial volume of customer and other financial
transactions virtually on a continuous basis. As a result, we rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business and to process, record, and monitor our transactions. In recent years, PNC has increased substantially in size, scope and
complexity. We have also seen more customer usage of technological solutions for financial

needs and higher expectations of customers and regulators regarding effective and safe systems operation. The need to ensure proper functioning of these systems has become more challenging, and
the costs involved in that effort are greater than ever.

The risks to these systems result from a variety of factors, both internal and
external. In some cases, these factors are largely outside of our control, including the potential for bad acts on the part of hackers, criminals, employees and others. In other cases, our systems could fail to operate as needed due to factors such
as design or performance issues, human error, unexpected transaction volumes, or inadequate measures to protect against unauthorized access. We are also at risk for the impact of natural or other disasters, terrorism, international hostilities and
the like on our systems or for the effect of outages or other failures involving power or communications systems operated by others. In addition, we face a variety of types of cyber attacks, some of which are discussed in more detail below. Cyber
attacks often include efforts to disrupt our ability to provide services or to gain access to confidential company and customer information.

We rely on other companies for the provision of a broad range of products and services. Many of these products and services include information systems
themselves or involve the use of such systems in connection with providing the products or services. In some cases, these other companies provide the infrastructure that supports electronic communications. These other companies are generally subject
to many of the same risks we face with respect to our systems. To the extent we rely on these other companies, we could be adversely affected if they are impacted by system failures or cyber attacks.

All of these types of events, whether resulting from cyber attacks or other internal or external sources, expose customer and other confidential
information to security risks. They also could disrupt our ability to use our accounting, deposit, loan and other systems and could cause errors in transactions with customers, vendors or other counterparties.

In addition, our customers often use their own devices, such as computers, smartphones and tablets, to do business with us. We have limited ability to
assure the safety and security of our customers’ transactions with us to the extent they are utilizing their own devices.

We are faced
with ongoing efforts by others to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions. Some of these involve efforts to enter our systems directly by going through or around our security protections. Others
involve the use of schemes such as “phishing” to gain access to identifying customer information, often from customers themselves. Most corporate and commercial transactions are now handled electronically, and our retail customers
increasingly use online access and mobile devices to bank with us. The ability to conduct business with





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K19




us in this manner depends on secure transmission of confidential information, which increases the risk of data security breaches.

Starting in late 2012, there have been several well-publicized series of apparently related denial of service attacks on large financial services companies, including PNC. In a denial of service attack,
individuals or organizations flood commercial websites with extraordinarily high volumes of traffic, with the goal of disrupting the ability of commercial enterprises to process transactions and possibly making their websites unavailable to
customers for extended periods of time. The attacks against PNC have resulted in temporary disruptions in customers’ ability to access the corporate website and to perform on-line banking transactions. To date, no customer data has been lost or
compromised and these efforts have not had a material impact on PNC. We cannot, however, provide assurance that future attacks of this type might not have a greater effect on PNC.

As our customers regularly use PNC-issued credit and debit cards to pay for transactions with retailers and other businesses, there is the risk of data security breaches at those other businesses covering
PNC account information. When our customers use PNC-issued cards to make purchases from those businesses, card account information is provided to the business. If the business’s systems that process or store card account information are subject
to a data security breach, holders of our cards who have made purchases from that business may experience fraud on their card accounts. PNC may suffer losses associated with reimbursing our customers for such fraudulent transactions on
customers’ card accounts, as well as for other costs related to data security compromise events, such as replacing cards associated with compromised card accounts. In addition, PNC provides card transaction processing services to some merchant
customers under agreements we have with payment networks such as Visa and MasterCard. Under these agreements, we may be responsible for certain losses and penalties if one of our merchant customers suffers a data security breach.

In late 2013, several large retailers, including most prominently Target, disclosed that they have suffered substantial data security breaches
compromising millions of card accounts. To date, PNC’s losses and costs related to these breaches have not been material, but other similar events in the future could be more significant to PNC.

Methods used by others to attack information systems change frequently (with generally increasing sophistication), often are not recognized until
launched against a target, may be supported by foreign governments or other well-financed entities, and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world. As a result, we may be unable to address these methods in advance of
attacks, including by implementing adequate preventive measures.

We have policies, procedures and systems (including business continuity programs) designed to prevent or
limit the effect of possible failures, interruptions or breaches in security of information systems. We design our business continuity and other information and technology risk management programs to manage our capabilities to provide services in
the case of an event resulting in material disruptions of business activities affecting our employees, facilities, technology or suppliers. We regularly seek to test the effectiveness of and enhance these policies, procedures and systems.

Our ability to mitigate the adverse consequences of such occurrences is in part dependent on the quality of our business continuity planning
and our ability to anticipate the timing and nature of any such event that occurs. The adverse impact of natural and other disasters, terrorist activities, international hostilities and the like could be increased to the extent that there is a lack
of preparedness on the part of national or regional governments, including emergency responders, or on the part of other organizations and businesses with which we deal, particularly those on which we depend but have no control over.

In recent years, we have incurred significant expense towards improving the reliability of our systems and their security from attack. Nonetheless, there
remains the risk that an adverse event might occur. If one does occur, we might not be able to fix it timely or adequately. To the extent that the risk relates to products or services provided by others, we seek to engage in due diligence and
monitoring to limit the risk, but here too we cannot eliminate it. Should an adverse event affecting another company’s systems occur, we may not have indemnification or other protection from the other company sufficient to compensate us or
otherwise protect us from the consequences.

The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of any of our information or
communications systems, or the systems of other companies on which we rely, could result in a wide variety of adverse consequences to PNC. This risk is greater if the issue is widespread or results in financial losses to our customers. Possible
adverse consequences include damage to our reputation or a loss of customer business. We also could face litigation or additional regulatory scrutiny. Litigation or regulatory actions in turn could lead to liability or other sanctions, including
fines and penalties or reimbursement of customers adversely affected by a systems problem or security breach. Even if we do not suffer any material adverse consequences as a result of events affecting us directly, successful attacks or systems
failures at other large financial institutions could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions including PNC. Also, systems problems, including those resulting from third party attacks, whether at PNC or at our
competitors, would likely increase regulatory and customer concerns regarding the functioning, safety and security of such systems generally. In that case, we would expect to incur even higher levels of costs with respect to prevention and
mitigation of these risks.





20The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




We continually encounter technological change and we could falter in our ability to remain competitive
in this arena.

The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new
technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. We have been investing in technology and connectivity to automate
functions previously performed manually, to facilitate the ability of customers to engage in financial transactions, and otherwise to enhance the customer experience with respect to our products and services. On the retail side, this has included
developments such as more sophisticated ATMs and expanded access to banking transactions through the internet, smart phones, tablets and other remote devices. These efforts have all been in response to actual and anticipated customer behavior and
expectations. Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy customer demands and create efficiencies in our operations. A failure to
maintain or enhance our competitive position with respect to technology, whether because we fail to anticipate customer expectations or because our technological developments fail to perform as desired or are not rolled out in a timely manner, may
cause us to lose market share or incur additional expense.

There are risks resulting from the extensive use of models in our business.

PNC relies on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. Models may be used in such processes as
determining the pricing of various products, grading loans and extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risks, predicting losses, assessing capital adequacy, and calculating economic and regulatory capital levels, as well as to
estimate the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items. Poorly designed or implemented models present the risk that our business decisions based on information incorporating models will be adversely affected due to the inadequacy of
that information. Also, information we provide to the public or to our regulators based on poorly designed or implemented models could be inaccurate or misleading. Some of the decisions that our regulators make, including those related to capital
distributions to our shareholders, could be affected adversely due to their perception that the quality of the models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient. See the Model Risk Management portion of the Risk Management section
included in Item 7 of this Report.

Our asset and liability valuations and the determination of the amount of loss allowances and
impairments taken on our assets are highly subjective, and inaccurate estimates could materially impact our results of operations or financial position.

We must use estimates, assumptions, and judgments when assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of
financial statement volatility. Changes in underlying factors or assumptions in any of the areas underlying our estimates could materially impact our future financial condition and results of operations. During periods of market disruption, it may
be more difficult to value certain of our assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were historically in active markets with significant observable data that rapidly
become illiquid due to market volatility, a loss in market confidence or other factors. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented market conditions in any particular market could materially impact the valuation of assets as reported within our
consolidated financial statements.

The determination of the amount of loss allowances and asset impairments varies by asset type and is based
upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are
revised. Although we have policies and procedures in place to determine loss allowance and asset impairments, due to the substantial subjective nature of this area, there can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of
impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.

Our business and financial results could be impacted materially by adverse results in legal proceedings.

Many aspects of our business involve substantial risk of legal liability. We have been named or threatened to be named as defendants in various lawsuits
arising from our business activities (and in some cases from the activities of companies we have acquired). In addition, we are regularly the subject of governmental investigations and other forms of regulatory inquiry. We also are at risk when we
have agreed to indemnify others for losses related to legal proceedings, including litigation and governmental investigations and inquiries, they face, such as in connection with the sale of a business or assets by us. The results of these legal
proceedings could lead to significant monetary damages or penalties, restrictions on the way in which we conduct our business, or reputational harm.





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K21




Although we establish accruals for legal proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies
represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, we do not have accruals for all legal proceedings where we face a risk of loss. In addition, due to the inherent
subjectivity of the assessments and unpredictability of the outcome of legal proceedings, amounts accrued may not represent the ultimate loss to us from the legal proceedings in question. Thus, our ultimate losses may be higher, and possibly
significantly so, than the amounts accrued for legal loss contingencies.

We discuss further the unpredictability of legal proceedings and
describe certain of our pending legal proceedings in Note 23 Legal Proceedings in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.

PNC faces legal and regulatory risk arising out of its residential mortgage businesses.

Numerous federal and state governmental, legislative and regulatory authorities are investigating practices in the business of mortgage and home equity
loan lending and servicing and in the mortgage-related insurance and reinsurance industries. PNC has received inquiries from governmental, legislative and regulatory authorities on these topics and is responding to these inquiries. These inquiries
and investigations could lead to administrative, civil or criminal proceedings, possibly resulting in remedies including fines, penalties, restitution, alterations in our business practices and additional expenses and collateral costs.

In addition to governmental or regulatory inquiries and investigations, PNC, like other companies with residential mortgage and home equity loan
origination and servicing operations, faces the risk of class actions, other litigation and claims from: the owners of, investors in, or purchasers of such loans originated or serviced by PNC (or securities backed by such loans), homeowners involved
in foreclosure proceedings or various mortgage-related insurance programs, downstream purchasers of homes sold after foreclosure, title insurers, and other potential claimants. Included among these claims are claims from purchasers of mortgage and
home equity loans seeking the repurchase of loans where the loans allegedly breached origination covenants and representations and warranties made to the purchasers in the purchase and sale agreements.

At this time PNC cannot predict the ultimate overall cost to or effect upon PNC from governmental, legislative or regulatory actions and private
litigation or claims arising out of residential mortgage and home equity loan lending, servicing or reinsurance practices, although such actions, litigation and claims could, individually or in the aggregate, result in significant expense. See Note
23 Legal Proceedings and Note 24 Commitments and Guarantees in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information regarding federal and state governmental,

legislative and regulatory inquiries and investigations and additional information regarding potential repurchase obligations relating to mortgage and home equity loans.

There is a continuing risk of incurring costs related to further remedial and related efforts required by consent orders and related to repurchase
requests arising out of either the foreclosure process or origination issues. Reputational damage arising out of this industry-wide inquiry could also have an adverse effect upon our existing mortgage and home equity loan business and could reduce
future business opportunities. Investors in mortgage loans and other assets that we sell are more likely to seek indemnification from us against losses or otherwise seek to have us share in such losses.

The CFPB has issued new rules for mortgage origination and mortgage servicing. Both the origination and servicing rules create new private rights of
action for consumers against lenders and servicers like PNC in the event of certain violations. For additional information concerning the mortgage rules, see Supervision and Regulation in Item 1 of this Report.

Additionally, each GSE is currently in conservatorship, with its primary regulator acting as a conservator. We cannot predict when or if the
conservatorships will end or whether, as a result of legislative or regulatory action, there will be any associated changes to the structure of the GSEs or the housing finance industry more generally, including, but not limited to, changes to the
relationship among the GSEs, the government and the private markets. The effects of any such reform on our business and financial results are uncertain.

Our regional concentrations make us at risk to adverse economic conditions in our primary retail banking footprint.

Our retail banking business is primarily concentrated within our retail branch network footprint. Although our other businesses are national in scope, to a lesser extent these other businesses also have a
greater presence within these primary geographic markets. Thus, we are particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions in the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, and Southeast regions.

We grow our business in part by acquiring other financial services companies or assets from time to time, and these acquisitions present a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the
acquisition transactions themselves and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC after closing.

Acquisitions of other
financial services companies, financial services assets and related deposits and other liabilities present risks and uncertainties to PNC in addition to those presented by the nature of the business acquired.

In general, acquisitions may be substantially more expensive or take longer to complete than anticipated (including





22The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




unanticipated costs incurred in connection with the integration of the acquired company). Anticipated benefits (including anticipated cost savings and strategic gains) may be significantly harder
or take longer to achieve than expected or may not be achieved in their entirety as a result of unexpected factors or events.

Our ability to
achieve anticipated results from acquisitions is often dependent also on the extent of credit losses in the acquired loan portfolios and the extent of deposit attrition, which are, in part, related to the state of economic and financial markets.

Also, litigation and governmental investigations that may be pending at the time of the acquisition or be filed or commenced thereafter, as a
result of an acquisition or otherwise, could impact the timing or realization of anticipated benefits to PNC. Note 23 Legal Proceedings in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report describes several legal
proceedings related topre-acquisitionactivities of companies we have acquired, including National City. Other such legal proceedings may be commenced in the future.

Integration of an acquired company’s business and operations into PNC, including conversion of the acquired company’s different systems and
procedures, may take longer than anticipated or be more costly than anticipated or have unanticipated adverse results relating to the acquired company’s or PNC’s existing businesses. In some cases, acquisitions involve our entry into new
businesses or new geographic or other markets, and these situations also present risks and uncertainties in instances where we may be inexperienced in these new areas.

Our ability to analyze the risks presented by prospective acquisitions, as well as our ability to prepare in advance of closing for integration, depends, in part, on the information we can gather with
respect to the target, which is more limited than the information we have regarding companies we already own.

As a regulated financial
institution, our ability to pursue or complete attractive acquisition opportunities could be negatively impacted by regulatory delays or other regulatory issues.

We operate in a highly competitive environment, in terms of the products and services we offer and the geographic markets in which we conduct business, as well as in our labor markets where we compete
for talented employees. Competition could adversely impact our customer acquisition, growth and retention, as well as our credit spreads and product pricing, causing us to lose market share and deposits and revenues.

We are subject to intense competition from various financial institutions as well as from non-bank entities that engage in many similar activities without
being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions. This competition is

described in Item 1 of this Report under “Competition.” Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies, in
connection with current market conditions or otherwise.

In all, the principal bases for competition are pricing (including the interest rates
charged on loans or paid on interest-bearing deposits), product structure, the range of products and services offered, and the quality of customer service (including convenience and responsiveness to customer needs and concerns). The ability to
access and use technology is an increasingly important competitive factor in the financial services industry, and it is a critically important component to customer satisfaction as it affects our ability to deliver the right products and services.

Another increasingly competitive factor in the financial services industry is the competition to attract and retain talented employees across
many of our business and support areas. This competition leads to increased expenses in many business areas and can also cause us to not pursue certain business opportunities.

A failure to adequately address the competitive pressures we face could make it harder for us to attract and retain customers across our businesses. On the other hand, meeting these competitive pressures
could require us to incur significant additional expense or to accept risk beyond what we would otherwise view as desirable under the circumstances. In addition, in our interest rate sensitive businesses, pressures to increase rates on deposits or
decrease rates on loans could reduce our net interest margin with a resulting negative impact on our net interest income.

Our business and
financial performance could be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by disasters, natural or otherwise, by terrorist activities or by international hostilities.

Neither the occurrence nor the potential impact of disasters (such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, explosions, and other severe weather conditions or catastrophic accidents),
terrorist activities and international hostilities can be predicted. However, these occurrences could impact us directly (for example, by causing significant damage to our facilities or preventing us from conducting our business in the ordinary
course), or indirectly as a result of their impact on our borrowers, depositors, other customers, suppliers or other counterparties. We could also suffer adverse consequences to the extent that disasters, terrorist activities or international
hostilities affect the financial markets or the economy in general or in any particular region. These types of impacts could lead, for example, to an increase in delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults that could result in our experiencing higher
levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provisions for credit losses.





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K23




Our ability to mitigate the adverse consequences of such occurrences is in part dependent on the quality of
our resiliency planning, and our ability, if any, to anticipate the nature of any such event that occurs. The adverse impact of disasters or terrorist activities or international hostilities also could be increased to the extent that there is a lack
of preparedness on the part of national or regional emergency responders or on the part of other organizations and businesses that we deal with, particularly those that we depend upon but have no control over.

