ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

Prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set forth below before making an investment in the Company’s securities.

Risks Related to the Company’s Business

The COVID-19 pandemic and other widespread health emergencies or pandemics could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in widespread and continuing negative impacts on the macroeconomic environment and disruption to the Company’s business. In June 2020, the National Bureau of Economic Research declared that the United States economy has entered a recession. Weak economic conditions and increased volatility and disruption in the financial markets pose risks to the Company and its business partners, including advertisers whose expenditures tend to reflect overall economic conditions. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused some of the Company’s advertisers (including, in particular, local market advertisers) to reduce their spending, and future declines in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could negatively impact their advertising expenditures further. Depending on the duration and severity of the recession, it could lead to changes in consumer behavior, including increasing numbers of consumers canceling or foregoing subscriptions to MVPD services, that adversely affect the Company’s affiliate fee and advertising revenues.

The Company’s business depends on the volume and popularity of the content it distributes, particularly sports content. Following the COVID-19 outbreak, sports events to which the Company has broadcast rights have been cancelled or postponed and the production of certain entertainment content the Company acquires has been suspended. These content disruptions have adversely affected the Company’s advertising revenues and there could be additional adverse impacts on advertising revenues in the future. Although some of these sports events and productions have resumed or are expected to resume during the first quarter of fiscal 2021, there may be additional content disruptions in the future. Depending on their duration and severity, these disruptions could materially adversely affect the Company’s future advertising revenues and, over a longer period of time, its future affiliate fee revenues. To the extent the pandemic further negatively impacts the Company’s ability to air sports events, particularly MLB, NFL or college sports, it could result in a significantly greater adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations than the Company has experienced thus far. In addition, shifting sports schedules may negatively impact the Company’s ability to attract viewers and advertisers to its sports and entertainment programming.

If there is a significant decline in the Company’s estimated revenues or the expected popularity of its programming, it could lead to a downward revision in the value of, among other things, the Company’s reporting units, indefinite-lived intangible assets, programming rights and long-lived assets and result in a non-cash impairment charge that is material to the Company’s reported net earnings.

More information about these risks is presented below, as well as information about other risks the pandemic may exacerbate, such as those relating to data privacy, data security, legal and regulatory changes, damage to the Company’s brands and reputation, and the ability to realize the strategic goals of the Company’s investments. The COVID-19 pandemic also poses risks related to measures aimed at preventing the spread of the virus, such as shelter in place orders, business shutdowns, quarantines and travel bans and restrictions. These measures have affected and may further affect the Company’s workforce and operations, as well as those of its business partners. For example, where possible, Company employees began working remotely in March 2020. As and when employees return to their places of work, it poses various risks to the Company, including compliance and litigation risks, and subjects the Company to increased operating costs relating to efforts to safeguard our employees.

The magnitude of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company is highly uncertain and subject to change and will depend on evolving factors beyond the Company’s control. These include the duration and extent of the pandemic, including whether there is a “second-wave,” increases or spikes in the number of cases, or future mutations or related strains of the virus; the duration and extent of the recession, the pace of economic recovery and the economic and operating conditions facing the Company and others in the pandemic’s aftermath; the effect of governmental actions; and potential changes in consumer behavior. The COVID-19 pandemic and other widespread health emergencies or pandemics could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.






Changes in consumer behavior and evolving technologies and distribution platforms may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

Changes in consumer behavior and technology have also had an adverse impact on traditional MVPDs that deliver the Company’s broadcast and cable networks to consumers. Consumers are increasingly turning to alternative offerings, including SVOD and AVOD services and mobile and social media platforms, which has contributed to industry-wide declines in subscribers to traditional MVPD services over the last several years. These declines are expected to continue and possibly accelerate in the future. If consumers increasingly favor alternative offerings over traditional MVPD subscriptions, the Company may continue to experience a decline in viewership and ultimately demand for its programming, which could lead to lower affiliate fee and advertising revenues. Changing distribution models may also negatively impact the Company’s ability to negotiate affiliation agreements on favorable terms, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our affiliate fee and advertising revenues also may be adversely affected by consumers’ use of antennas (and their integration with set-top boxes or other consumer devices) to access broadcast signals to avoid subscriptions.

To remain competitive in this evolving environment, the Company must effectively anticipate and adapt to new market changes. The Company continues to focus on expanding its brands and products beyond traditional linear platforms. However, if the Company fails to protect and exploit the value of its content while responding to, and developing new technology and business models to take advantage of, technological developments and consumer preferences, it could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

Declines in advertising expenditures could cause the Company’s revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets.

Super Bowl

World Cup






or the inability to obtain market ratings that adequately measure demand for the Company’s content on all platforms could lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

The failure to enter into or renew affiliation and carriage agreements on favorable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

The Company depends on affiliation and carriage arrangements that enable it to reach a large percentage of households through MVPDs and third party-owned television stations. The inability to enter into or renew MVPD arrangements on favorable terms, or at all, or the loss of carriage on MVPDs’ basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the Company’s owned and operated television stations and broadcast and cable networks, which could adversely affect the Company’s revenues from affiliate fees and its ability to sell national and local advertising time. The loss of favorable MVPD packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities could also negatively impact the Company’s revenues from affiliate fees. These risks are exacerbated by consolidation among traditional MVPDs, their increased vertical integration into the cable or broadcast network business and their use of alternative technologies to offer their subscribers access to local broadcast network programming, which have provided traditional MVPDs with greater negotiating leverage. In addition, if the Company and an MVPD reach an impasse in contract renewal negotiations, the Company’s networks and owned and operated television stations could become unavailable to the MVPD’s subscribers (i.e., “go dark”), which, depending on the length of time and the size of the MVPD, could have a negative impact on the Company’s revenues from affiliate fees and advertising.

The Company also depends on the maintenance of affiliation agreements and license agreements with third party-owned television stations to distribute the FOX Network and MyNetworkTV in markets where the Company does not own television stations. Consolidation among television station group owners could increase their negotiating leverage and reduce the number of available distribution partners. There can be no assurance that these affiliation and license agreements will be renewed in the future on terms favorable to the Company. The inability to enter into affiliation or licensing arrangements with third-party owned television stations on favorable terms could reduce distribution of the FOX Network and MyNetworkTV and the inability to enter into such affiliation or licensing arrangements for the FOX Network on favorable terms could adversely affect the Company’s affiliate fee revenues and its ability to sell national advertising time.

In addition, the Company has arrangements through which it makes its content available for viewing through online video platforms. If these arrangements are not renewed on favorable or commercially reasonable terms or at all, it could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating results.

If the number of subscribers to MVPD services continues to decline or such declines accelerate, the Company’s affiliate fee and advertising revenues could be negatively affected.

As described above, changes in technology and consumer behavior have contributed to industry-wide declines in the number of subscribers to MVPD services, which have had a negative impact on the number of subscribers to the Company’s networks. These industry-wide subscriber declines are expected to continue and possibly accelerate in the future. The majority of the Company’s affiliation agreements with MVPDs are multi-year contracts that provide for payments to the Company that are based in part on the number of MVPD subscribers covered by the agreement. If declines in the number of MVPD subscribers are not fully offset by affiliate rate increases, the Company’s affiliate fee revenues will be negatively affected. Because MVPD subscriber losses could also decrease the potential audience for the Company’s networks, which is a critical factor affecting both the pricing and volume of advertising, future MVPD subscriber declines could also adversely impact the Company’s advertising revenues.

The Company is exposed to risks associated with weak economic conditions and increased volatility and disruption in the financial markets.

The U.S. economy is undergoing a period of weakness, which has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that affect economic conditions include the rate of unemployment, the level of consumer confidence, changes in consumer spending habits, political and sociopolitical uncertainties and potential changes in trade relationships between the U.S. and other countries. The Company also faces risks associated with the impact of weak economic conditions on advertisers, affiliates, suppliers, wholesale distributors, retailers, insurers and others with which it does business.






Increased volatility and disruptions in the financial markets could make it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to refinance outstanding indebtedness and obtain new financing. The financial markets can experience high levels of volatility and access to capital can be constrained for extended periods of time, and we cannot guarantee that the Company will be able to refinance outstanding indebtedness or obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to the Company or at all. In addition, the Company’s access to and cost of borrowing can be affected by the Company’s short-term and long-term debt ratings assigned by ratings agencies. If we are not successful in obtaining financing or incur significantly higher borrowing costs than contemplated, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Disruptions in the financial markets can also adversely affect the Company’s lenders, insurers, customers and counterparties, including vendors, retailers and other partners. For instance, the inability of the Company’s counterparties to obtain capital on acceptable terms could impair their ability to perform under their agreements with the Company and lead to negative effects on the Company, including business disruptions, decreased revenues and increases in bad debt expenses.

The Company’s businesses operate in a highly competitive industry.

Our business is dependent on the popularity of special sports events and the continued popularity of the sports leagues and teams for which we have programming rights.

Super Bowl

World Series

World Cup






shortfall in the expected popularity of the sports events for which the Company has acquired rights, or in the volume of sports programming the Company expects to distribute, could adversely affect the Company’s advertising revenues in the near term and, over a longer period of time, adversely affect affiliatefeerevenues.

The inability to renew programming rights, particularly sports programming rights, on sufficiently favorable terms, or at all, could cause the Company’s advertising and affiliate fee revenues to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets.

Acceptance of the Company’s content by the public is difficult to predict, which could lead to fluctuations in revenues.

Television distribution is a speculative business since the revenues derived from the distribution of content depends primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. Low public acceptance of the Company’s content will adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The commercial success of our programming also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programming, the availability of a growing number of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and their effects on consumer spending and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change and cannot be predicted with certainty. Moreover, we must often invest substantial amounts in programming and the acquisition of sports rights before we learn the extent to which the content will earn consumer acceptance. Competition for popular content, particularly for sports and entertainment programming, is intense, and the Company may need to increase the price paid for popular content rights. The Company’s failure to obtain or retain rights to popular content, or a decline in the ratings or popularity of the Company’s news, sports or entertainment television programming, which could be a result of the loss of talent or rights to certain programming, could adversely affect advertising revenues in the near term and, over a longer period of time, adversely affect affiliate fee revenues.

Damage to our brands, particularly the FOX brand, or our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.






Our investments in new businesses, products, services and technologies through acquisitions and other strategic investments present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals we had contemplated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We have acquired and invested in, and expect to continue acquiring and investing in, new businesses, products, services and technologies that complement, enhance or expand our current businesses or otherwise offer us growth opportunities. Such acquisitions and strategic investments may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including insufficient revenues from an investment to offset any new liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the investment; a failure of the investment or acquired business to perform as expected, meet financial projections or achieve strategic goals; a failure to further develop an acquired business, product, service or technology; unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence that could cause us to not realize anticipated benefits or to incur unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel, technologies and systems of acquired businesses; the potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired businesses; the diversion of management attention from current operations; and compliance with new regulatory regimes. Because acquisitions and investments are inherently risky and their anticipated benefits or value may not materialize, our acquisitions and investments may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

The Company is subject to complex laws, regulations, rules, industry standards, and contractual obligations related to privacy and personal data protection, which are evolving, inconsistent and potentially costly.

We are subject to U.S. federal and state laws, as well as laws from other countries, relating to the collection, use, disclosure, and security of personal information. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act that became effective in January 2020 imposes new obligations on businesses’ collection, use, handling, and disclosure of personal information of California residents and imposes fines for noncompliance. The E.U. and other countries also have privacy and data security legislation, with significant penalties for violations, that may apply to the Company’s operations. New privacy and data protection laws continue to be introduced and interpretations of existing privacy laws, some of which may be inconsistent with one another, continue to evolve. Although the Company expends significant resources to comply with privacy and data protection laws, we may be subject to regulatory or other legal action despite these efforts. Any such action could result in damage to our reputation or brands, loss of customers or revenue, and other negative impacts to our operations. The Company may also be subject to liability under relevant contractual obligations and may be required to expend significant resources to defend, remedy and/or address any claims. The Company may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate it for any losses that may occur. For more information, see Item 1, “Government Regulation – Privacy and Information Regulation.”

The degradation, failure or misuse of the Company’s network and information systems and other technology could cause a disruption of services or improper disclosure of personal data or other confidential information, resulting in increased costs, liabilities or loss of revenue.






Technological developments may increase the threat of content piracy and signal theft and limit the Company’s ability to protect its intellectual property rights.

The loss of key personnel, including talent, could disrupt the management or operations of the Company’s business and adversely affect its revenues.

Labor disputes, whether involving our own employees or those at businesses that we depend on, may disrupt our operations and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

In a variety of the Company’s businesses, the Company and its partners engage the services of trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company or its partners are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a






significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins. Moreover, the Company has certain collective bargaining agreements, which are industry-wide agreements, and the Company may lack practical control over the negotiations and terms of the agreements in dispute.

In addition, our broadcast television and cable networks have programming rights agreements of varying scope and duration with various sports leagues to broadcast and produce sports events, including certain college football and basketball, NFL and MLB games. Any labor disputes that occur in any sports league for which we have the rights to broadcast live games or events may preclude us from airing or otherwise distributing scheduled games or events, resulting in decreased revenues, which could adversely affect our business, revenue and results of operations.

Changes in U.S. communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

The Company may be subject to investigations or fines from governmental authorities, including under FCC rules and policies, or delays in our renewal and other applications with the FCC.

FCC rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material on television or radio broadcast stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. The FCC has indicated that, in addition to issuing fines to licensees, it would consider initiating license revocation proceedings for “serious” indecency violations. We air a significant amount of live news reporting and live sports coverage on our broadcast television stations and networks and a portion of our content is under the control of our on-air talent. The Company cannot predict whether information delivered by our stations and on-air talent could violate FCC rules related to indecency, which had been found to be unconstitutionally vague by the U.S. Supreme Court, especially given the spontaneity of live news and sports programming. Violation of the FCC’s indecency rules could subject us to government investigation, penalties, license revocation, or renewal or qualification proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

The Communications Act and FCC regulations limit the ability of non-U.S. citizens and certain other persons to invest in us.

The Company owns broadcast station licensees in connection with its ownership and operation of U.S. television stations. Under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Communications Act, and the FCC rules, without the FCC’s prior approval, no broadcast station licensee may be owned by a corporation if more than 25% of its stock is owned or voted by non-U.S. persons, their representatives, or by any other corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country. The Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the Board of Directors to take action to prevent, cure or mitigate the effect of stock ownership above the applicable foreign ownership threshold, including: refusing to permit any transfer of common stock to or ownership of common stock by a






non-U.S. stockholder; voiding a transfer of common stock to a non-U.S. stockholder; suspending rights of stock ownership if held by a non-U.S. stockholder; or redeeming common stock held by a non-U.S. stockholder. We are currently in compliance with applicable U.S. law and continue to monitor our foreign ownership based on our assessment of the information reasonably available to us, but we are not able to predict whether we will need to take action pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. The FCC could review the Company’s compliance with applicable U.S. law in connection with its consideration of the Company’s renewal applications for licenses to operate the broadcast stations the Company owns.

The failure or destruction of satellites or transmitter facilities the Company depends on to distribute its programming could materially adversely affect its businesses and results of operations, as could changes in FCC regulations governing the availability and use of satellite transmission spectrum.

The Company uses satellite systems to transmit its broadcast and cable networks to affiliates. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters, including extreme weather that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, failure to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s businesses and results of operations. Each of the Company’s television stations and cable networks uses studio and transmitter facilities that are subject to damage or destruction. Failure to restore such facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s businesses and results of operations. Further, changes in FCC regulations could reduce the availability and use of satellite transmission spectrum. The decreased availability of satellite transmission spectrum could increase interference to and diminish the quality of our transmissions.If the FCC reallocates the portion of the satellite transmission spectrum the Company uses to transmit its programming without safeguarding video delivery, it would significantly hinder the Company’s ability to deliver its programming to broadcast affiliates andtraditionalMVPDs.

The Company could be subject to significant tax liabilities.

We are subject to taxation in U.S. federal, state and local jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws, regulations, practices or the interpretations thereof could affect the Company’s results of operations. Judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for taxes. In addition, transactions occur during the ordinary course of business or otherwise for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.

Tax returns are routinely audited, tax-related litigation or settlements may occur, and certain jurisdictions may assess income tax liabilities against us. The final outcomes of tax audits, investigations, and any related litigation could result in materially different tax recognition from our historical tax provisions and accruals. These outcomes could conflict with private letter rulings, opinions of counsel or other interpretations provided to the Company. If these matters are adversely resolved, we may be required to recognize additional charges to our tax provisions and pay significant additional amounts with respect to current or prior periods or our taxes in the future could increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

The Company could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets and programming.

In accordance with GAAP, the Company performs an annual impairment assessment of its recorded goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including FCC licenses. The Company also continually evaluates whether current factors or indicators, such as the prevailing conditions in the capital markets, require the performance of an interim impairment assessment of those assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets. Any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue and/or the expected popularity of our programming could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of certain reporting units. A downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit, indefinite-lived intangible assets, programming rights, investments or long-lived assets could result in a non-cash impairment charge. Any such charge could be material to the Company’s reported net earnings.






Certainof the Company’s directors and officers may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their equity ownership in NewsCorp, and certain of the Company’s officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because they also serve as officers and/or on the board of directors of NewsCorp.

Certain of the Company’s directors and executive officers own shares of common stock of News Corporation, which we refer to as News Corp, and the individual holdings may be significant for some of these individuals compared to their total assets. In addition, certain of the Company’s officers and directors also serve as officers and/or as directors of News Corp, including our Chairman, K. Rupert Murdoch, who serves as News Corp’s Executive Chairman, and our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Lachlan K. Murdoch, who serves as News Corp’s Co-Chairman. This ownership of or service to both companies may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for News Corp and the Company. In addition to any other arrangements that the Company and News Corp may agree to implement, the Company and News Corp have agreed that officers and directors who serve at both companies will recuse themselves from decisions where conflicts arise due to their positions at both companies.

Our amended and restated by-laws acknowledge that our directors and officers, as well as certain of our stockholders, including K. Rupert Murdoch, certain members of his family and certain family trusts (so long as such persons continue to own, in the aggregate, 10% or more of the voting stock of each of News Corp and the Company), each of which we refer to as a covered stockholder, are or may become stockholders, directors, officers, employees or agents of News Corp and certain of its affiliates. Our amended and restated by-laws provide that any such overlapping person will not be liable to us, or to any of our stockholders, for breach of any fiduciary duty that would otherwise exist because such individual directs a corporate opportunity to News Corp instead of us. The provisions in our amended and restated by-laws could result in an overlapping person submitting any corporate opportunities to News Corp instead of us.

Certain provisions of the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws, Delaware law, the Company’s stockholder rights agreement and the ownership of the Company’s common stock by the Murdoch Family Trust may discourage takeovers and the concentration of ownership will affect the voting results of matters submitted for stockholder approval.

The Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may make more difficult or expensive a tender offer, change in control, or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Company’s Board of Directors or certain stockholders holding a significant percentage of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock. In particular, the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws provide for, among other things:

•a dual class common equity capital structure, in which holders of FOX class A common stock can vote only in very specific, limited circumstances;

•a prohibition on stockholders taking any action by written consent without a meeting (unless there are three record holders or fewer);

•special stockholders’ meeting to be called only by a majority of the Board of Directors, the Chairman or vice or deputy chairman, or upon the written request of holders of not less than 20% of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock;

•the requirement that stockholders give the Company advance notice to nominate candidates for election to the Board of Directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders’ meeting;

•the requirement of an affirmative vote of at least 65% of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock to amend or repeal our amended and restated by-laws;

•restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s shares; and

•the Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock and series common stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine.

These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even in the case where a majority of the stockholders may consider such proposals, if effective, desirable.






Further, as a result of his ability to appoint certain members of the board of directors of the corporate trustee of the Murdoch Family Trust, which beneficially owns less than one percent of the outstanding FOX class A common stock and 39.1% of FOX class B common stock, K. Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the shares beneficially owned by the Murdoch Family Trust. K. Rupert Murdoch, however, disclaims any beneficial ownership of these shares. Also, K. Rupert Murdoch beneficially owns or may be deemed to beneficially own an additional less than one percent of FOX class B common stock and approximately one percent of FOX class A common stock. Thus, K. Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate approximately one percent of FOX class A common stock and 39.7% of FOX class B common stock.

This concentration of voting power could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an acquisition of the Company. Additionally, the ownership concentration of FOX class B common stock by the Murdoch Family Trust increases the likelihood that proposals submitted for stockholder approval that are supported by the Murdoch Family Trust will be adopted and proposals that the Murdoch Family Trust does not support will not be adopted, whether or not such proposals to stockholders are also supported by the other holders of FOX class B common stock. Furthermore, the adoption of the stockholder rights agreement prevents, unless the Company’s board of directors otherwise determines at the time, other potential stockholders from acquiring a similar ownership position in the Company’s class B common stock and, accordingly, could prevent a meaningful challenge to the Murdoch Family Trust’s influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval.

On November 6, 2019, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a $2 billion stock repurchase program for the FOX class A common stock and FOX class B common stock, which could increase the percentage of FOX class B common stock held by the Murdoch Family Trust. At the same time, the Company also announced that it had entered into a stockholders agreement by and between the Company and the Murdoch Family Trust pursuant to which the Company and the Murdoch Family Trust have agreed not to take actions that would result in the Murdoch Family Trust and Murdoch family members together owning more than 44% of the outstanding voting power of the shares of FOX class B common stock or would increase the Murdoch Family Trust’s voting power by more than 1.75% in any rolling 12-month period. The Murdoch Family Trust would forfeit votes to the extent necessary to ensure that the Murdoch Family Trust and the Murdoch family collectively do not exceed 44% of the outstanding voting power of the Class B shares, except where a Murdoch family member votes their own shares differently from the Murdoch Family Trust on any matter.

Risks Related to the Company’s Separation from 21CF

The Company may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits it expects to achieve as a standalone, publicly traded company.

Following the Transaction, the Company may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than the Company would have otherwise been while it was still part of 21CF. As part of 21CF, the Company enjoyed certain benefits from 21CF’s scale, operating diversity and access to capital, which are no longer available. As a standalone, publicly traded company, we expect to benefit from, among other things, sharpened focus on the financial and operational resources of the Company’s businesses, which allows management to design and implement a capital structure, corporate strategies and policies that are based primarily on the business characteristics and strategic opportunities of the FOX businesses. We believe this will allow us to respond more effectively to industry dynamics and to create effective incentives for management and employees that are more closely tied to FOX’s business performance. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as a standalone, publicly traded company or such benefits are delayed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.

The Company may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate effectively as a standalone, publicly traded company, and the Company may experience increased costs as a result of the Transaction.

The Company historically operated as part of 21CF’s broader corporate organization, and 21CF provided various corporate services for us, including information technology, tax administration, treasury activities, accounting, benefits administration, legal and ethics and compliance program administration. Following the Transaction, 21CF has no obligation to provide us with assistance other than the transition services under the transition services agreements entered into in connection with the Transaction. These transition services include broadcast operations, sports production, information systems and technology (enterprise, infrastructure, operations and digital), finance and accounting and other corporate services. Generally, the services provided under the transition services agreements are provided at cost for a period not exceeding two years. During this period, we depend on 21CF for these services and are subject to the risk of 21CF not properly performing its obligations under an agreement. If 21CF is not in compliance with its obligations and






following the expiration of the term for a specific service under a transition services agreement, the Company will need to provide the services internally or obtain them from third parties. The Company may be unable to replace these services in a timely manner or on terms and conditions as favorable as those the Company receives from 21CF. The Company is in the process of upgrading its systems, including information technology, and implementing additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. The Company has incurred and expects to incur additional expenses related to these steps, and these expenses may be significant. The Company may be unable to successfully establish the infrastructure or implement the changes necessary to operate independently, or may incur additional costs that could adversely affect the Company’s business. If the Company is unable to upgrade its financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology systems and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, or if the Company fails to obtain the quality of services necessary to operate effectively or incur greater costs in obtaining the services being provided by 21CF, the Company’s ability to comply with its financial reporting requirements and other rules applicable to public companies could be impaired and the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.

The Company has a limited operating history as a standalone, publicly traded company, and the Company’s historical financial information for periods prior to the date of the Transaction is not necessarily representative of the results the Company would have achieved as a standalone, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of the Company’s future results.

The Company derived the historical financial information for periods prior to the date of the Transaction (the “Pre-Transaction Periods”) included in this Annual Report from 21CF’s consolidated financial statements, and this information does not necessarily reflect the results of operations and financial position the Company would have achieved as a standalone, publicly traded company during the Pre-Transaction Periods presented, or those that it will achieve in the future. This is primarily because of the following factors:

•Prior to the Transaction, the Company operated as part of 21CF’s broader corporate organization, and 21CF provided various corporate services for the Company, including information technology, tax administration, treasury activities, accounting, benefits administration, legal and ethics and compliance program administration. The Company’s historical financial information for the Pre-Transaction Periods reflects allocations of corporate expenses from 21CF for these and similar services. These allocations may not reflect the costs the Company currently incurs, and will incur in the future, resulting from changes the Company has experienced, and expects to experience, in establishing itself as a standalone, publicly traded company, including changes in the Company’s cost structure, personnel needs, tax structure, financing and business operations.

•The Company has entered into transactions with 21CF that did not exist prior to the Transaction, including in connection with the provision of transition services, which have caused, and will continue to cause, the Company to incur new costs.

•In addition, the Company may incur increased costs as a result of the loss of synergies the Company previously enjoyed by operating as part of 21CF. Following the Transaction, the Company has been responsible for the additional costs associated with being a standalone, publicly traded company, including costs related to corporate governance, investor and public relations and public reporting.

Therefore, the Company’s historical financial statements relating to the Pre-Transaction Periods may not be indicative of the Company’s performance as a standalone, publicly traded company.






The indemnification arrangementsthe Companyentered into with 21CF in connection with theTransactionmay requirethe Companyto divert cash to satisfy indemnification obligations to21CF. The indemnification from21CFmay not be sufficient to insurethe Companyagainst the full amount of liabilities thathave beenallocated to21CF.

Pursuant to the agreements the Company and 21CF entered into in connection with the Transaction, 21CF will indemnify the Company for certain liabilities and the Company will indemnify 21CF for certain liabilities. Payments pursuant to these indemnities may be significant and could negatively impact our business. Third parties could also seek to hold the Company responsible for any of the liabilities of the businesses that were retained by 21CF in connection with the Transaction. 21CF has agreed to indemnify the Company for such liabilities, but such indemnity from 21CF may not be sufficient to protect the Company against the full amount of such liabilities, and 21CF may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if the Company ultimately succeeds in recovering from 21CF any amounts for which it is held liable, the Company may be temporarily required to bear these losses itself. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The Company could be liable for income taxes owed by 21CF.

Each member of the 21CF consolidated group, which, prior to the Transaction, included 21CF, the Company and 21CF’s other subsidiaries, is jointly and severally liable for the U.S. federal income and, in certain jurisdictions, state tax liabilities of each other member of the consolidated group for periods prior to and including the Transaction. Consequently, the Company could be liable in the event any such liability is incurred, and not discharged, by any other member of what was previously the 21CF consolidated group. The tax matters agreement entered into in connection with the Transaction requires 21CF and/or Disney to indemnify the Company for any such liability. Disputes or assessments could arise during future audits by the Internal Revenue Service in amounts that the Company cannot quantify.










