Item 1.Business.

General

NVR, Inc. (“NVR”), a Virginia corporation, was formed in 1980 as NVHomes, Inc. Our primary business is the construction and sale of
single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings, all of which are primarily constructed on a pre-sold basis. To more fully serve customers of our homebuilding operations, we also operate a mortgage banking and title services
business. We conduct our homebuilding activities directly. Our mortgage banking operations are operated primarily through a wholly owned subsidiary, NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. (“NVRM”). Unless the context otherwise requires, references to
“NVR”, “we”, “us” or “our” include NVR and its consolidated subsidiaries.

We are one of the
largest homebuilders in the United States. We operate in multiple locations in fourteen states and Washington, D.C., primarily in the eastern part of the United States. During 2013, approximately 25% and 12% of our home settlements occurred in the
Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, MD metropolitan areas, respectively, which accounted for approximately 31% and 15%, respectively, of our 2013 homebuilding revenues. Our homebuilding operations include the construction and sale of single-family
detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings under four trade names: Ryan Homes, NVHomes, Fox Ridge Homes and Heartland Homes. The Ryan Homes and Fox Ridge Homes products are marketed primarily to first-time and first-time move-up buyers.
Ryan Homes operates in twenty-seven metropolitan areas located in Maryland, Virginia, Washington, D.C., West Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Ohio, New Jersey, Delaware, Indiana, Illinois and Tennessee. Fox
Ridge Homes operates in the Nashville, TN metropolitan area. The NVHomes and Heartland Homes products are marketed primarily to move-up and up-scale buyers. NVHomes operates in Delaware and the Washington, D.C., Baltimore, MD, Philadelphia, PA and
Raleigh, NC metropolitan areas. Heartland Homes operates in the Pittsburgh, PA metropolitan area. In 2013, our average price of a settled unit was approximately $349,100.

Historically, we generally have not engaged in land development (see discussion below on our limited land development activities). Instead, we
typically acquire finished building lots at market prices from various development entities under fixed price purchase agreements (“purchase agreements”) that require deposits that may be forfeited if we fail to perform under the purchase
agreement. The deposits required under the purchase agreements are in the form of cash or letters of credit in varying amounts and represent a percentage, typically ranging up to 10%, of the aggregate purchase price of the finished lots.

We believe that our lot acquisition strategy avoids the financial requirements and risks associated with direct land ownership and land
development. We may, at our option, choose for any reason and at any time not to perform under these purchase agreements by delivering notice of our intent not to acquire the finished lots under contract. Our sole legal obligation and economic loss
for failure to perform under these purchase agreements is limited to the amount of the deposit pursuant to the liquidated damage provision contained within the purchase agreements. We do not have any financial guarantees or completion obligations
and we typically do not guarantee lot purchases on a specific performance basis under these purchase agreements. None of the creditors of any of the development entities with which we have entered these purchase agreements have recourse to our
general credit. We generally seek to maintain control over a supply of lots believed to be suitable to meet our five-year business plan.

Our continued success is contingent upon our ability to control an adequate supply of finished lots on which to build and on our
developers’ ability to deliver finished lots to meet the sales demands of our customers. However, during the past several years, the impact of economic conditions on the homebuilding industry has negatively impacted our developers’ ability
to obtain acquisition and development financing and to raise equity investments to finance land development activity. As a result of the changing environment, in certain specific strategic circumstances we deviate from our historical lot acquisition
strategy and engage in joint venture arrangements with land developers or directly acquire raw ground already zoned for its intended use for







development. Once we acquire control of any raw ground, we determine whether to sell the raw parcel to a developer and enter into a fixed price purchase agreement with the developer to purchase
the finished lots, or whether to hire a developer to develop the land on our behalf. While joint venture arrangements and direct land development activity are not our preferred method of acquiring finished building lots, we may enter into additional
transactions in the future on a limited basis where there exists a compelling strategic or prudent financial reason to do so. We expect, however, to continue to acquire substantially all of our finished lot inventory using fixed price purchase
agreements with forfeitable deposits.

As of December 31, 2013, we controlled approximately 58,100 lots under purchase agreements
with deposits in cash and letters of credit totaling approximately $296.6 million and $2.5 million, respectively. Included in the number of controlled lots are approximately 9,200 lots for which we have recorded a contract land deposit impairment
reserve of approximately $59.8 million as of December 31, 2013. In addition, we had an aggregate investment totaling approximately $92.7 million in four separate joint venture limited liability corporations (“JVs”), expected to
produce approximately 9,300 lots. Of the lots controlled by the JVs, approximately 3,400 were not under contract with us at December 31, 2013. Further, as of December 31, 2013, we directly owned five separate raw parcels of land, zoned for
their intended use, with a current cost basis, including development costs, of approximately $41.3 million that we intend to develop into approximately 650 finished lots for use in our homebuilding operations. Of the total finished lots expected to
be developed, 125 lots are under contract to be sold to an unrelated party under lot purchase agreements. See Notes 3, 4 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information regarding fixed price purchase
agreements, JVs and land under development, respectively.

In addition to building and selling homes, we provide a number of
mortgage-related services through our mortgage banking operations. Through operations in each of our homebuilding markets, NVRM originates mortgage loans almost exclusively for our homebuyers. NVRM generates revenues primarily from origination fees,
gains on sales of loans and title fees. NVRM sells all of the mortgage loans it closes into the secondary markets on a servicing released basis.

Segment information for our homebuilding and mortgage banking businesses is included in Note 2 in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements.

Current Business Environment

During 2013, sales trends in the first six months were stronger than the last six months of the year. During the first half of 2013, the
homebuilding market continued to experience the favorable sales and pricing trends which began in 2012, driven by historically low mortgage interest rates and rising costs in the rental market which contributed to higher levels of housing
affordability. Sales trends in the second half of 2013 were negatively impacted by increasing mortgage interest rates, rising home prices and buyer uncertainty. For additional information and analysis of recent trends in our operations and financial
condition, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

Homebuilding

Products

We offer single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings with many different basic home designs. These home designs have a
variety of elevations and numerous other options. Our homes combine traditional, transitional, cottage or urban exterior designs with contemporary interior designs and amenities, generally include two to four bedrooms and range from approximately
800 to 7,300 square feet. During 2013, the prices at which we settled homes ranged from approximately $120,000 to $2.1 million and averaged approximately $349,100. During 2012, our average price was approximately $317,100.







Markets

Our four reportable homebuilding segments operate in the following geographic regions:



Mid Atlantic:Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware and Washington, D.C.North East:New Jersey and eastern PennsylvaniaMid East:New York, Ohio, western Pennsylvania, Indiana and IllinoisSouth East:North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida and Tennessee

Backlog

Backlog totaled 4,945 units and approximately $1.8 billion at December 31, 2013 compared to backlog of 4,979 units and approximately $1.7
billion at December 31, 2012. Backlog, which represents homes sold but not yet settled with the customer, may be impacted by customer cancellations for various reasons that are beyond our control, such as the customer’s failure to obtain
mortgage financing, inability to sell an existing home, job loss or a variety of other reasons. In any period, a portion of the cancellations that we experience are related to new sales that occurred during the same period, and a portion are related
to sales that occurred in prior periods and therefore appeared in the opening backlog for the current period. Expressed as the total of all cancellations during the period as a percentage of gross sales during the period, our cancellation rate was
approximately 15% in both 2013 and 2012, and 14% in 2011. During each of 2013, 2012 and 2011, approximately 6% of a quarter’s opening backlog balance cancelled during the fiscal quarter. We can provide no assurance that our historical
cancellation rates are indicative of the actual cancellation rate that may occur in future periods. Other than those units that are cancelled, we expect to settle substantially all of our December 31, 2013 backlog during 2014. See “Risk
Factors” in Item 1A and “Seasonality” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

Further discussion of settlements, new orders
and backlog activity by homebuilding reportable segment for each of the last three years can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

Construction

We
utilize independent subcontractors under fixed price contracts to perform construction work on our homes. We use several independent subcontractors in our various markets and we are not dependent on any single subcontractor or on a small number of
subcontractors.

Sales and Marketing

Our preferred marketing method is for customers to visit a furnished model home featuring many built-in options and a landscaped lot. The
garages of these model homes are usually converted into temporary sales centers where alternative facades and floor plans are displayed and designs for other models are available for review. Sales representatives are compensated predominantly on a
commission basis.

Regulation

We and our subcontractors must comply with various federal, state and local zoning, building, environmental, advertising and consumer credit
statutes, rules and regulations, as well as other regulations and requirements in connection with our construction and sales activities. All of these regulations have increased the cost to produce and market our products, and in some instances, have
delayed our developers’ ability to deliver finished lots to us. Counties and cities in which we build homes have at times declared moratoriums on the issuance of building permits and imposed other restrictions in the areas in which sewage
treatment facilities and other public facilities do not reach minimum standards. In addition, our homebuilding operations are regulated in certain areas by restrictive zoning and density requirements that limit the number of homes that can be built
within the boundaries of a particular area. To date, restrictive zoning laws and the imposition of moratoriums have not had a material adverse effect on our construction activities.







Competition and Market Factors

The housing industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous homebuilders of varying size, ranging from local to national in scope,
some of which have greater financial resources than we do. We also face competition from the home resale market. Our homebuilding operations compete primarily on the basis of price, location, design, quality, service and reputation. Historically, we
have been one of the market leaders in each of the markets where we build homes.

The housing industry is cyclical and is affected by
consumer confidence levels, prevailing economic conditions and interest rates. Other factors that affect the housing industry and the demand for new homes include the availability and the cost of land, labor and materials; changes in consumer
preferences; demographic trends; and the availability of mortgage finance programs. See “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

We are dependent upon building material suppliers for a continuous flow of raw materials. Whenever possible, we utilize standard products
available from multiple sources. In the past, such raw materials have been generally available to us in adequate supply.

Mortgage Banking

We provide a number of mortgage related services to our homebuilding customers through our mortgage banking operations. Our mortgage banking
operations also include separate subsidiaries that broker title insurance and perform title searches in connection with mortgage loan closings for which they receive commissions and fees. Because NVRM originates mortgage loans almost exclusively for
our homebuilding customers, NVRM is dependent on our homebuilding segment. In 2013, NVRM closed approximately 8,600 loans with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $2.5 billion as compared to approximately 8,000 loans with an aggregate
principal amount of approximately $2.2 billion in 2012.

NVRM sells all of the mortgage loans it closes to investors in the secondary
markets on a servicing released basis, typically within 30 days from the loan closing. NVRM is an approved seller/servicer for Fannie Mae (“FNMA”) mortgage loans and an approved seller/issuer of Ginnie Mae (“GNMA”), Freddie Mac
(“FHLMC”), Department of Veterans Affairs (“VA”) and Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”) mortgage loans.

Regulation

NVRM
is an approved seller/servicer of FNMA mortgage loans and an approved seller/issuer of GNMA, FHLMC, VA and FHA mortgage loans, and is subject to all of those agencies’ rules and regulations. These rules and regulations restrict certain
activities of NVRM. NVRM is currently eligible and expects to remain eligible to participate in such programs. In addition, NVRM is subject to regulation at the state and federal level, including regulations issued by the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”) with respect to specific origination, selling and servicing practices.

Competition and
Market Factors

NVRM’s main competition comes from national, regional, and local mortgage bankers, mortgage brokers, credit
unions and banks in each of these markets. NVRM competes primarily on the basis of customer service, variety of products offered, interest rates offered, prices of ancillary services and relative financing availability and costs.

Pipeline

NVRM’s mortgage loans in process that had not closed at December 31, 2013 and 2012 had an aggregate principal balance of
approximately $1.1 billion in each year. NVRM’s cancellation rate was approximately 35%,







36% and 29% in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We can provide no assurance that our historical loan cancellation rates are indicative of the actual loan cancellation rate that may occur in
future periods. See “Risk Factors” in Item 1A in this Form 10-K.

Employees

At December 31, 2013, we employed 3,944 full-time persons. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and we
have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our employee relations are good.

Available Information

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
“SEC”). These filings are available to the public over the internet at the SEC’s website athttp://www.sec.gov.All of the documents we file with the SEC may also be read and copied at the SEC’s public reference
room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.

Our principal internet website can be found athttp://www.nvrinc.com.We make available free of charge on or through our website,
access to our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed, or furnished, to the SEC.

Our website also includes a corporate governance section which contains our Corporate Governance Guidelines (which includes our
Directors’ Independence Standards), Code of Ethics, Board of Directors’ Committee Charters for the Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance, Nominating and Qualified Legal Compliance Committees, Policies and Procedures for the
Consideration of Board of Director Candidates, and Policies and Procedures Regarding Communications with the NVR, Inc. Board of Directors, the Independent Lead Director and the Non-Management Directors as a Group. Additionally, amendments to and
waivers from a provision of the Code of Ethics that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or persons performing similar functions will be disclosed on our website.

Forward-Looking Statements







