Item 1.Business.

General

NVR, Inc. (“NVR”) was formed in 1980 as NVHomes, Inc. Our primary business is the
construction and sale of single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings. To
more fully serve customers of our homebuilding operations, we also operate a mortgage banking and
title services business. We conduct our homebuilding activities directly. Our mortgage banking
operations are operated primarily through a wholly owned subsidiary, NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc.
(“NVRM”). Unless the context otherwise requires, references to “NVR”, “we”, “us” or “our” include
NVR and its consolidated subsidiaries.

We are one of the largest homebuilders in the United States. While we operate in multiple
locations in fourteen states, primarily in the eastern part of the United States, approximately 37%
of our home settlements in 2010 occurred in the Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, MD metropolitan
areas, which accounted for 47% of our 2010 homebuilding revenues. Our homebuilding operations
include the construction and sale of single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium
buildings under four trade names: Ryan Homes, NVHomes, Fox Ridge Homes and Rymarc Homes. The Ryan
Homes, Fox Ridge Homes, and Rymarc Homes products are marketed primarily to first-time homeowners
and first-time move-up buyers. The Ryan Homes product is currently sold in twenty-three
metropolitan areas located in Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio, New Jersey, Delaware, Kentucky, Indiana and Florida. The Fox Ridge
Homes product is sold solely in the Nashville, TN metropolitan area and the Rymarc Homes product is
sold solely in the Columbia, SC metropolitan area. The NVHomes product is marketed primarily to
move-up and upscale buyers and is sold in the Washington, D.C., Baltimore, MD, Philadelphia, PA and
the Maryland Eastern Shore metropolitan areas. In 2010, our average price of a settled unit was
approximately $297,100.

Historically, we generally have not engaged in land development (see discussion below on our
recent limited land development activities). Instead, we typically acquire finished building lots
at market prices from various development entities under fixed price purchase agreements (“purchase
agreements”) that require deposits that may be forfeited if we fail to perform under the purchase
agreement. The deposits required under the purchase agreements are in the form of cash or letters
of credit in varying amounts and represent a percentage, typically ranging up to 10%, of the
aggregate purchase price of the finished lots.

We believe that our lot acquisition strategy avoids the financial requirements and risks
associated with direct land ownership and land development. We may, at our option, choose for any
reason and at any time not to perform under these purchase agreements by delivering notice of our
intent not to acquire the finished lots under contract. Our sole legal obligation and economic
loss for failure to perform under these purchase agreements is limited to the amount of the deposit
pursuant to the liquidated damage provision contained within the purchase agreements. We do not
have any financial guarantees or completion obligations and we typically do not guarantee lot
purchases on a specific performance basis under these purchase agreements. None of the creditors
of any of the development entities with which we have entered these purchase agreements have
recourse to our general credit. We generally seek to maintain control over a supply of lots
believed to be suitable to meet our five-year business plan.

Our continued success is contingent upon our ability to control an adequate supply of finished
lots on which to build and on our developers’ ability to timely deliver finished lots to meet the
sales demands of our customers. However, current economic conditions and the continued downturn of
the homebuilding industry have exerted pressure on our developers’ ability to obtain acquisition
and development financing or to raise equity investments to finance land development activity,
potentially constraining our supply of finished lots. This pressure has necessitated that in
certain specific strategic circumstances we deviate from our historical lot acquisition strategy
and engage in joint venture arrangements with land developers or directly acquire raw ground
already zoned for its intended use for development. Once we acquire control of any raw ground, we
will determine whether to sell the raw parcel to a developer and enter into a fixed price purchase
agreement with the






developer to purchase the finished lots, or whether we will hire a developer to
develop the land on our behalf. While joint venture arrangements and direct land development
activity are not our preferred method of acquiring finished building lots, we may enter into
additional transactions in the future on a limited basis where there exists
a compelling strategic or prudent financial reason to do so. We expect, however, to continue to
acquire substantially all of our finished lot inventory using fixed price purchase agreements with
forfeitable deposits.

As of December 31, 2010, we controlled approximately 50,400 lots under purchase agreements
with deposits in cash and letters of credit totaling approximately $174.3 million and $6.6 million
respectively. Included in the number of controlled lots are approximately 10,300 lots for which we
have recorded a contract land deposit impairment reserve of approximately $73.5 million as of
December 31, 2010. In addition, we had an aggregate investment totaling approximately $37 million
in three separate joint venture limited liability corporations (“JVs”), through which we controlled
approximately 1,100 lots. Further, as of December 31, 2010, we directly acquired four separate raw
parcels of land, zoned for their intended use, with a current cost basis, including development
costs, of approximately $78 million that we intend to develop into approximately 890 finished lots
for use in our homebuilding operations. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements
included herein for additional information regarding JVs and land under development.

In addition to building and selling homes, we provide a number of mortgage-related services
through our mortgage banking operations. Through operations in each of our homebuilding markets,
NVRM originates mortgage loans almost exclusively for our homebuyers. NVRM generates revenues
primarily from origination fees, gains on sales of loans and title fees. NVRM sells all of the
mortgage loans it closes into the secondary markets on a servicing released basis.

Segment information for our homebuilding and mortgage banking businesses is included in Note 2
in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Current Business Environment

During 2010 the homebuilding environment continued to be negatively impacted by economic
uncertainty. The market stabilization we experienced toward the end of 2009 and into the first
quarter of 2010 was negatively impacted by the April 30, 2010 expiration of the federal homebuyer
tax credit. After April 30, 2010, new home sales experienced sharp declines, providing evidence
that rather than increasing overall demand, the tax credit may have merely accelerated existing
demand. The current home sales environment continues to be adversely impacted by high inventory
levels; low consumer confidence driven by high unemployment rates; and a highly restrictive
mortgage lending environment that has made it more difficult for our customers to obtain mortgage
financing. For additional information and analysis of recent trends in our operations and
financial condition, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

Homebuilding

Products

We offer single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings with many different
basic home designs. These home designs have a variety of elevations and numerous other options.
Our homes combine traditional or colonial exterior designs with contemporary interior designs and
amenities, generally include two to four bedrooms and range from approximately 1,000 to 7,300
square feet. During 2010, the prices at which we settled homes ranged from approximately $97,000
to $1.7 million and averaged approximately $297,100. During 2009, our average price was
approximately $296,400.






Markets

Our four reportable homebuilding segments operate in the following geographic regions:

Mid Atlantic:Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia and DelawareNorth East:New Jersey and eastern PennsylvaniaMid East:Kentucky, New York, Ohio, western Pennsylvania and IndianaSouth East:North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida and Tennessee

Further discussion of settlements, new orders and backlog activity by homebuilding reportable
segment for each of the last three years can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

Backlog

Backlog totaled 2,916 units and approximately $1.0 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to
backlog of 3,531 units and approximately $1.1 billion at December 31, 2009. Backlog, which
represents homes sold but not yet settled with the customer, may be impacted by customer
cancellations for various reasons that are beyond our control, such as failure to obtain mortgage
financing, inability to sell an existing home, job loss, or a variety of other reasons. In any
period, a portion of the cancellations that we experience are related to new sales that occurred
during the same period, and a portion are related to sales that occurred in prior periods and
therefore appeared in the opening backlog for the current period. Expressed as the total of all
cancellations during the period as a percentage of gross sales during the period, our cancellation
rate was approximately 14%, 14% and 23% in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2010, 2009
and 2008, approximately 6%, 7% and 10% of a reporting quarter’s opening backlog cancelled during
the fiscal quarter, respectively. We can provide no assurance that our historical cancellation
rates are indicative of the actual cancellation rate that may occur in future periods. See “Risk
Factors” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Construction

We utilize independent subcontractors under fixed price contracts to perform construction work
on our homes. The subcontractors’ work is performed under the supervision of our employees who
monitor quality control. We use several independent subcontractors in our various markets and we
are not dependent on any single subcontractor or on a small number of subcontractors.

Sales and Marketing

Our preferred marketing method is for customers to visit a furnished model home featuring many
built-in options and a landscaped lot. The garages of these model homes are usually converted into
temporary sales centers where alternative facades and floor plans are displayed and designs for
other models are available for review. Sales representatives are compensated predominantly on a
commission basis.

Regulation

We and our subcontractors must comply with various federal, state and local zoning, building,
environmental, advertising and consumer credit statutes, rules and regulations, as well as other
regulations and requirements in connection with our construction and sales activities. All of
these regulations have increased the cost to produce and market our products, and in some
instances, have delayed our developers’ abilities to deliver us finished lots. Counties and cities
in which we build homes have at times declared moratoriums on the issuance of building permits and
imposed other restrictions in the areas in which sewage treatment facilities and other public
facilities do not reach minimum standards. To date, restrictive zoning laws and the imposition of
moratoriums have not had a material adverse effect on our construction activities. However, in
certain markets in which we operate, we believe that our growth has been hampered by the longer
time periods necessary for our developers to obtain the necessary governmental approvals.






Competition and Market Factors

The housing industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous homebuilders of varying
size, ranging from local to national in scope, some of which have greater financial resources than
we do. We also face competition from the home resale market. Our homebuilding operations compete
primarily on the basis of price, location, design, quality, service and reputation. Historically
we have been one of the market leaders in each of the markets where we build homes.

The housing industry is cyclical and is affected by consumer confidence levels, prevailing
economic conditions and interest rates. Other factors that affect the housing industry and the
demand for new homes include the availability and the cost of land, labor and materials; changes in
consumer preferences; demographic trends; and the availability of mortgage finance programs. See
“Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

We are dependent upon building material suppliers for a continuous flow of raw materials.
Whenever possible, we utilize standard products available from multiple sources. In the past, such
raw materials have been generally available to us in adequate supply.

Mortgage Banking

We provide a number of mortgage related services to our homebuilding customers through our
mortgage banking operations. Our mortgage banking operations also include separate subsidiaries
that broker title insurance and perform title searches in connection with mortgage loan closings
for which they receive commissions and fees. Because NVRM originates mortgage loans almost
exclusively for our homebuilding customers, NVRM is dependent on our homebuilding segment. In
2010, NVRM closed approximately 8,600 loans with an aggregate principal amount of approximately
$2.2 billion as compared to approximately 8,000 loans with an aggregate principal amount of
approximately $2.1 billion in 2009.

NVRM sells all of the mortgage loans it closes to investors in the secondary markets on a
servicing released basis, typically within 30 days from the loan closing. NVRM is an approved
seller/servicer for FNMA, GNMA, FHLMC, VA and FHA mortgage loans.

Competition and Market Factors

NVRM’s main competition comes from national, regional, and local mortgage bankers, mortgage
brokers, thrifts and banks in each of these markets. NVRM competes primarily on the basis of
customer service, variety of products offered, interest rates offered, prices of ancillary services
and relative financing availability and costs.

Regulation

NVRM is an approved seller/servicer of FNMA, GNMA, FHLMC, FHA and VA mortgage loans, and is
subject to all of those agencies’ rules and regulations. These rules and regulations restrict
certain activities of NVRM. NVRM is currently eligible and expects to remain eligible to
participate in such programs. In addition, NVRM is subject to regulation at the state and federal
level with respect to specific origination, selling and servicing practices.

Pipeline

NVRM’s mortgage loans in process that have not closed (“Pipeline”) at December 31, 2010 and
2009, had an aggregate principal balance of approximately $670 million and $770 million,
respectively. NVRM’s cancellation rate was approximately 29% in 2010. During 2009 and 2008,
NVRM’s loan cancellation rates were approximately 35% and 49%, respectively. We can provide no
assurance that our historical loan cancellation rates are indicative of the actual loan
cancellation rate that may occur in future periods. See “Risk Factors” in Item 1A in this Form
10-K.






Employees

At December 31, 2010, we employed 2,822 full-time persons, of whom 1,076 were officers and
management personnel, 174 were technical and construction personnel, 580 were sales personnel, 490
were administrative personnel and 502 were engaged in various other service and labor activities.
None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and we have never
experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our employee relations are good.

Available Information

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). These filings are available to the public over the
Internet at the SEC’s website athttp://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we
file at the SEC’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please
call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.

Our principal Internet website can be found athttp://www.nvrinc.com.We make available free
of charge on or through our website, access to our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
practicable after such material is electronically filed, or furnished, to the SEC.

Our website also includes a corporate governance section which contains our Corporate
Governance Guidelines (which includes our Directors’ Independence Standards), Code of Ethics, Board
of Directors’ Committee Charters for the Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance, Nominating and
Qualified Legal Compliance Committees, Policies and Procedures for the Consideration of Board of
Director Candidates, Policies and Procedures Regarding Communications with the NVR, Inc. Board of
Directors, the Independent Lead Director and the Non-Management Directors as a group.
Additionally, amendments to and waivers from a provision of the Code of Ethics that apply to our
principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or persons
performing similar functions will be disclosed on our website.

