Item 1. Business.

Overview

Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in Delaware primarily engaged in business through its
subsidiaries. Accordingly, references below to "Ameriprise," "Ameriprise Financial," the "Company," "we," "us," and "our" may refer to Ameriprise Financial, Inc. exclusively, to our entire
family of companies, or to one or more of our subsidiaries. Our headquarters is located at 55 Ameriprise Financial Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55474. We also maintain executive offices in New York
City.

We
are a diversified financial services company with $631 billion in assets under management and administration as of December 31, 2011. We serve individual investors' and institutions'
financial needs, hold leadership positions in financial planning, wealth management, retirement, asset management, annuities and insurance, and we maintain a strong operating and financial foundation.

Ameriprise
is in a strong position to capitalize on significant demographic and market trends, which we believe will continue to drive increased demand for our services. Our emphasis on deep
client-advisor relationships has been central to the success of our business model, including through the extreme market conditions of the past few years, and we believe it will help us navigate
future market and economic cycles. We continue to strengthen our position as a retail financial services leader as we focus on meeting the financial needs of the mass affluent and affluent, as
evidenced by our leadership in financial planning, a client retention percentage rate of 92%, and our status as a top ten ranked firm within core portions of our four main business segments, including
the size of our U.S. advisor force, and assets in long-term U.S. mutual funds, variable annuities and variable universal life insurance.

We
go to market in two primary ways:

•Wealth Management and Retirement; and•Asset Management.

With
respect to our wealth management and retirement capabilities, we offer financial planning, products and services designed to be used as solutions for our clients' cash and liquidity, asset
accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth transfer needs. Our model for delivering product solutions is built on long-term, personal relationships between our clients and our
financial advisors and registered representatives ("affiliated advisors"). Our focus on personal relationships, together with our discipline in financial planning and strengths in product development
and advice, allow us to address the evolving financial and retirement-related needs of our clients, including our primary target market segment, the mass affluent and affluent, which we define as
households with investable assets of more than $100,000. The financial product solutions we offer through our affiliated advisors include both our own products and services and the products of other
companies. Our affiliated advisor network is the primary channel through which we offer our life insurance and annuity products and services, as well as a range of banking and protection products.

Our
affiliated advisors are focused on using a financial planning and advisory process designed to provide comprehensive advice that focuses on all aspects of our clients' finances. This approach
allows us to recommend actions and a broad range of product solutions, including investment, annuity, insurance, banking and other financial products that can help
clients attain a return or form of protection over time while accepting what they determine to be an appropriate range and level of risk. We believe our focus on meeting clients' needs through
personal financial planning results in more satisfied clients with deeper, longer lasting relationships with our company and higher retention of our affiliated advisors.

As
of December 31, 2011, we had a network of more than 9,700 affiliated advisors. We offer our affiliated advisors training, tools, leadership, marketing programs and other field and
centralized support to assist them in delivering advice and product solutions to clients. We believe our comprehensive and client-focused approach not only improves the products and services we
provide to their clients, but also allows us to reinvest in enhanced services for clients and increase support for financial advisors.

With
respect to asset management, we have an increasingly global presence. We have two asset management platforms: Columbia Management in the U.S. and Threadneedle overseas. We serve individual,
institutional and high-net worth investors. We offer a broad spectrum of equity, fixed income and alternative products that we primarily distribute through third-parties as well as through
our own affiliated advisor channel. We are expanding beyond our traditional strengths in the U.S. and U.K. to gather assets in Continental Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East. We believe we
are well positioned to continue to strengthen our offerings to existing and new clients and deliver profitable long-term growth to our shareholders.









The
financial results from the businesses underlying our go to market approach are reflected in our five operating segments:

•Advice & Wealth Management;•Asset Management;•Annuities;•Protection; and•Corporate & Other.

Financial
markets and macroeconomic conditions have had and will continue to have a significant impact on the operating results of each of our segments. In 2011, persistent economic headwinds and
geo-political crises increased volatility and weighed on the performance of financial markets. The S&P 500 Index ended the year virtually unchanged, while many international equity
markets experienced sharp declines and interest rates remained exceptionally low. In addition to struggles in the economy and financial markets, the business and regulatory environment in which we
operate remains subject to uncertainty and change, and we expect this challenging climate to continue. To succeed, we expect to continue focusing on each of our key strategic objectives. The success
of these and other strategies may be affected by the factors discussed below in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K — "Risk Factors", and other
factors as discussed herein.

In
2011, we generated $10.2 billion in total net revenues. Net income from continuing operations attributable to Ameriprise Financial for 2011 was $1.1 billion. Return on equity,
excluding accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI"), was 11.5 percent.

As
a diversified financial services firm, we believe our ability to gather assets across the enterprise is best measured by our assets under management and administration metric. At
December 31, 2011, we had $631.3 billion in assets under management and administration worldwide compared to $647.5 billion as of December 31, 2010, as follows:

As of December 31,20112010(in billions)Managed$527.6$541.9Administered103.7105.6Total$631.3$647.5

For a more detailed discussion of assets under management and administration see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our Principal Brands

We use three principal brands for our businesses in the United States:Ameriprise
Financial,Columbia ManagementandRiverSource. We use ourThreadneedlebrand for
our international asset manager's products. We believe that using distinct brands for the products and services of our various
businesses allows us to differentiate them in the marketplace.

We
useAmeriprise Financialas our holding company brand, as well as the name of our affiliated advisor network and certain of our retail products and
services. The retail products and services that use theAmeriprise Financial® brand include those that we provide through our affiliated
advisors (e.g., financial planning, investment advisory accounts, retail brokerage services and banking products) and products and services that we market directly to consumers (e.g., personal auto
and home insurance).

We
useColumbia Managementas the primary brand for our U.S. asset management products and services. Following the completion of the acquisition of the
long-term asset management business of the Columbia Management Group from Bank of America in April 2010, we combined RiverSource Investments, our legacy U.S. asset management business,
with Columbia Management, under theColumbia Management® brand. Our U.S. asset management products, including retail and institutional asset
management products, primarily use theColumbia Managementname.

We
use ourRiverSource® brand for our annuities products and for the protection products issued by the RiverSource Life companies, including
our life and disability income insurance products.

History and Development

Our company has a more than 117 year history of providing financial solutions designed to help clients achieve their financial
objectives. Our earliest predecessor company, Investors Syndicate, was founded in 1894 to provide face-amount certificates to consumers with a need for conservative investments. By 1937,
Investors Syndicate had expanded its









product
offerings through Federal Housing Authority mortgages, and later, mutual funds, by establishing Investors Mutual, one of the pioneers in the mutual fund industry. In 1949, Investors Syndicate
was renamed Investors Diversified Services, Inc., or IDS. In 1957, IDS added life insurance products, and later, annuity products, through IDS Life Insurance Company (now known as "RiverSource
Life Insurance Company"). In 1972, IDS began to expand its network by delivering investment products directly to clients of unaffiliated financial institutions. IDS also introduced its comprehensive
financial planning processes to clients, integrating the identification of client needs with the products and services to address those needs in the 1970s, and it introduced fee-based
planning in the 1980s.

In
1979, IDS became a wholly owned subsidiary of Alleghany Corporation pursuant to a merger. In 1983, our company was formed as a Delaware corporation in connection with American Express' 1984
acquisition of IDS Financial Services from Alleghany Corporation. We changed our name to "American Express Financial Corporation" ("AEFC") and began marketing our products and services under the
American Express brand in 1994. To provide retail clients with a more comprehensive set of products and services, we significantly expanded our offering of the mutual funds of other companies in the
late 1990s. In 2003, we acquired the business of Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings.

On
September 30, 2005, American Express consummated a distribution of the shares of AEFC to American Express shareholders, at which time we became an independent, publicly traded company and
changed our name to "Ameriprise Financial, Inc." In 2008, we completed the acquisitions of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc., Brecek & Young Advisors, Inc. and J. &
W. Seligman & Co. Incorporated ("Seligman"), which further expanded our retail advisor network and our asset management capabilities. Also in 2008, we initiated the disposition of our
institutional trust and custody business and completed that restructuring in early 2009. In 2010, we completed the acquisition of the long-term asset management business of Columbia
Management from Bank of America. This acquisition, the integration of which is expected to be completed in 2012, has enhanced the scale and performance of our retail mutual fund and institutional
asset management businesses.

In
2011, we completed the sale of Securities America Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries ("Securities America") to Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services, Inc. Securities America had
provided a platform for the affiliation of independent advisors and registered representatives to conduct business without utilizing theAmeriprise® brand. The sale allows us to focus our efforts on
servicing and developing our branded advisor network.

Our Organization

The following is a depiction of the organizational structure for our company, showing the primary subsidiaries through which we
operate our businesses. The current legal entity names are provided for each subsidiary.











Following
is a brief description of the business conducted by each subsidiary noted above, as well as the segment or segments in which it primarily operates.

Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Sàrlis a Luxembourg-based holding company for the Threadneedle group of companies ("Threadneedle"),
which provides investment management products and services to clients in the United Kingdom, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region independent from our other affiliates.
Operating under its own brand name, management organization and operating, compliance and technology infrastructure, Threadneedle's results of operations are included in our Asset Management segment.

Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC("CMIA") serves as investment adviser for the majority of funds in theColumbia
Managementfamily of mutual funds ("Columbia Managementfunds") and to institutional accounts. Its results of operations are
included in our Asset Management and Corporate & Other segments.

J. & W. Seligman & Co., Incorporatedis a holding company for Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. and certain other
subsidiaries within our Asset Management segment. Seligman's results of operations are included in our Asset Management segment.

Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc.is a broker-dealer subsidiary that serves as the principal underwriter and distributor forColumbia Managementfunds. Its results of operations are included in our Asset Management segment.

Columbia Management Investment Services Corp.is a transfer agent that processes client transactions forColumbia
Managementfunds and Ameriprise face-amount certificates. Its results of operations are included in our Asset Management and Advice & Wealth Management
segments.

AMPF Holding Corporationis a holding company for certain of our retail brokerage and advisory subsidiaries, including AFSI (defined below) and AEIS
(defined below). AMPF Holding Corporation's results of operations are included in our Advice & Wealth Management segment.

American Enterprise Investment Services Inc.("AEIS") is our registered clearing broker-dealer subsidiary. Brokerage transactions for accounts
introduced by AFSI are executed, cleared and settled through AEIS. Its results of operations are included in our Advice & Wealth Management segment.

Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc.("AFSI"), a registered broker-dealer and registered investment adviser, is our primary financial planning and
retail distribution subsidiary. Its results of operations are included in our Advice & Wealth Management segment.

RiverSource Distributors, Inc.("RiverSource Distributors") is a broker-dealer subsidiary that serves as the principal underwriter and/or
distributor for ourRiverSourceannuities and insurance products sold through AFSI as well as through third-party channels. Its results of operations are
included in our Annuities and Protection segments.

RiverSource Life Insurance Company("RiverSource Life") conducts its insurance and annuity business in states other than New York. Its results of
operations for our annuities business are included primarily in the Annuities segment, and its results of operations with respect to our life and health insurance products it manufactures are
reflected primarily in the Protection segment. Investment income on excess capital is reported in the Corporate & Other segment.

RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York("RiverSource Life of NY") conducts its insurance and annuity business in the State of New York. Its
results of operations for our annuities business are included primarily in the Annuities segment, and its results of operations with respect to our life and health insurance products it manufactures
are reflected primarily in the Protection segment. Investment income on excess capital is reported in the Corporate & Other segment. RiverSource Life of NY is a wholly owned subsidiary of
RiverSource Life. We refer to RiverSource Life and RiverSource Life of NY as the "RiverSource Life companies."

IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company("IDS Property Casualty" or "Ameriprise Auto & Home") provides personal auto, home and excess liability
insurance products.Ameriprise Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of IDS Property Casualty, is also licensed to provide these products. The
results of operations of these companies are included in the Protection segment.

Ameriprise Certificate Companyissues a variety of face-amount certificates. Its results of operations are included in the Advice &
Wealth Management segment.

Ameriprise Trust Companyprovides trust services to individuals and businesses. Its results of operations are included in the Asset Management segment.

Ameriprise Bank, FSB("Ameriprise Bank") offers a variety of consumer banking and lending products and personal trust and related services. Its results of
operations are included in the Advice & Wealth Management segment.











Our Segments — Advice & Wealth Management

Our Advice & Wealth Management segment provides financial planning and advice, as well as full-service brokerage
and banking services, primarily to retail clients through our affiliated advisors. Our affiliated advisors have access to a diversified selection of both affiliated and non-affiliated
products to help clients meet their financial needs. A significant portion of revenues in this segment is fee-based, driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market
movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on owned assets primarily from certificate and banking products. This segment earns revenues (distribution fees) for providing
non-affiliated products and earns intersegment revenues (distribution fees) for providing our
affiliated products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All
intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. In 2011, 28% of our revenues from external clients were attributable to our Advice & Wealth Management business.

Our Financial Advisor Platform

We provide clients financial planning, advice and brokerage services through our nationwide network of more than 9,700 affiliated
advisors, of which more than 2,200 are employees of our company and more than 7,500 are independent franchisees or employees or contractors of franchisees. With the sale of Securities America, we no
longer offer a platform for unbranded financial advisors.

Advisors
can choose to affiliate with our company in two different ways. Each affiliation offers different levels of support and compensation, with the amount of compensation we pay to each advisor
determined by the type of service or product provided, the type of advisor affiliation and other criteria. The affiliation options are:

•Employee Advisors.Under this affiliation, a financial advisor is an employee
of our company. We pay compensation competitive with other employee advisor models and provide a high level of support, including local office space and staff support in exchange for a payout rate
lower than that of our franchisee advisors. Employee advisors are also employed in the Ameriprise Advisor Center ("AAC"), a dedicated center for remote-based sales and service to Ameriprise retail
customers. Advisors in the AAC serve retail customers who do not have access to a local advisor or who prefer a remote relationship with a financial advisor.•Franchisee Advisors.Under this affiliation, a financial advisor is an
independent contractor franchisee who affiliates with our company and has the right to use the Ameriprise brand. We pay our franchisee advisors a higher payout rate than our employee advisors as they
are responsible for paying their own overhead, staff compensation and other business expenses. In addition, our franchisee advisors pay a franchise association fee and other fees in exchange for the
support we offer and the right to utilize our brand name. The support we offer to our franchisee advisors includes generalist and specialist leadership support, technology platforms and tools,
training and marketing programs.

During
2011, we took a number of steps to enhance the public awareness of the Ameriprise brand and the performance of our affiliated advisors. In September, we introduced a new advertising campaign
that builds on our MORE WITHIN REACH® brand platform and highlights the Company's rich history, financial strength and commitment to clients. We continued to invest in and implement the
conversion to an enhanced brokerage platform designed to be the core technology tool our affiliated advisors use to service clients. The enhanced technology platform integrates with other advisor
resources to help advisors run a more efficient practice, increase productivity and offer clients additional products and services. We expect to have all advisors on this technology platform by the
end of 2012. We also continued to recruit experienced financial advisors from other firms and to affiliate such advisors within our affiliated advisor platform. Over the past three years, more than
1,100 experienced financial advisors have joined Ameriprise.

Our
strong financial advisor retention rate speaks to the value proposition we offer advisors. As of December 31, 2011, over 55% of our affiliated advisors had been with us for more than
10 years, with an average tenure of nearly 18 years. Among affiliated advisors who have been with us for more than 10 years, we have a retention rate of over 97%. We believe
this success is driven by the affiliation choices we offer affiliated advisors, together with our competitive payout arrangements and the broad support that helps them build their practices.

Our
affiliated advisors can offer clients a diversified set of cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth transfer products and services, as well as a selection
of products from other companies, as described below.

Brokerage and Investment Advisory Services

Individual and Family Financial Services

The personalized financial planning approach of our affiliated advisors focuses on all aspects of our clients' finances. After
understanding our clients' needs, our advisors seek to identify solutions to address those needs across four cornerstones:









cash
and liabilities, investments, protection and taxes. We believe this approach helps our clients build a solid financial foundation, persevere through difficult economies and challenging markets,
and ultimately achieve their financial goals. We offer a broad array of products and services in each of these categories, including those carrying the Ameriprise Financial, Columbia or RiverSource
name, as well as solutions offered by unaffiliated firms.

Our
affiliated advisors deliver financial solutions to our advisory clients by building long-term personal relationships through financial planning that is responsive to clients' evolving
needs. We utilize the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards, Inc.'s defined financial planning process of Engage, Gather, Analyze, Recommend, Implement and Monitor. This process
involves gathering relevant financial information, setting life goals, examining clients' current financial status and determining a strategy or plan for helping clients meet their goals given their
current situation and future plans. Once we identify a financial planning client's objectives, we then recommend a solution set consisting of actions — such as paying down debt,
increasing savings and investment, protecting income and assets, creating a will, and including tax qualified formats in the client's allocation of savings and investment — as well
as offer products to address these objectives with clients accepting what they determine to be an appropriate range and level of risk. Our financial planning relationships with our clients are
characterized by an ability to thoroughly understand their specific needs, which enables us to help them meet those needs, achieve high overall client satisfaction, hold more products in their
accounts and increase our assets under management.

Our
financial planning clients pay a fee for the receipt of financial planning services. This fee is based on the complexity of a client's financial and life situation and his or her advisor's
experience. The fee for financial planning services is not based on or related to actual investment performance; however, our clients may elect to pay a consolidated, asset-based advisory fee for
financial planning and managed account services. If clients elect to implement their financial plan with our
company, we and our affiliated advisors generally receive a sales commission and/or sales load and other revenues for the products that they purchase from us. These commissions, sales loads and other
revenues are separate from, and in addition to, the financial planning fees we and our affiliated advisors may receive.

Brokerage and Other Products and Services

We offer our retail and institutional clients a variety of brokerage and other investment products and services.

OurAmeriprise ONE® Financial Account is a single integrated financial management account that combines a client's investment, banking and
lending relationships. TheAmeriprise ONEFinancial Account enables clients to access a single cash account to fund a variety of financial transactions,
including investments in mutual funds, individual securities, cash products and margin lending. Additional features include unlimited check writing with overdraft protection, a MasterCard®
debit card, online bill payments, ATM access and a savings account.

We
provide securities execution and clearing services for our retail and institutional clients through our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. Clients can use our online brokerage service to
purchase and sell securities, obtain independent research and information about a wide variety of securities, and use self-directed asset allocation and other financial planning tools. We
also offer shares in public non-exchange traded Real Estate Investment Trusts, structured notes, and other alternative investments issued by unaffiliated companies.

Through
AmeripriseAchiever Circle, we offer benefits and rewards to clients who have $100,000 or more invested with us. Clients who have $500,000 or more
invested with us are eligible for AmeripriseAchiever Circle Elite, which includes additional benefits. To qualify for and maintainAchiever CircleorAchiever Circle Elitestatus, clients must meet certain eligibility and maintenance
requirements. Special benefits of the program may include fee reductions or waivers on Ameriprise IRAs and theAmeriprise ONEFinancial Accounts,
fee-waived Ameriprise Financial MasterCard®, fee or interest rate benefits on anAmeriprise® Savings or Advantage
Savings Accounts, and fee or rate benefits on home equity lines of credit with Ameriprise Bank.

Fee-based Investment Advisory Accounts

In addition to purchases of affiliated and non-affiliated mutual funds and other securities on a stand-alone basis,
clients may purchase mutual funds, among other securities, in connection with investment advisory fee-based "wrap account" programs or services. We currently offer both discretionary and
non-discretionary investment advisory wrap accounts. In a discretionary wrap account, we (or an unaffiliated investment advisor) choose the underlying investments in the portfolio on
behalf of the client, whereas in a non-discretionary wrap account, clients choose the underlying investments in the portfolio based on their financial advisor's recommendation. Investors
in discretionary and non-discretionary wrap accounts generally pay a fee (for investment advice and other services) based on the assets held in that account as well as any related fees or
costs included in the underlying securities held in that account (e.g., underlying mutual fund operating expenses, investment advisory or related fees, Rule 12b-1 fees, etc.). A
significant portion of our affiliated mutual fund sales are made through wrap accounts. Client assets held in affiliated mutual funds in a wrap account generally produce higher revenues to us than
client assets held in affiliated mutual funds on a stand-alone basis because, as noted above, we









receive
an investment advisory fee based on the asset values of the assets held in a wrap account in addition to revenues we normally receive for investment management of the funds included in the
account.

We
offer several types of investment advisory accounts. We sponsor Ameriprise Strategic Portfolio ServiceAdvantage, a non-discretionary wrap
account service, as well as SPS — Advisor, a discretionary wrap account service. We also sponsor Ameriprise Separate Accounts (a separately managed account ("SMA") program), which
is a discretionary wrap account service through which clients invest in strategies managed by us or by affiliated and non-affiliated investment managers. We offer a similar program on an
accommodation basis where clients transfer assets to us and do not maintain an investment management relationship with the manager of those assets. We also sponsorActive
Portfolios® investments, a discretionary mutual fund wrap account service that offers six strategic target allocations based on different risk profiles and tax
sensitivities.Active Portfoliosinvestments includes:Active Accumulation Portfolios®
investments,Active Income Portfolios® investments,Active Diversified Funds Portfolios,Active Diversified Alternatives
Portfolios,Active Diversified Yield PortfoliosandActive Opportunity ETF Portfolios® investments. Additionally, we offer
discretionary wrap account services through which clients may invest in
SMAs, mutual funds and exchange traded funds.

Mutual Fund Offerings

In addition to theColumbia Managementfamily of mutual funds (discussed below in "Our
Segments — Asset Management — Columbia Management — Mutual Funds"), we offer mutual funds from more than 250 mutual fund families on our
brokerage platform and as part of our wrap accounts to provide our clients a broad choice of investment products. In 2011, retail sales of other companies' mutual funds accounted for the majority of
our total retail mutual fund sales. Client assets held in mutual funds of other companies on a stand-alone basis generally produce lower total revenues than client assets held in our own mutual funds,
as our Asset Management segment does not earn ongoing investment management fees for assets held in the funds of other companies.

Mutual
fund families of other companies generally pay us a portion of the revenue generated from the sales of those funds and from the ongoing management of fund assets attributable to our clients'
ownership of shares of those funds. These payments enable us to make the mutual fund families of other companies generally available through our affiliated advisors and through our online brokerage
platform. We also receive administrative services fees from most mutual funds sold through our affiliated advisor network.

Insurance and Annuities

We offer insurance and annuities issued by the RiverSource Life companies (discussed below in "Business — Our
Segments — Annuities" and in "Business — Our Segments — Protection"). TheRiverSourceinsurance
solutions available to our retail clients include variable and fixed universal life insurance, traditional life insurance and disability income insurance.RiverSourceannuities include fixed annuities,
as well as variable annuities that allow our clients to choose from a number of underlying investment
options and to purchase certain guaranteed benefit riders. In addition toRiverSourceinsurance and annuity products, our affiliated advisors offer
products of unaffiliated carriers on a limited basis, including variable annuities and long term care insurance products issued by a select number of unaffiliated insurance companies.

We
receive a portion of the revenue generated from the sale of life and disability insurance policies of unaffiliated insurance companies. We are paid distribution fees on annuities sales of
unaffiliated insurance companies based on a portion of the revenue generated from such sales. Such insurance companies may also pay us an administrative service fee in connection with the sale of
their products.

Banking Products

We provide consumer lending and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") insured deposit products to our retail clients through
our banking subsidiary, Ameriprise Bank. Our consumer lending products include first mortgages, home equity loans, home equity lines of credit, and investment secured loans. We also offer credit card
products, including the Ameriprise World Elite MasterCard, World MasterCard and Platinum MasterCard. The majority of bank deposits are brokered deposits from affiliated broker-dealers or they are in
the Ameriprise Personal Savings Account, which we offer in connection with theAmeriprise ONEFinancial Account described above in "Brokerage and
Investment Advisory Services — Brokerage and Other Products and Services." We also offer checking, savings and money market accounts and certificates of deposit. We believe these
products play a key role in our Advice & Wealth Management business by offering our clients an FDIC-insured alternative to other cash products. These products also provide pricing
flexibility generally not available through money market funds.

To
manage our exposure to residential real estate, we sell the majority of our originated first mortgage products to third parties shortly after origination. All other lending products are originated
and held on the balance sheet of Ameriprise Bank, with the exception of investment secured loans, which are held on the balance sheet of Ameriprise Financial. As of December 31, 2011, there
were $1.15 billion in home loans/equity line of credit balances, $11 million in investment









secured
loan balances and $234 million in unsecured balances, net of premiums and discounts, and capitalized lender paid origination fees.

Ameriprise
Bank's strategy and operations are focused on serving affiliated advisor clients. We provide our banking products primarily through affiliated advisors. We believe that the availability of
these products supports our financial advisors in their ability to meet the cash and liquidity needs of our clients. We also serve advisor clients through the Personal Trust Services division of
Ameriprise Bank. Personal Trust Services provides personal trust, custodial, agency and investment management services to help meet estate and wealth transfer needs of individual and corporate clients
of our affiliated advisors. Personal Trust Services also uses some of our investment products in connection with its services. Ameriprise Bank generally receives an asset-based fee for investment
advice and other services based on assets managed, as well as related fees and costs.

Face-Amount Certificates

We currently issue four types of face-amount certificates through Ameriprise Certificate Company, a wholly owned
subsidiary of Ameriprise Financial that is registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 ("Investment Company Act"). Owners of our certificates invest funds and are
entitled
to receive at maturity or at the end of a stated term, a determinable amount of money equal to their aggregate investments in the certificate plus interest at rates we determine, less any withdrawals
and early withdrawal penalties. For two types of certificate products, the rate of interest is calculated in whole or in part based on any upward movement in a broad-based stock market index up to a
maximum return, where the maximum is a fixed rate for a given term, but can be changed at our discretion for prospective terms.

At
December 31, 2011, we had $2.8 billion in total certificate reserves underlying our certificate products. Our earnings are based upon the difference, or "spread," between the interest
rates credited to certificate holders and the interest earned on the certificate assets invested. A portion of these earnings is used to compensate the various affiliated entities that provide
management, administrative and other services to our company for these products. The certificates compete with investments offered by banks (including Ameriprise Bank), savings and loan associations,
credit unions, mutual funds, insurance companies and similar financial institutions. In times of weak performance in the equity markets, certificate sales are generally stronger. In 2011, affiliated
advisors' cash sales of our certificates were $729 million.

Business Alliances

We provide workplace financial planning and 403(b) educational programs to employees of major corporations, small businesses and
school district employees through our Business Alliances group. Our Business Alliances group helps employees of client companies plan for and achieve their long-term financial objectives.
It offers financial planning as an employee benefit supported by educational materials, tools and programs. In addition, we provide training and support to financial advisors working
on-site at company locations to present educational seminars, conduct one-on-one meetings and participate in client educational events. We also provide financial
advice service offerings, such as financial planning and executive financial services, tailored to discrete employee segments.

Strategic Alliances and Other Marketing Arrangements

We use strategic marketing alliances, local marketing programs for our affiliated advisors, and on-site workshops through
our Business Alliances group to generate new clients for our financial planning and other financial services. An important aspect of our strategy is to leverage the client relationships of our other
businesses by working with companies to create alliances that help us generate new financial services clients. For example, AFSI currently has a strategic alliance with H&R Block, Inc. designed
to build relationships between our affiliated advisors and the tax professionals of H&R Block, Inc. and to leverage those relationships to better serve both AFSI and H&R Block, Inc.
clients through referrals. Our alliance arrangements are generally for a limited duration of one to five years with an option to renew. Additionally, these types of marketing arrangements typically
provide that either party may terminate the agreements on short notice, usually within sixty days. We compensate our alliance partners for providing opportunities to market to their clients.

In
addition to our alliance arrangements, we have developed a number of local marketing programs for our affiliated advisors to use in building their client bases. These include
pre-approved seminars, seminar and event training and referral tools and training designed to encourage both prospective and existing clients to refer or bring their friends to an event.

Ameriprise India

In early 2012, we began offering retail financial planning and distribution services in India through our subsidiary, Ameriprise India
Private Limited ("Ameriprise India"). We have also established an insurance brokerage entity in India that is licensed to deal in insurance products by India's Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority ("IRDA"). We have established offices in Delhi, Mumbai and Gurgaon, and we plan to expand our reach to other Indian metro areas in the future.







As with our U.S. financial planning business, Ameriprise India provides holistic financial planning services through its trained advisor force. Fees are received for delivering
financial plans; however, Ameriprise India does not currently sell affiliated investment or insurance products. If clients elect to implement their financial plan, our advisors refer them to
third-party product manufacturers to purchase recommended investment and/or insurance products. We generally receive a commission from such third-party product manufacturers for making these
referrals.

Our Segments — Asset Management

Revenues
in the Asset Management segment are primarily earned as fees based on managed asset balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We may also earn performance
fees from certain accounts where investment performance meets or exceeds certain pre-identified targets. At December 31, 2011, our Asset Management segment had $436 billion
in managed assets worldwide. Managed assets include managed external client assets and managed owned assets. Managed external client assets include client assets for which we provide investment
management services, such as the assets of theColumbia ManagementandThreadneedle® families of
mutual funds and the assets of institutional clients. Managed external client assets include assets managed by sub-advisers we select. These external client assets are not reported on our
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Managed owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets (such as the assets of the general account and the variable product funds held in the
separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries) for which the Asset Management segment provides management services and recognizes management fees. For additional details regarding our assets
under management and administration, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Columbia Management

The investment management activities of Columbia Management are conducted primarily through investment management teams located
throughout the United States. Each investment management team may focus on particular investment strategies, asset types, products and on services offered and distribution channels utilized. These
teams manage the majority of assets in ourColumbia Managementfamily of mutual funds, as well as the assets we manage for institutional clients in
separately managed accounts, collective funds, hedge funds, the general and separate accounts of the









RiverSource
Life companies, the assets of IDS Property Casualty and Ameriprise Certificate Company and the investment portfolio of Ameriprise Bank. These investment management teams also manage assets
under sub-advisory arrangements.

We
believe that delivering consistent, strong investment performance will positively impact our assets under management by increasing the competitiveness and attractiveness of many of our investment
products. To achieve such performance, our investment teams are using a "5P" process that focuses on the five factors we believe are most significant for delivering results to clients: product
definition, investment philosophy, people, investment process and performance expectation. These factors are continuously monitored and provide a framework around which portfolio managers can better
define their objectives and the processes through which they plan to achieve them.

Each
investment management team focuses on particular investment strategies and product sets. Our U.S. investment management teams are located in multiple locations, including Boston, Charlotte,
Chicago, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, New York, Menlo Park and Portland. We have implemented a multi-platform approach to equity asset management using individual investment management teams with a
combination of dedicated centralized analytical and equity trading resources. The portfolios we manage focus on varying sizes and categories of domestic and global equity securities. Our U.S. fixed
income teams are organized by sectors, including investment grade, high yield, municipal, global and structured. This sector-based approach creates focused and accountable teams organized by
expertise. Portfolio performance is measured to align client and corporate interests, and asset managers are incented to collaborate, employ best practices and execute in response to changing market
and investment conditions consistent with established portfolio management principles.

In
an effort to address changing market conditions and the evolving needs of investors, we may from time to time develop and offer new retail and institutional investment products with new and/or
innovative investment strategies, including mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, separately managed accounts and collective funds. We may also provide seed money to our investment management teams to
develop new products for our institutional clients.

Mutual Funds

We provide investment advisory, distribution and other services to theColumbia
Managementfamily of mutual funds. TheColumbia Managementfamily of funds includes retail mutual funds (both open- and
closed-end funds) and variable product funds. Retail mutual funds are available through unaffiliated third-party financial institutions, the Ameriprise financial advisor network and as
part of Ameriprise institutional 401(k) plans. Variable product funds are available as underlying investment options in variable annuity and variable life insurance products, including RiverSource
products. TheColumbia Managementfamily of funds includes domestic and international equity funds, fixed income funds, cash management funds, balanced
funds, specialty funds, absolute return funds and asset allocation funds, including fund-of-funds, with a variety of investment objectives. The consolidation of our legacy
asset management business under theColumbia Managementbrand involved numerous fund mergers, which we completed during 2011. As theColumbia Managementfamily of funds continues to evolve it is likely that additional fund mergers, as well as fund launches, will occur.

At
December 31, 2011, our U.S. retail mutual funds had total managed assets of $148.9 billion in 141 funds. The variable insurance trust funds ("VIT Funds") that we manage had
total managed assets at December 31, 2011 of $55.9 billion in 64 funds.

CMIA
serves as investment manager for most of our U.S. mutual funds. Columbia Wanger Asset Management, LLC ("Columbia Wanger"), a subsidiary of CMIA, also serves as investment manager for
certain funds. In addition, several of our subsidiaries perform ancillary services for the funds, including distribution, accounting, administrative and transfer agency services. CMIA and Columbia
Wanger perform investment management services pursuant to contracts with the mutual funds that are subject to renewal by the mutual fund boards within two years after initial implementation, and
thereafter, on an annual basis.

We
earn management fees for managing the assets of theColumbia Managementfamily of mutual funds based on the underlying asset values. We also earn fees
by providing ancillary services to theColumbia Managementfamily of mutual funds. Historically, certainColumbia
Managementequity and balanced funds included a performance incentive adjustment that changed the management fees, upward or downward, based on the fund's performance as
measured against a designated index of peers. In 2011, in connection with various initiatives to achieve consistent fee structures across allColumbia
Managementfunds, the boards and shareholders of such funds approved a modified fee structure that discontinued such performance incentive adjustments. Prior to such
discontinuance, 2011 revenues were adjusted upward by approximately $5.5 million due to performance adjustments.

TheColumbia Managementfamily of funds also uses sub-advisers to diversify and enhance investment management expertise. Since the end of
2003, Threadneedle personnel have provided investment management services toColumbia Managementglobal and international equity funds. In addition to
Threadneedle, unaffiliated sub-advisers provide investment management services to certainColumbia Managementfunds.









Separately Managed Accounts

We provide investment management services to pension, profit-sharing, employee savings and endowment funds, accounts of large- and
medium-sized businesses and governmental clients, as well as the accounts of high-net-worth individuals and smaller institutional clients, including tax-exempt and
not-for-profit organizations. Our services include investment of funds on a discretionary or non-discretionary basis and related services including trading, cash
management and reporting. We offer various fixed income and equity investment strategies for our institutional clients with separately managed accounts. Through an arrangement with Threadneedle, we
offer certain international and U.S. equity strategies to U.S. clients. We also offer U.S. equity and a variety of fixed income strategies to non-U.S. clients.

For
our investment management services, we generally receive fees based on the market value of managed assets pursuant to contracts the client can terminate on short notice. Clients may also pay us
fees based on the performance of their portfolio. At December 31, 2011, we managed a total of $32.2 billion in assets under this range of services.

Management of Institutional Owned Assets

We provide investment management services and recognize management fees for certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, such as
the assets held in the general account of our RiverSource Life companies, assets held by Ameriprise Certificate Company and the investment portfolio of Ameriprise Bank. Our fixed income team manages
the general account assets to produce a consolidated and targeted rate of return on investments based on a certain level of risk. Our fixed income and equity teams also manage separate account assets.
The Asset Management segment's management of institutional owned assets for Ameriprise Financial subsidiaries is reviewed by the boards of directors and staff functions of the applicable subsidiaries
consistent with regulatory investment requirements. At December 31, 2011, the Asset Management segment managed $40 billion of institutional owned assets.

Management of Collateralized Debt Obligations ("CDOs")

We provide collateral management services to special purpose vehicles that issue CDOs through a dedicated team of investment
professionals. CDOs are securities collateralized by a pool of assets, primarily syndicated bank loans and, to a lesser extent, high-yield bonds. Multiple tranches of securities are issued
by a CDO, offering investors various maturity and credit risk characteristics. Scheduled payments to investors are based on the performance of the CDO's collateral pool. For collateral management of
CDOs, we earn fees based on the par value of assets and, in certain instances, we may also receive performance-based fees. At December 31, 2011, excluding CDOs managed by Threadneedle, we
managed $5.3 billion of assets related to CDOs.

Private Funds

We provide investment advice and related services to private, pooled investment vehicles organized as limited partnerships, limited
liability companies or foreign (non-U.S.) entities. These funds are currently exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act under either Section 3(c)(1) or
Section 3(c)(7) or related interpretative relief and are organized as domestic and foreign funds. For investment management services, we generally receive fees based on the market value of
assets under management, and we may also receive performance-based fees. As of December 31, 2011, we managed $2.8 billion in private fund assets.

Ameriprise Trust Collective Funds and Separately Managed Accounts

Collective funds are investment funds that are exempt from registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and
offered primarily through banks and other financial institutions to institutional clients such as retirement, pension and profit-sharing plans. We currently serve as investment manager to 38
Ameriprise Trust Company collective funds covering a broad spectrum of investment strategies. We receive fees for investment management services that are generally based upon a percentage of assets
under management rather than performance. In addition toColumbia Managementfunds andRiverSourceTrust
Collective Funds, Ameriprise Trust Company offers separately managed accounts and collective funds to our retirement plan clients.

As
of December 31, 2011, we managed $6.7 billion of Ameriprise Trust Collective Funds and separate accounts for Ameriprise Trust Company clients. This amount does not include theColumbia Managementfamily of mutual funds held in other retirement plans because these assets are included under assets managed for institutional and
retail clients and within the "Columbia Management — Mutual Funds" section above.

Sub-advised Accounts

CMIA acts as sub-adviser for certain domestic and international mutual funds, private banking individually managed
accounts and common trust funds advised by other firms. CMIA continues to pursue opportunities to sub-advise additional investment company assets in the U.S. and overseas. As with theColumbia Managementfunds, we earn management fees for these services based on the underlying asset value of the
funds we sub-advise. As of December 31, 2011, we managed over $34.1 billion in assets in a sub-advisory capacity.









Retail Distribution

Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. acts as the principal underwriter and distributor of ourColumbia Managementfamily of mutual funds. Pursuant to distribution
agreements with the funds, we offer and sell fund shares on a continuous basis and
pay certain costs associated with the marketing and selling of shares. We earn commissions for distributing theColumbia Managementfunds through sales
charges (front-end or back-end loads) on certain classes of shares and distribution and servicing-related (12b-1) fees based on a percentage of fund assets, and
receive intersegment allocation payments. This revenue is impacted by overall asset levels of the funds.

Columbia Managementfund shares are sold through both our Advice & Wealth Management segment and through unaffiliated third-party financial
intermediaries. Among our third-party distribution arrangements is a strategic distribution agreement entered into in connection with the acquisition of Columbia Management that provides ongoing
access to clients of Bank of America affiliated distributors, including U.S. Trust. Fees and reimbursements paid to such intermediaries may vary based on sales, redemptions, asset values, and
marketing and support activities provided by the intermediary. Intersegment distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management Segment are eliminated in our
consolidated results.

Institutional and High Net Worth Distribution

We offer separately managed account services and private funds to high net worth clients and to a variety of institutional clients,
including pension plans, employee savings plans, foundations, endowments, corporations, banks, trusts, governmental entities, high-net-worth individuals and
not-for-profit organizations. We provide investment management services for insurance companies, including our insurance subsidiaries, as well as hedge fund management and
other alternative investment products. We also provide, primarily through our trust company subsidiary and one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries, a variety of services for our institutional clients
that sponsor retirement plans. We have dedicated institutional and sub-advisory sales teams that market directly to such institutional clients.

At
December 31, 2011, we managed $121.4 billion of assets forColumbia Managementinstitutional clients.

Threadneedle

We offer international investment management products and services to both retail and institutional clients primarily through
Threadneedle, which is headquartered in Luxembourg and maintains its primary investment operations in London. At December 31, 2011, Threadneedle had $113.6 billion in managed assets
worldwide.

Investment Management Capabilities

Threadneedle's investment management activities are conducted primarily from its London office. Threadneedle's investment philosophy
is to share investment ideas and alpha generation across teams and asset classes. Each investment management team may focus on particular investment strategies, asset types, products and services
offered and distribution channels. These teams manage the majority of assets in theThreadneedlefamily of mutual funds, the assets of Threadneedle's
alternative investment structures and the assets managed for Threadneedle's institutional clients. These investment management teams also manage assets under sub-advisory arrangements,
including certainColumbia Managementfunds.

Offerings

Threadneedle offers a wide range of products and services, including segregated asset management, mutual funds and hedge funds to
institutional clients as well as to retail clients in Europe, the United Kingdom, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. Threadneedle's mutual fund and hedge fund product range
includes different risk-return options across regions, markets, asset classes and product structures, which include Open Ended Investment Companies ("OEICs"), Societe d'Investissement A
Capital Variable ("SICAV"), unit trusts, Undertakings for Collective Investments in Transferable Securities and offshore vehicles.

Threadneedle's
institutional business offers separately managed accounts to pension funds and other institutions. At December 31, 2011, Threadneedle had $81 billion in managed assets in
separately managed accounts including assets managed for the Zurich Financial Services Group. Threadneedle distributes its institutional products in Europe, Asia, the U.S., the Middle East and
Australia.

For
more information on the funds and other investment vehicles and services offered by Threadneedle, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"
included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Distribution

Threadneedle has organized its sales force and support services into two major segments: retail markets and institutional markets. The
institutional team concentrates on establishing strong relationships with institutional clients and the leading









global
and national consultancy firms. On the retail side,Threadneedlemutual funds are sold through financial intermediaries and institutions, including
banks, life insurance companies, independent financial advisers, wealth managers and platforms offering a variety of investment products. Threadneedle's dedicated Global Financial Institutions team
offers internationally coordinated coverage to such financial institutions.

Our Segments — Annuities

Our Annuities segment provides

RiverSource

Our
products include deferred variable and fixed annuities, in which assets accumulate until the contract is surrendered, the contractholder (or in some contracts, the annuitant) dies or the
contractholder or annuitant begins receiving benefits under an annuity payout option. We also offer immediate annuities, in which payments begin within one year of issue and continue for life or for a
fixed period of time. The relative proportion between fixed and variable annuity sales is generally driven by the relative performance of the equity and fixed income markets. Fixed sales are generally
stronger when yields available in the fixed income markets are relatively high than when yields are relatively low. Variable sales are generally stronger in times of superior performance in equity
markets than in times of weak performance in equity markets. The relative proportion between fixed and variable annuity sales is also influenced by product design and other factors. In addition to the
revenues we generate on these products, we also receive fees charged on assets allocated to our separate accounts to cover administrative costs and a portion of the management fees from the underlying
investment accounts in which assets are invested, as discussed below under "Variable Annuities." Investment management performance is critical to the profitability of ourRiverSourceannuity business.

Variable Annuities

A variable annuity provides a contractholder with investment returns linked to underlying investment accounts of the contractholder's
choice. These underlying investment options may include the VIT Funds previously discussed (see "Business — Our Segments — Asset Management —
Columbia Management — Mutual Funds," above) as well as variable portfolio funds of other companies.RiverSourcevariable annuity
products in force offer a fixed account investment option with guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates ranging up to 4% at December 31, 2011. In 2010, we introduced multiple versions of our
RAVA 5SMvariable
annuity, including RAVA 5 Access® variable annuity, RAVA 5 Advantage® variable annuity and RAVA 5 Select® variable annuity.

Our
Portfolio Navigator asset allocation program is available under our variable annuities. The Portfolio Navigator program allows clients to allocate their contract value to one of five funds of
funds, each of which invests in various underlying funds. The Portfolio Navigator program is designed to allow a contract purchaser to select investment options based on the purchaser's investment
time horizon, risk tolerance and investment goals. We believe the Portfolio Navigator program helps a contract purchaser tailor the performance of annuities and life insurance policies to their
specific needs and to keep investment allocations on track over time. CMIA, our investment management subsidiary, serves as investment adviser for the funds of funds and all of the underlying funds in
which the funds of funds invest.

Substantially
all of the variable annuity contracts we issue include guaranteed minimum death benefit ("GMDB") provisions designed to protect clients against market risk. Contract purchasers can
choose to add optional benefit provisions to their contracts to meet their needs, including guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit ("GMWB") and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit ("GMAB")
provisions. Approximately 98% of RiverSource Life's overall variable annuity assets include a GMDB provision and approximately 50% of RiverSource Life's overall variable annuity assets include a GMWB
or GMAB provision. In general, these features can help protect contractholders and beneficiaries from a shortfall in death or living benefits due to a decline in the value of their underlying
investment accounts.

The
general account assets of our life insurance subsidiaries support the contractual obligations under the guaranteed benefit the company offers (see "Business — Our
Segments — Asset Management — Columbia Management —









Management
of Institutional Owned Assets" above). As a result, we bear the risk that protracted under-performance of the financial markets could result in guaranteed benefit payments being higher than
what current account values would support. Our exposure to risk from guaranteed benefits generally will increase when equity markets decline. You can find a discussion of liabilities and reserves
related to our annuity products in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K — "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk", as well as in Note 2, Note 10, Note 11 and Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

RiverSourcevariable annuities provide us with fee-based revenue in the form of mortality and expense risk fees, marketing support and
administrative fees, fees charged for optional features elected by the contractholder, and other contract charges. We receive marketing support payments from the VIT Funds underlying our variable
annuity products as well as Rule 12b-1 distribution and servicing-related fees from the VIT Funds and the underlying funds of other companies. In addition, we receive marketing
support payments from the affiliates of other companies' funds included as investment options in ourRiverSourcevariable annuity products.

Fixed Annuities

RiverSourcefixed annuity products provide a contractholder with cash value that
increases by a fixed or indexed interest rate. We periodically reset rates at our discretion subject to certain policy terms establishing
minimum guaranteed interest crediting rates. Our earnings from fixed annuities are based upon the spread between rates earned on assets purchased with fixed annuity deposits and the rates at which
interest is credited to ourRiverSourcefixed annuity contracts.

In
2007, we discontinued new sales of equity indexed annuities, although we continue to service existing policies.

RiverSourcefixed annuity contracts in force provide guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates ranging from 1.0% to 5.0% at December 31, 2011.
New contracts issued provide guaranteed minimum interest rates in compliance with state laws.

Liabilities and Reserves for Annuities

We maintain adequate financial reserves to cover the risks associated with guaranteed benefit provisions added to variable annuity
contracts in addition to liabilities arising from fixed and variable annuity base contracts. You can find a discussion of liabilities and reserves related to our annuity products in Part II,
Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K—"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk", as well as in Note 2, Note 10,
Note 11 and Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Financial Strength Ratings

Our insurance company subsidiaries that issueRiverSourceannuity products receive
ratings from independent rating organizations. Ratings are important to maintain public confidence in our insurance subsidiaries and our protection and annuity products. For a discussion of the
financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries, see the "Our Segments — Protection — Financial Strength Ratings" section, below.

Distribution

Our RiverSource Distributors subsidiary is a registered broker-dealer that serves as the principal underwriter and distributor ofRiverSourcevariable and fixed annuities through AFSI,
as well as serving as the distributor of fixed annuities through third-party channels such as banks
and broker-dealer networks. Our affiliated advisors are the largest providers ofRiverSourceannuity products, although they can offer variable annuities
from a select number of unaffiliated insurers as well.

In
the fourth quarter of 2010, RiverSource Life companies discontinued the sale of variable annuity products through third-party channels in order to focus on the distribution of variable annuity
products within our Advice & Wealth Management segment. We continue to provideRiverSourcefixed annuity products through third-party channels. In
2011, we had total cash sales for fixed annuity products through third-party channels of $158 million. As of December 31, 2011, we had distribution agreements forRiverSourcefixed annuity
products in place with more than 120 third party firms.

Our Segments — Protection

Our Protection segment provides a variety of products to address the protection and risk management needs of our retail clients,
including life, disability income and property-casualty insurance. These products are designed to provide a lifetime of solutions that allow clients to protect income, grow assets and give to loved
ones or charity.

Life
and disability income products are primarily provided through our affiliated advisors. Our property-casualty products are sold primarily through affinity relationships. We issue insurance
policies through our life insurance subsidiaries and the Property Casualty companies (as defined below under "Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance Products"). The primary sources of revenues for
this segment are premiums, fees and charges we receive to assume insurance-related risk. We earn net









investment
income on owned assets supporting insurance reserves and capital supporting the business. We also receive fees based on the level of assets supporting variable universal life separate
account balances. This segment earns intersegment revenues from fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of VIT
Funds under the variable universal life contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well
as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in consolidation. In 2011, 19% of our revenues from external clients
were attributable to our Protection business.

RiverSource Insurance Products

Through the RiverSource Life companies, we issue both variable and fixed universal life insurance, traditional life insurance and
disability income insurance. These solutions are designed to help clients protect their income, grow assets and give to those individuals or causes that they care most about. Universal life insurance
is a form of permanent life insurance characterized by flexible premiums, flexible death benefits and unbundled pricing factors (i.e., mortality, interest and expenses). Variable universal life
insurance combines the premium and death benefit flexibility of universal life with underlying fund investment flexibility and the risks associated therewith. Traditional life insurance refers to
whole and term life insurance policies. While traditional life insurance typically pays a specified sum to a beneficiary upon death of the insured for a fixed premium, we also offer a term life
insurance product that will generally pay the death benefit in the form of a monthly income stream to a date specified at issue. We also offer a chronic care rider, AdvanceSource® rider,
on our new permanent insurance products. This rider allows its policy holder to accelerate a portion of the life insurance death benefit in the event of a qualified chronic care need.

Our
sales ofRiverSourceindividual life insurance in 2011, as measured by scheduled annual premiums, lump sum and excess premiums, consisted of 30%
variable universal life, 65% fixed universal life and 5% traditional life. Our RiverSource Life companies issue only non-participating policies that do not pay dividends to policyholders
from the insurer's earnings.

Assets
supporting policy values associated with fixed account life insurance and annuity products, as well as those assets associated with fixed account investment options under variable insurance and
annuity products (collectively referred to as the "fixed accounts"), are part of the RiverSource Life companies' general accounts. Under fixed accounts, the RiverSource Life companies bear the
investment risk. More information on the RiverSource Life companies' general accounts is found under "Business — Our Segments — Asset
Management — Columbia Management — Management of Institutional Owned Assets" above.

Variable Universal Life Insurance

Variable universal life insurance provides life insurance coverage along with investment returns linked to underlying investment
accounts of the policyholder's choice. Options may include VIT Funds discussed above, Portfolio Navigator funds of funds, as well as variable portfolio funds of other companies.RiverSourcevariable
universal life insurance products in force offer a fixed account investment option with guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates
ranging from 3.0% to 4.5% at December 31, 2011.

Fixed Universal Life Insurance and Traditional Whole Life Insurance

Fixed universal life and traditional whole life insurance policies do not subject the policyholder to the investment risks associated
with variable universal life insurance.

RiverSourcefixed universal life insurance products provide life insurance coverage and cash value that increases by a fixed interest rate. The rate is
periodically reset at the discretion of the issuing company subject to certain policy terms relative to minimum interest crediting rates.RiverSourcefixed universal life insurance policies in force provide guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates ranging from 2.0% to 5.0% at December 31, 2011. The majority of fixed universal life
policies issued in recent years provide a secondary guarantee that ensures, subject to specified conditions, the policy will not terminate and will continue to provide a death benefit even if there is
insufficient policy value to cover the monthly deductions and charges. In 2009, we discontinued new sales of traditional whole life insurance; however, we continue to service existing policies. Our in
force traditional whole life insurance policies combine a death benefit with a cash value that generally increases gradually over a period of years.









In 2011, RiverSource Life began offering indexed universal life ("IUL") insurance. IUL is similar to universal life insurance in that it provides life insurance
coverage and cash value that increases as a result of credited interest. In addition, as with universal life insurance, there is a minimum guaranteed credited rate of interest. Unlike universal life
insurance, the rate of credited interest above the minimum guarantee is linked to the S&P 500 Index (subject to a cap).

Term Life Insurance

Term life insurance provides a death benefit, but it does not build up cash value. The policyholder chooses the term of coverage with
guaranteed premiums at the time of issue. During the chosen term, we cannot raise premium rates even if claims experience deteriorates. At the end of the chosen term, coverage may continue with higher
premiums until the maximum age is attained, or the policy expires with no value. We also offer a term life insurance product that pays the death benefit in the form of a monthly income stream.

Disability Income Insurance

Disability income insurance provides monthly benefits to individuals who are unable to earn income either at their occupation at time
of disability ("own occupation") or at any suitable occupation ("any occupation")
for premium payments that are guaranteed not to change. Depending upon occupational and medical underwriting criteria, applicants for disability income insurance can choose "own occupation" and "any
occupation" coverage for varying benefit periods. In some states, applicants may also choose various benefit provisions to help them integrate individual disability income insurance benefits with
social security or similar benefit plans and to help them protect their disability income insurance benefits from the risk of inflation.

Long Term Care Insurance

As of December 31, 2002, the RiverSource Life companies discontinued underwriting long term care insurance. However, our
affiliated advisors sell long term care insurance issued by other companies, including Genworth Life Insurance Company, John Hancock Life Insurance Company and Prudential Insurance Company.

In
2004, RiverSource Life and RiverSource Life of NY began to file for approval to implement rate increases on most of their existing blocks of nursing home-only indemnity long term care
insurance policies. Implementation of these rate increases began in early 2005 and continues. We have received approval for some or all requested increases in the 50 states where increases have been
requested, with an average approved cumulative rate increase of 76.4% of premium on all such policies where an increase was requested.

In
2007, RiverSource Life and RiverSource Life of NY began to file for approval to implement rate increases on most of their existing blocks of comprehensive reimbursement long term care insurance
policies. Implementation of these rate increases began in late 2007 and continues. We have received approval for some or all requested increases in 48 states, with an average approved cumulative rate
increase of 23.9% of premium on all such policies where an increase was requested.

We
intend to seek additional rate increases with respect to these and other existing blocks of long term care insurance policies, subject to regulatory approval.

Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance Products

We offer personal auto, home and excess personal liability insurance products through IDS Property Casualty and its subsidiary,
Ameriprise Insurance Company (the "Property Casualty companies"). Our Property Casualty companies provide personal auto, home and liability coverage to clients in 43 states and the District of
Columbia.

Distribution and Marketing Channels

Our Property Casualty companies do not have field agents; rather, we use co-branded direct marketing to sell our personal
auto and home insurance products through alliances with commercial institutions and affinity groups, and directly to our clients and the general public. We also receive referrals through our financial
advisor network. Our Property Casualty companies have a multi-year distribution agreement with Costco Insurance Agency, Inc., Costco's affiliated insurance agency. Costco members
represented 61% of all new policy sales of our Property Casualty companies in 2011. Through other alliances, we market our property casualty
products to customers of Ford Motor Credit Company and offer personal home insurance products to customers of the Progressive Group. Termination of one or more of these alliances could adversely
affect our ability to generate new sales and retain existing business.

We
offerRiverSourcelife insurance products almost exclusively through our affiliated advisors. Our affiliated advisors offer insurance products issued
predominantly by the RiverSource Life companies, though they may also offer insurance products of unaffiliated carriers, subject to certain qualifications.











Reinsurance

We reinsure a portion of the insurance risks associated with our life, disability income and long term care insurance products through
reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated reinsurance companies. We use reinsurance to limit losses, reduce exposure to large risks and provide additional capacity for future growth. To manage exposure
to losses from reinsurer insolvencies, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers prior to entering into new reinsurance treaties and on a periodic basis during the terms of the treaties. Our
insurance companies remain primarily liable as the direct insurers on all risks reinsured.

Generally,
we currently reinsure 90% of the death benefit liability related to almost all individual fixed and variable universal life and term life insurance products. As a result, the RiverSource
Life companies typically retain and are at risk for, at most, 10% of each policy's death benefit from the first dollar of coverage for new sales of these policies, subject to the reinsurers fulfilling
their obligations. The RiverSource Life companies began reinsuring risks at this level during 2001 (2002 for RiverSource Life of NY) for term life insurance and 2002 (2003 for RiverSource Life of NY)
for individual fixed and variable universal life insurance. Policies issued prior to these dates are not subject to these reinsurance levels. Generally, the maximum amount of life insurance risk
retained by the RiverSource Life companies is $1.5 million on a single life and $1.5 million on any flexible premium survivorship life policy. Risk on fixed and variable universal life
policies is reinsured on a yearly renewable term basis. Risk on most term life policies starting in 2001 (2002 for RiverSource Life of NY) is reinsured on a coinsurance basis, a type of reinsurance in
which the reinsurer participates proportionally in all material risks and premiums associated with a policy.

For
existing long term care policies, RiverSource Life retained 50% of the risk and ceded on a coinsurance basis the remaining 50% of the risk to subsidiaries of Genworth Financial, Inc.
("Genworth"). For RiverSource Life of NY, this reinsurance arrangement applies for 1996 and later issues only. As of December 31, 2011, RiverSource Life companies' credit exposure to Genworth
under this reinsurance arrangement was approximately $1.5 billion. Genworth also serves as claims administrator for our long term care policies.

Generally,
RiverSource Life companies retain at most $5,000 per month of risk per life on disability income policies sold on policy forms introduced in most states in October 2007 (August 2010 for
RiverSource Life of NY) and they reinsure the remainder of the risk on a coinsurance basis with unaffiliated reinsurance companies. RiverSource Life companies retain all risk for new claims on
disability income contracts sold on other policy forms. Our insurance companies also retain all risk on accidental death benefit claims and substantially all risk associated with waiver of premium
provisions.

We
also reinsure a portion of the risks associated with our personal auto, home and excess liability insurance products through three types of reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated reinsurance
companies, as follows:

•We purchase reinsurance with a limit of $5 million per loss, and we retain $750,000 per loss.•We purchase catastrophe reinsurance that, for 2011, had a limit of $90 million per event and we retained
$10 million per event. For 2012, our catastrophe reinsurance has a limit of $110 million per event and we retain $20 million.•We purchase reinsurance that limits our personal liability insurance exposure to 10% of any loss. This 90% quota share
treaty uses the same reinsurers as our excess of loss treaty.

See
Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on reinsurance.

Liabilities and Reserves

We maintain adequate financial reserves to cover the insurance risks associated with the insurance products we issue. Generally,
reserves represent estimates of the invested assets that our insurance companies need to hold to provide adequately for future benefits and expenses. For a discussion of liabilities and reserves
related to our insurance products, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Financial Strength Ratings

Independent rating organizations rate our insurance subsidiaries. Rating organizations evaluate the financial soundness and
claims-paying ability of insurance companies continually, and they base their ratings on a number of different factors, including market position in core products and market segments,
risk-adjusted capitalization and the quality of the company's investment portfolios. More specifically, the ratings assigned are developed from an evaluation of a company's balance sheet
strength, operating performance and business profile. Balance sheet strength reflects a company's ability to meet its current and ongoing obligations to its contractholders and policyholders and
includes analysis of a company's capital adequacy. The evaluation of operating performance centers on the stability and sustainability of a company's sources of earnings. The business profile
component of the rating considers a company's mix of business, market position and depth and experience of management.









Our
insurance subsidiaries' ratings are important to maintain public confidence in our protection and annuity products. Lowering of our insurance subsidiaries' ratings could have a material adverse
effect on our ability to market our protection and annuity products and could lead to increased surrenders of these products. We list our ratings on our website at ir.ameriprise.com. For the most
current ratings information, please see the individual rating agency's website.

Our Segments — Corporate & Other

Our Corporate & Other segment consists of net investment income or loss on corporate level assets, including excess capital
held in our subsidiaries and other unallocated equity and other revenues as well as unallocated corporate expenses.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive global industry. As a diversified financial services firm, we compete directly with a variety of
financial institutions, including registered investment advisors, securities brokers, asset managers, banks and insurance companies. Our competitors may have greater financial resources, broader and
deeper distribution capabilities and products and services than we do. We compete directly with these entities for the provision of products and services to clients, as well as for our financial
advisors and investment management personnel. Our products and services also compete indirectly in the marketplace with the products and services of our competitors.

Our
Advice & Wealth Management segment competes with securities broker-dealers, independent broker-dealers, financial planning firms, registered investment advisors, insurance companies and
other financial institutions in attracting and retaining financial advisors and their clients. Competitive factors influencing our ability to attract and retain financial advisors include compensation
structures, brand recognition and reputation, product offerings and technology and service capabilities and support. Further, our financial advisors compete for clients with a range of other advisors,
broker-dealers and direct channels, including wirehouses, regional broker-dealers, independent broker-dealers, insurers, banks, asset managers, registered investment advisers and direct distributors.
Competitive factors influencing our ability to attract and retain clients include price, reputation, product offerings and technology and service quality.

Our
Asset Management segment competes to acquire and retain managed and administered assets against a substantial number of firms, including those in the categories listed above. Such competitors may
have achieved greater economies of scale, may offer a broader array of products and services, including affiliated products and services, and may have greater distribution capabilities. Competitive
factors influencing our performance in this industry include investment performance, product offerings and innovation, product ratings, fee structures, advertising, service quality, and brand
recognition and reputation. The ability to create and maintain and deepen relationships with distributors and clients also plays a significant role in our ability to acquire and retain managed and
administered assets. Additional detail regarding the nature and effects of competition in the Asset Management segment is provided below in Item 1A of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K — "Risk Factors."

Competitors
of our Annuities and Protection segments consist of both stock and mutual insurance companies. Competitive factors affecting the sale of annuity and insurance products include price,
product features, hedging capability, investment performance, commission structure, perceived financial strength, claims-paying ratings, service, brand recognition, distribution capabilities and
financial strength ratings from rating organizations such as A.M. Best. Competitive factors affecting the sale of property casualty insurance products also include brand recognition and
distribution capabilities.

Technology

We have an integrated customer management system that serves as the hub of our technology platform. In addition, we have specialized
product engines that manage individual brokerage, mutual fund, insurance and banking client accounts. Over the years we have updated our platform to include new product lines such as brokerage,
deposit, credit and products of other companies, wrap accounts and e-commerce capabilities for our financial advisors and clients. We also use a proprietary suite of processes, methods,
and tools for our financial planning services. We update our technological capabilities regularly to help maintain an adaptive platform design that aims to enhance the productivity of our affiliated
advisors and will allow a faster, lower-cost response to emerging business opportunities, compliance requirements and marketplace trends.

Most
of our applications run on a technology infrastructure that we outsourced to IBM in 2002. Under this arrangement, IBM is responsible for all mainframe, midrange and end-user computing
operations and a portion of our web hosting and help desk operations. Also, we outsource our voice network operations to AT&T. In addition to these two arrangements, we have outsourced our production
support and a substantial portion of the development and maintenance of our computer applications to other firms. In 2009, we initiated a major replacement of our brokerage and clearing platforms, and
we continue to roll out that implementation in stages across our affiliated advisor network. We expect to have all advisors on this technology platform by the end of 2012.









We
have developed a comprehensive business continuity plan that covers business disruptions of varying severity and scope and addresses the loss of a geographic area, building, staff, data systems
and/or telecommunications capabilities. We review and test our business continuity plan on an ongoing basis and update it as necessary, and we require our key technology vendors and service providers
to do the same. Under our business continuity plan, we expect to be able to continue doing business and to resume operations with minimal service impacts. However, under certain scenarios, the time
that it would take for us to recover and resume operations may significantly increase depending on the extent and geographic scope of the disruption and the number of personnel affected.

Geographic Presence

For years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately 89%, 88% and 85%, respectively, of our long-lived
assets were located in the United States and approximately 94%, 94% and 95%, respectively, of our net revenues were generated in the United States. Our foreign operations are conducted predominantly
through Threadneedle, as described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under "Business — Our Segments — Asset Management —
Threadneedle."

Employees

At December 31, 2011, we had 11,139 employees, including 2,230 employee affiliated advisors (which does not include our
franchisee advisors, who are not employees of our company). We are not subject to collective bargaining agreements, and we believe that our employee relations are strong.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our
intellectual property. In the United States and other jurisdictions, we have established certain service marks and brand names that we consider important to the marketing of our products and services,
including but not limited to Ameriprise Financial, Columbia Management, RiverSource and Threadneedle. We have in the past and will in the future take action to protect our intellectual property.

Regulation

Virtually all aspects of our business, including the activities of the parent company and our various subsidiaries, are subject to
various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations provide broad regulatory, administrative and enforcement powers to supervisory agencies and other bodies, including
U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies, foreign government agencies or regulatory bodies and U.S. and foreign securities exchanges. The costs of complying with such laws and regulations can be
significant, and the consequences for the failure to comply may include civil or criminal charges, fines, censure, the suspension of individual employees, and restrictions on or prohibitions from
engaging in certain lines of business.

In
response to the economic crisis of 2008 and 2009, the laws and regulations governing the financial services industry have continued to evolve. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank Act") was enacted into law. The Dodd-Frank Act called for sweeping changes in the supervision and regulation of the financial services
industry designed to provide for greater oversight of financial industry participants, reduce risk in banking practices and in securities and derivatives trading, enhance public company corporate
governance practices and executive compensation disclosures, and provide greater protections to individual consumers and investors. Certain elements of the Dodd-Frank Act have since taken
effect, though the details of many provisions remain subject to additional studies and the adoption of final rules by applicable regulatory agencies. Domestic and international legal and regulatory
changes, including those resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, have impacted and may in the future impact the manner in which we are regulated and the manner in which we operate and govern
our businesses.

The
discussion set forth below provides a general framework of the laws and regulations impacting our businesses. Certain of our subsidiaries may be subject to one or more elements of this regulatory
framework depending on the nature of their business, the products and services they provide and the geographic locations in which they operate. To the extent the discussion includes references to
statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to these statutory and regulatory provisions.

Broker-Dealer and Securities Regulation

Certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act")
and with certain states, the District of Columbia and other U.S. territories. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are also members of self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA"), and are subject to the regulations of these organizations. The SEC and FINRA have stringent rules with respect to the net capital requirements and the
marketing and trading activities of broker-dealers. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries, as well as our financial advisors and other personnel, must obtain all required state and FINRA licenses and
registrations to engage in the









securities
business. SEC regulations also impose notice requirements and capital limitations on the payment of dividends by a broker-dealer to a parent.

Other
agencies, exchanges and self-regulatory organizations of which certain of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are members, and subject to applicable rules and regulations of, include the
Commodities Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC"), the National Futures Association and various stock exchanges. One of our broker-dealer subsidiaries is registered with the CFTC and is thus subject to
the requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act. AEIS is a member of the Boston Stock Exchange and is a stockholder in the Chicago Stock Exchange. In addition, certain subsidiaries may also be
registered as investment advisers or insurance agencies and subject to the regulations described in the following sections.

Ameriprise
Certificate Company, our face-amount certificate company, is regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. As a registered investment company, Ameriprise
Certificate Company must observe certain governance, disclosure, record-keeping, operational and marketing requirements. Investment companies are required by the SEC to adopt and implement written
policies and procedures designed to prevent violations of the federal securities laws and to designate a chief compliance officer. Ameriprise Certificate Company pays dividends to the parent company
and is subject to capital requirements under applicable law and understandings with the SEC and the Minnesota Department of Commerce.

Ameriprise
India Insurance Brokers Services Private Limited ("AIIBSPL"), an Indian subsidiary, is licensed by India's IRDA as a direct insurance broker and is subject to regulation by
the IRDA and the Indian Registrar of Companies. AIIBSPL is subject to various ongoing internal control and compliance policies, capital requirements and statutory audit and reporting obligations as a
condition to maintaining its license. Further, AIIBSPL employees are required to receive training prior to becoming licensed to provide insurance brokerage services.

Our
financial advisors are subject to various regulations that impact how they operate their practices, including those related to supervision, sales methods, trading practices, record-keeping and
financial reporting. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, our financial advisors may in the future become subject to a fiduciary standard of conduct in connection with their broker-dealer
activities that is no less stringent than what is currently applied to investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 ("Advisers Act"). In January 2011, the SEC released a study
recommending such a uniform fiduciary standard of conduct for broker-dealers and investment advisers. In addition, because our independent contractor advisor platform is structured as a franchise
system, we are also subject to Federal Trade Commission and state franchise requirements. Compliance with these and other regulatory requirements adds to the
cost and complexity of operating our business. We maintain franchise standards and requirements for our franchisees regardless of location. We have made and expect to continue to make significant
investments in our compliance processes, enhancing policies, procedures and oversight to monitor our compliance with the numerous legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business.

Investment Adviser and Asset Management Regulation

In the U.S., certain of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers under the Advisers Act and subject to regulation by the
SEC. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including fiduciary duties, disclosure obligations and record-keeping, and operational and marketing restrictions.
Investment advisers are required by the SEC to adopt and implement written policies and procedures designed to prevent violations of the Advisers Act and to designate a chief compliance officer
responsible for administering these policies and procedures. Our registered investment advisers may also be subject to certain obligations of the Investment Company Act based on their status as
investment advisers to investment companies that we, or third parties, sponsor. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of either the Advisers Act or the
Investment Company Act, which may include fines, censure or the suspension or termination of an investment adviser's registration. As an outcome of the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress is
considering whether to modify the SEC's investment adviser examination program by authorizing one or more self-regulatory organizations to examine, subject to SEC oversight,
SEC-registered investment advisers.

Outside
of the U.S., our Threadneedle group is authorized to conduct its financial services business in the United Kingdom under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Threadneedle is regulated
by the Financial Services Authority ("FSA"), which imposes certain capital, operational and compliance requirements. We expect that the FSA's responsibilities for the oversight of Threadneedle will be
transitioned to the Financial Conduct Authority by the end of 2012. Threadneedle companies and activities are also subject to local country regulations in Europe, Dubai, Hong Kong, Singapore, the U.S.
and Australia. Additionally, many of our subsidiaries are also subject to foreign, state and local laws with respect to advisory services that are offered and provided by these subsidiaries, including
services provided to government pension plans. Foreign and state governments may also institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of their local laws, which may include fines, censure or
the suspension or termination of the right to do certain types of business in a state.









Our
trust company is primarily regulated by the Minnesota Department of Commerce (Banking Division) and is subject to capital adequacy requirements under Minnesota law. It may not accept deposits or
make personal or commercial loans. As a provider of products and services to tax-qualified retirement plans and IRAs, certain aspects of our business, including the activities of our trust
company, fall within the compliance oversight of the U.S. Departments of Labor and Treasury, particularly regarding the enforcement of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
("ERISA"), and the tax reporting requirements applicable to such accounts. Our trust company, as well as our investment adviser subsidiaries, may be subject to ERISA, and the regulations thereunder,
insofar as they act as a "fiduciary" under ERISA with respect to certain ERISA clients. ERISA and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose duties on persons who are fiduciaries under
ERISA, and prohibit certain transactions involving the assets of ERISA plan clients and certain transactions by the fiduciaries to the plans. The Department of Labor is considering proposed
regulations that would significantly expand the scope of who is considered an ERISA fiduciary and what activity constitutes acting as an ERISA fiduciary, while prohibiting certain additional types of
transactions conducted by persons who are considered fiduciaries.

Insurance Regulation

The
Dodd-Frank Act created the Federal Insurance Office ("FIO") within the Department of Treasury. The FIO does not have substantive regulatory responsibilities, though it is tasked with
monitoring the insurance industry and the effectiveness of its regulatory framework and providing periodic reports to the President and Congress. The scope and impact of the research and reports
provided by the FIO, and the extent to which such work may ultimately lead to a more prominent role of the federal government in the regulation of the insurance industry, is uncertain.

Each
of our insurance subsidiaries is subject to risk-based capital ("RBC") requirements designed to assess the adequacy of an insurance company's capital and surplus in relation to its
investment and insurance risks. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has established RBC standards that virtually all state insurance departments have adopted, with minor
modifications. The RBC requirements are used by the NAIC and state insurance regulators to identify companies that merit regulatory actions designed to protect policyholders. Our RiverSource Life
companies and Property Casualty companies are subject to various levels of regulatory intervention should their total adjusted statutory capital fall below defined RBC action levels. At the "company
action level," defined as total adjusted capital level between 100% and 75% of the RBC requirement, an insurer must submit a plan for corrective action with its primary state regulator. The
"regulatory action level," which is between 75% and 50% of the RBC requirement, subjects an insurer to examination, analysis and specific corrective action prescribed by the primary state regulator.
If a company's total adjusted capital falls between 50% and 35% of its RBC requirement, referred to as "authorized control level," the insurer's primary state regulator may place the insurer under
regulatory control. Insurers with total adjusted capital below 35% of the requirement will be placed under regulatory control.

RiverSource
Life, RiverSource Life of NY, IDS Property Casualty and Ameriprise Insurance Company maintain capital levels well in excess of the company action level required by state insurance
regulators. For RiverSource Life, the company action level RBC was $619 million as of December 31, 2011, and the corresponding total adjusted capital was $3.1 billion, which represents 494% of
company action level RBC. For RiverSource Life of NY, the company action level RBC was $41 million as of December 31, 2011, and the corresponding total adjusted capital was
$254 million, which represents 619% of company action level RBC. As of December 31, 2011, the company action level RBC was $60 million for IDS Property Casualty and $648,000 for
Ameriprise Insurance Company. As of December 31, 2011, IDS Property Casualty had $431 million of total adjusted capital, or 718% of the company action level RBC, and Ameriprise Insurance
Company had $41 million of total adjusted capital, or 6362% of the company action level RBC.

Ameriprise
Financial, as a direct and indirect owner of its insurance subsidiaries, is subject to the insurance holding companies laws of the states where its insurance subsidiaries are domiciled.
These laws generally require insurance holding companies to register with the insurance department of the insurance company's state of domicile and to provide









certain
financial and other information about the operations of the companies within the holding company structure. In addition, transactions between an insurance company and other companies within
the same holding company structure must be on terms that are considered to be fair and reasonable.

Federal Banking Regulation

Ameriprise Bank is a federal savings bank subject to regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC"), which became
the primary regulator of federal savings banks in 2011, and by the FDIC in its role as insurer of Ameriprise Bank's deposits. As a federally chartered bank, Ameriprise Bank is subject to numerous
rules and regulations governing all aspects of the banking business, including lending practices and transactions with affiliates. Ameriprise Bank is also subject to specific capital rules. If
Ameriprise Bank's capital falls below certain levels, the OCC is required to take remedial actions and may take other actions, including imposing limits on dividends or business activities and
directing us to divest the subsidiary. Ameriprise Bank is also subject to limits on capital distributions, including payment of dividends. In addition, an array of community reinvestment, fair
lending, and other consumer protection laws and regulations apply to Ameriprise Bank. Either of the OCC or the FDIC may bring administrative enforcement actions against Ameriprise Bank or its
officers, directors or employees if any of them are found to be in violation of the law or engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice.

As
the controlling company of Ameriprise Bank, Ameriprise Financial is a savings and loan holding company that is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Board of Governors for the
Federal Reserve System ("FRB"). In December 2011, Ameriprise Financial elected to be classified as a financial holding company subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (as
amended). To ensure continued classification as a financial holding company, both Ameriprise Financial and Ameriprise Bank must be well capitalized, well managed and have a sufficient standing under
the Community Reinvestment Act. In the event of our noncompliance with the foregoing requirements, the FRB may require us to take remedial actions to correct such noncompliance and may also impose
restrictions on the conduct of Ameriprise Financial and its affiliates until such failures are corrected.

Ameriprise
Financial is subject to ongoing supervision by the FRB that focuses on our corporate structure, risk exposure across our business segments and any potential weaknesses in control in our
operations, management and reporting. As a financial holding company, our activities are limited to those that are financial in nature, incidental to a financial activity or, with FRB approval,
complementary to a financial activity. We must also ensure that our depository institutions remain well capitalized. Ameriprise Financial has entered into a Source of Strength Agreement with
Ameriprise Bank to reflect that it will commit such capital and managerial resources to support the subsidiary as the OCC may determine necessary under applicable regulations and supervisory
standards. In the event of the appointment of a receiver or conservator for Ameriprise Bank, the FDIC would be entitled to enforce our Source of Strength Agreement.

The
Dodd-Frank Act established numerous changes to the regulation of depository institutions and their holding companies, many of which have yet to be finalized and may in the future cause
us to further modify how we engage in our banking activities, as well as the activities of our other businesses.

Parent Company Regulation

Ameriprise Financial is a publicly traded company that is subject to SEC and New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") rules and regulations
regarding public disclosure, financial reporting, internal controls, and corporate governance. The adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 significantly enhanced these rules and regulations and may
continue to evolve. As noted above, the FRB now performs the role of supervisory regulator with respect to Ameriprise Financial following the transference of responsibilities from the Office of Thrift
Supervision ("OTS") pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act.

We
have operations in a number of geographical regions outside of the U.S. through Threadneedle and certain of our other subsidiaries. We monitor developments in European Union ("EU") legislation, as
well as in the other markets in which we operate, to ensure that we comply with all applicable legal requirements, including EU directives applicable to financial institutions as implemented in the
various member states. Because of the mix of business activities we conduct, we continually assess the impact of, and insure compliance with, the EU Financial Conglomerates Directive, which
contemplates that certain financial conglomerates involved in banking, insurance and investment activities will be subject to a system of supplementary supervision at the level of the holding company
constituting the financial conglomerate. The directive requires financial conglomerates to, among other things, implement measures to prevent excessive leverage and multiple leveraging of capital and
to maintain internal control processes to address risk concentrations as well as risks arising from significant intragroup transactions. The FRB serves as our global consolidated supervisory regulator
under the EU Financial Conglomerates Directive.

Privacy

Many aspects of our business are subject to comprehensive legal requirements by a multitude of different functional regulators
concerning the use and protection of personal information, particularly that of clients. This includes rules adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions
Act, an ever increasing number









of
state laws, and the European Union data protection legislation as domestically implemented in the respective EU member states. We have also implemented policies and procedures in response to such
requirements in the UK. We continue our efforts to safeguard the data entrusted to us in accordance with applicable law and our internal data protection policies, including taking steps to reduce the
potential for identity theft or other improper use or disclosure of personal information, while seeking to collect and use data to properly achieve our business objectives and to best serve our
clients.

USA Patriot Act

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act, commonly
referred to as the USA Patriot Act, was enacted in October 2001 in the wake of the
September 11th terrorist attacks. The USA Patriot Act broadened existing anti-money laundering legislation and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the United States
substantially. In response, we enhanced our existing anti-money laundering programs and developed new procedures and programs. For example, we implemented a customer identification program
applicable to many of our businesses and enhanced our "know your customer" "and "due diligence" programs. In addition, we will continue to comply with anti-money laundering legislation in
the UK derived from applicable EU directives and international initiatives adopted in other jurisdictions in which we conduct business.

Securities Exchange Act Reports and Additional Information

We maintain an Investor Relations website at ir.ameriprise.com, and we make available our annual, quarterly and current reports free
of charge and post any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To access these and other documents,
click on the "SEC Filings" link found on our Investor Relations homepage.

Investors
can also access our Investor Relations website through our main website at ameriprise.com by clicking on the "Investor Relations" link located at the bottom of our homepage. Information
contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with the SEC.

Segment Information and Classes of Similar Services

You can find financial information about our operating segments and classes of similar services in Note 25 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

