Item 1. Business.

Overview

Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in Delaware primarily engaged in business through its subsidiaries.
Accordingly, references below to "Ameriprise Financial," "we," "us" and "our" may refer to Ameriprise Financial, Inc. exclusively, to our entire family of companies or to one or more of our
subsidiaries. Our headquarters is located at 55 Ameriprise Financial Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55474. We also maintain executive offices in New York City.

We
provide financial planning, products and services that are designed to be utilized as solutions for our clients' cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth
transfer needs. Our model for delivering these solutions is centered on building long-term personal relationships between our affiliated advisors and clients, and in the case of our
products distributed through unaffiliated advisors, by supporting those advisors in building strong client relationships. We believe that our focus on personal relationships, together with our
strengths in financial planning and product development, allow us to better address the evolving financial needs of our clients and our primary target market segment, the mass affluent and affluent,
which we define as households with investable assets of more than $100,000.

We
believe we are well positioned to further strengthen our offerings to existing and new clients and deliver profitable long-term growth to our shareholders. Our five strategic objectives
are:

>Be the leading provider of financial planning products and services to the mass affluent and affluent.>Become the platform of choice for financial planning-focused advisors.>Reinforce our financial planning leadership.>Capture greater assets and protection in force by improving and expanding our product solutions and extending our
distribution reach.>Ensure an increasingly stronger and more efficient operating foundation.

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      1








Our
five operating segments are:

>Advice & Wealth Management;>Asset Management;>Annuities;>Protection; and>Corporate & Other.

During
our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, the global financial markets and the economies in which each of our segments operate began to show signs of recovery from the unprecedented
volatility and decline experienced in 2008 and early 2009. Financial markets and macroeconomic conditions have had and will continue to have a significant impact on the operating results of each of
our segments. While the timing, magnitude and duration of a global economic recovery remain uncertain, we expect that a challenging business climate will persist for the foreseeable future. To succeed
in this environment, we expect to continue focusing on each of our key strategic objectives. The success of these and other strategies may be affected by the factors discussed below in Item 1A
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K — "Risk Factors", and other factors as discussed herein.

In
2009, we generated $7.8 billion in total net revenues. Net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial for 2009 was $722 million. As a diversified financial services firm, we believe
our ability to gather assets across the enterprise is best measured by our owned, managed and administered asset metric. At December 31, 2009, we had $457.8 billion in owned, managed and
administered assets worldwide compared to $372.1 billion as of December 31, 2008, as follows:

As of December 31,Asset Category20092008(in billions)Owned$36.9$31.7Managed325.8264.9Administered95.175.5Total$457.8$372.1

For a more detailed discussion of owned, managed and administered assets see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our Principal Brands

We use two principal brands for our businesses in the United States: Ameriprise Financial andRiverSource.

We
use Ameriprise Financial as our holding company brand, as well as the name of our branded advisor network and certain of our retail products and services. The retail products and services that
utilize the Ameriprise brand include products and services that we provide through our branded advisors (e.g., investment advisory accounts, retail brokerage services and banking products) and
products and services that we market directly to consumers (e.g., personal auto and home insurance).

We
use ourRiverSourcebrand for our U.S. asset management, annuity, and the majority of our protection products. Products that utilize theRiverSourcename
include retail and institutional asset management products, retail mutual funds, annuities and life and disability income insurance
products. We believe that using a distinct brand for these products differentiates them from our branded advisor network. We expect that certain branding elements of our U.S. asset management and
annuities businesses will change following consummation of the Columbia purchase to reflect and leverage the brand equity of that acquisition.

We
use our Threadneedle brand for our international asset management products.

History and Development

Our company has a more than 110 year history of providing financial solutions designed to help clients achieve their financial
objectives. Our earliest predecessor company, Investors Syndicate, was founded in 1894 to provide face-amount certificates to consumers with a need for conservative investments. By 1937,
Investors Syndicate had expanded its product offerings through Federal Housing Authority mortgages, and later, mutual funds, by establishing Investors Mutual, one of the pioneers in the mutual fund
industry. In 1949, Investors Syndicate was renamed Investors Diversified Services, Inc., or IDS. In 1957, IDS added life insurance products, and later, annuity products, through IDS Life Insurance
Company (now known as "RiverSource Life Insurance Company"). In 1972, IDS began to expand its distribution network by delivering investment products directly to clients of unaffiliated financial
institutions. IDS also introduced its comprehensive financial planning processes to clients, integrating the identification of client needs with the products and services to address those needs in the
1970s, and it introduced fee-based planning in the 1980s.

In
1979, IDS became a wholly owned subsidiary of Alleghany Corporation pursuant to a merger. In 1983, our company was formed as a Delaware corporation in connection with American Express' 1984
acquisition of IDS Financial Services from Alleghany Corporation. We changed our name to "American Express Financial Corporation" ("AEFC") and began selling our products and services under the
American Express brand in 1994. To provide retail clients with a more comprehensive set of products and services, we began significantly expanding our

2      ANNUAL REPORT 2009










offering
of the mutual funds of other companies in the late 1990s. In 2003, we acquired the business of Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings. On September 30, 2005, American Express
consummated a distribution of the shares of AEFC to American Express shareholders (the "Distribution"), at which time we became an independent, publicly traded company and changed our name to
"Ameriprise Financial, Inc." In 2008, we completed the acquisitions of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc., Brecek & Young Advisors, Inc. ("Brecek & Young") and
J. & W. Seligman & Co. Incorporated ("Seligman"), which further expanded our retail distribution and our asset management capabilities. Also in 2008 we initiated the
disposition of our institutional trust and custody business, and completed that restructuring in early 2009. In 2009, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Columbia
from Bank of America, N.A. The Columbia acquisition, which is expected to close in the spring of 2010, is intended to further enhance the scale and performance of our retail mutual fund and
institutional asset management businesses.

Our Organization

The following is a simplified depiction of the organizational structure for our company, showing the primary subsidiaries through
which we operate our businesses. The current legal entity names are provided for each subsidiary.



Following
is a brief description of the business conducted by each subsidiary noted above, as well as the segment or segments in which it primarily operates.

>

Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Sàrlis a
Luxembourg-based holding company for the Threadneedle group of companies ("Threadneedle"), which provides investment management products and services to clients in the United Kingdom, Continental
Europe and the Asia-Pacific region on a basis primarily independent from our other affiliates. Operating under its own brand name, management organization and operating, compliance and
technology infrastructure, Threadneedle's results of operations are included in our Asset Management segment.

>

RiverSource Investments, LLCserves as investment advisor to our
RiverSource® and Seligman® family of mutual funds and to institutional accounts. Its results of operations are included in our Asset Management and Corporate & Other
segments.

>

J. & W. Seligman & Co.,Incorporated is a holding company for
the Seligman group of companies. Seligman's results of operations are included in our Asset Management segment.

>

RiverSource Fund Distributors, Inc.is a broker-dealer subsidiary which serves
as the principal underwriter and distributor for ourRiverSourceandSeligmanmutual funds. Its results of
operations are included in our Asset Management segment.

>

American Enterprise Investment Services Inc.("AEIS") is our registered
clearing broker-dealer subsidiary. Brokerage transactions for accounts introduced by Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. are executed and cleared through AEIS. Its results of operations are included
in our Advice & Wealth Management segment.

>

Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc.("AFSI"), a registered broker-dealer and
registered investment adviser, is our primary financial planning and retail distribution subsidiary, which operates under our Ameriprise Financial brand name. Its

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      3








results
of operations are included in our Advice & Wealth Management segment.

>

Securities America Financial Corporationis a holding company for Securities
America, Inc. ("SAI"), our retail distribution subsidiary, which provides a platform for our unbranded affiliated advisors. Operating under its own name, management organization and operating,
compliance and technology infrastructure, its results of operations are included in our Advice & Wealth Management segment.

>

AMPF Holding Corporationis a holding company for certain of our retail
brokerage and advisory subsidiaries including AFSI, AEIS and Ameriprise Advisor Services, Inc. ("AASI", formerly known asH&R Block Financial Advisors,
Inc.). In October 2009, AASI's retail brokerage and investment advisory activities were combined into those of AEIS and AFSI, respectively. AFSI now serves as the introducing
broker-dealer and advisor for former clients of AASI, while AEIS now provides clearing services. AMPF Holding Corporation's results of operations are included in our Advice & Wealth Management
segment.

>

RiverSource Distributors, Inc.("RiverSource Distributors") is a broker-dealer
subsidiary which serves as the principal underwriter and distributor for ourRiverSourceannuities and insurance products sold through AFSI and SAI as
well as through third-party channels such as banks and broker-dealer networks. Its results of operations are included in our Asset Management, Annuities and Protection segments.

>

RiverSource Life Insurance Company("RiverSource Life") conducts its insurance
and annuity business in states other than New York. Its results of operations for our annuities business are included primarily in the Annuities segment, and its results of operations with respect to
other life and health products it manufactures are reflected primarily in the Protection segment. Investment income on excess capital is reported in the Corporate & Other segment.

>

RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York("RiverSource Life of NY") conducts
its insurance and annuity business in the State of New York. Its results of operations for our annuities business are included primarily in the Annuities segment, and its results of operations with
respect to other life and health products it manufactures are reflected primarily in the Protection segment. Investment income on excess capital is reported in the Corporate & Other segment.
RiverSource Life of NY is a wholly owned subsidiary of RiverSource Life. We refer to RiverSource Life and RiverSource Life of NY as the "RiverSource Life companies."

>

RiverSource Service Corporationis a transfer agent that processes client
transactions for ourRiverSourcemutual funds and Ameriprise face-amount certificates. Its results of operations are included in our Asset
Management segment.

>

IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company("IDS Property Casualty" or
"Ameriprise Auto & Home") provides personal auto, home and excess liability insurance products.Ameriprise Insurance Companyis also licensed to
provide these products. The results of operations of these companies are included in the Protection segment.

>

Ameriprise Certificate Companyissues a variety of face-amount
certificates. Its results of operations are included in the Advice & Wealth Management segment.

>

Ameriprise Trust Companyprovides trust services to individuals and
businesses. Its results of operations are included in the Asset Management segment.

>

Ameriprise Bank, FSB("Ameriprise Bank") offers a variety of consumer banking
and lending products and personal trust and related services. Its results of operations are included in the Advice & Wealth Management segment.

Our Segments — Advice & Wealth Management

Our Advice & Wealth Management segment provides financial planning and advice, as well as full service brokerage and banking
services, primarily to retail clients through our affiliated financial advisors. Our affiliated financial advisors utilize a diversified selection of both affiliated and non-affiliated
products to help clients meet their
financial needs. A significant portion of revenues in this segment is fee-based, driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We
also earn net investment income on owned assets primarily from certificate and banking products. This segment earns revenues (distribution fees) for distributing non-affiliated products
and earns intersegment revenues (distribution fees) for distributing our affiliated products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include expenses for investment
management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. In 2009, 31% of our revenues from external clients were attributable
to our Advice & Wealth Management business.

Our Financial Advisor Platform

We provide clients financial planning, advice and brokerage services through our nationwide network of more than 12,000 affiliated financial advisors.
Our network currently includes more than 10,000 branded advisors, of which more than 2,400 are employees of our company and more than 7,600 are independent franchisees or employees or contractors of
franchisees. Our affiliated network also includes more than 1,900 non-employee unbranded advisors of SAI. We believe our branded advisor network had the 4th largest advisor sales
force in the United States in 2009.

4      ANNUAL REPORT 2009








Advisors
who use our brand name can affiliate with our company in two different ways. Each affiliation offers different levels of support and compensation, with the amount of compensation we pay to
each branded advisor determined by a schedule that takes into account the type of service or product provided, the type of branded advisor affiliation and other criteria. The affiliation options
are:

>Employee Advisors.Under this affiliation, a financial advisor is
an employee of our company, and we pay compensation competitive with other employee advisor models. We provide our employee advisors a high level of support, including local office space and staff
support in exchange for a payout rate lower than that of our branded franchisee advisors.>Branded Franchisee Advisors.Under this affiliation, a financial
advisor is an independent contractor franchisee who affiliates with our company and has the right to use the Ameriprise brand. We pay our branded franchisee advisors a higher payout rate than we do to
our employee advisors as they are responsible for paying their own overhead, staff compensation and other business expenses. In addition, our branded franchisee advisors pay a franchise association
fee and other fees in exchange for the support we offer and the right to associate with our brand name. The support that we offer to our branded franchisee advisors includes generalist and specialist
leadership support, technology platforms and tools, training and marketing programs.

We
offer a dedicated call center for remote-based sales and service to Ameriprise retail customers. The employee advisors in the Ameriprise Advisor Center ("AAC") serve retail customers who do not
have access to or do not want a face-to-face relationship with a local financial advisor. Financial consultants in the AAC provide personal service and financial planning
through phone-based interactions and may provide product choices in the context of the client's needs and objectives.

During
2009, we took a number of steps to enhance the performance of our branded platform. We recruited over 500 experienced financial advisors from other firms while reducing the number of lower
producing advisors. We streamlined our field leadership structures to manage our branded advisor networks more efficiently and effectively, and we consolidated field offices where we believed it was
appropriate to do so. We invested in the development of enhanced brokerage tools and technology, and in October we consolidated the brokerage platforms for our branded advisors to one, common
platform. We intend to continue investing in our brokerage platform to further improve efficiency and ease of use for our advisors and to enhance the experience of our clients.

Our
strong financial advisor retention rate speaks to the value proposition we offer advisors. As of December 31, 2009, over 50% of our branded advisors had been with us for more than
10 years, with an average tenure of nearly 18 years. Among branded advisors who have been with us for more than 10 years, we have a retention rate of over 95%. We believe this
success is driven by the choice we offer branded advisors about how to affiliate with our company, together with our competitive payout arrangements and the distinctive support that helps them build
their practices.

Our
third platform, the unbranded advisor network served by SAI and its subsidiaries, offers our own and other companies' mutual funds and variable annuities as well as the investment and protection
products of other companies.

Each
of our three platforms of affiliated financial advisors provides clients access to our diversified set of cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth
transfer products and services, as well as a selection of products from other companies, as more fully described below.

Brokerage and Investment Advisory Services

Individual
and Family Financial Services

Our
branded advisors deliver financial solutions to our advisory clients by building long-term personal relationships through financial planning that is
responsive to clients' evolving needs. We utilize
the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards, Inc.'s defined financial planning process of Engage, Gather, Analyze, Recommend, Implement and Monitor. This process involves gathering relevant
financial information, setting life goals, examining clients' current financial status and determining a strategy or plan for helping clients meet their goals given their current situation and future
plans. Once we have identified a financial planning client's objectives, we then recommend a solution set consisting of actions — such as paying down debt, increasing savings and
investment, protecting income and assets, creating a will, and including tax qualified formats in the client's allocation of savings and investment — as well as products to address
these objectives with clients accepting what they determine to be an appropriate range and level of risk. Our financial planning relationships with our clients are characterized by an ability to
thoroughly understand their specific needs, which enables us to better help them meet those needs, achieve higher overall client satisfaction, hold more products in their accounts and increase the
company's assets under management.

Our
financial planning clients pay a fixed fee for the receipt of financial planning services. This fee is based on the complexity of a client's financial and life situation and their advisor's
particular practice experience, and is not based on or related to actual investment performance. If clients elect to implement their financial plan with our company, we and our affiliated financial
advisors generally receive a sales commission and/or sales load

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      5










and
other revenues for the products that we sell to them. These commissions, sales loads and other revenues are separate from and in addition to the financial planning fees we and our affiliated
financial advisors may receive. Approximately 40.3% of our retail clients serviced by branded franchisee advisors and employee advisors of AFSI have received a financial plan or have entered into an
agreement to receive and have paid for a financial plan.

Brokerage
and Other Products and Services

We
offer our retail and institutional clients a variety of brokerage and other investment products and services.

OurAmeriprise ONE® Financial Account is a single integrated financial management account that combines a client's investment, banking and
lending relationships. TheAmeriprise ONEFinancial Account enables clients to access a single cash account to fund a variety of financial transactions,
including investments in mutual funds, individual securities, cash products and margin lending. Additional features of theAmeriprise ONEFinancial
Account include unlimited check writing with overdraft protection, a co-branded MasterCard, online bill payments, ATM access and a savings account.

We
provide securities execution and clearing services for our retail and institutional clients through our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2009, we administered
$95.1 billion in assets for clients. Clients can use our online brokerage service to purchase and sell securities, obtain independent research and information about a wide variety of
securities, and use self-directed asset allocation and other financial planning tools. Clients can also contact their financial advisor and access other services. We also offer shares in
public non-exchange traded Real Estate Investment Trusts ("REITs"), and other alternative investments and structured notes issued by other companies. We believe we are one of the largest
distributors of publicly registered, non-exchange traded REITs in the U.S.

ThroughAmeriprise Achiever Circle, we offer special benefits and rewards to recognize clients who have $100,000 invested with us. Clients who have
$500,000 or more invested with us are eligible forAmeriprise Achiever Circle Elite, which includes additional benefits. To qualify for and maintainAchiever
CircleorAchiever Circle Elitestatus, clients must meet certain eligibility and maintenance
requirements. Special benefits of the program may include fee waivers onAmeriprise® IRAs and theAmeriprise
ONEFinancial Account, a fee-waived Ameriprise Financial MasterCard® or a preferred interest rate on an Ameriprise Personal Savings Account, as
applicable.

Fee-based
Investment Advisory Accounts

We
offer several types of investment advisory accounts. We sponsor Ameriprise Strategic Portfolio Service Advantage, a non-discretionary wrap account service. We also sponsor Ameriprise
Separately Managed Accounts ("SMAs"), a discretionary wrap account service through which clients invest in strategies offered by us and by affiliated and non-affiliated investment managers
and a similar program on an accommodation basis where clients transfer assets to us and do not maintain an investment management relationship with the manager of those assets. We also offerActive Portfoliosinvestments, a discretionary mutual fund wrap account service of which we are the sponsor, which includes theActive Diversified Portfoliosseries, which provide strategic target allocations based on different risk profiles and tax sensitivities.Active Portfoliosinvestments also includeActive Diversified Alternatives Portfolios, introduced during
2009, which are designed to provide enhanced risk-adjusted performance by incorporating uncorrelated sources of return from funds using alternative investment strategies. Additionally, we
offer discretionary wrap account services through which clients may invest in SMAs, mutual funds and exchange traded funds.

Our
unbranded advisor force offers separate fee based investment advisory account services through Securities America Advisors, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Securities America Financial

6      ANNUAL REPORT 2009










Corporation,
and through Brecek & Young's investment management platform, Iron Point Capital Management.

Mutual
Fund Offerings

In
addition to theRiverSourcefamily of mutual funds (discussed below in "Our Segments — Asset
Management — Asset Management Offerings — Mutual Fund Families — RiverSource and Threadneedle"), we offer mutual funds from more than 275 other
mutual fund families on a stand-alone basis and as part of our wrap accounts to provide our clients a broad choice of investment products. In 2009, our retail sales of other companies' mutual funds
accounted for a substantial portion of our total retail mutual fund sales. Client assets held in mutual funds of other companies on a stand-alone basis generally produce lower total revenues than
client assets held in our own mutual funds, as we are not receiving ongoing investment management fees for the former.

Mutual
fund families of other companies generally pay us by sharing a portion of the revenue generated from the sales of those funds and from the ongoing management of fund assets attributable to our
clients' ownership of shares of those funds. These payments enable us to make the mutual fund families of other companies generally available through our financial advisors and through our online
brokerage platform. We also receive administrative services fees from most mutual funds sold through our distribution network.

Banking
Products

We
provide consumer lending and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") insured deposit products to our retail clients through our banking subsidiary, Ameriprise
Bank. Our consumer lending products include first mortgages, home equity loans, home equity lines of credit, and investment secured loans. We also offer credit card products linked to the Ameriprise
Achiever Circle Program. These include the Ameriprise World Elite MasterCard, World MasterCard and basic MasterCard. The majority of bank deposits are brokered deposits from affiliated broker-dealers
or they are in the Ameriprise Personal Savings Account, which is offered in connection with theAmeriprise ONEFinancial Account described above in
" — Brokerage and Other Products and Services." We also offer stand-alone checking, savings and money market accounts and certificates of deposit. We believe these products play a
key role in our Advice & Wealth Management business by offering our clients an FDIC-insured alternative to other cash products. These products also provide pricing flexibility
generally not available through money market funds.

To
manage our exposure to residential real estate, the majority of our originated first mortgage products are sold to third parties shortly after origination. All other lending products are originated
and held on the balance sheet of Ameriprise Bank, with the exception of investment secured loans, which are held on the balance sheet of Ameriprise Financial. As of December 31, 2009, there
were $499 million in home loans/equity line of credit balances, $16 million in investment secured loan balances and $181 million in unsecured balances, net of premiums and
discounts, and capitalized lender paid origination fees.

Ameriprise
Bank's strategy and operations are focused on serving branded advisor clients. We distribute our banking products primarily through branded advisors. We believe that the availability of
these products is a competitive advantage and supports our financial advisors in their ability to meet the cash and liquidity needs of our clients. We also serve advisor clients through the Personal
Trust Services division of Ameriprise Bank. Personal Trust Services provides personal trust, custodial, agency and investment management services to individual and corporate clients of our branded
advisors to help them meet their estate and wealth transfer needs. Personal Trust Services also uses some of our investment products in connection with its services.

Face-Amount
Certificates

We
currently issue four types of face-amount certificates through Ameriprise Certificate Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Ameriprise Financial that is
registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Owners of our certificates invest funds and are entitled to receive at maturity or at the end of a stated term, a
determinable amount of money equal to their aggregate investments in the certificate plus interest at rates we declare, less any withdrawals and early withdrawal penalties. For two types of
certificate products, the rate of interest is calculated in whole or in part based on any upward movement in a broad-based stock market index up to a maximum return, where the maximum is a fixed rate
for a given term, but can be changed at our discretion for prospective terms.

At
December 31, 2009, we had $4.1 billion in total certificate reserves underlying our certificate products. Our earnings are based upon the difference, or "spread", between the interest
rates credited to certificate holders and the interest earned on the certificate assets invested. A portion of these earnings is used to compensate the various affiliated entities that provide
management, administrative and other services to our company for these products. The certificates compete with investments offered by banks (including Ameriprise Bank), savings and loan associations,
credit unions, mutual funds, insurance companies and similar financial institutions, which may be viewed by potential customers as offering a comparable or superior combination of safety and return on
investment. In times of weak performance in the equity markets, certificate sales are generally stronger. In 2009, branded financial advisors' cash sales were $2.3 billion.

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      7










Business
Alliances

We
provide workplace financial planning and educational programs to employees of major corporations and small businesses through our Business Alliances group. Our Business
Alliances group focuses on helping the individual employees of client companies plan for and achieve their long-term financial objectives. It offers financial planning as an employee
benefit supported by educational materials, tools and programs. In addition, we provide training and support to financial advisors working on-site at company locations to present
educational seminars, conduct
one-on-one meetings and participate in client educational events. We also provide financial advice service offerings, such as Financial Planning and Executive Financial
Services, tailored to discrete employee segments.

Strategic
Alliances and Other Marketing Arrangements

We
use strategic marketing alliances, local marketing programs for our branded advisors and on-site workshops through our Business Alliances group to generate
new clients for our financial planning and other financial services. An important aspect of our strategy is to leverage the client relationships of our other businesses by working with major companies
to create alliances that help us generate new financial services clients. For example, AFSI currently has relationships with H & R Block, Inc., Office Depot and The Association of Women's
Health, Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses.

Our
alliance arrangements are generally for a limited duration of one to five years with an option to renew. Additionally, these types of marketing arrangements typically provide that either party may
terminate the agreements on short notice, usually within sixty days. We compensate our alliance partners for providing opportunities to market to their clients.

In
addition to our alliance arrangements, we have developed a number of local marketing programs for our branded advisors to use in building their client bases. These include pre-approved
seminars, seminar- and event-training and referral tools and training, which are designed to encourage both prospective and existing clients to refer or bring their friends to an event.

Our Segments — Asset Management

At
December 31, 2009, our Asset Management segment had $243 billion in managed assets worldwide. Managed assets include managed external client assets and managed owned assets. Managed
external client assets include client assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of theRiverSourcefamily of mutual
funds, the assets of theThreadneedlefunds and theSeligmanfunds, and assets of institutional clients.
Managed assets include assets managed by sub-advisors we select. These external client assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Managed owned assets include certain
assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets (such as the assets of the general account and theRiverSourceVariable Product funds held in the separate
accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries) for which the Asset Management segment provides management services and recognizes management fees. For additional details regarding our owned, managed and
administered assets, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Investment Management Capabilities and Development

Our investment management teams manage the majority of assets in our RiverSource and Threadneedle families of mutual funds, as well as the assets we
manage for institutional clients in separately managed accounts, the general and separate accounts of the RiverSource Life companies, the assets of our face-amount certificate company and
the investment portfolio of Ameriprise Bank. These investment management teams also manage assets under sub-advisory arrangements.

We
believe that delivering consistent and strong investment performance will positively impact our assets under management by increasing the competitiveness and attractiveness of many of

8      ANNUAL REPORT 2009










our
investment products. We have implemented different approaches to investment management depending on whether the investments in our portfolio are fixed income or equity. We expect to acquire
additional capabilities for the definition and management of investment processes in connection with the Columbia purchase.

We
offer international investment management products and services through Threadneedle, which is headquartered in Luxembourg and which has its primary operations in London. The Threadneedle group of
companies provides investment management products and services independent from our other affiliates. Threadneedle offers a wide range of asset management products and services, including segregated
asset management, mutual funds and hedge funds to institutional clients as well as to retail clients through intermediaries, banks and fund platforms in Continental Europe, the United Kingdom and the
Asia-Pacific region. These services comprise most asset classes, including equities, fixed income, commodities, cash and real estate. Threadneedle also offers investment management
products and services to U.S. investment companies and other U.S. institutional clients, including certainRiverSourceFunds. In 2009, the number of
Threadneedle Funds sold in the U.S. increased to seven. In March 2009 Threadneedle entered into a distribution agreement to become a strategic partner and global fund provider to Standard Chartered
Bank which included the acquisition of Standard Chartered Bank's World Express Investment Funds business.

We
have continued to invest to deliver consistent and strong investment performance by enhancing our investment management leadership, talent, technology infrastructure and distribution capabilities.
In November 2008 we acquired the Seligman companies and retained key investment professionals and management talent. Seligman offers asset management services emphasizing open- and
closed-end investment funds, hedge funds and institutional accounts. Seligman manages the nation's first growth mutual fund and helped develop single-state municipal funds. Seligman is
recognized in particular for its accomplished technology investment team, which manages retail and alternative portfolios, including Seligman Communications and Information Fund, and for its
value-oriented offerings.

In
addition to growth through acquisition, we are continuing to capitalize on our broad asset management capabilities by creating new retail and institutional investment products, including 3 newRiverSourcemutual funds, 1 fund within Threadneedle's Open Ended Investment Company ("OEIC") offerings, and 1 fund within the Threadneedle Societe
d'Investissement à Capital Variable ("SICAV") offerings, all of which launched in 2009. SICAVs and OEICs are European mutual funds that meet the requirements of the Undertakings for
Collective Investment in Transferable Securities ("UCITS") Directive, and thus are eligible to be marketed throughout Europe. SICAVs are domiciled in Luxembourg, and OEICs in the United Kingdom. We
also provide seed money to certain of our investment management teams to develop new products for our institutional clients.

Asset Management Offerings

Mutual
Fund Families — RiverSource and Threadneedle

We
provide investment advisory, distribution and other services to two families of mutual funds: theRiverSourceandThreadneedlemutual fund families.

TheRiverSourcefamily of funds includes both retail mutual funds, which are available through the Ameriprise financial advisor network, as part of
Ameriprise institutional 401(k) plans and through third-party financial institutions, and variable product funds, which are available as underlying investment options in variable annuity and variable
life products. Mutual funds in theRiverSourcefamily of funds are branded as RiverSource Funds, Seligman Funds and Threadneedle Funds. TheRiverSourcefamily of funds includes domestic and international equity funds, fixed income funds, cash management funds, balanced funds and
fund-of-funds, with a variety of investment objectives.

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      9








Our
retail mutual funds had total managed assets at December 31, 2009 of $50.6 billion in 105 funds. RiverSource Variable Series Trust Funds ("VST Funds") and Seligman Variable insurance
Trusts ("VITs") had total managed assets at December 31, 2009 of $26.3 billion in 27 funds.

RiverSource
Fund Distributors, Inc. acts as the principal underwriter (distributor of shares) for theRiverSourcefamily of mutual funds. In addition,
RiverSource Investments acts as investment manager and several of our subsidiaries perform various services for the funds, including accounting, administrative and transfer agency services.
RiverSource Investments performs investment management services pursuant to contracts with the mutual funds that are subject to renewal by the mutual fund boards within two years after initial
implementation, and thereafter, on an annual basis.

RiverSource
Investments earns management fees for managing the assets of theRiverSourcefamily of mutual funds based on the underlying asset values. We
also earn fees by providing other services to the RiverSource family of mutual funds. RiverSource equity and balanced funds have a performance incentive adjustment that adjusts the level of management
fees received, upward or downward, based on the fund's performance as measured against a designated external index of peers. This has a corresponding impact on management fee revenue. In 2009,
revenues were adjusted downward by approximately $17 million due to performance incentive adjustments. We earn commissions for distributing the RiverSource Funds through sales charges
(front-end or back-end loads) on certain classes of shares and distribution and servicing-related (12b-1) fees based on a percentage of fund assets, and receive
intercompany allocation payments. This revenue is impacted by overall asset levels of the funds.

The
RiverSource family of funds also uses sub-advisors to diversify and enhance investment management expertise. Since the end of 2003, Threadneedle personnel have provided investment
management services to RiverSource global and international equity funds. In addition to Threadneedle, unaffiliated sub-advisors provide investment management services to certain
RiverSource funds.

Threadneedle
manages four OEICs and two SICAVs. The four OEICs are Threadneedle Investment Funds ICVC ("TIF"), Threadneedle Specialist Investment Funds ICVC ("TSIF") and Threadneedle Focus Investment
Funds ("TFIF") and Threadneedle Advantage Portfolio Funds (TPAF). TIF, TSIF, TFIF and TPAF are structured as umbrella companies with a total of 51 (33, 13, 2 and 3, respectively) sub funds covering
the world's bond and equity markets. The two SICAVs are the Threadneedle (Lux) SICAV ("T(Lux)") and World Express Funds 2 ("WEF2"). T(Lux) and WEF2 are structured as umbrella companies with a
total of 30 (28
and 2 respectively) sub funds covering the world's bond and equity markets. In addition, Threadneedle manages 13 unit trusts, 10 of which invest into the OEICs, 6 property unit trusts, 1 Dublin-based
cash OEIC and 1 property fund of funds.

Separately
Managed Accounts

We
provide investment management services to pension, profit-sharing, employee savings and endowment funds, accounts of large- and medium-sized businesses and governmental
clients, as well as the accounts of high-net-worth individuals and smaller institutional clients, including tax-exempt and not-for-profit
organizations. Our services include investment of funds on a discretionary or non-discretionary basis and related services including trading, cash management and reporting. We offer
various fixed income and equity investment strategies for our institutional separately managed accounts clients. Through an arrangement with Threadneedle, we also offer certain international and U.S.
equity strategies to U.S. clients.

For
our investment management services, we generally receive fees based on the market value of managed assets pursuant to contracts that can typically be terminated by the client on short notice.
Clients may also pay fees to us based on the performance of their portfolio. At December 31, 2009, we managed a total of $7.5 billion in assets under this range of services.

Management
of Institutional Owned Assets

We
provide investment management services and recognize management fees for certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, such as the assets held in the general account
of our RiverSource Life companies, the RiverSource Variable Product funds held in the separate accounts of our RiverSource Life companies, assets held by Ameriprise Certificate Company and the
investment portfolio of Ameriprise Bank. Our fixed income team manages the general account assets to produce a consolidated and targeted rate of return on investments while controlling risk. Our fixed
income and equity teams also manage separate account assets. The Asset Management segment's management of institutional owned assets for Ameriprise Financial subsidiaries is reviewed by the boards of
directors and staff functions of the applicable subsidiaries consistent with regulatory investment requirements. At December 31, 2009, the Asset Management segment managed $38.3 billion
of institutional owned assets.

10      ANNUAL REPORT 2009








Management of Collateralized Debt Obligations ("CDOs")

We
provide collateral management services to special purpose vehicles that issue CDOs through a dedicated team of investment professionals located in Los Angeles and
Minneapolis. CDOs are securities collateralized by a pool of assets, primarily syndicated bank loans and, to a lesser extent, high yield bonds. Multiple tranches of securities are issued by a CDO,
offering investors various maturity and credit risk characteristics. Scheduled payments to investors are based on the performance of the CDO's collateral pool. For collateral management of CDOs, we
earn fees based on the par value of assets and, in certain instances, may also receive performance-based fees. At December 31, 2009, excluding CDO portfolios managed by Threadneedle, we managed
$6.4 billion of assets related to CDOs.

Sub-Advisory
Services

We
act as sub-advisor for certain domestic and international mutual funds and are pursuing opportunities to sub-advise additional investment company
assets in the U.S. and overseas. As of December 31, 2009, we managed over $2.5 billion in assets in a sub-advisory capacity.

Hedge
Funds

We
provide investment advice and related services to private, pooled investment vehicles organized as limited partnerships, limited liability companies or foreign
(non-U.S.) entities. These funds are currently exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and are organized as domestic and foreign funds. For investment management
services, we generally receive fees based on the market value of assets under management, as well as performance-based fees. As of December 31, 2009 we managed $3.4 billion in Hedge Fund
Assets.

Ameriprise
Trust Collective Funds and Separately Managed Accounts

As
of December 31, 2009, $7.5 billion of RiverSource Trust Collective Funds and separate accounts were managed for Ameriprise Trust Company clients. This
amount does not include theRiverSourcefamily of mutual funds held in other retirement plans because these assets are included under assets managed for
institutional and retail clients and within the "Asset Management Offerings — Mutual Fund Families — RiverSource and Threadneedle" section above.

Collective
funds are investment funds that are excepted from registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and offered primarily through banks and other financial institutions to
institutional clients such as retirement, pension and profit-sharing plans. We currently serve as investment manager to 37 Ameriprise Trust Company collective funds covering a broad spectrum of
investment strategies. We receive fees for investment management services that are generally based upon a percentage of assets under management rather than performance-based fees. In addition to
RiverSource Funds and RiverSource Trust Collective Funds, Ameriprise Trust offers separately managed accounts and collective funds to our retirement plan clients.

In
addition to the investment management services described above, our brokerage subsidiaries acts as broker and in limited cases as custodian, for individual retirement accounts,
tax-sheltered custodial accounts and other retirement plans for individuals and small- and mid-sized businesses. At December 31, 2009, these tax-qualified
assets totaled $9.9 billion.

Institutional Distribution and Services

We offer separately managed account services to a variety of institutional clients, including pension plans, employee savings plans, foundations,
endowments, corporations, banks, trusts, governmental entities, high-net-worth individuals and not-for-profit organizations. We provide investment
management services for insurance companies, including our insurance subsidiaries, as well as hedge fund management and other alternative investment products. These alternative investment products
include CDOs available through our syndicated loan management group to our institutional clients. We provide a variety of services for our institutional clients that sponsor retirement plans. These
services are provided primarily through our trust company subsidiary and one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. Over the past two years we have increased our efforts to enhance our institutional
capabilities, including funding institutional product development by our investment management teams and through the recent expansion of our institutional and sub-advisory sales teams. At
December 31, 2009, we managed $72.3 billion of assets for domestic institutional clients.

International Distribution

Outside the United States, Threadneedle leads our distribution, which is categorized along three lines: Retail, Alternatives and Institutional.

Retail.The retail business line includes Threadneedle's European mutual fund family, which ranked as the 9th largest retail fund business in the United
Kingdom in terms of assets under management at December 31, 2009, according to the Investment Management Association, a trade association for the UK investment management industry. Threadneedle
sells mutual funds mostly in Europe through financial intermediaries and institutions. Threadneedle provides sales and marketing support for these distribution channels.

Alternatives.The Alternatives section of Threadneedle's business consists of six long/short equity funds, one currency

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      11










fund,
one commodities fund, one managed account for specific clients that follow hedge strategies, a fixed income hedge fund and four CDO funds. The hedge funds are sold primarily to banks and other
managers of funds of hedge funds.

Institutional (including Zurich).Threadneedle's institutional business offers separately managed accounts to European and other international pension funds and
other institutions. Threadneedle is expanding distribution of its institutional products in Continental Europe, the Middle East and Asia. At December 31, 2009, Threadneedle had
$67 billion in managed assets in separately managed accounts including assets managed for Zurich Financial Services Group ("Zurich"). Threadneedle entered into an agreement with Zurich when we
acquired Threadneedle for Threadneedle to continue to manage certain Zurich assets. At December 31, 2009, Threadneedle had separately managed assets under management totaling $49 billion
for Zurich. Zurich is Threadneedle's single largest client and represented 50% of Threadneedle's assets under management as of December 31, 2009. However, the annual fees associated with these
assets comprise a substantially lower portion of Threadneedle's revenue.

Our Segments — Annuities

Our
products include deferred variable and fixed annuities, in which assets accumulate until the contract is surrendered, the contract holder (or in some contracts, the annuitant) dies or the contract
holder or annuitant begins receiving benefits under an annuity payout option. We also offer immediate annuities, in which payments begin within one year of issue and continue for life or for a fixed
period of time. The relative proportion between fixed and variable annuity sales is generally driven by the relative performance of the equity and fixed income markets. In times of weak performance in
equity markets, fixed sales are generally stronger. In times of superior performance in equity markets, variable sales are generally stronger. The relative proportion between fixed and variable
annuity sales is also influenced by product design and other factors. In addition to the revenues we generate on these products, which are described below, we also receive fees charged on assets
allocated to our separate accounts to cover administrative costs and a portion of the management fees from the underlying investment accounts in which assets are invested, as discussed below under
"Variable Annuities." Investment management performance is critical to the profitability of ourRiverSourceannuity business as annuity holders have
access to multiple investment options from third-party managers within the annuity.

Our
branded franchisee advisors and branded advisors employed by AFSI are the largest distributors of our products and generally do not offer annuity products of our competitors. The primary exception
to this general practice is that the branded advisors who joined us in connection with the H&R Block Financial Advisors acquisition have continued to offer annuities from competitors as they did prior
to the acquisition. We expect they will continue to do so until we harmonize the competitive products offered by all of our branded advisors, as described below, at which point some of these advisors
will offer a more limited number of competitors' products. Our independent advisors at SAI currently offer annuities from a broader array of insurance companies. In
2010, we plan to begin expanding the offerings available to all of our branded advisors to include variable annuities issued by a limited number of additional unaffiliated insurance companies. Our
RiverSource Distributors subsidiary serves as the principal underwriter and distributor ofRiverSourceannuities through AFSI, SAI and third-party
channels such as banks and broker-dealer networks. We continue to expand distribution by delivering annuity products issued by the RiverSource Life companies through non-affiliated
representatives and agents of third-party distributors.

Variable Annuities

A variable annuity provides a contract holder with investment returns linked to underlying investment accounts of the contract holder's choice. These
underlying investment options may include the RiverSource VST Funds previously discussed (see "Business — Our Segments — Asset Management —
Asset Management Offerings — Mutual Fund Families — RiverSource and

12      ANNUAL REPORT 2009










Threadneedle",
above) as well as variable portfolio funds of other companies.RiverSourcevariable annuity products in force offer a fixed account
investment option with guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates ranging up to 4% at December 31, 2009.

Our
Portfolio Navigator asset allocation program is available under our variable annuities. The Portfolio Navigator program is designed to help a contract purchaser select an asset allocation model
portfolio from the choices available under the program, based on the purchaser's stated investment time horizon, risk tolerance and investment goals. We believe the benefits of the Portfolio Navigator
asset allocation program include a well-diversified annuity portfolio, disciplined, professionally created asset allocation models, simplicity and ease of use, access to multiple
well-known money managers within each model portfolio and automatic rebalancing of the client's contract value on a quarterly basis. RiverSource Investments, our investment management
subsidiary, designs and periodically updates the model portfolios based on recommendations from Morningstar Associates, an unaffiliated investment advisor.

The
majority of the variable annuity contracts we issue include guaranteed minimum death benefit ("GMDB") provisions. Contract purchasers can choose optional benefit provisions to their contracts to
meet their needs, including guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit ("GMWB") and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit ("GMAB") provisions. Approximately 98% of RiverSource Life's overall variable
annuity assets include a GMDB provision and approximately 40% of RiverSource Life's overall variable annuity assets include a GMWB or GMAB provision. In general, these features can help protect
contract holders and beneficiaries from a shortfall in death or living benefits due to a decline in the value of their underlying investment accounts.

The
general account assets of our life insurance subsidiaries support the contractual obligations under the guaranteed benefit provisions the company issues (see "Business — Our
Segments — Asset Management — Asset Management Offerings — Management of Institutional Owned Assets" above). As a result, we bear the risk that
protracted under-performance of the financial markets could result in guaranteed benefit payments being higher than what current account values would support. Our exposure to risk from guaranteed
benefits generally will increase when equity markets decline, as evidenced by the significant decline experienced in 2008 and early 2009. You can find a discussion of liabilities and reserves
related to our annuity products in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K — "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk", as well as in Note 11, Note 12 and Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

RiverSourcevariable annuities provide us with fee-based revenue in the form of mortality and expense risk fees, marketing support and
administrative fees, fees charged for optional features elected by the contract holder, and other contract charges. We receive marketing support payments from the VST Funds underlying our variable
annuity products as well as Rule 12b-1 distribution and servicing-related fees from the VST Funds and the underlying funds of other companies. In addition, we receive marketing
support payments from the affiliates of other companies' funds included as investment options in ourRiverSourcevariable annuity products.

For
the nine months ended September 30, 2009, RiverSource Life Insurance Companies ranked ninth in variable annuity sales according to LIMRA International ®.

Fixed Annuities

RiverSourcefixed annuity products provide a contract holder with cash value that increases by a fixed
or indexed interest rate. We periodically reset rates at our discretion subject to certain policy terms establishing minimum guaranteed interest crediting rates. Our earnings from fixed annuities are
based upon the spread between rates earned on assets purchased with fixed annuity deposits and the rates at which interest is credited to ourRiverSourcefixed annuity contracts.

In
2007, we discontinued new sales of equity indexed annuities.

RiverSourcefixed annuity contracts in force provide guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates ranging from 1.5% to 5.0% at December 31, 2009.
New contracts issued provide guaranteed minimum interest rates in compliance with state laws providing for indexed guaranteed rates.

Liabilities and Reserves for Annuities

We maintain adequate financial reserves to cover the risks associated with guaranteed benefit provisions added to variable annuity contracts in
addition to liabilities arising from fixed and variable annuity base contracts. You can find a discussion of liabilities and reserves related to our annuity products in Note 2 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Financial Strength Ratings

Our insurance company subsidiaries that issueRiverSourceannuity products receive ratings from
independent rating organizations. Ratings are important to maintain public confidence in our insurance subsidiaries and our protection and annuity products. For a discussion of the financial strength
ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries, see the "Our Segments — Protection — Financial Strength Ratings" section, below.

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      13








Third-Party Distribution Channels

RiverSourceannuity products are offered to retail clients through third-party channels, such as
SunTrust Investment Services, Inc. and Wells Fargo Investments. As of December 31, 2009, we had distribution agreements forRiverSourceannuity
products in place with more than 120 third parties, with annual cash sales of $2.1 billion in 2009.

Our Segments — Protection

RiverSource Insurance Products

Through the RiverSource Life companies, we are the issuers of both variable and fixed universal life insurance, traditional life insurance and
disability income insurance. Universal life insurance is a form of permanent life insurance characterized by flexible premiums, flexible death benefits and unbundled pricing factors
(i.e., mortality, interest and expenses). Traditional life insurance refers to whole and term life insurance policies that pay a specified sum to a beneficiary upon death of the insured for a
fixed premium. Variable universal life insurance combines the premium and death benefit flexibility of universal life with underlying fund investment flexibility and the risks associated therewith. We
also offer a chronic care rider, AdvanceSource, on our new permanent insurance products. This rider allows its policy holder to accelerate a portion of the life insurance death benefit in the event of
a qualified chronic care need.

Our
sales ofRiverSourceindividual life insurance in 2009, as measured by scheduled annual premiums, lump sum and excess premiums, consisted of 39%
variable universal life, 53% fixed universal life and 8% traditional life. Our RiverSource Life companies issue only non-participating policies, which do not pay dividends to policyholders
from the insurer's earnings.

Assets
supporting policy values associated with fixed account life insurance and annuity products, as well as those assets associated with fixed account investment options under variable insurance and
annuity products (collectively referred to as the "fixed accounts"), are part of the RiverSource Life companies' general accounts. Under fixed accounts, the RiverSource Life companies bear the
investment risk. More information on the RiverSource Life companies' general accounts is found under "Business — Our Segments — Asset
Management — Asset Management Offerings — Management of Institutional Owned Assets" above.

Variable
Universal Life Insurance

We
are a leader in variable universal life insurance. Variable universal life insurance provides life insurance coverage along with investment returns linked to underlying
investment accounts of the policyholder's choice. Options may include RiverSource VST Funds discussed above, as well as variable portfolio funds of other companies. RiverSource variable universal life
insurance products in force offer a fixed account investment option with guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates ranging from 3.0% to 4.5% at December 31, 2009. For the nine months ended
September 30, 2009, RiverSource Life ranked fifth in sales of variable universal life based on total premiums (according to the Tillinghast-Towers Perrin's Value survey).

Fixed
Universal Life Insurance and Traditional Whole Life Insurance

Fixed
universal life and traditional whole life insurance policies do not subject the policyholder to the investment risks associated with variable universal life insurance.

RiverSource
fixed universal life insurance products provide life insurance coverage and cash value that increases by a fixed interest rate. The rate is periodically reset at the discretion of the
issuing company subject to certain policy terms relative to minimum interest crediting rates. RiverSource fixed universal life insurance policies in force provided guaranteed minimum interest
crediting rates ranging from 3.0% to 5.0% at December 31, 2009. We also offer traditional whole life insurance, which combines a death benefit with a cash value that generally increases
gradually over a period of years. However, we have sold very little traditional whole life insurance in recent years. Whole life accounted for less than 1% of our insurance sales in 2009.

14      ANNUAL REPORT 2009








Term
Life Insurance

Term
life insurance provides a death benefit, but it does not build up cash value. The policyholder chooses the term of coverage with guaranteed premiums at the time of
issue. During the chosen term, we cannot raise premium rates even if claims experience deteriorates. At the end of the chosen term, coverage may continue with higher premiums until the maximum age is
attained, or the policy expires with no value.

Disability
Income Insurance

Disability
income insurance provides monthly benefits to individuals who are unable to earn income either at their occupation at time of disability ("own occupation") or at
any suitable occupation ("any occupation") for premium payments that are guaranteed not to change. Depending upon occupational and medical underwriting criteria, applicants for disability income
insurance can choose "own occupation" and "any occupation" coverage for varying benefit periods. In some states, applicants may also choose various benefit provisions to help them integrate individual
disability income insurance benefits with social security or similar benefit plans and to help them protect their disability income insurance benefits from the risk of inflation. For the nine months
ended September 30, 2009, we were ranked as the eighth largest provider of individual (non-cancellable) disability income insurance based on premiums (according to LIMRA
International).

Long
Term Care Insurance

As
of December 31, 2002, the RiverSource Life companies discontinued underwriting long term care insurance. However, our branded financial advisors sell long term
care insurance issued by other companies, including Genworth Life Insurance Company, John Hancock Life Insurance Company and Prudential Insurance Company.

In
2004 RiverSource Life and RiverSource Life of NY began to file for approval to implement rate increases on most of their existing blocks of nursing home-only indemnity long term care
insurance policies. Implementation of these rate increases began in early 2005 and continues. We have so far received approval for some or all requested increases in 50 states, with an average
approved cumulative rate increase of 62.2% of premium on all such policies where an increase was requested.

In
2007 RiverSource Life and RiverSource Life of NY began to file for approval to implement rate increases on most of their existing blocks of comprehensive reimbursement long term care insurance
policies. Implementation of these rate increases began in late 2007 and continues. We have so far received approval for some or all requested increases in 46 states, with an average approved
cumulative rate increase of 15.4% of premium on all such policies where an increase was requested.

We
may seek additional rate increases with respect to these and other existing blocks of long term care insurance policies, subject to regulatory approval.

Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance Products

We offer personal auto, home and excess personal liability insurance products through IDS Property Casualty and its subsidiary, Ameriprise Insurance
Company (the "Property Casualty companies"). Our Property Casualty companies provide personal auto, home and liability coverage to clients in 43 states and the District of Columbia.

Distribution and Marketing Channels

We offer the insurance products of our RiverSource Life companies almost exclusively through our branded financial advisors. Our branded advisors
offer insurance products issued predominantly by the RiverSource Life companies. In addition, our branded advisors may offer insurance products of unaffiliated carriers, subject to certain
qualifications. We also sell RiverSource Life insurance products through the AAC.

Our
Property Casualty companies do not have field agents; rather, we use co-branded direct marketing to sell our personal auto and home insurance products through alliances with commercial
institutions and affinity groups, and directly to our clients and the general public. Termination of one or more of these alliances could adversely affect our ability to generate new sales and retain
existing business. We also receive referrals through our financial advisor network. Our Property Casualty companies have a multi-year distribution agreement with Costco Insurance Agency,
Inc., Costco's affiliated insurance agency. Costco members represented 74% of all new policy sales of our Property Casualty companies in 2009. Through other alliances, we market our property casualty
products to certain consumers who have a relationship with Quicken Loans and customers of Ford Motor Credit Company and offer personal home insurance products to customers of the Progressive Group.

Reinsurance

We reinsure a portion of the insurance risks associated with our life, disability income and long term care insurance products through reinsurance
agreements with unaffiliated reinsurance companies. We use reinsurance in order to limit losses, reduce exposure to large risks and provide additional capacity for future growth. To manage exposure to
losses from reinsurer insolvencies, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers prior to entering into new reinsurance treaties and on a periodic basis during the terms of the treaties. Our
insurance companies remain primarily liable as the direct insurers on all risks reinsured.

Generally,
we reinsure 90% of the death benefit liability related to individual fixed and variable universal life and term life insurance

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      15










products.
As a result, the RiverSource Life companies typically retain and are at risk for, at most, 10% of each policy's death benefit from the first dollar of coverage for new sales of these
policies, subject to the reinsurers fulfilling their obligations. The RiverSource Life companies began reinsuring risks at this level during 2001 (2002 for RiverSource Life of NY) for term life
insurance and 2002 (2003 for RiverSource Life of NY) for individual fixed and variable universal life insurance. Policies issued prior to these dates are not subject to these reinsurance levels.
Generally, the maximum amount of life insurance risk retained by the RiverSource Life companies is $1.5 million (increased from $750,000 during 2008) on a single life and $1.5 million on
any flexible premium survivorship life policy. Risk on fixed and variable universal life policies is reinsured on a yearly renewable term basis. Risk on most term life policies starting in 2001 (2002
for RiverSource Life of NY) is reinsured on a coinsurance basis, a type of reinsurance in which the reinsurer participates proportionally in all material risks and premiums associated with a policy.

For
existing long term care policies, RiverSource Life (and RiverSource Life of NY for 1996 and later issues) retained 50% of the risk and ceded on a coinsurance basis the remaining 50% of the risk to
subsidiaries of Genworth Financial, Inc. ("Genworth"). As of December 31, 2009, RiverSource Life companies' credit exposure to Genworth under this reinsurance arrangement was approximately
$1.3 billion. Genworth also serves as claims administrator for our long term care policies.

Generally,
RiverSource Life companies retain at most $5,000 per month of risk per life on disability income policies sold on policy forms introduced in most states in October 2007 and they reinsure
the remainder of the risk on a coinsurance basis with unaffiliated reinsurance companies. RiverSource Life companies retain all risk for new claims on disability income contracts sold on other policy
forms. Our insurance companies also retain all risk on accidental death benefit claims and substantially all risk associated with waiver of premium provisions.

We
also reinsure a portion of the risks associated with our personal auto and home insurance products through two types of reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated reinsurance companies, as
follows:

>We purchase reinsurance with a limit of $5 million per loss, and we retain $750,000 per loss.>We purchase catastrophe reinsurance and retain $10 million of loss per event with loss recovery up to
$80 million per event.

See
Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on reinsurance.

Liabilities and Reserves

We maintain adequate financial reserves to cover the insurance risks associated with the insurance products we issue. Generally, reserves represent
estimates of the invested assets that our insurance companies need to hold to provide adequately for future benefits and expenses. For a discussion of liabilities and reserves related to our insurance
products, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Financial Strength Ratings

Independent rating organizations rate our insurance subsidiaries. Their ratings are important to maintain public confidence in our insurance
subsidiaries and our protection and annuity products. Lowering of our insurance subsidiaries' ratings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our protection and annuity products
and could lead to increased surrenders of these products. Rating organizations evaluate the financial soundness and claims-paying ability of insurance companies continually, and base their ratings on
a number of different factors, including a strong market position in core products and market segments, excellent risk-adjusted capitalization and high quality investment portfolios. More
specifically, the ratings assigned are developed from an evaluation of a company's balance sheet strength, operating performance and business profile. Balance sheet strength reflects a company's
ability to meet its current and ongoing obligations to its contract holders and policyholders and includes analysis of a company's capital adequacy. The evaluation of operating performance centers on
the stability and sustainability of a company's sources of earnings. The business profile component of the rating considers a company's mix of business, market position and depth and experience of
management.

Information
concerning the financial strength ratings for Ameriprise Financial, RiverSource Life and IDS Property Casualty can be found in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis — Liquidity and Capital Resources". We also list our ratings on our website at
ir.ameriprise.com. For the most current ratings information, please see the individual rating agency's website.

Our Segments — Corporate & Other

Our Corporate & Other segment consists of net investment income on corporate level assets, including excess capital held in our
subsidiaries and other unallocated equity and other revenues from various investments as well as unallocated corporate expenses. This segment also included non-recurring costs in 2007
associated with our separation from American Express.

16      ANNUAL REPORT 2009








Competition

We operate in a highly competitive industry. As a diversified financial services firm, we compete directly with a variety of financial
institutions, including registered investment advisors, securities brokers, asset managers, banks and insurance companies. We compete directly with these entities for the provision of products and
services to clients, as well as for our financial advisors and investment management personnel. Our products and services also compete indirectly in the marketplace with the products and services of
our competitors.

Our
financial advisors compete for clients with a range of other advisors, broker-dealers and direct channels, including wirehouses, regional broker-dealers, independent broker-dealers, insurers,
banks, asset managers, registered investment advisers and direct distributors.

Our
brokerage subsidiaries compete with securities broker-dealers, independent broker-dealers, financial planning firms, registered investment advisors, insurance companies and other financial
institutions in attracting and retaining members of the field force. Competitive factors in the brokerage services business include price, service and execution.

Competitors
of our RiverSource Life companies and Property Casualty companies consist of both stock and mutual insurance companies, as well as other financial intermediaries marketing insurance
products such as Hartford, MetLife, Prudential, Lincoln Financial, Principal Financial, Nationwide, Allstate and State Farm. Competitive factors affecting the sale of annuity products include price,
product features, investment performance, commission structure, perceived financial strength, claims-paying ratings, service, brand recognition and distribution capabilities. Competitive factors
affecting the sale of all insurance products include the cost of insurance and other contract charges, the level of premium rates and financial strength ratings from rating organizations such
as A.M. Best. Competitive factors affecting the sale of property casualty insurance products also include brand recognition and distribution capabilities.

Technology

We have an integrated customer management system, which serves as the hub of our technology platform. In addition, we have specialized
recordkeeping engines that manage individual brokerage, mutual fund, insurance and banking client accounts. Over the years we have updated our platform to include new product lines such as brokerage,
deposit, credit and products of other companies, wrap accounts and e-commerce capabilities for our financial advisors and clients. We also use a proprietary suite of processes, methods,
and tools for our financial planning services. We update our technological capabilities regularly to help maintain an adaptive platform design that aims to enhance the productivity of our branded
financial advisors and will allow a faster, lower-cost response to emerging business opportunities, compliance requirements and marketplace trends.

Most
of our applications run on a technology infrastructure that we outsourced to IBM in 2002. Under this arrangement, IBM is responsible for all mainframe, midrange and end-user computing
operations and a substantial portion of our web hosting and help desk operations. Also, we outsource our voice network operations to AT&T. In addition to these two arrangements, we have outsourced our
production support and a portion of our development and maintenance of our computer applications to other firms. We initiated a major replacement of our brokerage and clearing platforms in the last
quarter of 2009 and continue to roll out that implementation in stages across our branded advisor network.

We
have developed a comprehensive business continuity plan that covers business disruptions of varying severity and scope and addresses the loss of a geographic area, building, staff, data systems
and/or telecommunications capabilities. We review and test our business continuity plan on an ongoing basis and update it as necessary, and we require our key technology vendors and service providers
to do the same. Under our business continuity

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      17










plan,
we expect to be able to continue doing business and to resume operations with minimal service impacts. However, under certain scenarios, the time that it would take for us to recover and to
resume operations may significantly increase depending on the extent of the disruption and the number of personnel affected.

Geographic Presence

For years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 85%, 86% and 77%, respectively, of our long-lived assets were
located in the United States and approximately 95%, 94% and 92%, respectively, of our net revenues were generated in the United States.

Employees

At December 31, 2009, we had 9,793 employees, including 2,445 employee branded advisors (which does not include our branded
franchisee advisors or the unbranded advisors of SAI and its subsidiaries, none of whom are employees of our company). We are not subject to collective bargaining agreements, and we believe that our
employee relations are strong.

Regulation

Most aspects of our business are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities
exchanges and by non-U.S. government agencies or regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. Our public disclosure, internal control environment and corporate governance principles are
subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related regulations and rules of the SEC and the listed company requirements of The New York Stock Exchange, Incorporated.

We
have implemented franchise and compliance standards and strive for a consistently high level of client service. For several years, we have used standards developed by the Certified Financial
Planner Board of Standards, Inc., in our financial planning process. We also participated in developing the International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") 22222 Personal Financial
Planning Standard published in December 2005. We put in place franchise standards and requirements for our franchisees regardless of location. We have made significant investments in our compliance
processes, enhancing policies, procedures and oversight to monitor our compliance with the numerous legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, as described below. We expect to
continue to make significant investments in our compliance infrastructure.

Investment
companies and investment advisers are required by the SEC to adopt and implement written policies and procedures designed to prevent violation of federal securities laws and to designate a
chief compliance officer responsible for administering these policies and procedures. The SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, commonly referred to as FINRA, have also heightened
requirements for, and continued scrutiny of, the effectiveness of supervisory procedures and compliance programs of broker-dealers, including certification by senior officers regarding the
effectiveness of these procedures and programs.

Our
Advice & Wealth Management business is regulated by the SEC, FINRA, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the National Futures Association, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
the Office of Thrift Supervision ("OTS"), state securities regulators and state insurance regulators. Additionally, the U.S. Departments of Labor and Treasury regulate certain aspects of our
retirement services business. Because our independent contractor branded advisor platform is structured as a franchise system, we are also subject to Federal Trade Commission and state franchise
requirements. Compliance with these and other regulatory requirements adds to the cost and complexity of operating our business.

Ameriprise
Certificate Company, our face-amount certificate company, is regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Ameriprise Certificate
Company pays dividends to the parent company and is

18      ANNUAL REPORT 2009










subject
to capital requirements under applicable law and understandings with the SEC and the Minnesota Department of Commerce.

In
addition, the SEC, OTS, U.S. Departments of Labor and Treasury, FINRA, other self-regulatory organizations and state securities, banking and insurance regulators may conduct periodic
examinations. We may or may not receive advance notice of periodic examinations, and these examinations may result in administrative proceedings, which could lead to, among other things, censure,
fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer or an investment adviser and its officers or employees. Individual investors also
can bring complaints against our company and can file those complaints with regulators.

Our
Asset Management business is regulated by the SEC and the UK Financial Services Authority ("FSA"). Our European fund distribution activities are also subject to local country regulations.
Threadneedle's Australian CDO management business is regulated by the Australian Securities and Investment Commission ("ASIC").

Our
trust company is primarily regulated by the Minnesota Department of Commerce (Banking Division) and is subject to capital adequacy requirements under Minnesota law. It may not accept deposits or
make personal or commercial loans. As a provider of products and services to tax-qualified retirement plans and IRAs, certain aspects of our business, including the activities of our trust
company, fall within the compliance oversight of the U.S. Departments of Labor and Treasury, particularly regarding the enforcement of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, commonly
referred to as ERISA, and the tax reporting requirements applicable to such accounts.

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      19








The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") defines risk-based capital ("RBC") requirements for insurance companies. The RBC requirements are used
by the NAIC and state insurance regulators to identify companies that merit regulatory actions designed to protect policyholders. Our RiverSource Life companies and Property Casualty companies are
subject to various levels of regulatory intervention should their total adjusted statutory capital fall below the RBC requirement. At the "company action level," defined as total adjusted capital
level between 100% and 75% of the RBC requirement, an insurer must submit a plan for corrective action with its primary state regulator. The "regulatory action level," which is between 75% and 50% of
the RBC requirement, subjects an insurer to examination, analysis and specific corrective action prescribed by the primary state regulator. If a company's total adjusted capital falls between 50% and
35% of its RBC requirement, referred to as "authorized control level," the insurer's primary state regulator may place the insurer under regulatory control. Insurers with total adjusted capital below
35% of the requirement will be placed under regulatory control.

RiverSource
Life, RiverSource Life of NY, IDS Property Casualty and Ameriprise Insurance Company maintain capital well in excess of the company action level required by their state insurance
regulators. For RiverSource Life, the company action level RBC was $803 million as of December 31, 2009, and the corresponding total adjusted capital was $3.5 billion, which
represents 430% of company action level RBC. For RiverSource Life of NY, the company action level RBC was $44 million as of December 31, 2009, and
the corresponding total adjusted capital was $286 million, which represents 653% of company action level RBC. As of December 31, 2009, the company action level RBC was
$133 million for IDS Property Casualty and $2 million for Ameriprise Insurance Company. As of December 31, 2009, IDS Property Casualty had $405 million of total adjusted
capital, or 305% of the company action level RBC, and Ameriprise Insurance Company had $46 million of total adjusted capital, or 2300% of the company action level RBC.

At
the federal level, there is periodic interest in enacting new regulations relating to various aspects of the insurance industry, including taxation of annuities and life insurance policies,
accounting procedures, the use of travel in underwriting, and the treatment of persons differently because of gender with respect to terms, conditions, rates or benefits of an insurance policy.
Adoption of any new federal regulation in any of these or other areas could potentially have an adverse effect upon our RiverSource Life companies.

The
instability and impacted values and liquidity in global financial markets experienced during 2008 and 2009 and through the present time have resulted in an unprecedented amount of government
intervention in financial markets, including direct investment in certain financial institutions. Governments and regulators in the U.S. and abroad are considering or have implemented new and more
expansive laws and regulations which may directly impact our businesses. Additional discussion of potential risks arising from enactment of new regulations can be found in Item 1A of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K — "Risk Factors."

Client Information

Many aspects of our business are subject to increasingly comprehensive legal requirements by a multitude of different functional regulators concerning
the use and protection of personal information, particularly that of clients, including those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, an ever
increasing number of state laws, and the European Union data protection legislation ("EU law") as domestically implemented in the respective EU member states. We have implemented policies and
procedures in response to such requirements in the UK. We continue our efforts to safeguard the data entrusted to us in accordance with applicable law and our internal data protection policies,
including taking steps to reduce the potential for identity theft or other improper use or disclosure of personal information, while seeking to collect and use data to properly achieve our business
objectives and to best serve our clients.

General

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act, commonly referred to as the USA
Patriot Act, was enacted in October 2001 in the wake of the September 11th terrorist attacks. The USA Patriot Act broadened substantially existing anti-money laundering
legislation and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the United States. In response, we have enhanced our existing anti-money laundering programs and developed new procedures and programs.
For example, we have implemented a customer identification program applicable to many of our businesses and have enhanced our "know your customer" and "enhanced due diligence" programs in others. In
addition, we have taken and will take steps to comply with
anti-money laundering legislation in the UK derived from applicable EU directives and to take account of international initiatives adopted in other jurisdictions in which we conduct
business.

We
have operations in the EU through Threadneedle and certain of our other subsidiaries. We monitor developments in EU legislation, as well as in the other markets in which we operate, to ensure that
we comply with all applicable legal requirements, including EU directives applicable to financial institutions as implemented in the various member states. Because of the mix of Asset Management,
Advice & Wealth Management, Annuities and Protection activities we conduct, we are continually assessing the

20      ANNUAL REPORT 2009










impact
of, and insuring compliance with, the EU Financial Conglomerates Directive, which contemplates that certain financial conglomerates involved in banking, insurance and investment activities will
be subject to a system of supplementary supervision at the level of the holding company constituting the financial conglomerate. The directive requires financial conglomerates to, among other things,
implement measures to prevent excessive leverage and multiple leveraging of capital and to maintain internal control processes to address risk concentrations as well as risks arising from significant
intragroup transactions. We have designated the OTS as our global consolidated supervisory regulator under the EU Financial Conglomerates Directive.

Securities Exchange Act Reports and Additional Information

We maintain an Investor Relations website at ir.ameriprise.com and we make available free of charge our annual, quarterly and current
reports and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To access these and other documents, click
on the "SEC Filings" link found on our Investor Relations homepage.

You
can also access our Investor Relations website through our main website at ameriprise.com by clicking on the "Investor Relations" link, which is located at the bottom of our homepage. Information
contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with the SEC.

Segment Information and Classes of Similar Services

You can find financial information regarding our operating segments and classes of similar services in Note 26 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

