Item 1. Business.

Overview

Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in Delaware primarily engaged in business through its subsidiaries. Accordingly,
references below to "Ameriprise Financial," "the Company," "we," "us,"
and "our" may refer to Ameriprise Financial, Inc. exclusively, to our entire family of companies, or to one or more of our subsidiaries. Our headquarters is located at 55 Ameriprise Financial Center,
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55474. We also maintain executive offices in New York City.

We
provide financial planning, products and services that are designed to be utilized as solutions for our clients' cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth
transfer needs. Our model for delivering these solutions is centered on building long term, personal relationships between our affiliated advisors and clients, and in the case of our products
distributed through unaffiliated advisors, by supporting those advisors in building strong client relationships. We believe that our focus on personal relationships, together with our strengths in
financial planning and product development and distribution, allow us to fully address the evolving financial needs of our clients and our primary target market segment, the mass affluent and
affluent, which we define as households with investable assets of more than $100,000.

Our
branded affiliated advisors' financial planning and advisory process is designed to provide comprehensive advice that focuses on all aspects of our clients' finances. This approach allows us to
recommend actions and a broad range of product solutions consisting of investment, annuity, insurance, banking and other financial products that can help clients attain over time a return or form of
protection while accepting what they determine to be an appropriate range and level of risk.

Our
approach puts us in a strong position to capitalize on significant demographic and market trends, which we believe will continue to drive increased demand for our financial planning and other
financial services. Our emphasis on deep client-advisor relationships has been central to the success of our business model through the extreme market conditions of the past few years, and we believe
it will help us to navigate future market and economic cycles. We continue to establish Ameriprise Financial as a financial services leader as we focus on meeting the financial needs of the mass
affluent and affluent, as evidenced by our continued leadership in financial planning, a client retention percentage rate of 93%, and our status as a top ten ranked firm within core portions of our
four main business segments, including the size of our U.S. advisor force, long-term U.S. mutual funds, variable annuities and variable universal life insurance.

We
believe we are well positioned to further strengthen our offerings to existing and new clients and deliver profitable long-term growth to our shareholders. Our five strategic objectives
are:

•Be the leading financial services provider to the mass affluent and affluent.•Become the platform of choice for financial planning and advice-focused advisors.•Sustain our leadership in financial planning and advice.•Capture greater assets and protection in force through our strong product solutions and broad distribution reach.•Ensure an increasingly stronger and more efficient operating foundation.

Our
five operating segments are:

•Advice & Wealth Management;









•Asset Management;•Annuities;•Protection; and•Corporate & Other.

Financial
markets and macroeconomic conditions have had and will continue to have a significant impact on the operating results of each of our segments. During the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2010, the financial markets continued to recover from the historic volatility and declines experienced in 2008 and early 2009, while signals of economic recovery remained mixed.
Despite this recovery in the financial markets, the business and regulatory environment in which we operate remains subject to uncertainty and change, and we expect this challenging climate to
continue for the foreseeable future. To succeed in this environment, we expect to continue focusing on each of our key strategic objectives. The success of these and other strategies may be affected
by the factors discussed below in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K—"Risk Factors", and other factors as discussed herein.

In
2010, we generated $10.0 billion in total net revenues. Net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial for 2010 was $1.1 billion. As a diversified financial services firm, we believe
our ability to gather assets across the enterprise is best measured by our owned, managed and administered asset metric. At December 31, 2010, we had $672.7 billion in owned, managed and
administered assets worldwide compared to $457.8 billion as of December 31, 2009, as follows:

As of December 31,20102009(in billions)Owned$22.1$36.9Managed546.4325.8Administered104.295.1Total$672.7$457.8

For a more detailed discussion of owned, managed and administered assets see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our Principal Brands

We use three principal brands for our businesses in the United States:Ameriprise Financial,Columbia ManagementandRiverSource. We use ourThreadneedlebrand for our international asset manager's products.

We
useAmeriprise Financialas our holding company brand, as well as the name of our branded advisor network and certain of our retail products and
services. The retail products and services that utilize theAmeriprise Financialbrand include products and services that we provide through our branded
advisors (e.g., financial planning, investment advisory accounts, retail brokerage services and banking products) and products and services that we market directly to consumers (e.g., personal auto
and home insurance).

We
useColumbia Managementas the primary brand for our U.S. asset management products and services. Following the completion of the acquisition of the
long-term asset management business of Columbia Management from Bank of America in April 2010, RiverSource Investments, our legacy U.S. asset management business, was combined with
Columbia Management, under theColumbia Managementbrand. Our U.S. asset management products, including retail and institutional asset management
products, primarily utilize the Columbia name.

We
use ourRiverSourcebrand for our annuities products and for the majority of our protection products, including our life and disability income
insurance products. We believe that using a distinct brand for these products, as well as our Asset Management products and services, allows us to differentiate them in the marketplace.

History and Development

Our company has a more than 115 year history of providing financial solutions designed to help clients achieve their financial objectives. Our
earliest predecessor company, Investors Syndicate, was founded in 1894 to provide face-amount certificates to consumers with a need for conservative investments. By 1937, Investors
Syndicate had expanded its product offerings through Federal Housing Authority mortgages, and later, mutual funds, by establishing Investors Mutual, one of the pioneers in the mutual fund industry. In
1949, Investors Syndicate was renamed Investors Diversified Services, Inc., or IDS. In 1957, IDS added life insurance products, and later, annuity products, through IDS Life Insurance Company (now
known as "RiverSource Life Insurance Company"). In 1972, IDS began to expand its distribution network by delivering investment products directly to clients of unaffiliated financial institutions. IDS
also introduced its comprehensive financial planning processes to clients, integrating the identification of client needs with the products and services to address those needs in the 1970s, and it
introduced fee-based planning in the 1980s.









In
1979, IDS became a wholly owned subsidiary of Alleghany Corporation pursuant to a merger. In 1983, our company was formed as a Delaware corporation in connection with American Express' 1984
acquisition of IDS Financial Services from Alleghany Corporation. We changed our name to "American Express Financial Corporation" ("AEFC") and began selling our products and services under the
American Express brand in 1994. To provide retail clients with a more comprehensive set of products and services, we began significantly expanding our offering of the mutual funds of other companies
in the late 1990s. In 2003, we acquired the business of Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings.

On
September 30, 2005, American Express consummated a distribution of the shares of AEFC to American Express shareholders (the "Distribution"), at which time we became an independent, publicly
traded company and changed our name to "Ameriprise Financial, Inc." In 2008, we completed the acquisitions of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc., Brecek & Young Advisors, Inc. ("Brecek &
Young") and J. & W. Seligman & Co. Incorporated ("Seligman"), which further expanded our retail distribution and our asset management capabilities. Also in 2008, we
initiated the disposition of our institutional trust and custody business and completed that restructuring in early 2009. In 2010, we completed the acquisition of the long-term asset
management business of Columbia Management from Bank of America. This acquisition, the integration of which is expected to be completed in 2011, is expected to further enhance the scale and
performance of our retail mutual fund and institutional asset management businesses.

Our Organization

The following is a depiction of the organizational structure for our company, showing the primary subsidiaries through which we operate our
businesses. The current legal entity names are provided for each subsidiary.



Following
is a brief description of the business conducted by each subsidiary noted above, as well as the segment or segments in which it primarily operates.

•Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Sàrlis a
Luxembourg-based holding company for the Threadneedle group of companies ("Threadneedle"), which provides investment management products and services to clients in the United Kingdom, Europe, the
Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region independent from our other affiliates. Operating under its own brand name, management organization and operating, compliance and technology
infrastructure, Threadneedle's results of operations are included in our Asset Management segment.•Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC("CMIA", formerly RiverSource
Investments, LLC) serves as investment adviser for the majority of funds in the Columbia family of mutual funds ("Columbia funds") and to institutional accounts. Its results of operations are included
in our Asset Management and Corporate & Other segments.•J. & W. Seligman & Co., Incorporatedis a holding
company for the Seligman group of companies. Seligman's results of operations are included in our Asset Management segment.•Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc.(formerly RiverSource Fund
Distributors, Inc.) is a broker-dealer subsidiary that serves as the principal underwriter and distributor for our Columbia funds. Its results of operations are included in our Asset Management
segment.









•

Columbia Management Investment Services Corp.(formerly RiverSource Service
Corporation) is a transfer agent that processes client transactions for our Columbia funds and Ameriprise face-amount certificates. Its results of operations are included in our Asset
Management and Advice and Wealth Management segments.

•

AMPF Holding Corporationis a holding company for certain of our retail
brokerage and advisory subsidiaries, including AFSI (defined below) and AEIS (defined below). AMPF Holding Corporation's results of operations are included in our Advice & Wealth Management
segment.

•

American Enterprise Investment Services Inc.("AEIS") is our registered
clearing broker-dealer subsidiary. Brokerage transactions for accounts introduced by AFSI are executed and cleared through AEIS. Its results of operations are included in our Advice & Wealth
Management segment.

•

Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc.("AFSI"), a registered broker-dealer and
registered investment adviser, is our primary financial planning and retail distribution subsidiary, which operates under our Ameriprise Financial brand name. Its results of operations are included in
our Advice & Wealth Management segment.

•

Securities America Financial Corporation("SAFC") is a holding company for
Securities America, Inc. ("SAI"), a registered broker-dealer retail distribution subsidiary, Securities America Advisors, Inc., a registered investment adviser, and for Brecek & Young.
Operating under its own name, management organization and operating, compliance and technology infrastructure, it provides a platform for our unbranded affiliated advisors and its results of
operations are included in our Advice & Wealth Management segment.

•

RiverSource Distributors, Inc.("RiverSource Distributors") is a
broker-dealer subsidiary that serves as the principal underwriter and/or distributor for our RiverSource annuities and insurance products sold through AFSI and SAI as well as through third party
channels. Its results of operations are included in our Annuities and Protection segments.

•

RiverSource Life Insurance Company("RiverSource Life") conducts its
insurance and annuity business in states other than New York. Its results of operations for our annuities business are included primarily in the Annuities segment, and its results of operations with
respect to other life and health products it manufactures are reflected primarily in the Protection segment. Investment income on excess capital is reported in the Corporate & Other segment.

•

RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York("RiverSource Life of NY")
conducts its insurance and annuity business in the State of New York. Its results of operations for our annuities business are included primarily in the Annuities segment, and its results of
operations with respect to other life and health products it manufactures are reflected primarily in the Protection segment. Investment income on excess capital is reported in the Corporate &
Other segment. RiverSource Life of NY is a wholly owned subsidiary of RiverSource Life. We refer to RiverSource Life and RiverSource Life of NY as the "RiverSource Life companies."

•

IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company("IDS Property Casualty" or
"Ameriprise Auto & Home") provides personal auto, home and excess liability insurance products.Ameriprise Insurance Company, a wholly owned
subsidiary of IDS Property Casualty, is also licensed to provide these products. The results of operations of these companies are included in the Protection segment.

•

Ameriprise Certificate Companyissues a variety of face-amount
certificates. Its results of operations are included in the Advice & Wealth Management segment.

•

Ameriprise Trust Companyprovides trust services to individuals and
businesses. Its results of operations are included in the Asset Management segment.

•

Ameriprise Bank, FSB("Ameriprise Bank") offers a variety of consumer banking
and lending products and personal trust and related services. Its results of operations are included in the Advice & Wealth Management segment.

Our Segments—Advice & Wealth Management

Our Advice & Wealth Management segment provides financial planning and advice, as well as full-service brokerage and banking
services, primarily to retail clients through our affiliated financial advisors. Our affiliated financial advisors utilize a diversified selection of both affiliated and non-affiliated
products to help clients meet their financial needs. A significant portion of revenues in this segment is fee-based, driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market
movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on owned assets primarily from certificate and banking products. This segment earns revenues (distribution fees) for distributing
non-affiliated products and earns intersegment revenues (distribution fees) for distributing our affiliated products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this
segment include expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. In 2010, 30% of our revenues
from external clients were attributable to our Advice & Wealth Management business.









Our
Financial Advisor Platform

We
provide clients financial planning, advice and brokerage services through our nationwide network of more than 11,400 affiliated financial advisors. Our network currently
includes more than 9,600 branded advisors, of which more than 2,100 are employees of our company and more than 7,400 are independent franchisees or employees or contractors of franchisees. Our
affiliated network also includes more than 1,800 non-employee unbranded advisors of SAI.

Advisors
who use our brand name can affiliate with our company in two different ways. Each affiliation offers different levels of support and compensation, with the amount of compensation we pay to
each branded advisor determined by a schedule that takes into account the type of service or product provided, the type of branded advisor affiliation and other criteria. The affiliation options
are:

•Employee Advisors.Under this affiliation, a financial advisor
is an employee of our company. We pay compensation competitive with other employee advisor models and provide a high level of support, including local office space and staff support in exchange for a
payout rate lower than that of our branded franchisee advisors. Employee advisors are also employed in the Ameriprise Advisor Center ("AAC"), a dedicated call center for remote-based sales and service
to Ameriprise retail customers. Advisors in the AAC serve retail customers who do not have access to or who prefer a remote relationship with a financial advisor.•Branded Franchisee Advisors.Under this affiliation, a financial
advisor is an independent contractor franchisee who affiliates with our company and has the right to use the Ameriprise brand. We pay our branded franchisee advisors a higher payout rate than we do to
our employee advisors as they are responsible for paying their own overhead, staff compensation and other business expenses. In addition, our branded franchisee advisors pay a franchise association
fee and other fees in exchange for the support we offer and the right to utilize our brand name. The support that we offer to our branded franchisee advisors includes generalist and specialist
leadership support, technology platforms and tools, training and marketing programs.

During
2010, we took a number of steps to enhance the performance and the public awareness of our branded platform. In January, we introduced our MORE WITHIN REACH® advertising campaign
focusing on the advisor-client relationship and how we help our clients plan for their future. We continued to invest in and implement the conversion to an enhanced brokerage platform designed to be
the core technology tool our branded advisors use to service clients. The enhanced technology platform integrates with other advisor resources to help advisors run a more efficient practice, increase
productivity and offer clients additional products and services. We expect the conversion effort to continue through 2012. We also continued to recruit experienced financial advisors from other firms
and to affiliate such advisors within our branded advisor platform, although at a slower rate than 2009.

Our
strong financial advisor retention rate speaks to the value proposition we offer advisors. As of December 31, 2010, over 54% of our branded advisors had been with us for more than
10 years, with an average tenure of nearly 18 years. Among branded advisors who have been with us for more than 10 years, we have a retention rate of over 95%. We believe this
success is driven by the affiliation choices we offer branded advisors, together with our competitive payout arrangements and the broad support that helps them build their practices.

The
unbranded advisor network served by SAI, offers our own and other companies' mutual funds as well as the investment, annuity and protection products of other companies.

Our
affiliated financial advisors provide clients access to our diversified set of cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth transfer products and services, as
well as a selection of products from other companies, as more fully described below.

Brokerage
and Investment Advisory Services

Individual and Family Financial Services

The personalized financial planning approach of our branded advisors focuses on all aspects of our clients' finances. After understanding our clients'
needs, our advisors seek to identify solutions to address those needs across four cornerstones: cash and liabilities, investments, protection and taxes. We believe that this approach helps our clients
to build a solid financial foundation, persevere through difficult economies and challenging markets, and ultimately achieve their financial goals. We offer a broad array of products and services in
each of these categories, including those carrying the Ameriprise Financial, Columbia or RiverSource name, as well as solutions offered by unaffiliated firms.

Our
branded advisors deliver financial solutions to our advisory clients by building long-term personal relationships through financial planning that is responsive to clients' evolving
needs. We utilize the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards, Inc.'s defined financial planning process of Engage, Gather, Analyze, Recommend, Implement and Monitor. This process involves
gathering relevant financial information, setting life goals, examining clients' current financial status and determining a strategy or plan for helping clients meet their goals given their current
situation and future plans. Once we have identified a financial planning client's objectives, we then recommend a solution set consisting of actions—such as











paying
down debt, increasing savings and investment, protecting income and assets, creating a will, and including tax qualified formats in the client's allocation of savings and
investment—as well as products to address these objectives with clients accepting what they determine to be an appropriate range and level of risk. Our financial planning relationships
with our clients are characterized by an ability to thoroughly understand their specific needs, which enables us to better help them meet those needs, achieve higher overall client satisfaction, hold
more products in their accounts and increase the company's assets under management.

Our
financial planning clients pay a fee for the receipt of financial planning services. This fee is based on the complexity of a client's financial and life situation and his or her advisor's
particular practice experience. The fee is generally not based on or related to actual investment performance; however, our clients may elect to pay a consolidated, asset-based advisory fee for
financial planning and managed account services. If clients elect to implement their financial plan with our company, we and our affiliated financial advisors generally receive a sales commission
and/or sales load and other revenues for the products that we sell to them. These commissions, sales loads and other revenues are separate from and in addition to the financial planning fees we and
our affiliated financial advisors may receive.

Brokerage and Other Products and Services

We offer our retail and institutional clients a variety of brokerage and other investment products and services.

OurAmeriprise ONE® financial account is a single integrated financial management account that combines a client's investment, banking and
lending relationships. TheAmeriprise ONEfinancial account enables clients to access a single cash account to fund a variety of financial transactions,
including investments in mutual funds, individual securities, cash products and margin lending. Additional features of theAmeriprise ONEfinancial
account include unlimited check writing with overdraft protection, a MasterCard debit card, online bill payments, ATM access and a savings account.

We
provide securities execution and clearing services for our retail and institutional clients through our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2010, we administered
$104.2 billion in assets for clients. Clients can use our online brokerage service to purchase and sell securities, obtain independent research and information about a wide variety of
securities, and use self-directed asset allocation and other financial planning tools. We also offer shares in public non-exchange traded Real Estate Investment Trusts
("REITs"), and other alternative investments and structured notes issued by unaffiliated companies.

ThroughAmeriprise Achiever Circle, we offer special benefits and rewards to recognize clients who have $100,000 or more invested with us. Clients who
have $500,000 or more invested with us are eligible forAmeriprise Achiever Circle Elite, which includes additional benefits. To qualify for and maintainAchiever
CircleorAchiever Circle Elitestatus, clients must meet certain eligibility and maintenance
requirements. Special benefits of the program may include fee reductions or waivers onAmeriprise® IRAs and theAmeriprise ONEfinancial accounts,
fee-waived Ameriprise Financial MasterCard®, fee or interest rate benefits on anAmeripriseSavings or Advantage Savings Accounts, and fee or rate benefits on home equity lines of credit with
Ameriprise Bank.

Fee-based Investment Advisory Accounts

We
offer several types of investment advisory accounts. We sponsor AmeripriseStrategic Portfolio Service Advantage, a non-discretionary wrap
account service, as well as SPS—Advisor, a discretionary wrap account service. We also sponsor Ameriprise Separately Managed Accounts ("SMAs"), a discretionary wrap account service through
which clients invest in strategies offered by us and by affiliated and non-affiliated investment managers and a similar program on an accommodation basis where clients transfer assets to
us and do not maintain an investment management relationship with the manager of those assets. We also sponsorActive Portfolios® investments,
a discretionary mutual fund wrap











account
service that enables choices among strategic target allocations based on different risk profiles and tax sensitivities. Following the introduction of two new series in 2010, we currently offer
six different series ofActive Portfoliosinvestments:Active Accumulation Portfolios,Active Income Portfolios,Active Diversified Funds Portfolios,Active Diversified
Alternatives Portfolios,Active Diversified Yield PortfoliosandActive Opportunity ETF
Portfolios. Additionally, we offer discretionary wrap account services through which clients may invest in SMAs, mutual funds and exchange traded funds.

Our
unbranded advisor force offers separate fee-based investment advisory account services through Securities America Advisors, Inc. and through Iron Point Capital Management, the
investment management platform of Brecek & Young. Securities America Advisors, Inc. and Brecek & Young are wholly owned subsidiaries of SAFC.

Mutual Fund Offerings

In addition to the Columbia family of mutual funds (discussed below in "Our Segments—Asset Management—U.S. Asset Management
Offerings—Mutual Funds"), we offer mutual funds from more than 275 mutual fund families on a stand-alone basis and as part of our wrap accounts to provide our clients a broad choice of
investment products. In 2010, retail sales of other companies' mutual funds accounted for a substantial portion of our total retail mutual fund sales. Client assets held in mutual funds of other
companies on a stand-alone basis generally produce lower total revenues than client assets held in our own mutual funds, as our Asset Management segment does not receive ongoing investment management
fees.

Mutual
fund families of other companies generally pay us a portion of the revenue generated from the sales of those funds and from the ongoing management of fund assets attributable to our clients'
ownership of shares of those funds. These payments enable us to make the mutual fund families of other companies generally available through our financial advisors and through our online brokerage
platform. We also receive administrative services fees from most mutual funds sold through our distribution network.

Insurance and Annuities

We offer insurance and annuities issued by the RiverSource Life companies (discussed below in "Business—Our
Segments—Annuities" and in "Business—Our Segments—Protection"). TheRiverSourceinsurance solutions available to our
retail clients include variable and fixed universal life insurance, traditional life insurance and disability income insurance.RiverSourceannuities
include fixed annuities, as well as variable annuities that allow our clients to choose from a number of underlying investment options and to purchase certain guaranteed benefit riders. In addition toRiverSourceinsurance and annuity products, our branded advisors offer products of unaffiliated carriers on a limited basis. In 2010, we began offering
variable annuities issued by a select number of unaffiliated insurance companies.

We
receive a portion of the revenue generated from the sale of life and disability insurance policies of unaffiliated insurance companies. We are paid distribution fees on annuities sales of
unaffiliated insurance companies based on a portion of the revenue generated from such sales. Such insurance companies may also pay us an administrative service fee in connection with the sale of
their products.

Banking Products

We provide consumer lending and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") insured deposit products to our retail clients through our banking
subsidiary, Ameriprise Bank. Our consumer lending products include first mortgages, home equity loans, home equity lines of credit, and investment secured loans. We also offer credit card products
linked to the Ameriprise Achiever Circle Program. These include the Ameriprise World Elite MasterCard, World
MasterCard and Platinum MasterCard. The majority of bank deposits are brokered deposits from affiliated broker-dealers or they are in the Ameriprise Personal Savings Account, which we offer in
connection with theAmeriprise ONEFinancial Account described above in "Brokerage and Investment Advisory Services—Brokerage and Other
Products and Services." We also offer stand-alone checking, savings and money market accounts and certificates of deposit. We believe these products play a key role in our Advice & Wealth
Management business by offering our clients an FDIC-insured alternative to other cash products. These products also provide pricing flexibility generally not available through money market
funds.







To manage our exposure to residential real estate, we sell the majority of our originated first mortgage products to third parties shortly after origination. All other lending
products are originated and held on the balance sheet of Ameriprise Bank, with the exception of investment secured loans, which are held on the balance sheet of Ameriprise Financial. As of
December 31, 2010, there were $825 million in home loans/equity line of credit balances, $14 million in investment secured loan balances and $217 million in unsecured
balances, net of premiums and discounts, and capitalized lender paid origination fees.

Ameriprise
Bank's strategy and operations are focused on serving branded advisor clients. We distribute our banking products primarily through branded advisors. We believe that the availability of
these products is a competitive advantage and supports our financial advisors in their ability to meet the cash and liquidity needs of our clients. We also serve advisor clients through the Personal
Trust Services division of Ameriprise Bank. Personal Trust Services provides personal trust, custodial, agency and investment management services to help them meet the estate and wealth transfer needs
of individual and corporate clients of our branded advisors. Personal Trust Services also uses some of our investment products in connection with its services.

Face-Amount Certificates

We currently issue four types of face-amount certificates through Ameriprise Certificate Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Ameriprise
Financial that is registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 ("Investment Company Act"). Owners of our certificates invest funds and are entitled to receive at
maturity or at the end of a stated term, a determinable amount of money equal to their aggregate
investments in the certificate plus interest at rates we declare, less any withdrawals and early withdrawal penalties. For two types of certificate products, the rate of interest is calculated in
whole or in part based on any upward movement in a broad-based stock market index up to a maximum return, where the maximum is a fixed rate for a given term, but can be changed at our discretion for
prospective terms.

At
December 31, 2010, we had $3.2 billion in total certificate reserves underlying our certificate products. Our earnings are based upon the difference, or "spread," between the interest
rates credited to certificate holders and the interest earned on the certificate assets invested. A portion of these earnings is used to compensate the various affiliated entities that provide
management, administrative and other services to our company for these products. The certificates compete with investments offered by banks (including Ameriprise Bank), savings and loan associations,
credit unions, mutual funds, insurance companies and similar financial institutions, which may be viewed by potential customers as offering a comparable or superior combination of safety and return on
investment. In times of weak performance in the equity markets, certificate sales are generally stronger. In 2010, branded financial advisors' cash sales were $850 million.

Business Alliances

We provide workplace financial planning and educational programs to employees of major corporations and small businesses through our Business
Alliances group. Our Business Alliances group helps the individual employees of client companies plan for and achieve their long-term financial objectives. It offers financial planning as
an employee benefit supported by educational materials, tools and programs. In addition, we provide training and support to financial advisors working on-site at company locations to
present educational seminars, conduct one-on-one meetings and participate in client educational events. We also provide financial advice service offerings, such as Financial
Planning and Executive Financial Services, tailored to discrete employee segments.

Strategic Alliances and Other Marketing Arrangements

We use strategic marketing alliances, local marketing programs for our branded advisors, and on-site workshops through our Business
Alliances group to generate new clients for our financial planning and other financial services. An important aspect of our strategy is to leverage the client relationships of our other businesses by
working with major companies to create alliances that help us generate new financial services clients. For example, AFSI currently has a strategic alliance with H&R Block, Inc. designed to build
relationships between our branded financial advisors and the tax professionals of H&R Block, Inc. and to leverage those relationships to better serve both AFSI and H&R Block, Inc. clients through
referrals. Our alliance arrangements are generally for a limited duration of one to five years with an option to renew. Additionally, these types of marketing arrangements typically provide that
either party may terminate the agreements on short notice, usually within sixty days. We compensate our alliance partners for providing opportunities to market to their clients.

In
addition to our alliance arrangements, we have developed a number of local marketing programs for our branded advisors to use in building their client bases. These include pre-approved
seminars, seminar- and event-training and referral tools and training, which are designed to encourage both prospective and existing clients to refer or bring their friends to an event.











Our Segments—Asset Management

We
have continued to invest in the growth of our Asset Management segment, as we believe such investment affords attractive opportunities for growth and the achievement of our performance objectives.
On April 30, 2010, we completed the acquisition of the long-term asset management business of the Columbia Management Group from Bank of America. The acquisition significantly
enhanced the capabilities of the Asset Management segment by increasing its scale, broadening its retail and institutional distribution capabilities and strengthening and diversifying its lineup of
retail and institutional products. The integration of the Columbia Management business, which is ongoing and is expected to be completed in 2011, has involved organizational changes to our portfolio
management and analytical teams and to our operational, compliance, sales and marketing support staffs. This integration has also involved the streamlining of our U.S. domestic product offerings, a
process that is ongoing. As a result of the integration, we combined RiverSource Investments, our legacy U.S. asset management business, with Columbia Management, under theColumbia Managementbrand.
Threadneedle will remain the company's primary international asset management platform.

Prior
to the Columbia Management acquisition, in November 2008, we acquired the Seligman companies. The business of the Seligman companies, which we integrated into our Asset Management segment,
involved the management of open- and closed-end investment funds, hedge funds and institutional portfolios. The Seligman business has been recognized for its accomplished
technology investment team, which manages retail mutual funds, separate accounts and hedge funds, including Seligman Communications and Information Fund, and for its value-oriented offerings. We
believe the Columbia Management and Seligman acquisitions will help us achieve our goal of delivering consistent and strong investment performance by enhancing our investment management leadership,
talent, technology infrastructure and distribution capabilities.

Revenues
in the Asset Management segment are primarily earned as fees based on managed asset balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We may also earn performance
fees from certain accounts where investment performance meets or exceeds certain pre-identified targets. At December 31, 2010, our Asset Management segment had $457 billion
in managed assets worldwide. Managed assets include managed external client assets and managed owned assets. Managed external client assets include client assets for which we provide investment
management services, such as the assets of theColumbia ManagementandThreadneedlefamilies of mutual funds
and the assets of institutional clients. Managed external client assets include assets managed by sub-advisors we select. These external client assets are not reported on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets. Managed owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets (such as the assets of the general account and the variable product funds held in the separate accounts
of our life insurance subsidiaries) for which the Asset Management segment provides management services and recognizes management fees. For additional details regarding our owned, managed and
administered assets, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

U.S.
Investment Management Capabilities

Our
U.S. investment management activities are conducted primarily through investment management teams located in offices throughout the United States. Each investment
management team may focus on particular investment strategies, asset types, products and on services offered and distribution channels utilized. These teams manage the majority of assets in our
Columbia family of mutual funds, as well as the assets we manage for institutional clients in separately managed accounts, hedge funds, the general and separate accounts of the RiverSource Life
companies, the assets of IDS Property Casualty and Ameriprise Certificate Company and the investment portfolio of Ameriprise Bank. These investment management teams also manage assets under
sub-advisory arrangements.









We
believe that delivering consistent and strong investment performance will positively impact our assets under management by increasing the competitiveness and attractiveness of many of our
investment products. To achieve such performance, our investment teams are overseen utilizing a "5P" process that focuses on the five factors we believe are most significant for delivering results to
clients: product definition, investment philosophy, people, investment process and performance expectation. These factors are continuously monitored and provide a framework around which portfolio
managers can better define their objectives and the processes through which they plan to achieve them.

Each
investment management team focuses on particular investment strategies and product sets. Our U.S. investment management teams are located in multiple locations, including Boston, Chicago, Los
Angeles, Minneapolis, New York, Menlo Park and Portland. We have implemented a multi-platform approach to equity asset management using individual, accountable investment management teams with a
combination of dedicated centralized analytical and equity trading resources. The portfolios managed by these teams focus on varying sizes and categories of domestic and global equity securities. Our
U.S. fixed income teams are organized by sectors, including for example, investment grade, high yield, municipal, global and structured. This sector-based approach creates focused and accountable
teams organized by expertise. Portfolio performance is measured to align client and corporate interests, and asset managers are incented to collaborate, employ best practices and execute in response
to changing market and investment conditions consistent with established portfolio management principles.

In
an effort to address changing market conditions and the evolving needs of investors, we may from time to time develop and offer new retail and institutional investment products, including mutual
funds, separately managed accounts and collective funds. We may also provide seed money to our investment management teams to develop new products for our institutional clients.

U.S.
Asset Management Offerings

Mutual Funds

We provide investment advisory, distribution and other services to the Columbia family of mutual funds. The Columbia family of funds includes retail
mutual funds (both open- and closed-end funds) and variable product funds. Retail mutual funds are available through unaffiliated third-party financial institutions and the
Ameriprise financial advisor network and as part of Ameriprise institutional 401(k) plans. Variable product funds are available as underlying investment options in variable annuity and variable life
products, including RiverSource products. The Columbia family of funds includes domestic and international equity funds, fixed income funds, cash management funds, balanced funds and asset allocation
funds, including fund-of-funds, with a variety of investment objectives. The consolidation of our legacy asset management business under theColumbia
Managementbrand has involved numerous fund mergers, which are ongoing.

At
December 31, 2010, our retail mutual funds had total managed assets of $164.2 billion in 176 funds. The variable insurance trust funds ("VIT Funds") that we manage had total
managed assets at December 31, 2010 of $54.3 billion in 79 funds.

CMIA
serves as investment manager for most of our U.S. mutual funds. Columbia Wanger Asset Management, LLC ("Columbia Wanger") also serves as investment manager for certain funds. In addition, several
of our subsidiaries perform ancillary services for the funds, including distribution, accounting, administrative and transfer agency services. CMIA and Columbia Wanger perform investment management
services pursuant to contracts with the mutual funds that are subject to renewal by the mutual fund boards within two years after initial implementation, and thereafter, on an annual basis.

We
earn management fees for managing the assets of the Columbia family of mutual funds based on the underlying asset values. We also earn fees by providing ancillary services to the Columbia family of
mutual funds. Certain Columbia equity and balanced funds have a performance incentive adjustment that adjusts the level of management fees received, upward or downward, based on the fund's performance
as measured against a designated external index of peers. This has a corresponding impact on management fee revenue. In 2010, revenues were adjusted upward by approximately $7.5 million due to
performance incentive adjustments. This program is expected to be discontinued during 2011, subject to fund shareholder approvals.

The
Columbia family of funds also uses sub-advisors to diversify and enhance investment management expertise. Since the end of 2003, Threadneedle personnel have provided investment
management services to Columbia global and international equity funds. In addition to Threadneedle, unaffiliated sub-advisors provide investment management services to certain Columbia
funds.

CMIA
also acts as sub-advisor for certain domestic and international mutual funds advised by other firms and is pursuing opportunities to sub-advise additional investment
company assets in the U.S. and overseas. As with the Columbia funds, we earn management fees for these services based on the underlying asset value of the funds we sub-advise. As of
December 31, 2010, we managed over $37.0 billion in assets in a sub-advisory capacity.









Separately Managed Accounts

We provide investment management services to pension, profit-sharing, employee savings and endowment funds, accounts of large- and medium-sized
businesses and governmental clients, as well as the accounts of high-net-worth individuals and smaller institutional clients, including tax-exempt and
not-for-profit organizations. Our services include investment of funds on a discretionary or non-discretionary basis and related services including trading, cash
management and reporting. We offer various fixed income and equity investment strategies for our institutional separately managed accounts clients. Through an arrangement with Threadneedle, we also
offer certain international and U.S. equity strategies to U.S. clients.

For
our investment management services, we generally receive fees based on the market value of managed assets pursuant to contracts that can typically be terminated by the client on short notice.
Clients may also pay fees to us based on the performance of their portfolio. At December 31, 2010, we managed a total of $38.7 billion in assets under this range of services.

We
also offer U.S. equity and a variety of fixed income strategies to non-U.S. clients.

Management of Institutional Owned Assets

We provide investment management services and recognize management fees for certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, such as the assets held
in the general account of our RiverSource Life companies, assets held by Ameriprise Certificate Company and the investment portfolio of Ameriprise Bank. Our fixed income team manages the general
account assets to produce a consolidated and targeted rate of return on investments while controlling risk. Our fixed income and equity teams also manage separate account assets. The Asset Management
segment's management of institutional owned assets for Ameriprise Financial subsidiaries is reviewed by the boards of directors and staff functions of the applicable subsidiaries consistent with
regulatory investment requirements. At December 31, 2010, the Asset Management segment managed $37.8 billion of institutional owned assets.

Management of Collateralized Debt Obligations ("CDOs")

We provide collateral management services to special purpose vehicles that issue CDOs through a dedicated team of investment professionals. CDOs are
securities collateralized by a pool of assets, primarily syndicated bank loans and, to a lesser extent, high-yield bonds. Multiple tranches of securities are issued by a CDO, offering
investors various maturity and credit risk characteristics. Scheduled payments to investors are based on the performance of the CDO's collateral pool. For collateral management of CDOs, we earn fees
based on the par value of assets and, in certain instances, we may also receive performance-based fees. At December 31, 2010, excluding CDOs managed by Threadneedle, we managed
$6 billion of assets related to CDOs.

Hedge Funds

We provide investment advice and related services to private, pooled investment vehicles organized as limited partnerships, limited liability
companies or foreign (non-U.S.) entities. These funds are currently exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act and are organized as domestic and foreign funds. For
investment management services, we generally receive fees based on the market value of assets under management, as well as performance-based fees. As of December 31, 2010, we managed
$4.0 billion in hedge fund assets.

Ameriprise Trust Collective Funds and Separately Managed Accounts

As of December 31, 2010, we managed $7.3 billion of RiverSource Trust Collective Funds and separate accounts for Ameriprise Trust
Company clients. This amount does not include the Columbia family of mutual funds held in other retirement plans because these assets are included under assets managed for institutional and retail
clients and within the "U.S. Asset Management Offerings—Mutual Funds" section above.

Collective
funds are investment funds that are exempt from registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and offered primarily through banks and other financial institutions to
institutional clients such as retirement, pension and profit-sharing plans. We currently serve as investment manager to 36 Ameriprise Trust Company collective funds covering a broad spectrum of
investment strategies. We receive fees for investment management services that are generally based upon a percentage of assets under management rather than performance. In addition to Columbia funds
andRiverSourceTrust Collective Funds, Ameriprise Trust Company offers separately managed accounts and collective funds to our retirement plan clients.

U.S.
Distribution

Retail Distribution

Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. acts as the principal underwriter and distributor of our Columbia family of mutual funds. Pursuant
to distribution agreements with the funds, we offer and sell fund shares on a continuous basis and pay certain costs associated with the marketing and selling of shares. We earn commissions for
distributing the Columbia funds through sales charges (front-end or back-end loads) on certain classes of shares and distribution and









servicing-related
(12b-1) fees based on a percentage of fund assets, and receive intersegment allocation payments. This revenue is impacted by overall asset levels of the funds.

Columbia
fund shares are sold through both our Advice & Wealth Management segment and through unaffiliated third party financial intermediaries. Among our third party distribution arrangements
is a strategic distribution agreement entered into in connection with the acquisition of Columbia Management that provides ongoing access to clients of Bank of America affiliated distributors,
including U.S. Trust. Fees and reimbursements paid to such intermediaries may vary based on sales, redemptions, asset values, and marketing and support activities provided by the intermediary.
Intersegment distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management Segment are eliminated in our consolidated results.

Institutional Distribution

We offer separately managed account services to a variety of institutional clients, including pension plans, employee savings plans, foundations,
endowments, corporations, banks, trusts, governmental entities, high-net-worth individuals and not-for-profit organizations. We provide investment
management services for insurance companies, including our insurance subsidiaries, as well as hedge fund management and other alternative investment products. We also provide, primarily through our
trust company subsidiary and one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries, a variety of services for our institutional clients that sponsor retirement plans. We have dedicated institutional and
sub-advisory sales teams that market directly to such institutional clients.

At
December 31, 2010, we managed $137.2 billion of assets for Columbia Management institutional clients.

International
Asset Management—Threadneedle

We
offer international investment management products and services through Threadneedle, which is headquartered in Luxembourg and maintains its primary investment operations
in London. Threadneedle is our international platform for the distribution of investment products to both retail and institutional clients. At December 31, 2010, Threadneedle had
$105.6 billion in managed assets worldwide.

Investment Management Capabilities

Threadneedle's investment management activities are conducted primarily from its London office. Threadneedle's investment philosophy is to share
investment ideas and alpha generation across teams and asset classes. Each investment management team may focus on particular investment strategies, asset types, products and services offered and
distribution channels. These teams manage the majority of assets in the Threadneedle family of mutual funds, the assets of Threadneedle's alternative investment structures and the assets managed for
Threadneedle's institutional clients. These investment management teams also manage assets under sub-advisory arrangements, including certain Columbia funds.

Threadneedle Offerings

Threadneedle offers a wide range of products and services, including segregated asset management, mutual funds and hedge funds to institutional
clients as well as to retail clients in Europe, the United Kingdom, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. Threadneedle's mutual fund and hedge fund product range includes different
risk-return options across regions, markets, asset classes and product structures, which include Open Ended Investment Companies ("OEICs"), Societe d'Investissement A Capital Variable
("SICAV"), unit trusts, Undertakings for Collective Investments in Transferable Securities ("UCITS III") and offshore vehicles.

Threadneedle's
institutional business offers separately managed accounts to European and other international pension funds and other institutions. At December 31, 2010, Threadneedle had
$71 billion in managed assets in separately managed accounts including $48 billion of assets managed for Zurich Financial Services Group ("Zurich"). Zurich is Threadneedle's largest
client and represented 46% of Threadneedle's assets under management as of December 31, 2010 but a substantially lower portion of Threadneedle's revenue. Threadneedle is expanding distribution
of its institutional products in Europe, Asia, U.S., Middle East and Australia.

For
more information on the funds and other investment vehicles and services offered by Threadneedle, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"
included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Threadneedle Distribution

In recognition of the fact that the industry is broadly divided into two major segments, the retail and institutional markets, Threadneedle has
organized its sales force and support services along similar lines. The institutional team concentrates on establishing strong relationships with institutional clients and the leading global and
national consultancy firms. On the retail side,Threadneedlemutual funds are sold through financial intermediaries and institutions: Threadneedle works
with banks, life insurance companies, independent financial advisers, wealth managers and platforms offering a variety of









investment
products. Threadneedle's dedicated Global Financial Institutions team offers internationally coordinated coverage to financial institutions with a global reach.

Our Segments—Annuities

Our Annuities segment provides

RiverSource

Our
products include deferred variable and fixed annuities, in which assets accumulate until the contract is surrendered, the contractholder (or in some contracts, the annuitant) dies or the
contractholder or annuitant begins receiving benefits under an annuity payout option. We also offer immediate annuities, in which payments begin within one year of issue and continue for life or for a
fixed period of time. The relative proportion between fixed and variable annuity sales is generally driven by the relative performance of the equity and fixed income markets. Fixed sales are generally
stronger when yields available in the fixed income markets are relatively high than when yields are relatively low. Variable sales are generally stronger in times of superior performance in equity
markets than in times of weak performance in equity markets. The relative proportion between fixed and variable annuity sales is also influenced by product design and other factors. In addition to the
revenues we generate on these products, which are described below, we also receive fees charged on assets allocated to our separate accounts to cover administrative costs and a portion of the
management fees from the underlying investment accounts in which assets are invested, as discussed below under "Variable Annuities." Investment management performance is critical to the profitability
of ourRiverSourceannuity business.

Our
branded advisors are the largest distributors ofRiverSourceannuity products, although they can offer variable annuities from a select number of
unaffiliated insurers as well. In 2010, we expanded the offerings available through our branded advisors by including variable annuities issued by a limited number of unaffiliated insurance companies.
Our RiverSource Distributors subsidiary is a broker-dealer that serves as the principal underwriter and distributor ofRiverSourcevariable and fixed
annuities through AFSI and fixed annuities through SAI, as well as serving as the distributor of fixed annuities through third-party channels such as banks and broker-dealer networks.

Variable
Annuities

A
variable annuity provides a contractholder with investment returns linked to underlying investment accounts of the contractholder's choice. These underlying investment
options may include the VIT Funds previously discussed (see "Business—Our Segments—Asset Management—U.S. Asset Management Offerings—Mutual Funds,"
above) as well as variable portfolio funds of other companies.RiverSourcevariable annuity products in force offer a fixed account investment option with
guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates ranging up to 4% at December 31, 2010. In 2010, we introduced multiple versions of our new RAVA 5 variable annuity, including RAVA 5 Access, RAVA 5
Advantage and RAVA 5 Select.

Our
Portfolio Navigator asset allocation program is available under our variable annuities. The Portfolio Navigator program allows clients to allocate their contract value to one of five funds of
funds, each of which invests in various underlying funds. The Portfolio Navigator program is designed to allow a contract purchaser to select investment options based on the purchaser's investment
time horizon, risk tolerance and investment goals. We believe the Portfolio Navigator program helps a contract purchaser to tailor the performance of annuities and life insurance policies to their
specific needs and to keep investment allocations on track over time. CMIA, our investment management subsidiary, serves as investment adviser for the funds of funds and all of the underlying funds in
which the funds of funds invest.

The
majority of the variable annuity contracts we issue include guaranteed minimum death benefit ("GMDB") provisions. Contract purchasers can choose to add optional benefit provisions to their
contracts to meet their needs, including guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit ("GMWB") and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit ("GMAB") provisions. Approximately 98% of RiverSource Life's overall
variable annuity assets include a GMDB provision and approximately 45%
of RiverSource Life's overall variable annuity assets include a GMWB or GMAB provision. In general, these features can help protect contractholders and beneficiaries from a shortfall in death or
living benefits due to a decline in the value of their underlying investment accounts.









The
general account assets of our life insurance subsidiaries support the contractual obligations under the guaranteed benefit provisions the company issues (see "Business—Our
Segments—Asset Management—U.S. Asset Management Offerings—Management of Institutional Owned Assets" above). As a result, we bear the risk that protracted
under-performance of the financial markets could result in guaranteed benefit payments being higher than what current account values would support. Our exposure to risk from guaranteed benefits
generally will increase when equity markets decline, as evidenced by the significant decline experienced in 2008 and early 2009. You can find a discussion of liabilities and reserves related to our
annuity products in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K—"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk", as well as in
Note 11, Note 12 and Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

RiverSourcevariable annuities provide us with fee-based revenue in the form of mortality and expense risk fees, marketing support and
administrative fees, fees charged for optional features elected by the contractholder, and other contract charges. We receive marketing support payments from the VIT Funds underlying our variable
annuity products as well as Rule 12b-1 distribution and servicing-related fees from the VIT Funds and the underlying funds of other companies. In addition, we receive marketing
support payments from the affiliates of other companies' funds included as investment options in ourRiverSourcevariable annuity products.

Fixed
Annuities

RiverSourcefixed annuity products provide a contractholder with cash value that increases by a fixed or indexed interest rate.
We periodically reset rates at our discretion subject to certain policy terms establishing minimum guaranteed interest crediting rates. Our earnings from fixed annuities are based upon the spread
between rates earned on assets purchased with fixed annuity deposits and the rates at which interest is credited to ourRiverSourcefixed annuity
contracts.

In
2007, we discontinued new sales of equity indexed annuities.

RiverSourcefixed annuity contracts in force provide guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates ranging from 1.25% to 5.0% at December 31, 2010.
New contracts issued provide guaranteed minimum interest rates in compliance with state laws providing for indexed guaranteed rates.

Liabilities
and Reserves for Annuities

We
maintain adequate financial reserves to cover the risks associated with guaranteed benefit provisions added to variable annuity contracts in addition to liabilities
arising from fixed and variable annuity base contracts. You can find a discussion of liabilities and reserves related to our annuity products in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Financial
Strength Ratings

Our
insurance company subsidiaries that issueRiverSourceannuity products receive ratings from independent rating
organizations. Ratings are important to maintain public confidence in our insurance subsidiaries and our protection and annuity products. For a discussion of the financial strength ratings of our
insurance company subsidiaries, see the "Our Segments—Protection—Financial Strength Ratings" section, below.

Third-Party
Distribution Channels

In
the fourth quarter of 2010, RiverSource Life companies discontinued the distribution of variable annuity products through third-party channels in order to focus on the
distribution of variable annuity products within our Advice & Wealth Management segment. We continue to distributeRiverSourcefixed annuity
products through third-party channels. In 2010, we had total cash sales for variable and fixed annuity products through third-party channels of $1.0 billion, of which $760 million
pertained to variable annuity sales and $265 million pertained to fixed annuity sales. As of December 31, 2010, we had distribution agreements forRiverSourcefixed annuity products in place
with more than 120 third party firms.

Our Segments—Protection

Our Protection segment provides a variety of protection products to address the protection and risk management needs of our retail clients, including
life, disability income and property-casualty insurance. Life and disability income products are primarily distributed through our branded advisors. Our property-casualty products are sold primarily
through affinity relationships. We issue insurance policies through our life insurance subsidiaries and the Property Casualty companies (as defined below under "Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance
Products"). The primary sources of revenues for this segment are premiums, fees and charges we receive to assume insurance-related risk. We earn net investment income on owned assets supporting
insurance reserves and capital supporting the business. We also receive fees based on the level of assets supporting variable universal life separate account balances. This segment earns intersegment
revenues from fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of VIT Funds under the variable universal life contracts.
Intersegment expenses for this segment include









distribution
expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All
intersegment activity is eliminated in consolidation. In 2010, 20% of our revenues from external clients were attributable to our Protection business.

RiverSource
Insurance Products

Through
the RiverSource Life companies, we are the issuers of both variable and fixed universal life insurance, traditional life insurance and disability income insurance.
These solutions are designed to help clients protect their income, grow assets, and give to those individuals or causes that they care most about. Universal life insurance is a form of permanent life
insurance characterized by flexible premiums, flexible death benefits and unbundled pricing factors (i.e., mortality, interest and expenses). Variable universal life insurance combines the premium and
death benefit flexibility of universal life with underlying fund investment flexibility and the risks associated therewith. Traditional life insurance refers to whole and term life insurance policies.
While traditional life insurance typically pays a specified sum to a beneficiary upon death of the insured for a fixed premium, in 2010 we began offering a term life insurance product that will
generally pay the death benefit in the form of a monthly income stream to a date specified at issue. We also offer a chronic care rider, AdvanceSource®, on our new permanent insurance
products. This rider allows its policy holder to accelerate a portion of the life insurance death benefit in the event of a qualified chronic care need.

Our
sales ofRiverSourceindividual life insurance in 2010, as measured by scheduled annual premiums, lump sum and excess premiums, consisted of 35%
variable universal life, 59% fixed universal life and 6% traditional life. Our RiverSource Life companies issue only non-participating policies that do not pay dividends to policyholders
from the insurer's earnings.

Assets
supporting policy values associated with fixed account life insurance and annuity products, as well as those assets associated with fixed account investment options under variable insurance and
annuity products (collectively referred to as the "fixed accounts"), are part of the RiverSource Life companies' general accounts. Under fixed accounts, the RiverSource Life companies bear the
investment risk. More information on the RiverSource Life companies' general accounts is found under "Business—Our Segments—Asset Management—U.S. Asset Management
Offerings—Management of Institutional Owned Assets" above.

Variable Universal Life Insurance

Variable universal life insurance provides life insurance coverage along with investment returns linked to underlying investment accounts of the
policyholder's choice. Options may include VIT Funds discussed above, Portfolio Navigator funds of funds, as well as variable portfolio funds of other companies.RiverSourcevariable universal life
insurance products in force offer a fixed account investment option with guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates
ranging from 3.0% to 4.5% at December 31, 2010.

Fixed Universal Life Insurance and Traditional Whole Life Insurance

Fixed universal life and traditional whole life insurance policies do not subject the policyholder to the investment risks associated with variable
universal life insurance.

RiverSourcefixed universal life insurance products provide life insurance coverage and cash value that increases by a fixed interest rate. The rate is
periodically reset at the discretion of the issuing company subject to certain policy terms relative to minimum interest crediting rates.RiverSourcefixed universal life insurance policies in force provided guaranteed
minimum interest crediting rates ranging from 3.0% to 5.0% at December 31, 2010. The majority of fixed universal life policies issued in recent years provide a secondary guarantee that ensures,
subject to specified conditions, the policy will not terminate and will continue to provide a death benefit even if there is insufficient policy value to cover the monthly deductions and charges. In
2009, we discontinued new sales of traditional whole life insurance, however, we continue to service existing policies. These in force traditional whole life insurance policies combine a death benefit
with a cash value that generally increases gradually over a period of years.

Term Life Insurance

Term life insurance provides a death benefit, but it does not build up cash value. The policyholder chooses the term of coverage with guaranteed
premiums at the time of issue. During the chosen term, we cannot raise premium rates even if claims experience deteriorates. At the end of the chosen term, coverage may continue with higher premiums
until the maximum age is attained, or the policy expires with no value. In 2010, we began offering a term insurance product which pays the death benefit in the form of a monthly income stream.

Disability Income Insurance

Disability income insurance provides monthly benefits to individuals who are unable to earn income either at their occupation at time of disability
("own occupation") or at any suitable occupation ("any occupation") for premium payments that are guaranteed not to change. Depending upon occupational and medical underwriting criteria, applicants
for disability income insurance can choose "own occupation" and "any occupation" coverage for varying benefit periods. In some states, applicants may also choose various benefit provisions to help
them integrate individual disability income insurance benefits with social security or similar benefit plans and to help them protect their disability income insurance benefits from the risk of
inflation.









Long Term Care Insurance

As of December 31, 2002, the RiverSource Life companies discontinued underwriting long term care insurance. However, our branded financial
advisors sell long term care insurance issued by other companies, including Genworth Life Insurance Company, John Hancock Life Insurance Company and Prudential Insurance Company.

In
2004 RiverSource Life and RiverSource Life of NY began to file for approval to implement rate increases on most of their existing blocks of nursing home-only indemnity long term care
insurance policies. Implementation of these rate increases began in early 2005 and continues. We have received approval for some or all requested increases in the 49 states where increases have been
requested, with an average approved cumulative rate increase of 62.9% of premium on all such policies where an increase was requested.

In
2007 RiverSource Life and RiverSource Life of NY began to file for approval to implement rate increases on most of their existing blocks of comprehensive reimbursement long term care insurance
policies. Implementation of these rate increases began in late 2007 and continues. We have received approval for some or all requested increases in 47 states, with an average approved cumulative rate
increase of 17.5% of premium on all such policies where an increase was requested.

We
intend to seek additional rate increases with respect to these and other existing blocks of long term care insurance policies, subject to regulatory approval.

Ameriprise
Auto & Home Insurance Products

We
offer personal auto, home and excess personal liability insurance products through IDS Property Casualty and its subsidiary, Ameriprise Insurance Company (the "Property
Casualty companies"). Our Property Casualty companies provide personal auto, home and liability coverage to clients in 43 states and the District of Columbia.

Distribution
and Marketing Channels

We
offerRiverSourcelife insurance products almost exclusively through our branded financial advisors. Our branded advisors
offer insurance products issued predominantly by the RiverSource Life companies. In addition, our branded advisors may offer insurance products of unaffiliated carriers, subject to certain
qualifications.

Our
Property Casualty companies do not have field agents; rather, we use co-branded direct marketing to sell our personal auto and home insurance products through alliances with commercial
institutions and affinity groups, and directly to our clients and the general public. We also receive referrals through our financial advisor network. Our Property Casualty companies have a
multi-year distribution agreement with Costco Insurance Agency, Inc., Costco's affiliated insurance agency. Costco members represented 62% of all new policy sales of our Property Casualty
companies in 2010. Through other alliances, we market our property casualty products to customers of Ford Motor Credit Company and offer personal home insurance products to customers of the
Progressive Group. Termination of one or more of these alliances could adversely affect our ability to generate new sales and retain existing business.

Reinsurance

We
reinsure a portion of the insurance risks associated with our life, disability income and long term care insurance products through reinsurance agreements with
unaffiliated reinsurance companies. We use reinsurance in order to limit losses, reduce exposure to large risks and provide additional capacity for future growth. To manage exposure to losses from
reinsurer insolvencies, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers prior to entering into new reinsurance treaties and on a periodic basis during the terms of the treaties. Our insurance
companies remain primarily liable as the direct insurers on all risks reinsured.

Generally,
we currently reinsure 90% of the death benefit liability related to almost all individual fixed and variable universal life and term life insurance products. As a result, the RiverSource
Life companies typically retain and are at risk for, at most, 10% of each policy's death benefit from the first dollar of coverage for new sales of these policies, subject to the reinsurers fulfilling
their obligations. The RiverSource Life companies began reinsuring risks at this level during 2001 (2002 for RiverSource Life of NY) for term life insurance and 2002 (2003 for RiverSource Life of NY)
for individual fixed and variable universal life insurance. Policies issued prior to these dates are not subject to these reinsurance levels. Generally, the maximum amount of life insurance risk
retained by the RiverSource Life companies is $1.5 million on a single life and $1.5 million on any flexible premium survivorship life policy. Risk on fixed and variable universal life
policies is reinsured on a yearly renewable term basis. Risk on most term life policies starting in 2001 (2002 for RiverSource Life of NY) is reinsured on a coinsurance basis, a type of reinsurance in
which the reinsurer participates proportionally in all material risks and premiums associated with a policy.

For
existing long term care policies, RiverSource Life retained 50% of the risk and ceded on a coinsurance basis the remaining 50% of the risk to subsidiaries of Genworth Financial, Inc. ("Genworth").
For RiverSource Life of NY, this reinsurance arrangement applies for 1996 and later issues only. As of December 31, 2010, RiverSource Life companies'









credit
exposure to Genworth under this reinsurance arrangement was approximately $1.4 billion. Genworth also serves as claims administrator for our long term care policies.

Generally,
RiverSource Life companies retain at most $5,000 per month of risk per life on disability income policies sold on policy forms introduced in most states in October 2007 (August 2010 for
RiverSource Life of NY) and they reinsure the remainder of the risk on a coinsurance basis with unaffiliated reinsurance companies. RiverSource Life companies retain all risk for new claims on
disability income contracts sold on other policy forms. Our insurance companies also retain all risk on accidental death benefit claims and substantially all risk associated with waiver of premium
provisions.

We
also reinsure a portion of the risks associated with our personal auto and home insurance products through two types of reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated reinsurance companies, as
follows:

•We purchase reinsurance with a limit of $5 million per loss, and we retain $750,000 per loss.•We purchase catastrophe reinsurance and retain $10 million of loss per event with loss recovery up to
$80 million per event.

See
Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on reinsurance.

Liabilities
and Reserves

We
maintain adequate financial reserves to cover the insurance risks associated with the insurance products we issue. Generally, reserves represent estimates of the invested
assets that our insurance companies need to hold to provide adequately for future benefits and expenses. For a discussion of liabilities and reserves related to our insurance products, see
Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Financial
Strength Ratings

Independent
rating organizations rate our insurance subsidiaries. Their ratings are important to maintain public confidence in our insurance subsidiaries and our protection
and annuity products. Lowering of our insurance subsidiaries' ratings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our protection and annuity products and could lead to increased
surrenders of these products. Rating organizations evaluate the financial soundness and claims-paying ability of insurance companies continually, and base their ratings on a number of different
factors, including a strong market position in core products and market segments, excellent risk-adjusted capitalization and high quality investment portfolios. More specifically, the
ratings assigned are developed from an evaluation of a company's balance sheet strength, operating performance and business profile. Balance sheet strength reflects a company's ability to meet its
current and ongoing obligations to its contractholders and policyholders and includes analysis of a company's capital adequacy. The evaluation of operating performance centers on the stability and
sustainability of a company's sources of earnings. The business profile component of the rating considers a company's mix of business, market position and depth and experience of management.

Information
concerning the financial strength ratings for Ameriprise Financial, RiverSource Life and IDS Property Casualty can be found in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources". We also list our
ratings on our website at ir.ameriprise.com. For the most current ratings information, please see the individual rating agency's website.

Our Segments—Corporate & Other

Our Corporate & Other segment consists of net investment income on corporate level assets, including excess capital held in our subsidiaries
and other unallocated equity and other revenues from various investments as well as unallocated corporate expenses.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive industry. As a diversified financial services firm, we compete directly with a variety of financial institutions,
including registered investment advisors, securities brokers, asset managers, banks and insurance companies. We compete directly with these entities for the provision of products and services to
clients, as well as for our financial advisors and investment management personnel. Our products and services also compete indirectly in the marketplace with the products and services of our
competitors.

Our
financial advisors compete for clients with a range of other advisors, broker-dealers and direct channels, including wirehouses, regional broker-dealers, independent broker-dealers, insurers,
banks, asset managers, registered investment advisers and direct distributors.

To
acquire and maintain managed and administered assets, we compete against a substantial number of firms, including those in the categories listed above. Our mutual funds, like other mutual funds,
face competition from other mutual fund











families
and alternative investment products such as exchange traded funds. Additionally, for mutual funds, high ratings from rating services such as Morningstar or Lipper, as well as favorable
mention in financial publications, may influence sales and lead to increases in managed assets. As a mutual fund's assets increase, management fee revenue increases and the fund may achieve economies
of scale that make it more attractive to investors because of potential resulting reductions in the fund's expense ratio. Conversely, low ratings and negative mention in financial publications can
lead to outflows, which reduce management fee revenues and can impede achieving the benefits of economies of scale. Additionally, reputation and brand integrity are important in the mutual fund
industry generally, and certain firms in particular, have come under regulatory and media scrutiny. Our mutual fund products compete against products of firms like Fidelity, American Funds and
Oppenheimer. Competitive factors affecting the sale of mutual funds include investment performance in terms of attaining the stated objectives of the particular products and in terms of fund yields
and total returns, advertising and sales promotional efforts, brand recognition, investor confidence, type and quality of services, fee structures and distribution.

Our
brokerage subsidiaries compete with securities broker-dealers, independent broker-dealers, financial planning firms, registered investment advisors, insurance companies and other financial
institutions in attracting and retaining members of the field force. Competitive factors in the brokerage services business include price, service and execution.

Competitors
of our RiverSource Life companies and Property Casualty companies consist of both stock and mutual insurance companies such as Hartford, MetLife, Prudential, Lincoln Financial, AXA
Financial, Principal Financial, Nationwide, Allstate and State Farm. Competitive factors affecting the sale of annuity products include price, product features, investment performance, commission
structure, perceived financial strength, claims-paying ratings, service, brand recognition and distribution capabilities. Competitive factors affecting the sale of all insurance products include the
cost of insurance and other contract charges, the level of premium rates and financial strength ratings from rating organizations such as A.M. Best. Competitive factors affecting the sale of
property casualty insurance products also include brand recognition and distribution capabilities.

Technology

We have an integrated customer management system, which serves as the hub of our technology platform. In addition, we have specialized recordkeeping
engines that manage individual brokerage, mutual fund, insurance and banking client accounts. Over the years we have updated our platform to include new product lines such as brokerage, deposit,
credit and products of other companies, wrap accounts and e-commerce capabilities for our financial advisors and clients. We also use a proprietary suite of processes, methods, and tools
for our financial planning services. We update our technological capabilities regularly to help maintain an adaptive platform design that aims to enhance the productivity of our branded financial
advisors and will allow a faster, lower-cost response to emerging business opportunities, compliance requirements and marketplace trends.

Most
of our applications run on a technology infrastructure that we outsourced to IBM in 2002. Under this arrangement, IBM is responsible for all mainframe, midrange and end-user computing
operations and a portion of our web hosting and help desk operations. Also, we outsource our voice network operations to AT&T. In addition to these two arrangements, we have outsourced our production
support and a substantial portion of the development and maintenance of our computer applications to other firms. We initiated a major replacement of our brokerage and clearing platforms in the last
quarter of 2009 and continue to roll out that implementation in stages across our branded advisor network.

We
have developed a comprehensive business continuity plan that covers business disruptions of varying severity and scope and addresses the loss of a geographic area, building, staff, data systems
and/or telecommunications capabilities. We review and test our business continuity plan on an ongoing basis and update it as necessary, and we require our key technology vendors and service providers
to do the same. Under our business continuity plan, we expect to be able to continue doing business and to resume operations with minimal service impacts. However, under certain scenarios, the time
that it would take for us to recover and to resume operations may significantly increase depending on the extent and geographic scope of the disruption and the number of personnel affected.

Geographic Presence

For years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 88%, 85% and 86%, respectively, of our long-lived assets were
located in the United States and approximately 95%, 95% and 94%, respectively, of our net revenues were generated in the United States. Our foreign operations are conducted predominantly through
Threadneedle, as described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under "Business—Our Segments—Asset Management—International Asset
Management—Threadneedle."

Employees

At December 31, 2010, we had 10,472 employees, including 2,168 employee branded advisors (which does not include our branded franchisee
advisors or the unbranded advisors of SAI, none of whom are employees of our company). We are not subject to collective bargaining agreements, and we believe that our employee relations are strong.









Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual
property. In the United States and other jurisdictions, we have established certain service marks and brand names that we consider important to the marketing of our products and services, including
but not limited toAmeriprise Financial,Columbia Management,RiverSourceandThreadneedle. We have in the past and will in the future take action to protect our
intellectual property.

Regulation

Virtually all aspects of our business, including the activities of the parent company and our various subsidiaries, are subject to various federal,
state and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations provide broad regulatory, administrative and enforcement powers to supervisory agencies and other bodies, including U.S. federal and
state regulatory agencies, foreign government agencies or regulatory bodies and U.S. and foreign securities exchanges. The costs of complying with such laws and regulations can be significant, and the
consequences for the failure to comply may include criminal charges, fines, censure, the suspension of individual employees, and restrictions on or prohibitions from engaging in certain lines of
business.

In
response to the economic crisis of 2008 and 2009, the laws and regulations governing the financial services industry have continued to evolve and change. On July 21, 2010, the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank Act") was enacted into law. The Dodd-Frank Act calls for sweeping changes in the supervision
and regulation of the financial service industry designed to provide for greater oversight of financial industry participants, reduce risk in banking practices and in securities and derivatives
trading, enhance public company corporate governance practices and executive compensation disclosures, and provide greater protections to individual consumers and investors. Certain elements of the
Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately, though the details of many provisions are subject to additional studies and will not be known until final rules are adopted by applicable
regulatory agencies. Legal and regulatory changes arising in response to the Dodd-Frank Act may in the future impact the manner in which we are regulated and the manner in which we operate
and govern our businesses.

The
discussion set forth below provides a general framework of the laws and regulations impacting our businesses. Certain of our subsidiaries may be subject to one or more elements of this regulatory
framework depending on the nature of their business, the products and services they provide and the geographic locations in which they operate. To the extent the discussion includes references to
statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to such statutory and regulatory provisions.

Broker-Dealer
and Securities Regulation

Certain
of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") and with certain of the fifty states,
the District of Columbia and other U.S. territories. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are also members of certain self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority ("FINRA"), and are subject to the regulations of such organizations. The SEC and FINRA have stringent rules with respect to the net capital requirements and the marketing and trading
activities of broker-dealers. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries, as well as our financial advisors and other personnel, must obtain all required state and FINRA licenses and registrations to engage in
the securities business. SEC regulations also impose notice requirements and capital limitations on the payment of dividends by a broker-dealer to a parent.

Other
agencies, exchanges and self-regulatory organizations to which certain of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are members, and subject to applicable rules and regulations, include the
Commodities Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC"), the National Futures Association and various stock exchanges. One of our broker-dealer subsidiaries is registered with the CFTC and is thus subject to
the requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act. AEIS is a member of the Boston Stock Exchange and is a stockholder in the Chicago Stock Exchange. In addition, certain subsidiaries may also be
registered as investment advisers or insurance agencies and subject to the regulations described in the following sections.

Ameriprise
Certificate Company, our face-amount certificate company, is regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. As a registered investment company, Ameriprise
Certificate Company must observe certain governance, disclosure, record-keeping, operational and marketing requirements. Investment companies are required by the SEC to adopt and implement written
policies and procedures designed to prevent violations of the federal securities laws and to designate a chief compliance officer. Ameriprise Certificate Company pays dividends to the parent company
and is subject to capital requirements under applicable law and understandings with the SEC and the Minnesota Department of Commerce.

Our
financial advisors are subject to various regulations that impact the manner in which they operate their practices, including those related to supervision, sales methods, trading practices,
record-keeping and financial reporting. In addition, because our independent contractor branded advisor platform is structured as a franchise system, we are also subject to Federal Trade Commission
and state franchise requirements. Compliance with these and other regulatory requirements











adds
to the cost and complexity of operating our business. To support the activities of our advisors, we implemented franchise and compliance standards and strive for a consistently high level of
client service. We put in place franchise standards and requirements for our franchisees regardless of location. We have made significant investments in our compliance processes, enhancing policies,
procedures and oversight to monitor our compliance with the numerous legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business. We expect to continue to make significant investments in our
compliance infrastructure.

Investment
Adviser and Asset Management Regulation

Our
trust company is primarily regulated by the Minnesota Department of Commerce (Banking Division) and is subject to capital adequacy requirements under Minnesota law. It may not accept deposits or
make personal or commercial loans. As a provider of products and services to tax-qualified retirement plans and IRAs, certain aspects of our business, including the activities of our trust
company, fall within the compliance oversight of the U.S. Departments of Labor and Treasury, particularly regarding the enforcement of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
("ERISA"), and the tax reporting requirements applicable to such accounts. Our trust company, as well as our investment adviser subsidiaries, may be subject to ERISA, and the regulations thereunder,
insofar as they act as a "fiduciary" under ERISA with respect to certain clients. ERISA and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose
duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, and prohibit certain transactions involving the assets of ERISA plan clients and certain transactions by the fiduciaries to the plans. The Department
of Labor is considering proposed regulations that would expand the scope of activity that constitutes acting as a fiduciary, while prohibiting certain additional types of transactions conducted by
persons who are considered fiduciaries.

Insurance
Regulation

The
Dodd-Frank Act created the Federal Insurance Office ("FIO") within the Department of Treasury. The FIO does not have substantive regulatory responsibilities, though it is tasked with
monitoring the insurance industry and the effectiveness of its regulatory framework and for providing periodic reports to the President and Congress. The scope and impact of the research and reports
provided by the FIO, and the extent to which such work may ultimately lead to a more prominent role of the federal government in the regulation of the insurance industry, is uncertain.









Each
of our insurance subsidiaries is subject to risk-based capital ("RBC") requirements designed to assess the adequacy of an insurance company's capital and surplus in relation to its
investment and insurance risks. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has established RBC standards that virtually all state insurance departments have adopted, with minor
modifications. The RBC requirements are used by the NAIC and state insurance regulators to identify companies that merit regulatory actions designed to protect policyholders. Our RiverSource Life
companies and Property Casualty companies are subject to various levels of regulatory intervention should their total adjusted statutory capital fall below the RBC requirement. At the "company action
level," defined as total adjusted capital level between 100% and 75% of the RBC requirement, an insurer must submit a plan for corrective action with its primary state regulator. The "regulatory
action level," which is between 75% and 50% of the RBC requirement, subjects an insurer to examination, analysis and specific corrective action prescribed by the primary state regulator. If a
company's total adjusted capital falls between 50% and 35% of its RBC requirement, referred to as "authorized control level," the insurer's primary state regulator may place the insurer under
regulatory control. Insurers with total adjusted capital below 35% of the requirement will be placed under regulatory control.

RiverSource
Life, RiverSource Life of NY, IDS Property Casualty and Ameriprise Insurance Company maintain capital well in excess of the company action level required by their state insurance
regulators. For RiverSource Life, the company action level RBC was $652 million as of December 31, 2010, and the corresponding total adjusted capital was $3.8 billion, which
represents 585% of company action level RBC. For RiverSource Life of NY, the company action level RBC was $38 million as of December 31, 2010, and the corresponding total adjusted
capital was $291 million, which represents 761% of company action level RBC. As of December 31, 2010, the company action level RBC was $141 million for IDS Property Casualty and
$2 million for Ameriprise Insurance Company. As of December 31, 2010, IDS Property Casualty had $411 million of total adjusted capital, or 291% of the company action level RBC,
and Ameriprise Insurance Company had $44 million of total adjusted capital, or 2200% of the company action level RBC.

Ameriprise
Financial, as a direct and indirect owner of its insurance subsidiaries, is subject to the insurance holding companies laws of the states in which its insurance subsidiaries are domiciled.
These laws generally require insurance holding companies to register with the insurance department of the insurance company's state of domicile and to provide certain financial and other information
regarding the operations of the companies within the holding company structure. In addition, transactions between an insurance company and other companies within the same holding company structure
must be on terms considered to be fair and reasonable.

Federal
Banking Regulation

Ameriprise
Bank is a federal savings bank subject to regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision ("OTS"), which is the primary regulator of federal savings banks, and by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") in its role as insurer of Ameriprise Bank's deposits. As a federally chartered bank, Ameriprise Bank is subject to numerous rules and regulations
governing all aspects of the banking business, including lending practices and transactions with affiliates. Ameriprise Bank is also subject to specific capital rules. If Ameriprise Bank's capital
falls below certain levels, the OTS is required to take remedial actions and may take other actions, including the imposition of limits on dividends or business activities, and a directive to us to
divest the subsidiary. Ameriprise Bank is also subject to limits on capital distributions, including payment of dividends. In addition, an array of community reinvestment, fair lending, and other
consumer protection laws and regulations apply to Ameriprise Bank. Either of the OTS or the FDIC may bring administrative enforcement actions against Ameriprise Bank or its officers, directors or
employees if any of them are found to be in violation of the law or engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice.

As
the controlling company of Ameriprise Bank, Ameriprise Financial is a savings and loan holding company that is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS. As a savings and loan
holding company, Ameriprise Financial is not subject to specific statutory capital requirements. However, Ameriprise Financial has entered into a Source of Strength Agreement with Ameriprise Bank to
reflect that it will commit such capital and managerial resources to support the subsidiary as the OTS may determine necessary under applicable regulations and supervisory standards. In the event of
the appointment of a receiver or conservator for Ameriprise Bank, the FDIC would be entitled to enforce Ameriprise Financial's Source of Strength Agreement.

As
a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, it is expected that the duties of the OTS with regard to the supervision of Ameriprise Bank will be transferred to the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency ("OCC"). It is also expected that the duties of the OTS with regard to the supervision of our holding company will be transferred to the Board of Governors for the Federal Reserve System
("FRB"). We expect that this transition will occur in 2011.

Parent
Company Regulation

Ameriprise
Financial is a publicly-traded company that is subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC and NYSE regarding public disclosure, financial reporting and
internal controls and corporate governance principles. These rules and regulations were significantly enhanced in connection with the adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and may









continue
to evolve in connection with the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislative and regulatory initiatives arising in connection with the recent economic crisis. As noted above, we expect
the FRB to perform as supervisory regulator with respect to Ameriprise Financial once the transference of responsibilities of the OTS pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act is complete.

We
have operations in a number of geographical regions outside of the U.S. through Threadneedle and certain of our other subsidiaries. We monitor developments in European Union ("EU") legislation, as
well as in the other markets in which we operate, to ensure that we comply with all applicable legal requirements, including EU directives applicable to financial institutions as implemented in the
various member states. Because of the mix of business activities we conduct, we are continually assessing the impact of, and insuring compliance with, the EU Financial Conglomerates Directive, which
contemplates that certain financial conglomerates involved in banking, insurance and investment activities will be subject to a system of supplementary supervision at the level of the holding company
constituting the financial conglomerate. The directive requires financial conglomerates to, among other things, implement measures to prevent excessive leverage and multiple leveraging of capital and
to maintain internal control processes to address risk concentrations as well as risks arising from significant intragroup transactions. The OTS has accepted our request that it be designated as our
global consolidated supervisory regulator under the EU Financial Conglomerates Directive. We expect that the FRB will perform this function once the transference of responsibilities of the OTS
pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act is complete.

Privacy

Many
aspects of our business are subject to increasingly comprehensive legal requirements by a multitude of different functional regulators concerning the use and protection
of personal information, particularly that of clients, including those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, an ever increasing number of state
laws, and the European Union data protection legislation as domestically implemented in the respective EU member states. We have implemented policies and procedures in response to such requirements in
the UK. We continue our efforts to safeguard the data entrusted to us in accordance with applicable law and our internal data protection policies, including taking steps to reduce the potential for
identity theft or other improper use or disclosure of personal information, while seeking to collect and use data to properly achieve our business objectives and to best serve our clients.

USA
Patriot Act

The
Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act, commonly referred to as the USA Patriot Act, was
enacted in October 2001 in the wake of the September 11th terrorist attacks. The USA Patriot Act broadened substantially existing anti-money laundering legislation and the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the United States. In response, we have enhanced our existing anti-money laundering programs and developed new procedures and programs. For example, we
have
implemented a customer identification program applicable to many of our businesses and have enhanced our "know your customer" and "enhanced due diligence" programs. In addition, we will continue to
comply with anti-money laundering legislation in the UK derived from applicable EU directives and to take account of international initiatives adopted in other jurisdictions in which we
conduct business.

Securities Exchange Act Reports and Additional Information

We maintain an Investor Relations website at ir.ameriprise.com and we make available free of charge our annual, quarterly and current reports and any
amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To access these and other documents, click on the "SEC
Filings" link found on our Investor Relations homepage.

You
can also access our Investor Relations website through our main website at ameriprise.com by clicking on the "Investor Relations" link located at the bottom of our homepage. Information contained
on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with the SEC.

Segment Information and Classes of Similar Services

You can find financial information regarding our operating segments and classes of similar services in Note 26 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

