ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

GENERAL

Gartner, Inc. (“Gartner”) (NYSE: IT) is the world’s leading information
technology research and advisory company. We deliver the technology-related
insight necessary for our clients to make the right decisions, every day. From
CIOs and senior IT leaders in corporations and government agencies, to business
leaders in high-tech and telecom enterprises and professional services firms,
to supply chain professionals and technology investors, we are the valuable
partner to clients in over 12,400 distinct organizations. We work with every
client to research, analyze and interpret the business of IT within the context
of their individual role. Founded in 1979, Gartner is headquartered in
Stamford, Connecticut, U.S.A., and as of December 31, 2011, we had 4,975
associates, including 1,295 research analysts and consultants, and clients in
85 countries.

The foundation for all Gartner products and services is our independent
research on IT and supply chain issues. The findings from this research are
delivered through our three business segments — Research, Consulting and
Events:

•Researchprovides objective insight on critical
 and timely technology and supply chain initiatives for CIOs, other IT
 professionals, supply chain leaders, technology companies and the investment
 community through reports, briefings, proprietary tools, access to our
 analysts, peer networking services, and membership programs that enable our
 clients to make better decisions about their IT and supply chain investments.•Consultingprovides
 customized solutions to unique client needs through on-site,
 day-to-day support, as well as proprietary tools for measuring and improving
 IT performance with a focus on cost, performance, efficiency, and quality.•Eventsprovide
 IT, supply chain, and business professionals the opportunity to attend various
 symposia, conferences and exhibitions
 to learn, contribute and network with their peers. From our flagship
 event Symposium/ITxpo, to Summits focused on specific technologies and
 industries, to experimental workshop-style Seminars, our events distill the
 latest Gartner research into applicable insight and advice.

For more information regarding Gartner and our products and services,
visitwww.gartner.com.

References to “the Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” are to Gartner, Inc.
and its consolidated subsidiaries.

MARKET OVERVIEW

Information technology is critical to supporting increased
productivity, service improvement and revenue in every organization around the
world, from business enterprises of every size, to governments and government
agencies, as well as other organizations. IT and the supply chain are viewed
today as strategic components of growth and operating performance. Given the
strategic and critical nature of technology decision-making and spending,
business enterprises, governments and their agencies, and other organizations
turn to outside experts for guidance in procurement, implementation and
operations advice in order to maximize the value of their IT investments.

As the costs of IT solutions continue to rise, IT executives and
professionals have realized the importance of making well-informed decisions
and increasingly seek to maximize their returns on IT capital investments. As a
result, any IT investment decision in an enterprise is subject to increased
financial scrutiny, especially in the current challenging economic climate. In
addition, today’s IT marketplace is dynamic and complex. Technology providers
continually introduce new products with a wide variety of standards and
features that are prone to shorter life cycles. Users of technology — a group
that encompasses nearly all organizations — must keep abreast of new
developments in technology to ensure that their IT systems are reliable,
efficient and meet both their current and future needs.

OUR SOLUTION

We provide high-quality, independent and objective research and
fact-based analysis on the IT industry. Through our robust product portfolio,
our global research team provides thought leadership and technology insights
that enable CIOs, supply chain professionals, executives and other technology
practitioners the information and advice they need to make the right decisions,
every day.






We employ a diversified business model that utilizes and leverages the
breadth and depth of our intellectual capital. The foundation of our business
model is our ability to create and distribute our proprietary research content
as broadly as possible via published reports and briefings, consulting and
advisory services, and our events, including Gartner Symposium/ITxpo.

With a base of 814 research analysts, we create timely and relevant
technology-related research. In addition, we have 481 experienced consultants
who combine our objective, independent research with a practical, business
perspective focused on the IT industry. Our events are the largest of their
kind, gathering highly qualified audiences of CIOs, other senior business
executives and IT professionals, supply chain leaders, and purchasers and
providers of technology and supply chain products and services.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

Our diversified business model provides multiple entry points and
synergies that facilitate increased client spending on our research, consulting
services and events. A critical part of our long-term strategy is to increase
business volume with our most valuable clients, identifying relationships with
the greatest sales potential and expanding those relationships by offering
strategically relevant research and advice. We also seek to extend the Gartner
brand name to develop new client relationships, augment our sales capacity, and
expand into new markets around the world. In addition, we seek to increase our
revenue and operating cash flow through more effective pricing of our products
and services. These initiatives have created additional revenue streams through
more effective packaging, campaigning and cross-selling of our products and
services.

Our principal products and services are delivered via our Research,
Consulting and Events segments:



•RESEARCH.Gartner
 research is the fundamental building block for all Gartner services and
 covers all technology-related markets, topics and industries, as well as
 supply chain topics. We combine our proprietary research methodologies with
 extensive industry and academic relationships to create Gartner solutions.
 Our research agenda is defined by clients’ needs, focusing on the critical
 issues, opportunities and challenges they face every day. Our research
 analysts are in regular contact with both technology providers and technology
 users, enabling them to identify the most pertinent topics in the IT
 marketplace and develop relevant product enhancements to meet the evolving
 needs of users of our research. They provide in-depth analysis on all
 aspects of technology, including hardware; software and systems; services; IT
 management; market data and forecasts; and vertical-industry issues. Our
 proprietary research content, presented in the form of reports, briefings,
 updates and related tools, is delivered directly to the client’s desktop
 via our website and/or product-specific portals. Clients typically sign contracts
 that provide access to our research content for individual users over a
 defined period of time, which is typically one year.



There are
 various products and services through which our clients can take advantage of
 the insight gained through our rigorous research processes and proprietary
 methodologies:



Gartner Executive Programsprovides
 role-based offerings for CIOs which combines the shared intelligence of the
 largest CIO and IT executive community in the world with customized access to
 Gartner insight and resources. An Executive Programs membership leverages the
 knowledge and expertise of Gartner in ways that are specific to the CIO’s
 needs. This service provides CIOs with the combined value of role-specific
 insights from Gartner analysts, practical advice from an exclusive community
 of peers, and expert coaching from a leadership partner. Our Gartner for
 Enterprise IT Leaders product, which is part of Executive Programs, provides
 a personalized service consisting of Gartner research, peer-interaction and
 networking to help CIO direct reports save time and money, mitigate risk and
 exploit new opportunities. Approximately 4,100 CIOs and senior IT executives
 are members of Gartner Executive Programs.



Gartner for IT Leadersprovides role-based
 research to assist functional IT leaders with effective decision making.
 These products align a client’s specific job-related challenges with
 appropriate Gartner analysts and insight, and connect IT leaders to IT peers
 who share common business and technology issues. Gartner for IT Leaders is an
 indispensable strategic resource, delivering timely, reliable insight to
 guide decisions and help these clients get the most from their
 highest-priority initiatives.



Gartner for Business Leadersprovides research offerings for business leaders in technology providers and
 telecommunications companies—including product and marketing
 management, competitive intelligence and analyst relations professionals—to
 achieve a higher level of success in growing their business.



Gartner Industry Advisory Servicesaddress technology issues and topics with a focus on their impact on specific
 vertical industries. This service is for CIOs, CTOs, and other senior IT
 executives.



Gartner for Supply Chain Leadersdelivers objective, actionable insight and best practices around key supply
 chain initiatives to help supply chain operations professionals build, manage
 and transform their global supply chains — maximizing productivity,










minimizing
 risks and driving revenue and competitive advantage. We also offer
 sector-specific supply chain guidance for eight industries: aerospace, automotive,
 consumer products, chemical and process manufacturing, healthcare and life
 sciences, high-tech manufacturing, industrial manufacturing, and retail.



Gartner for Enterprise Supply Chain Leadersprovides senior supply chain executives (in large, complex enterprises) with
 the same in-depth insight and best practice research as Gartner for Supply
 Chain Leaders, plus ongoing expert coaching from a trusted advisor and the
 ability to confer, collaborate and compare notes with a vibrant community of
 experienced peers.



Gartner for Technical Professionalsprovides technical architects and engineers with the in-depth technical
 research and guidance to deliver outstanding results on the projects and
 initiatives that support the successful execution of IT strategy.



Gartner Investportfolio delivers technology research and analysis to buy-side investment
 professionals, including those in public equity, venture capital, private
 equity and investment banking to support the activities of investors interested
 in technology. Content is built around a base of published qualitative and
 quantitative Gartner research that captures both the supply- and demand-side
 perspectives of IT, and contains unique insight.



•CONSULTING.Gartner Consulting brings together our unique research insight: benchmarking
 data, problem-solving methodologies and hands-on experience to improve the
 return on a client’s IT investment. Our consultants provide fact-based
 consulting services to help clients use and manage IT to enable business
 performance.



Consulting solutions capitalize on Gartner assets that are invaluable
 to IT decision making, including: (1) our extensive research, which ensures
 that our consulting analyses and advice are based on a deep understanding of
 the IT environment and the business of IT; (2) our market independence, which
 keeps our consultants focused on our client’s success; and (3) our
 market-leading benchmarking capabilities, which provide relevant comparisons
 and best practices to assess and improve performance.



Gartner Consulting provides solutions to CIO’s and other IT
 executives, and to those professionals responsible for IT applications,
 enterprise architecture, go-to-market strategies, infrastructure and
 operations, programs and portfolio management and sourcing and vendor
 relationships. Consulting also provides targeted consulting services to
 professionals in the banking and investment services, education, energy and
 utilities, government, healthcare providers and high-tech and telecom providers
 that utilize our in-depth knowledge of the demands of each industry. Finally,
 we provide actionable solutions for IT cost optimization, technology
 modernization and IT sourcing optimization initiatives.



•EVENTS.Gartner
 Symposium/ITxpo events and Gartner Summit events are gatherings of
 technology’s most senior IT professionals, business strategists and
 practitioners. Gartner Events gives both clients and non-clients live access
 to insights from our latest proprietary research in a concentrated way.
 Informative sessions led by Gartner analysts are augmented with technology
 showcases, peer exchange opportunities, analyst one-on-one meetings,
 workshops and keynotes by technology’s top leaders. They also provide
 attendees with an opportunity to interact with business executives from the
 world’s leading technology companies.



Gartner Events attract high-level IT and business professionals who
 seek in-depth knowledge about technology products and services. Gartner
 Symposium/ITxpo events are large, strategic conferences held in various
 locations throughout the world for CIOs and other senior IT and business
 professionals. Gartner Summit events focus on specific topics, technologies
 and industries, providing IT professionals with the insight, solutions and
 networking opportunities to succeed in their job role. Finally, we offer
 targeted events for CIOs and IT executives, such as CIO Leadership Forum.

COMPETITION

We believe that the principal factors that differentiate us from our
competitors are the following:

•Superior IT research content — We believe that we create the
 broadest, highest-quality and most relevant research coverage of the IT
 industry. Our research analysis generates unbiased insight that we believe is
 timely, thought-provoking and comprehensive, and that is known for its high
 quality, independence and objectivity.•Our leading brand name — We have provided critical, trusted insight
 under the Gartner name for almost 35 years.•Our global footprint and established customer base — We have a global
 presence with clients in 85 countries on six continents. For 2011 and 2010,
 46% and 44% of our revenues, respectively, were derived from sales outside of
 the U.S.








•Substantial operating leverage in our business model — We have the
 ability to distribute our intellectual property and expertise across multiple
 platforms, including research publications, consulting engagements,
 conferences and executive programs, to derive incremental revenues and
 profitability.•Experienced management team — Our management team is composed of IT
 research veterans and experienced industry executives.•Vast network of analysts and consultants — As of December 31, 2011,
 we had 1,295 research analysts and consultants located around the world. Our
 analysts collectively speak 47 languages and are located in 26 countries,
 enabling us to cover all aspects of IT on a global basis.

Notwithstanding these differentiating factors, we face competition from
a significant number of independent providers of information products and
services. We compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information
providers, including electronic and print media companies. These indirect
competitors could choose to compete directly with us in the future. In addition,
we face competition from free sources of information that are available to our
clients through the Internet. Limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in
which we do business. As a result, new competitors may emerge and existing
competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. However,
we believe the breadth and depth of our research assets position us well versus
our competition. Increased competition may result in loss of market share,
diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased
sales and marketing expenditures.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Our success has resulted in part from proprietary methodologies,
software, reusable knowledge capital and other intellectual property rights. We
rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality,
non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual
property rights. We have policies related to confidentiality, ownership and the
use and protection of Gartner’s intellectual property, and we also enter into
agreements with our employees as appropriate that protect our intellectual
property, and we enforce these agreements if necessary.

We recognize the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace
and vigorously identify, create and protect it. Additionally, we actively
monitor and enforce contract compliance by our end users.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2011, we had 4,975 employees, an increase of 12%
compared to December 31, 2010 as we continue to invest for future growth. We
have 924 employees located at our headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut and a
nearby office in Trumbull; 2,000 employees located elsewhere in the United
States; and 2,051 employees located outside of the United States. Our employees
may be subject to collective bargaining agreements at a company or industry
level in those foreign countries where this is part of the local labor law or
practice. We have experienced no work stoppages and consider our relations with
our employees to be favorable.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our Internet address iswww.gartner.comand the investor relations section of our website is located atwww.investor.gartner.com.We
make available free of charge, on or through the investor relations section of
our website, printable copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to,
the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).

Also available atwww.investor.gartner.com,
under the “Corporate Governance” link, are printable and current copies of our
(i) CEO & CFO Code of Ethics which applies to our Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, controller and other financial managers, (ii) Code of
Conduct, which applies to all Gartner officers, directors and employees, (iii)
Board Principles and Practices, the corporate governance principles that have
been adopted by our Board and (iv) charters for each of the Board’s standing
committees: Audit, Compensation and Governance/Nominating.

