ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

GENERAL

Gartner, Inc. (NYSE: IT) is the world’s leading information
    technology research and advisory company. Since its founding in
    1979, Gartner has established a leading brand in the IT research
    marketplace. The cornerstones of our strategy are to focus on
    producing extraordinary research content, deliver innovative and
    highly differentiated product offerings, enhance our sales
    capability, provide world class client service, and improve
    operational effectiveness.



We deliver the technology-related insight necessary for our
    clients to make the right decisions, every day. From CIOs and
    senior IT leaders in corporations and government agencies, to
    business leaders in high-tech and telecom enterprises and
    professional services firms, to technology investors, to supply
    chain leaders, and to the front-line professionals in the
    technology organization, we are the indispensable partner to
    60,000 clients in 10,000 distinct organizations in over 80
    countries. We work with every client to research, analyze and
    interpret the business of IT within the context of their
    individual role.



The foundation for all Gartner products and services is our
    independent research on IT issues. The findings from this
    research are delivered through our three customer
    segments — Research, Consulting and Events:



•Researchprovides insight for CIOs, IT
    professionals, technology companies and the investment community
    through reports and briefings, access to our analysts, as well
    as peer networking services and membership programs designed
    specifically for CIOs and other senior executives.•Consultingconsists primarily of consulting,
    measurement engagements and strategic advisory services (paidone-dayanalyst engagements) (“SAS”), which provide
    assessments of cost, performance, efficiency and quality focused
    on the IT industry.•Eventsconsists of various symposia, conferences
    and exhibitions focused on the IT industry.



Gartner is headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, U.S.A. We
    have 4,305 associates, including almost 1,200 research analysts
    and consultants. For more information regarding Gartner and our
    products and services, visitwww.gartner.com.



References to “the Company,” “we,”
    “our,” and “us” are to Gartner, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries.



MARKET
    OVERVIEW

Today, information technology is critical to the operational and
    financial success of all business enterprises and other
    organizations, as well as government and government agencies.
    Once a support function, IT is now viewed as a strategic
    component of growth and operating performance. Accordingly, it
    has become imperative for executives and IT professionals to
    invest in IT and manage their IT spending and purchasing
    decisions efficiently and effectively.



As the cost of IT solutions continues to rise, executives and
    technology professionals have realized the importance of making
    well-informed decisions and increasingly seek to maximize their
    returns on IT capital investments. As a result, any IT
    investment decision in an enterprise is subject to increased
    financial scrutiny, especially in the current challenging
    economic climate. In addition, today’s IT marketplace is
    dynamic and complex. Technology providers continually introduce
    new products with a wide variety of standards and features that
    are prone to shorter life cycles. Users of
    technology — a group that encompasses nearly all
    organizations — must keep abreast of new developments
    in technology to ensure that their IT systems are reliable,
    efficient and meet both their current and future needs.



Given the critical nature of technology decision making and
    spending, business enterprises, organizations, and governments
    and their agencies are increasingly turning to outside experts
    for guidance in IT procurement, implementation and operations in
    order to maximize the value of their IT investments.
    Accordingly, it is critical that CIOs and other executives and
    personnel within an IT organization obtain value-added,
    independent and objective research and analysis of the IT market
    to assist them in these IT-related decisions.



OUR
    SOLUTION

We provide high-quality, independent and objective research and
    analysis of the IT industry. Through our entire product
    portfolio, our global research team provides thought leadership
    and insight about technology acquisition and deployment to CIOs,
    executives and other technology leaders and professionals.



We employ a diversified business model that utilizes and
    leverages the breadth and depth of our intellectual capital. The
    foundation of our business model is our ability to create and
    distribute our proprietary research content as broadly as
    possible via published reports and briefings, consulting and
    advisory services, and hosting symposia, conferences and
    exhibitions.









With a base of 720 research analysts, we create timely and
    relevant technology-related research. In addition, we have 450
    experienced consultants who combine our objective, independent
    research with a practical, business perspective focused on the
    IT industry. Our events are among the world’s largest of
    their kind, gathering highly qualified audiences of CIOs, senior
    business executives, IT professionals and purchasers and
    providers of IT products and services.



PRODUCTS AND
    SERVICES

Our diversified business model provides multiple entry points
    and synergies that facilitate increased client spending on our
    research, consulting and events. A critical part of our
    long-term strategy is to increase business volume with our most
    valuable clients, identifying relationships with the greatest
    sales potential and expanding those relationships by offering
    strategically relevant research and analysis. We also seek to
    extend the Gartner brand name to develop new client
    relationships, and augment our sales capacity and expand into
    new markets around the world. In addition, we seek to increase
    our revenue and operating cash flow through more effective
    pricing of our products and services. These initiatives have
    created additional revenue streams through more effective
    packaging, campaigning and cross-selling of our products and
    services.



Our principal products and services are delivered via our
    Research, Consulting and Events segments:



•RESEARCH.The Gartner core global research product
    is the fundamental building block for all Gartner services and
    covers all IT markets, topics and industries. We combine our
    proprietary research methodologies with extensive industry and
    academic relationships to create Gartner solutions. Our research
    agenda is defined by clients’ needs, focusing on the
    critical issues, opportunities and challenges they face every
    day. Our research analysts are in regular contact with both
    technology providers and technology users, enabling them to
    identify the most pertinent topics in the IT marketplace and
    develop relevant product enhancements to meet the evolving needs
    of users of our research. Our proprietary research content,
    presented in the form of reports, briefings, updates and related
    tools, is delivered directly to the client’s desktop via
    our websiteand/orproduct-specific portals.



Our research analysts provide in-depth analysis on all aspects
    of technology, including hardware; software and systems;
    services; IT management; market data and forecasts; and vertical
    industry issues. Clients typically sign contracts that provide
    access to our research content for individual users over a
    defined period of time. The research contracts are renewed on an
    ongoing basis; despite difficult economic conditions, in 2009 we
    experienced strong research client retention, with 78% of user
    organizations renewing their contracts, as well as 87% wallet
    retention, a measure of the dollar amount of contract value we
    have retained with clients over the prior year.



Our strategy is to align our service and product offerings
    around individual roles within targeted key client groups. For
    example, Gartner Executive Programs (EXP) comprises exclusive
    membership programs designed to help CIOs, senior IT executives
    and other business executives become more effective in their
    enterprises. An EXP membership leverages the knowledge and
    expertise of Gartner in ways that are specific to the CIO’s
    needs and offers role-based offerings and member-only
    communities for peer-based collaboration. Our 3,700 EXP members
    also receive advice and counsel from an executive partner who
    understands their goals and can ensure the most effective level
    of support from Gartner.



Other programs focus on the needs of the IT end-user market and
    IT vendors with a variety of product offerings. Gartner for IT
    Leaders currently provides eight role-based research offerings
    to assist end-user IT leaders with effective decision making.
    These products align a client’s specific job-related
    challenges with appropriate Gartner analysts and insight, and
    connect IT leaders to IT peers who share common business and
    technology issues. Gartner for Enterprise IT Leaders provides a
    personalized service consisting of Gartner research,
    peer-interaction and networking to help senior leaders save time
    and money, mitigate risk and exploit new opportunities. Gartner
    for Business Leaders provides a series of role-based offerings
    to help sales, marketing, product management and professional
    services leaders successfully manage their organizations and
    better interact with Gartner analysts.



Our Industry Advisory Services address technology issues and
    topics with a focus on their impacts on specific vertical
    industries.



Our Best Practices Councils provide peer networks to senior IT
    leaders in large organizations, currently in six practice areas,
    including IT architecture and strategic planning, information
    security, emerging technology management, infrastructure
    management, enterprise applications for SAP and IT sourcing
    management.



Gartner for Technology Investors provides premium research
    focused on the strategies and behaviors of technology end users
    and providers to support the activities of institutional
    investors who invest in technology companies.



•CONSULTING.Gartner consultants provide fact-based
    consulting services to help our clients use and manage IT to
    enable business performance. We seek to accomplish three major
    outcomes for our clients: applying IT to drive improvements in
    business performance; creating sustainable IT efficiency that
    ensures a constant return on IT investments; and strengthening
    the









IT organization and operations to ensure high-value services to
    the client’s lines of business and to enable the client to
    adapt to business changes.



We deliver our consulting solutions by capitalizing on Gartner
    assets that are invaluable to IT decision making, including:
    (1) our extensive research, which ensures that our
    consulting analyses and advice are based on a deep understanding
    of the IT environment and the business of IT; (2) our
    market independence, which keeps our consultants focused on our
    client’s success; and (3) our market-leading
    benchmarking capabilities, which provide relevant comparisons
    and best practices to assess and improve performance.



Gartner Consulting provides solutions aimed at IT roles and IT
    initiatives in various industries. We provide consulting
    engagements to CIO’s and IT executives, and to those
    professionals responsible for IT applications, enterprise
    architecture,go-to-marketstrategies, infrastructure and operations, programs and
    portfolio management and sourcing and vendor relationships, that
    are relevant to the role played by the client within the
    organization. We also provide targeted consulting services to
    professionals in the banking and investment services, education,
    energy and utilities, government, healthcare providers and high
    tech and telecom providers that utilize our in-depth knowledge
    of the demands of each industry. Finally, we provide actionable
    solutions for IT Cost Optimization, Technology Modernization and
    IT Sourcing Optimization initiatives.



•EVENTS.Gartner symposia and conferences are
    gatherings of technology’s most senior IT professionals,
    business strategists and practitioners. Symposia and conferences
    give clients live access to insights developed from our latest
    proprietary research in a concentrated way. Informative sessions
    led by Gartner analysts are augmented with technology showcases,
    peer exchange, analystone-on-onemeetings, workshops and keynotes by technology’s top
    leaders. Symposia and conferences, which are not limited to
    Gartner research clients, also provide participants with an
    opportunity to interact with business executives from the
    world’s leading technology companies. In 2009, we held 54
    Gartner events throughout the United States, Europe, Latin
    America and the Asia/Pacific region that attracted 30,610
    attendees.



Gartner conferences attract high-level IT and business
    professionals who seek in-depth knowledge about technology
    products and services. Gartner Symposia are large, strategic
    conferences held in various locations throughout the world for
    senior IT and business professionals. Symposia are combined with
    ITxpo, an exhibition where the latest technology products and
    solutions are demonstrated. Gartner Summits focus on specific
    topics, technologies and industries, providing IT Professionals
    with the insight, solutions and networking opportunities to
    succeed in their job role. At the present time we offer Summits
    in Applications, Business Intelligence and Information
    Management, Business Process Improvement, Enterprise
    Architecture, IT Infrastructure and Operations, Portfolio and
    Production Management, Security and Risk Management, and
    Sourcing and Vendor Relationships, among others. Finally, we
    offer targeted events for CIOs and IT executives.



BUSINESS
    DEVELOPMENTS

In December 2009, we acquired AMR Research, Inc. (“AMR
    Research”), which provides information technology research,
    consulting and events for organizations with supply chain
    management issues, thereby expanding the breadth and depth of
    our IT research coverage. Additionally, in the same month, we
    acquired Burton Group, Inc. (“Burton Group”), which
    provides a complementary portfolio of research, consulting and
    events specifically designed to meet the unique needs of
    front-line technology professionals within IT teams. The
    acquisition of Burton Group will enable us to meet the demand of
    our clients and offer a complete solution to every level and
    functional expert within the IT organization. We believe these
    companies will greatly enhance Gartner’s product and
    services offerings.



See Note 2 — Acquisitions in the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
    regarding these acquisitions.



COMPETITION

We believe that the principal factors that differentiate us from
    our competitors are:



•Superior IT Research Content — We believe that we
    create the broadest, highest-quality and most relevant research
    coverage of the IT industry. Our research analysis generates
    unbiased insight that we believe is timely, thought-provoking
    and comprehensive, and that is known for its high quality,
    independence and objectivity.•Our Leading Brand Name — For over 30 years we
    have been providing critical, trusted insight under the Gartner
    name.•Our Global Footprint and Established Customer Base —
    We have a global presence with clients in over 80 countries on
    six continents. Approximately 45% and 47% of our revenues for
    2009 and 2008, respectively, were derived from sales outside of
    the U.S.











•Substantial Operating Leverage in Our Business Model —
    We have the ability to distribute our intellectual property and
    expertise across multiple platforms, including research
    publications, consulting engagements, conferences and executive
    programs, to derive incremental revenues and profitability.•Experienced Management Team — Our management team is
    composed of IT research veterans and experienced industry
    executives.•Vast Network of Analysts and Consultants — We have
    almost 1,200 analysts and consultants located around the world.
    Our analysts alone speak 47 languages and are located in
    numerous countries, enabling us to cover all aspects of IT on a
    global basis.



Notwithstanding these differentiating factors, we face
    competition from a significant number of independent providers
    of information products and services. We compete indirectly
    against consulting firms and other information providers,
    including electronic and print media companies. These indirect
    competitors could choose to compete directly with us in the
    future. Additionally, we face competition from free sources of
    information that are available to our clients through the
    Internet. Limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in
    which we do business. As a result, new competitors may emerge
    and existing competitors may start to provide additional or
    complementary services. However, we believe the breadth and
    depth of our research assets position us well versus our
    competition. Increased competition may result in loss of market
    share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced
    pricing and increased sales and marketing expenditures.



INTELLECTUAL
    PROPERTY



Our success has resulted in part from proprietary methodologies,
    software, reusable knowledge capital and other intellectual
    property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright,
    trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other
    contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property
    rights. We have policies related to confidentiality, ownership
    and the use and protection of Gartner’s intellectual
    property, and we also enter into agreements with our employees
    as appropriate that protect our intellectual property.



We recognize the value of our intellectual property in the
    marketplace and vigorously identify, create and protect it.
    Additionally, we actively monitor and enforce contract
    compliance by our end users.



EMPLOYEES



As of December 31, 2009, we had 4,305 employees, of
    which 691 were located at our headquarters in Stamford,
    Connecticut; 1,945 were located elsewhere in the United States;
    and 1,669 were located outside of the United States. These
    amounts include the addition of 290 new employees as a result of
    the AMR Research and Burton Group acquisitions.



Our employees may be subject to collective bargaining agreements
    at a company or industry level in those foreign countries where
    this is part of the local labor law or practice. We have
    experienced no work stoppages and consider our relations with
    our employees to be favorable.



AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION



Our Internet address iswww.gartner.comand the
    investor relations section of our website is located atwww.investor.gartner.com.We make
    available free of charge, on or through the investor relations
    section of our website, printable copies of our annual reports
    onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (the “SEC”).



Also available atwww.investor.gartner.com, under the
    “Corporate Governance” link, are printable and current
    copies of our (i) CEO & CFO Code of Ethics which
    applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer,
    controller and other financial managers, (ii) Code of
    Business Conduct, which applies to all Gartner officers,
    directors and employees, (iii) Principles of Ethical
    Conduct which applies to all Gartner employees, (iv) Board
    Principles and Practices, the corporate governance principles
    that have been adopted by our Board and (v) charters for
    each of the Board’s standing committees: Audit,
    Compensation and Governance/Nominating.



