ITEM 1. BUSINESS.



GENERAL



Gartner, Inc. (“Gartner”) (NYSE: IT) is the world’s leading information technology research and advisory company. We deliver the technology-related insight necessary for our clients to make the right decisions, every day. From CIOs and senior IT leaders in corporations and government agencies, to business leaders in high-tech and telecom enterprises and professional services firms, to supply chain professionals, digital marketing professionals and technology investors, we are the valuable partner to clients in9,958distinct enterprises. We work with clients to research, analyze and interpret the business of IT within the context of their individual roles. Founded in 1979, Gartner is headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, U.S.A., and as ofDecember 31, 2014, had6,758associates, including1,556research analysts and consultants, and clients in over90countries.



The foundation for all Gartner products and services is our independent research on IT and supply chain issues. The findings from this research are delivered through our three business segments – Research, Consulting and Events:



•Researchprovides objective insight on critical and timely technology and supply chain initiatives for CIOs, other IT professionals, supply chain leaders, digital marketing professionals, technology companies and the institutional investment community through reports, briefings, proprietary tools, access to our analysts, peer networking services and membership programs that enable our clients to make better decisions about their IT, supply chain and digital marketing investments.



•Consultingprovides customized solutions to unique client needs through on-site, day-to-day support, as well as proprietary tools for measuring and improving IT performance with a focus on cost, performance, efficiency and quality.



•Eventsprovides IT, supply chain, and business professionals the opportunity to attend various symposia, conferences and exhibitions to learn, contribute and network with their peers. From our flagship event Symposium/ITxpo, to summits focused on specific technologies and industries, to experimental workshop-style seminars, our events distill the latest Gartner research into applicable insight and advice.



For more information regarding Gartner and our products and services, visit gartner.com.



References to “the Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” are to Gartner, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.



MARKET OVERVIEW



Technological innovations are changing how businesses and organizations work and what they do at an increasingly rapid pace. Today, everyone is living and working in the midst of a technological revolution. The nexus of four powerful forces – social, mobile, cloud and information, coupled with the "Internet of things" – are blurring the line between the physical and digital worlds, creating unprecedented change on a scale not seen before facing every organization around the world, from business enterprises and units within enterprises of every size, to governments and government agencies, as well as other organizations. This change falls into three categories: optimizing the use of technology to improve performance across every function in the organization; managing disruptive technology-based innovation; and protecting the organization from security threats. This technology revolution will remain vibrant for decades to come.



Information technology (IT) is critical to supporting increased productivity, service and performance improvement, revenue growth and cyber-security. As the costs of IT solutions continue to rise, IT executives and professionals have realized the importance of making well-informed decisions and increasingly seek to maximize their returns on IT capital investments. As a result, every IT investment decision in an enterprise is subject to increased financial scrutiny, especially in the current challenging economic climate. In addition, today’s IT marketplace is dynamic and complex. Technology providers continually introduce new products with a wide variety of standards and features that are prone to shorter life cycles. Users of technology – a group that encompasses nearly all organizations – must keep abreast of new developments in technology to ensure that their IT systems are reliable, efficient, secure, and meet both their current and future needs.



Given the strategic and critical nature of technology decision-making and spending, business enterprises, governments and their agencies, and other organizations turn to Gartner for guidance in order to make the right decisions to maximize the value of their IT investments.
















OUR SOLUTION



We provide IT decision makers with the insight they need to understand where – and how – to successfully harness technology to achieve their mission critical priorities. We employ a diversified business model that utilizes and leverages the breadth and depth of our intellectual capital. The foundation of our business model is our ability to create and distribute our proprietary research content as broadly as possible via published reports and briefings, consulting and advisory services, and our events, including Gartner Symposium/ITxpo.



We have1,021analysts located around the world who create compelling, relevant, independent and objective research and fact-based analysis on every major IT initiative and all aspects of the IT industry, including supply chain and digital marketing. Through our robust product portfolio, our global research team provides thought leadership and technology insights that CIOs, supply chain professionals, digital marketing professionals, executives and other technology practitioners need to make the right decisions, every day. In addition to our analysts, we have535experienced consultants who combine our objective, independent research with a practical business perspective focused on the IT industry. Finally, our events are the largest of their kind, gathering highly qualified audiences of CIOs, other senior business executives and IT professionals, supply chain leaders, and purchasers and providers of technology and supply chain products and services.



PRODUCTS AND SERVICES



Our diversified business model provides multiple entry points and synergies that facilitate increased client spending on our research, consulting services and events. A critical part of our long-term strategy is to increase business volume with our most valuable clients, identifying relationships with the greatest sales potential and expanding those relationships by offering strategically relevant research and advice. We also seek to extend the Gartner brand name to develop new client relationships, augment our sales capacity, and expand into new markets around the world. In addition, we seek to increase our revenue and operating cash flow through more effective pricing of our products and services. These initiatives have created additional revenue streams through more effective packaging, campaigning and cross-selling of our products and services.



Our principal products and services are delivered via our Research, Consulting and Events segments:





•

RESEARCH.



•CONSULTING.Gartner Consulting deepens relationships with our Research clients by extending the reach of our research through custom consulting engagements. Gartner Consulting brings together our unique research insight, benchmarking data, problem-solving methodologies and hands-on experience to improve the return on a client’s IT investment. Our consultants provide fact-based consulting services to help clients use and manage IT to optimize business performance.



Consulting solutions capitalize on Gartner assets that are invaluable to IT decision making, including: (1) our extensive research, which ensures that our consulting analyses and advice are based on a deep understanding of the IT environment and the business of IT; (2) our market independence, which keeps our consultants focused on our clients' success; and (3) our market-leading benchmarking capabilities, which provide relevant comparisons and best practices to assess and improve performance.



Gartner Consulting provides solutions to CIOs and other IT executives, and to those professionals responsible for IT applications, enterprise architecture, go-to-market strategies, infrastructure and operations, program and portfolio management, and sourcing and vendor relationships. Consulting also provides targeted consulting services to professionals










in specific industries. Finally, we provide actionable solutions for IT cost optimization, technology modernization and IT sourcing optimization initiatives.



•EVENTS.Gartner Symposium/ITxpo events and Gartner Summit events are gatherings of technology’s most senior IT professionals, business strategists and practitioners. Gartner Events offers current, relevant and actionable technology sessions led by Gartner analysts, while facilitating peer exchanges. These sessions are augmented with technology showcases, peer exchanges, analyst one-on-one meetings, workshops and keynotes by technology’s top leaders. They also provide attendees with an opportunity to interact with business executives from the world’s leading technology companies.



Gartner events attract high-level IT and business professionals who seek in-depth knowledge about technology products and services. Gartner Symposium/ITxpo events are large, strategic conferences held in various locations throughout the world for CIOs and other senior IT and business professionals. Gartner Summit events focus on specific topics, technologies and industries including supply chain and digital marketing, providing IT professionals with the insight, solutions and networking opportunities to succeed in their job role. Finally, we offer targeted events for CIOs and IT executives, such as CIO Leadership Forum.



COMPETITION



We believe that the principal factors that differentiate us from our competitors are the following:



•Superior IT research content – We believe that we create the broadest, highest-quality and most relevant research coverage of the IT industry, with offerings for every member of an IT organization. Our research analysis generates unbiased insight that we believe is timely, thought-provoking and comprehensive, and that is known for its high quality, independence and objectivity.



•Our leading brand name – We have provided critical, trusted insight under the Gartner name for 35 years.



•Our global footprint and established customer base – We have a global presence with clients in over90countries on six continents. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales outside of the U.S.



•Experienced management team – Our management team is composed of IT research veterans and experienced industry executives with long tenure at Gartner.



•Substantial operating leverage in our business model — We have the ability to distribute our intellectual property and expertise across multiple platforms, including research publications, consulting engagements, conferences and executive programs, to derive incremental revenue and profitability.



•Vast network of analysts and consultants – As ofDecember 31, 2014, we had1,556research analysts and consultants located around the world. Our analysts collectively speak50languages and are located in26countries, enabling us to cover all aspects of IT on a global basis.



Notwithstanding these differentiating factors, we face competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services. We compete indirectly with consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies. These indirect competitors could choose to compete directly with us in the future. In addition, we face competition from free sources of information that are available to our clients through the Internet. Limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. As a result, new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. While we believe the breadth and depth of our research assets position us well versus our competition, increased competition could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing, and increased sales and marketing expenditures.



INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY



Our success has resulted in part from proprietary methodologies, software, reusable knowledge capital and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. We have policies related to confidentiality, ownership, and the use and protection of Gartner’s intellectual property. We also enter into agreements with our employees as appropriate that protect our intellectual property, and we enforce these agreements if necessary. We recognize the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace and vigorously identify, create and protect it. Additionally, we actively monitor and enforce contract compliance by our end users.














EMPLOYEES



We had6,758employees as ofDecember 31, 2014, an increase of13%compared to the prior year end as we continued to invest for future growth. We have1,291employees located at our headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut and a nearby office in Trumbull, Connecticut;2,605employees located elsewhere in the United States in 30 offices; and2,862employees located outside of the United States in 65 offices. Our employees may be subject to collective bargaining agreements at a company or industry level, or works councils, in those foreign countries where this is part of the local labor law or practice. We have experienced no work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be favorable.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



Our Internet address iswww.gartner.comand the Investor Relations section of our website is located atwww.investor.gartner.com. We make available free of charge, on or through the Investor Relations section of our website, printable copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).



Also available atwww.investor.gartner.com, under the “Corporate Governance” link, are printable and current copies of our (i) CEO & CFO Code of Ethics which applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller and other financial managers, (ii) Global Code of Conduct, which applies to all Gartner officers, directors and employees, wherever located, (iii) Board Principles and Practices, the corporate governance principles that have been adopted by our Board and (iv) charters for each of the Board’s standing committees: Audit, Compensation and Governance/Nominating.





