ITEM 1. BUSINESS.



GENERAL



Gartner, Inc. (“Gartner”) (NYSE:
IT) is the world’s leading information technology research and advisory company. We deliver the technology-related insight
necessary for our clients to make the right decisions, every day. From CIOs and senior IT leaders in corporations and government
agencies, to business leaders in high-tech and telecom enterprises and professional services firms, to supply chain professionals
and technology investors, we are the valuable partner to clients in over 13,300 distinct organizations. We work with clients to
research, analyze and interpret the business of IT within the context of their individual roles. Founded in 1979, Gartner is headquartered
in Stamford, Connecticut, U.S.A., and as of December 31, 2012, we had 5,468 associates, including 1,405 research analysts and consultants,
and clients in 85 countries.



The foundation for all Gartner products
and services is our independent research on IT and supply chain issues. The findings from this research are delivered through our
three business segments — Research, Consulting and Events:





•Researchprovides objective insight on critical and timely technology and supply chain initiatives for CIOs, other IT professionals, supply chain leaders, technology companies and the investment community through reports, briefings, proprietary tools, access to our analysts, peer networking services and membership programs that enable our clients to make better decisions about their IT and supply chain investments.•Consultingprovides customized solutions to unique client needs through on-site, day-to-day support, as well as proprietary tools for measuring and improving IT performance with a focus on cost, performance, efficiency, and quality.•Eventsprovide IT, supply chain and business professionals the opportunity to attend various symposia, conferences and exhibitions to learn, contribute and network with their peers. From our flagship event Symposium/ITxpo, to summits focused on specific technologies and industries, to experimental workshop-style seminars, our events distill the latest Gartner research into applicable insight and advice.





For more information regarding Gartner
and our products and services, visitwww.gartner.com.



References to “the Company,”
“we,” “our,” and “us” are to Gartner, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.



MARKET OVERVIEW



Technological innovations today are changing
how businesses and organizations work and what they do at an increasingly rapid pace. Today, everyone is living and working in
the midst of a technological revolution. Major technological forces - including social media, mobile, cloud and information –
are driving change on a scale not seen before in every organization around the world, from business enterprises of every size,
to governments and government agencies, as well as other organizations. This technology revolution is likely to remain vibrant
for decades to come.



Information technology (IT) is critical
to supporting increased productivity, service improvement and revenue growth. IT and the supply chain are viewed today as strategic
components of growth and operating performance. As the costs of IT solutions continue to rise, IT executives and professionals
have realized the importance of making well-informed decisions and increasingly seek to maximize their returns on IT capital investments.
As a result, any IT investment decision in an enterprise is subject to increased financial scrutiny, especially in the current
challenging economic climate. In addition, today’s IT marketplace is dynamic and complex. Technology providers continually
introduce new products with a wide variety of standards and features that are prone to shorter life cycles. Users of technology
— a group that encompasses nearly all organizations — must keep abreast of new developments in technology to ensure
that their IT systems are reliable, efficient, and meet both their current and future needs.



Given the strategic and critical nature
of technology decision-making and spending, business enterprises, governments and their agencies, and other organizations turn
to Gartner for guidance in order to make the right decisions to maximize the value of their IT investments.



OUR SOLUTION



We provide IT decision makers with the
insight they need to understand where - and how – to successfully use IT and the supply chain to achieve their objectives.
We employ a diversified business model that utilizes and leverages the breadth and depth of our intellectual capital. The foundation
of our business model is our ability to create and distribute our proprietary research content as broadly as possible via published
reports and briefings, consulting and advisory services, and our events, including Gartner Symposium/ITxpo.



Our 902 analysts located around the world
create timely, high-quality, independent and objective research and fact-based analysis on all aspects of the IT industry. Through
our robust product portfolio, our global research team provides thought leadership and






technology insights that CIOs, supply chain
professionals, executives and other technology practitioners need to make the right decisions, every day. In addition to our analysts,
we have 503 experienced consultants who combine our objective, independent research with a practical business perspective focused
on the IT industry. Finally, our events are the largest of their kind, gathering highly qualified audiences of CIOs, other senior
business executives and IT professionals, supply chain leaders, and purchasers and providers of technology and supply chain products
and services.



PRODUCTS AND SERVICES



Our diversified business model provides
multiple entry points and synergies that facilitate increased client spending on our research, consulting services and events.
A critical part of our long-term strategy is to increase business volume with our most valuable clients, identifying relationships
with the greatest sales potential and expanding those relationships by offering strategically relevant research and advice. We
also seek to extend the Gartner brand name to develop new client relationships, augment our sales capacity, and expand into new
markets around the world. In addition, we seek to increase our revenue and operating cash flow through more effective pricing of
our products and services. These initiatives have created additional revenue streams through more effective packaging, campaigning
and cross-selling of our products and services.



Our principal products and services are
delivered via our Research, Consulting and Events segments:





•RESEARCH.Gartner delivers independent, objective IT research and insight primarily through a subscription-based, digital media service. Gartner Research is the fundamental building block for all Gartner services and covers all technology-related markets, topics and industries, as well as supply chain topics. We combine our proprietary research methodologies with extensive industry and academic relationships to create Gartner solutions that address each role within an IT organization. Our Research agenda is defined by clients’ needs, focusing on the critical issues, opportunities and challenges they face every day. Our Research analysts are in regular contact with both technology providers and technology users, enabling them to identify the most pertinent topics in the IT marketplace and develop relevant product enhancements to meet the evolving needs of users of our research. They provide in-depth analysis on all aspects of technology, including hardware; software and systems; services; IT management; market data and forecasts; and vertical-industry issues. Our proprietary research content, presented in the form of reports, briefings, updates and related tools, is delivered directly to the client’s desktop via our website and/or product-specific portals. Clients normally sign subscription contracts that provide access to our research content for individual users over a defined period of time, which is typically one year.



•CONSULTING.Gartner Consulting deepens relationships with our Research clients by
    extending the reach of our research through custom consulting engagements. Gartner Consulting brings together our unique research
    insight,     benchmarking     data, problem-solving methodologies and hands-on experience to improve the return on a
    client’s IT     investment. Our     consultants provide fact-based consulting services to help clients use and manage
    IT to optimize business     performance.



Consulting solutions capitalize on Gartner assets that are invaluable to IT decision making, including: (1) our extensive research, which ensures that our consulting analyses and advice are based on a deep understanding of the IT environment and the business of IT; (2) our market independence, which keeps our consultants focused on our client’s success; and (3) our market-leading benchmarking capabilities, which provide relevant comparisons and best practices to assess and improve performance.



Gartner Consulting provides solutions to CIOs and other IT executives, and to those professionals responsible for IT applications, enterprise architecture, go-to-market strategies, infrastructure and operations, programs and portfolio management, and sourcing and vendor relationships. Consulting also provides targeted consulting services to professionals in specific industries. Finally, we provide actionable solutions for IT cost optimization, technology modernization and IT sourcing optimization initiatives.



•EVENTS.Gartner Symposium/ITxpo events and Gartner Summit events are gatherings of technology’s most senior IT professionals, business strategists and practitioners. Gartner Events offers current, relevant and actionable technology sessions led by Gartner analysts to clients and non-clients. These sessions are augmented with technology showcases, peer exchanges, analyst one-on-one meetings, workshops and keynotes by technology’s top leaders. They also provide attendees with an opportunity to interact with business executives from the world’s leading technology companies.



Gartner Events attract high-level IT and business professionals who seek in-depth knowledge about technology products and services. Gartner Symposium/ITxpo events are large, strategic conferences held in various locations throughout the world for CIOs and other senior IT and business professionals. Gartner Summit events focus on specific topics, technologies and industries, providing IT professionals with the insight, solutions and networking opportunities to succeed in their job role. Finally, we offer targeted events for CIOs and IT executives, such as CIO Leadership Forum.










COMPETITION



We believe that the principal factors that
differentiate us from our competitors are the following:





•Superior IT research content — We believe that we create the broadest, highest-quality and most relevant research coverage of the IT industry. Our research analysis generates unbiased insight that we believe is timely, thought-provoking and comprehensive, and that is known for its high quality, independence and objectivity.•Our leading brand name — We have provided critical, trusted insight under the Gartner name for over 30 years.•Our global footprint and established customer base — We have a global presence with clients in 85 countries on six continents. For both 2012 and 2011, 46% of our revenues were derived from sales outside of the U.S.•Experienced management team — Our management team is composed of IT research veterans and experienced industry executives.•Substantial operating leverage in our business model — We have the ability to distribute our intellectual property and  expertise across multiple platforms, including research publications, consulting engagements, conferences and executive programs, to derive incremental revenues and profitability.•Vast network of analysts and consultants — As of December 31, 2012, we had 1,405 research analysts and consultants located around the world. Our analysts collectively speak 47 languages and are located in 26 countries, enabling us to cover all aspects of IT on a global basis.





Notwithstanding these differentiating factors,
we face competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services. We compete indirectly
against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies. These indirect competitors
could choose to compete directly with us in the future. In addition, we face competition from free sources of information that
are available to our clients through the Internet. Limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. As a
result, new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. However,
we believe the breadth and depth of our research assets position us well versus our competition. Increased competition may result
in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased sales and marketing expenditures.



INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY



Our success has resulted in part from proprietary
methodologies, software, reusable knowledge capital and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent,
copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property
rights. We have policies related to confidentiality, ownership and the use and protection of Gartner’s intellectual property,
and we also enter into agreements with our employees as appropriate that protect our intellectual property, and we enforce these
agreements if necessary.



We recognize the value of our intellectual
property in the marketplace and vigorously identify, create and protect it. Additionally, we actively monitor and enforce contract
compliance by our end users.



EMPLOYEES



We had 5,468 employees as of December 31,
2012, an increase of 10% compared to the prior year end as we continued to invest for future growth. We have 976 employees located
at our headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut and a nearby office in Trumbull, Connecticut; 2,198 employees located elsewhere in
the United States; and 2,294 employees located outside of the United States. Our employees may be subject to collective bargaining
agreements at a company or industry level in those foreign countries where this is part of the local labor law or practice. We
have experienced no work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be favorable.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



Our Internet address iswww.gartner.comand the investor relations section of our website is located atwww.investor.gartner.com. We make available free of charge,
on or through the investor relations section of our website, printable copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).



Also available atwww.investor.gartner.com,
under the “Corporate Governance” link, are printable and current copies of our (i) CEO & CFO Code of Ethics which
applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, controller and other financial managers, (ii) Code of Conduct,
which applies to all Gartner officers, directors and employees, (iii) Board Principles and Practices, the corporate






governance
principles that have been adopted by our Board and (iv) charters for each of the Board’s standing committees: Audit, Compensation
and Governance/Nominating.



