ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

GENERAL

Gartner, Inc. (NYSE: IT) is the world’s leading information technology research and advisory
company. We deliver the technology-related insight necessary for our clients to make the right
decisions, every day. From CIOs and senior IT leaders in corporations and government agencies, to
business leaders in high-tech and telecom enterprises and professional services firms, to
technology investors, we are the valuable partner to over 60,000
clients in 11,601 distinct
organizations. Through the resources of Gartner Research, Gartner Executive Programs, Gartner
Consulting and Gartner Events, we work with every client to research, analyze and interpret the
business of IT within the context of their individual role. Founded in 1979, Gartner is
headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, U.S.A., and as of December
31, 2010, we had  4,461 associates, including 1,249 research
analysts and consultants, and clients in 85 countries.

The foundation for all Gartner products and services is our independent research on IT issues. The
findings from this research are delivered through our three customer segments — Research,
Consulting and Events:

•Researchprovides insight for CIOs, IT professionals, technology companies and the investment
community through reports and briefings, access to our analysts, as well as peer networking
services and membership programs designed specifically for CIOs and other senior executives.

•Consultingconsists primarily of consulting, measurement engagements and strategic advisory
services (paid one-day analyst engagements) (“SAS”), which provide assessments of cost,
performance, efficiency and quality focused on the IT industry.

•Eventsconsists of various symposia, conferences and exhibitions focused on the IT industry.

For more information regarding Gartner and our products and services, visitwww.gartner.com.

References to “the Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” are to Gartner, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

MARKET OVERVIEW

Information technology is critical to the operational and financial success of all business
enterprises and other organizations, as well as government and government agencies. Once a support
function, IT is now viewed as a strategic component of growth and operating performance.
Accordingly, it has become imperative for executives and IT professionals to invest in IT and
manage their IT spending and purchasing decisions efficiently and effectively.

As the cost of IT solutions continue to rise, executives and technology professionals have
realized the importance of making well-informed decisions and increasingly seek to maximize their
returns on IT capital investments. As a result, any IT investment decision in an enterprise is
subject to increased financial scrutiny, especially in the current challenging economic climate. In
addition, today’s IT marketplace is dynamic and complex. Technology providers continually introduce
new products with a wide variety of standards and features that are prone to shorter life cycles.
Users of technology — a group that encompasses nearly all organizations — must keep abreast of
new developments in technology to ensure that their IT systems are reliable, efficient and meet
both their current and future needs.

Given the critical nature of technology decision making and spending, business enterprises,
organizations, and governments and their agencies frequently turn to outside experts for
guidance in IT procurement, implementation and operations in order to maximize the value of their
IT investments. Accordingly, it is critical that CIOs and other executives and personnel within an
IT organization obtain value-added, independent and objective research and analysis of the IT
market to assist them in these IT-related decisions.





OUR SOLUTION

We provide high-quality, independent and objective research and analysis of the IT industry.
Through our entire product portfolio, our global research team provides thought leadership and
insight about technology acquisition and deployment to CIOs, executives and other technology
leaders and professionals.

We employ a diversified business model that utilizes and leverages the breadth and depth of our
intellectual capital. The foundation of our business model is our ability to create and distribute
our proprietary research content as broadly as possible via published reports and briefings,
consulting and advisory services, and hosting symposia, conferences and exhibitions.

With a base of 776 research analysts, we create timely and relevant technology-related research. In
addition, we have 473 experienced consultants who combine our objective, independent research with
a practical, business perspective focused on the IT industry. Our events are among the world’s
largest of their kind, gathering highly qualified audiences of CIOs, senior business executives, IT
professionals and purchasers and providers of IT products and services.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

Our diversified business model provides multiple entry points and synergies that facilitate
increased client spending on our research, consulting services and events. A critical part of our
long-term strategy is to increase business volume with our most valuable clients, identifying
relationships with the greatest sales potential and expanding those relationships by offering
strategically relevant research and analysis. We also seek to extend the Gartner brand name to
develop new client relationships, and augment our sales capacity and expand into new markets around
the world. In addition, we seek to increase our revenue and operating cash flow through more
effective pricing of our products and services. These initiatives have created additional revenue
streams through more effective packaging, campaigning and cross-selling of our products and
services.

Our principal products and services are delivered via our Research, Consulting and Events segments:

•RESEARCH.The Gartner  global research product is the fundamental building block for all
Gartner services and covers all IT markets, topics and industries. We combine our proprietary
research methodologies with extensive industry and academic relationships to create Gartner
solutions. Our research agenda is defined by clients’ needs, focusing on the critical issues,
opportunities and challenges they face every day. Our research analysts are in regular contact
with both technology providers and technology users, enabling them to identify the most
pertinent topics in the IT marketplace and develop relevant product enhancements to meet the
evolving needs of users of our research. Our proprietary research content, presented in the
form of reports, briefings, updates and related tools, is delivered directly to the client’s
desktop via our website and/or product-specific portals.

Our research analysts provide in-depth analysis on all aspects of technology, including hardware;
software and systems; services; IT management; market data and forecasts; and vertical industry
issues. Clients typically sign contracts that provide access to our research content for
individual users over a defined period of time, which is typically one year. Despite improving but
still fragile global economic conditions, in 2010 we maintained strong research client retention,
with 83% of user organizations renewing their contracts, as well as 98% wallet retention, a
measure of the dollar amount of contract value we have retained with clients over the prior year.

There are various products and services through which our clients can take advantage of the insight
gained through our rigorous research processes and proprietary methodologies:

Gartner Executive Programs is an exclusive organization combining the shared intelligence of the
largest IT executive community in the world with customized access to Gartner insight and
resources. An Executive Program membership leverages the knowledge and expertise of Gartner in ways
that are specific to the CIO’s needs, and offers role-based offerings and member-only communities
for peer-based collaboration. It enables CIOs, senior IT executives and other business executives
to become more effective in their enterprises, grow their enterprises, fuel competitive advantage
and operate more efficiently.


Our Enterprise IT Leaders product provides a personalized service consisting of Gartner research,
peer-interaction and networking to help senior leaders save time and money, mitigate risk and
exploit new opportunities. This service provides CIO direct reports with the combined value of
role-specific insights from Gartner analysts, practical advice from an exclusive community of
peers, and expert coaching from a leadership partner.



Approximately 4,000 CIOs and senior IT executives are members of
Gartner Executive Programs.

Gartner for IT Leaders currently provides eight role-based research offerings to assist end-user
IT leaders with effective decision making. These products align a client’s specific job-related
challenges with appropriate Gartner analysts and insight, and connect IT leaders to IT peers who
share common business and technology issues. Gartner for IT Leaders is an indispensable strategic
resource, delivering timely, reliable insight to guide decisions and get the most from
highest-priority initiatives.







Gartner for Business Leaders provides a series of role-based research offerings for business
leaders in the technology and communications industry—including sales professionals, product and
marketing management, competitive intelligence leaders and analyst relations professionals—to
achieve a higher level of success.

Gartner Industry Advisory Services address technology issues and topics with a focus on their
impact on specific vertical industries. This service is for CIOs, CTOs, and other senior IT executives.

AMR Supply Chain Leaders delivers objective, actionable insight and best practices around key supply chain
initiatives to help supply chain operations professionals build, manage and transform their global supply chains—maximizing productivity, minimizing risks and driving revenue and competitive advantage. We also offer sector-specific supply chain guidance for eight industries, including aerospace, automotive, consumer products, chemical
and process manufacturing, healthcare and life sciences, high-tech manufacturing, industrial manufacturing, and
retail.AMR Enterprise Supply Chain Leaders provides senior supply chain executives (in large, complex enterprises with revenues of $1 billion or more) with the same in-depth insight and best practice research as Gartner for Supply Chain Leaders, plus ongoing expert coaching from a trusted advisor and the ability to confer, collaborate and compare notes with a vibrant community of experienced peers.Burton IT1 provides technical architects, systems analysts and engineers with the in-depth technical research, actionable insight and technical guidance to accelerate project timelines, mitigate execution risks and reduce IT spend.

Gartner Invest delivers technology research and analysis to buy-side, venture capital and private
equity investors to support the activities of investors interested in technology. Content is built
around a base of published qualitative and quantitative Gartner research that captures both the
supply- and demand-side perspectives of IT, and contains unique Invest content.

•CONSULTING.Gartner’s consultants bring together our unique Research insight, Benchmarking
data, problem-solving methodologies and hands on experience to improve the return on our
client’s IT investment. Our consultants provide fact-based consulting services to help our
clients use and manage IT to enable business performance. We seek to accomplish three major
outcomes for our clients: applying IT to drive improvements in business performance; creating
sustainable IT efficiency that ensures a constant return on IT investments; and strengthening
the IT organization and operations to ensure high-value services to the client’s lines of
business and to enable the client to adapt to business changes.

We deliver our consulting solutions by capitalizing on Gartner assets that are invaluable to IT
decision making, including: (1) our extensive research, which ensures that our consulting analyses
and advice are based on a deep understanding of the IT environment and the business of IT; (2) our
market independence, which keeps our consultants focused on our client’s success; and (3) our
market-leading benchmarking capabilities, which provide relevant comparisons and best practices to
assess and improve performance.

Gartner Consulting provides solutions aimed at IT roles and IT initiatives in various industries.
We provide consulting engagements to CIO’s and IT executives, and to those professionals
responsible for IT applications, enterprise architecture, go-to-market strategies, infrastructure
and operations, programs and portfolio management and sourcing and vendor relationships, that are
relevant to the role played by the client within the organization. We also provide targeted
consulting services to professionals in the banking and investment services, education, energy and
utilities, government, healthcare providers and high tech and telecom providers that utilize our
in-depth knowledge of the demands of each industry. Finally, we provide actionable solutions for
IT Cost Optimization, Technology Modernization and IT Sourcing Optimization initiatives.

•EVENTS.Gartner symposia and conferences are gatherings of technology’s most senior IT
professionals, business strategists and practitioners. Symposia and conferences give clients
live access to insights developed from our latest proprietary research in a concentrated way.
Informative sessions led by Gartner analysts are augmented with technology showcases, peer
exchange, analyst





one-on-one meetings, workshops and keynotes by technology’s top leaders. Symposia and conferences,
which are not limited to Gartner research clients, also provide participants with an opportunity
to interact with business executives from the world’s leading technology companies. In 2010, we
held 56 Gartner events throughout the world that attracted over 37,000 attendees.

Gartner conferences attract high-level IT and business professionals who seek in-depth knowledge
about technology products and services. Gartner Symposia are large, strategic conferences held in
various locations throughout the world for senior IT and business professionals. Symposia are
combined with ITxpo, an exhibition where the latest technology products and solutions are
demonstrated. Gartner Summits focus on specific topics, technologies and industries, providing IT
Professionals with the insight, solutions and networking opportunities to succeed in their job
role. We offer Summits in Applications, Business Intelligence and Information Management, Business
Process Improvement, Enterprise Architecture, IT Infrastructure and Operations, Portfolio and
Production Management, Security and Risk Management, and Sourcing and Vendor Relationships, among
others. Finally, we offer targeted events for CIOs and IT executives.

COMPETITION

We believe that the principal factors that differentiate us from our competitors are:

•Superior IT Research Content — We believe that we create the broadest, highest-quality and
most relevant research coverage of the IT industry. Our research analysis generates unbiased
insight that we believe is timely, thought-provoking and comprehensive, and that is known for
its high quality, independence and objectivity.

•Our Leading Brand Name — For over 30 years we have been providing critical, trusted insight
under the Gartner name.

•Our Global Footprint and Established Customer Base — We have a global presence with clients
in 85 countries on six continents. For 2010 and 2009, 44% and 45% of our revenues,
respectively, were derived from sales outside of the U.S.

•Substantial Operating Leverage in Our Business Model — We have the ability to distribute our
intellectual property and expertise across multiple platforms, including research
publications, consulting engagements, conferences and executive programs, to derive
incremental revenues and profitability.

•Experienced Management Team — Our management team is composed of IT research veterans and
experienced industry executives.

•Vast Network of Analysts and Consultants — We have 1,249 research analysts and consultants
located around the world. Our analysts speak 47 languages and are located in numerous
countries, enabling us to cover all aspects of IT on a global basis.

Notwithstanding these differentiating factors, we face competition from a significant number of
independent providers of information products and services. We compete indirectly against
consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies.
These indirect competitors could choose to compete directly with us in the future. Additionally, we
face competition from free sources of information that are available to our clients through the
Internet. Limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. As a result, new
competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary
services. However, we believe the breadth and depth of our research assets position us well versus
our competition. Increased competition may result in loss of market share, diminished value in our
products and services, reduced pricing and increased sales and marketing expenditures.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Our success has resulted in part from proprietary methodologies, software, reusable knowledge
capital and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark,
trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our
intellectual property rights. We have policies related to confidentiality, ownership and the use
and protection of Gartner’s intellectual property, and we also enter into agreements with our
employees as appropriate that protect our intellectual property, and we enforce these agreements if
necessary.

We recognize the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace and vigorously identify,
create and protect it. Additionally, we actively monitor and enforce contract compliance by our end
users.





EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2010, we had 4,461 employees, of which 709 were located at our headquarters in
Stamford, Connecticut; 1,993 were located elsewhere in the United States; and 1,759 were located
outside of the United States. Our employees may be subject to collective bargaining agreements at a
company or industry level in those foreign countries where this is part of the local labor law or
practice. We have experienced no work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be
favorable.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our Internet address iswww.gartner.comand the investor relations section of our website
is located atwww.investor.gartner.com.We make available free of charge, on or through the
investor relations section of our website, printable copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material
with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).

Also available atwww.investor.gartner.com, under the “Corporate Governance” link, are printable
and current copies of our (i) CEO & CFO Code of Ethics which applies to our Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, controller and other financial managers, (ii) Code of Conduct,
which applies to all Gartner officers, directors and employees, (iii) Board Principles and
Practices, the corporate governance principles that have been adopted by our Board and (iv)
charters for each of the Board’s standing committees: Audit, Compensation and
Governance/Nominating.



