
10-K
CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION - 12/31/98




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   For the Fiscal year ended DECEMBER 31, 1998

                         Commission File Number 1-10447

                           CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                 DELAWARE                                04-3072771
      (State or other jurisdiction of                 (I.R.S. Employer
      incorporation or organization)               Identification Number)

                   15375 MEMORIAL DRIVE, HOUSTON, TEXAS 77079
           (Address of principal executive offices including Zip Code)

                                 (281) 589-4600
                         (Registrant's telephone number)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                     Name of eahc exchange
             Title of each class                      on which registered
 CLASS A COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.10 PER SHARE      NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
      RIGHTS TO PURCHASE PREFERRED STOCK             NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during the  preceding  12 months and (2) has been  subject to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                                Yes [ X ] No [  ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K [__].

     The  aggregate  market  value of Class A Common  Stock,  par value $.10 per
share ("Common  Stock"),  held by  non-affiliates  (based upon the closing sales
price on the New York Stock Exchange on February 26, 1999), was approximately
$265,000,000.

     As of February  26,  1999,  there were  24,665,455  shares of Common  Stock
outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders to
be held May 11, 1999 are  incorporated  herein by reference in Items 10, 11, 12,
and 13 of Part III of this report.






                           --------------------------

     The  statements  regarding  future  financial  performance  and results and
market prices and the other  statements which are not historical facts contained
in this report are forward-looking  statements.  The words "expect,"  "project,"
"estimate,"  "believe,"  "anticipate,"  "intend,"  "budget," "plan," "forecast,"
"predict" and similar expressions are also intended to identify  forward-looking
statements. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not
limited  to,  market   factors,   market  prices   (including   regional   basis
differentials) of natural gas and oil, results for future drilling and marketing
activity,  future  production  and  costs  and other  factors  detailed  in this
document and in the Company's other Securities and Exchange  Commission filings.
If one or more of these risks or  uncertainties  materialize,  or if  underlying
assumptions  prove  incorrect,  actual  outcomes may vary  materially from those
included in this document.



PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

GENERAL

     Cabot  Oil  & Gas  Corporation  (the  "Company")  explores  for,  develops,
produces, stores, transports, purchases and markets natural gas and, to a lesser
extent,  produces  and  sells  crude  oil.  Substantially  all of the  Company's
operations are in the Appalachian  Region of West Virginia and Pennsylvania,  in
the  Western  Region,  including  the  Anadarko  Basin of  southwestern  Kansas,
Oklahoma and the Texas  Panhandle  and the Green River Basin of Wyoming,  and in
the Gulf Coast Region,  including South Texas and South  Louisiana.  At December
31, 1998,  the Company had 1,042.8 Bcfe of total proved  reserves,  96% of which
was natural  gas.  Most of the  Company's  natural gas  reserves  are located in
long-lived fields with extensive production histories.

     The  Company  was  organized  in 1989 as the  successor  to the oil and gas
business of Cabot Corporation  ("Cabot"),  which was begun in 1891. In 1990, the
Company  completed  its  initial  public  offering of  approximately  18% of its
outstanding  Common Stock.  Cabot  distributed the remaining Common Stock of the
Company to Cabot shareholders in 1991. The Company is publicly traded on the New
York Stock Exchange.

     Unless otherwise specified, all references to the Company include Cabot Oil
& Gas Corporation,  its predecessors and  subsidiaries.  All references to wells
are gross, unless otherwise stated.

     The following table summarizes certain  information,  at December 31, 1998,
regarding  the  Company's  proved  reserves,  productive  wells,  developed  and
undeveloped acreage, and infrastructure.

     Summary of Reserves,  Production, Acreage and Other Information by Areas of
Operation (1)


- ----------
(1)  As of December 31,1998. For additional  information regarding the Company's
     estimates of proved reserves and other data, see  "Business--Reserves," and
     the  "Supplemental  Oil and Gas Information" to the Consolidated  Financial
     Statements.



EXPLORATION, DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION

     The  Company  is  one  of  the  largest  producers  of  natural  gas in the
Appalachian  Basin,  where it has operated for more than a century.  Cabot Oil &
Gas has operated in the Anadarko Basin for over 60 years.  The Company  acquired
its  operations  in the  Rocky  Mountains  and the Gulf  Coast  after  acquiring
Washington Energy Resources Company in May 1994. Historically,  its reserve base
has  been  maintained  through  low-risk   development  drilling  and  strategic
acquisitions,   and  recently  the  Company  has   increased   its  emphasis  on
exploration.  The Company  continues to focus its operations in the Appalachian,
Western and Gulf Coast Regions through development drilling,  acquisition of oil
and gas producing properties, and new exploration opportunities.

     While continuing its strong development  drilling program,  the Company has
significantly  expanded its  exploration  program in the last three  years.  The
Company  experienced  a 69%  gross  success  rate for its  exploratory  drilling
program in 1998, based on participation in 39 exploratory wells. A large part of
the  exploration  activity has been focused in the Gulf Coast Region,  where the
1998 gross success rate was 88%. Also in 1998, reserves in the Gulf Coast Region
grew from 56.5 Bcfe to 125.5 Bcfe,  an increase of 122%,  due  primarily  to the
Company's  exploratory drilling program combined with its acquisition  strategy.
When  combining the  exploration  and  development  programs,  the overall gross
success rate for 1998 was 89%.

APPALACHIAN REGION

     The Company's  exploration,  development  and production  activities in the
Appalachian  Region are concentrated in Pennsylvania,  Ohio, West Virginia,  and
Virginia. Operations are managed by a regional office in Pittsburgh. At December
31,  1998,  the Company  had 436.4 Bcfe of proved  reserves  (substantially  all
natural gas) in the Appalachian Region,  constituting 42% of the Company's total
proved reserves.

     The Company has 3,027  productive wells (2,831.1 net), of which 2,920 wells
are operated by the Company. There are multiple producing intervals that include
the Upper Devonian,  Oriskany,  Berea,  and Big Lime trend  formations at depths
primarily ranging from 1,500 to 9,000 feet. Average net daily production in 1998
was 62.8 Mmcfe. While natural gas production volumes from Appalachian reservoirs
are  relatively  low on a per-well  basis  compared to other areas of the United
States, the productive life of Appalachian reserves is relatively long.

     In 1998,  the  Company  drilled  109 wells  (90.2  net) in the  Appalachian
Region, of which 83 were development  wells (74.2 net).  Capital and exploration
expenditures,  including pipeline expenditures, were $43.2 million for the year.
In the 1999 drilling program year, the Company has plans to drill 8 wells in the
region.

     At December 31, 1998,  the Company had  1,143,207  net acres in the region,
including  776,843 net developed  acres. At year end, the Company had identified
218 proved undeveloped drilling locations.

     The Company  owns and  operates  two  natural  gas  storage  fields in West
Virginia with a combined working gas capacity of 4 Bcf.

     Ancillary to its  exploration and production  operations,  the Company owns
and  operates  two brine  treatment  plants  that  process and treat waste fluid
generated during the drilling,  completion and subsequent  production of oil and
gas wells. The first plant, near Franklin,  Pennsylvania,  which began operating
in  1985,  provides  services  to the  Company  and  certain  other  oil and gas
producers in southwestern New York,  eastern Ohio and western  Pennsylvania.  In
April 1998,  the Company  acquired a second  brine  treatment  plant in Indiana,
Pennsylvania that had been in existence since 1987.

     The  Company  believes  that  it  gains   operational   efficiency  in  the
Appalachian Region because of its large acreage position,  high concentration of
wells, natural gas gathering and pipeline systems and storage capacity.



WESTERN REGION

     The Company's  exploration,  development  and production  activities in the
Western  Region are  primarily  focused in the  Anadarko  Basin in  southwestern
Kansas,  Oklahoma  and the  panhandle  of Texas and in the Green  River Basin of
Wyoming. Operations for the Western Region are managed from a regional office in
Denver.  At December  31,  1998,  the Company had 480.9 Bcfe of proved  reserves
(96.1%  natural gas) in the Western  Region,  constituting  46% of the Company's
total proved reserves.

ANADARKO

     The Company has 743  productive  wells (488.5 net) in the Anadarko area, of
which 543 wells are operated by the Company.  Principal  producing  intervals in
Anadarko are in the Chase,  Morrow,  Red Fork and Chester  formations  at depths
ranging from 1,500 to 13,000 feet. Average net daily production in 1998 was 42.2
Mmcfe.

     In 1998, the Company drilled 23 wells (13.5 net) in Anadarko,  including 20
development and extension wells (11.4 net). Capital and exploration expenditures
for the year were $20.2 million.  In the 1999 drilling program year, the Company
has plans to drill 3 wells in the area.

     At December  31,  1998,  the Company had  approximately  230,256 net acres,
including  approximately  194,130 net developed  acres. At year end, the Company
had identified 65 proved undeveloped drilling locations.

ROCKY MOUNTAINS

     The Company has 455  productive  wells  (206.1 net) in the Rocky  Mountains
area,  of which 216 wells  are  operated  by the  Company.  Principal  producing
intervals in the Rocky Mountains area are in the Frontier and Dakota  formations
at depths  ranging from 9,000 to 13,000 feet.  Average net daily  production  in
1998 was 50.2 Mmcfe.

     In 1998,  the Company  drilled 56 wells (30.4 net) in the Rocky  Mountains,
including 54 development and extension wells (29.9 net). Capital and exploration
expenditures for the year were $32.3 million. In the 1999 drilling program year,
the Company has plans to drill 9 wells in the area.

     At December  31,  1998,  the Company had  approximately  137,864 net acres,
including approximately 73,814 net developed acres. At year end, the Company had
identified 71 proved undeveloped drilling locations.

GULF COAST REGION

     The Company's  exploration,  development  and production  activities in the
Gulf  Coast  Region are  concentrated  in South  Louisiana  and South  Texas.  A
regional office in Houston manages operations. At December 31, 1998, the Company
had 125.5 Bcfe of proved  reserves (80.8% natural gas) in the Gulf Coast Region,
constituting 12% of the Company's total proved reserves.

     The Company has 446 productive  wells (269.0 net) in the Gulf Coast Region,
of which 239 wells are operated by the Company. The Company is in the process of
evaluating  approximately 150 of the Southern Louisiana wells that were acquired
in December from Oryx Energy Company.  Principal producing intervals in the Gulf
Coast are in the Wilcox and  Vicksburg  formations  in Texas,  and  Miocene  age
formations in Louisiana at depths ranging from 3,000 to 18,000 feet. Average net
daily production in 1998 was 32.6 Mmcfe.

     In 1998,  the Company  drilled 17 wells (9.6 net) in the Gulf Coast Region,
including 9 development  wells (4.0 net).  Capital and exploration  expenditures
for the year were $128.7 million, including $70.1 million for Southern Louisiana
properties acquired from Oryx Energy Company. (See further discussion in Item 7.
Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations.) In the 1999 drilling program year, the Company has plans to drill 9
wells in the region.

     At December  31,  1998,  the Company had  approximately  105,403 net acres,
including approximately 55,325 net developed acres. At year end, the Company had
identified 20 proved undeveloped drilling locations.



GAS MARKETING

     The Company is engaged in a wide array of marketing activities offering its
customers  long-term,  reliable supplies of natural gas.  Utilizing its pipeline
and storage facilities, gas procurement ability and transportation,  and natural
gas risk  management  expertise,  the Company  provides a menu of services  that
includes gas supply and  transportation  management,  short-term  and  long-term
supply contracts, capacity brokering and risk management alternatives.

     The marketing of natural gas has changed  significantly as a result of FERC
Order 636  ("Order  636"),  which was issued by the  Federal  Energy  Regulatory
Commission in 1992.  Order 636 required  pipelines to unbundle  their gas sales,
storage and transportation  services. As a result, local distribution  companies
and  end-users  separately  contract  these  services  from  gas  marketers  and
producers.  Order 636 has had the effect of creating greater  competition in the
industry  while also  providing  the Company the  opportunity  to serve  broader
markets. Since Order 636 was issued, there has been an increase in the number of
third-party producers that use the Company to market their gas. Additionally, as
a result of Order 636, the Company has  experienced  increased  competition  for
markets which has placed pressure on the premiums it has received.

APPALACHIAN REGION

     The Company's  principal markets for its Appalachian Region natural gas are
in the northeastern United States. The Company's marketing subsidiary, Cabot Oil
& Gas Marketing  Corporation,  purchases the Company's natural gas production in
the Appalachian  Region as well as production from local  third-party  producers
and other suppliers to aggregate larger volumes of natural gas for resale.  This
marketing   subsidiary  sells  natural  gas  to  industrial   customers,   local
distribution  companies ("LDCs") and gas marketers both on and off the Company's
pipeline and gathering system.

     Most of the Company's natural gas sales volume in the Appalachian Region is
being sold at  market-responsive  prices under contracts with a term of one year
or  less.  Of  these  short-term   sales,  spot  market  sales  are  made  under
month-to-month contracts,  while industrial and utility sales generally are made
under  year-to-year  contracts.  Approximately 10% of Appalachian  production is
sold on fixed price contracts which typically renew annually.

     The Company's  Appalachian  natural gas  production is generally  sold at a
higher realized price (a "premium")  compared to production from other producing
regions  due to its close  proximity  to  eastern  markets.  While  year-to-year
fluctuations  in that  premium  are normal due to changes in market  conditions,
this premium has  typically  been in the range of $0.40 to $0.50 per Mmbtu above
the Henry Hub cash price  throughout the 1990's.  In 1998, the premium  averaged
approximately $0.40 per Mmbtu.

     Ancillary  to  its  exploration  and  production  operations,  the  Company
operates a number of gas gathering and transmission pipeline systems, made up of
approximately  2,850 miles of pipeline with  interconnects  to three  interstate
pipeline  systems  and  five  LDCs.  The  majority  of  the  Company's  pipeline
infrastructure  in  West  Virginia  is  regulated  by the  FERC.  As  such,  the
transportation  rates and terms of service of the Company's pipeline subsidiary,
Cranberry Pipeline Corporation,  are subject to the rules and regulations of the
FERC.  The Company's  natural gas gathering and  transmission  pipeline  systems
enable the Company to connect new wells  quickly  and to  transport  natural gas
from  the  wellhead  directly  to  interstate  pipelines,  LDCs  and  industrial
end-users.  Control of its  gathering  and  transmission  pipeline  systems also
enables the Company to  purchase,  transport  and sell  natural gas  produced by
third parties.  In addition,  the Company can take part in development  drilling
operations without relying upon third parties to transport its natural gas while
incurring only the incremental costs of pipeline and compressor additions to its
system.

     The Company has two natural gas storage  fields  located in West  Virginia,
with a combined  working  capacity of  approximately  4 Bcf of natural  gas. The
Company uses these storage fields to take  advantage of the seasonal  variations
in the demand for natural gas and the higher prices  typically  associated  with
winter natural gas sales, while maintaining production at a nearly constant rate
throughout the year. The storage fields also enable the Company to  periodically
increase  the volume of natural  gas that it can  deliver by more than 40% above
the volume that it could deliver solely from its  production in the  Appalachian
Region.  The pipeline  systems and storage fields are fully  integrated with the
Company's producing operations.



WESTERN REGION

     The Company's  principal  markets for Western Region natural gas are in the
northwestern,   midwestern,   and  northeastern  United  States.  The  Company's
marketing  subsidiary  purchases all of the Company's  natural gas production in
the  Western  Region.  The  marketing   subsidiary  sells  the  natural  gas  to
cogenerators,  natural gas processors,  LDCs, industrial customers and marketing
companies.

     Currently,  most of the  Company's  natural gas  production  in the Western
Region  is sold  primarily  under  contracts  with a term of one year or less at
market-responsive  prices.  Approximately 20% of the Western Region's production
is sold under a 15-year  cogeneration  contract with 9 1/2 years  remaining that
escalates 5% in price per year. The Western  Region  properties are connected to
the majority of the  Midwestern,  Northwestern,  and Gulf Coast  interstate  and
intrastate pipelines, affording the Company access to multiple markets.

     The Company also produces and markets  approximately 1,200 barrels a day of
crude oil/condensate in the Western Region at market-responsive prices.

GULF COAST REGION

     The Company's  principal  markets for Gulf Coast Region  natural gas are in
the  industrialized  Gulf Coast areas and the  northeastern  United States.  The
Company's  marketing  subsidiary  purchases  all of the  Company's  natural  gas
production in the Gulf Coast Region. The marketing  subsidiary sells the natural
gas to intrastate pipelines, natural gas processors and marketing companies.

     Currently, all of the Company's natural gas sales volumes in the Gulf Coast
Region are being sold at market-responsive  prices under contracts with terms of
one to three years.  The Gulf Coast Region  properties  are connected to various
processing plants in Texas and Louisiana with multiple interstate and intrastate
deliveries, affording the Company access to multiple markets.

     The Company also produces and markets  approximately 1,500 barrels a day of
crude oil/condensate in the Gulf Coast Region at market-responsive  prices. This
amount includes  volumes  attributable  to the December  acquisition of Southern
Louisiana properties from Oryx Energy Company.

RISK MANAGEMENT

     In  1998,   the  Company  used  certain   financial   instruments,   called
"derivatives",  to  manage  price  risks  associated  with  its  production  and
brokering activities. The impact of these derivatives on the Company's financial
results was not material.  While there are many  different  types of derivatives
available, the Company used natural gas price swap agreements ("price swaps") to
attempt to manage price risk more effectively and improve the Company's realized
natural  gas  prices.  These  price  swaps call for  payments  to (or to receive
payments from)  counterparties  based on the differential  between a fixed and a
variable gas price.  The Company  will  continue to evaluate the benefit of this
strategy  in the  future.  See the  Overview  section  of  Item 7.  Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of  Operations,  and
Note 11. of the  Notes to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  further
discussion.


RESERVES

CURRENT RESERVES

     The  following  table  sets  forth  information   regarding  the  Company's
estimates of its net proved reserves at December 31, 1998.


- ----------
(1)  Liquids  include crude oil,  condensate and natural gas liquids (Ngl).

(2)  Natural  Gas  Equivalents  are  determined  using  the  ratio of 6.0 Mcf of
     natural gas to 1.0 Bbl of crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids.

     The proved reserve estimates  presented here were prepared by the Company's
petroleum engineering staff and reviewed by Miller and Lents, Ltd.,  independent
petroleum  engineers.   For  additional   information  regarding  the  Company's
estimates of proved reserves,  the review of such estimates by Miller and Lents,
Ltd., and other  information  about the Company's oil and gas reserves,  see the
Supplemental  Oil and Gas Information to the Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in Item 8. A copy of the review letter by Miller and Lents,  Ltd.,  has
been filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.  The  Company's  estimates of proved
reserves  in the table  above do not differ  materially  from those filed by the
Company with other federal  agencies.  The  Company's  reserves are sensitive to
natural gas sales  prices and their  effect on  economic  producing  rates.  The
Company's reserves are based on oil and gas prices in effect for December 1998.

     There are a number of  uncertainties  inherent in estimating  quantities of
proved  reserves,  including many factors beyond the control of the Company and,
therefore,  the reserve information in this Form 10-K represents only estimates.
Reserve   engineering  is  a  subjective   process  of  estimating   underground
accumulations  of crude oil and  natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact
manner.  The  accuracy of any  reserve  estimate is a function of the quality of
available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As
a result,  estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition,  results of
drilling,  testing and  production  subsequent  to the date of an  estimate  may
justify revising the original estimate. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often
different  from the  quantities of crude oil and natural gas that are ultimately
recovered.  The  meaningfulness  of  such  estimates  depends  primarily  on the
accuracy of the assumptions  upon which they were based. In general,  the volume
of  production  from oil and gas  properties  owned by the  Company  declines as
reserves  are  depleted.  Except to the extent the Company  acquires  additional
properties  containing  proved reserves or conducts  successful  exploration and
development  activities or both, the proved reserves of the Company will decline
as reserves are produced.



HISTORICAL RESERVES

     The following  table presents the Company's  estimated  proved reserves for
the periods indicated.


- ----------
APP = Appalachian Region
WEST = Western Region
GULF = Gulf Coast Region

(1)  Includes  natural gas and natural gas  equivalents  determined by using the
     ratio of 6.0 Mcf of  natural  gas to 1.0 Bbl of crude  oil,  condensate  or
     natural gas liquids.

(2)  The total  revision of 22,963 Mmcfe includes a 14,309 Mmcfe revision due to
     lower year-end pricing in 1998 compared to 1997.



VOLUMES AND PRICES; PRODUCTION COSTS

     The following table presents historical information regarding the Company's
sales and production  volumes and average sales prices received for, and average
production  costs  associated  with,  its sales of  natural  gas and crude  oil,
condensate and natural gas liquids (Ngl) for the periods indicated.


- ----------
(1)  Equal to the  aggregate  of  production  and the net changes in storage and
     exchanges.

(2)  The  decline  in  the  Appalachian  Region  natural  gas  sales  volume  is
     attributed to the sale of the Meadville properties sold effective September
     1, 1997. Prior to the sale, these properties produced 3.6 Bcf, or 14.7 Mmcf
     per day, during the eight-month period ending August 31, 1997.

(3)  Represents the average sales prices for all production  volumes  (including
     royalty  volumes)  sold by the  Company  during  the  periods  shown net of
     related  costs  (principally  purchased  gas  royalty,  transportation  and
     storage).

(4)  Production   costs  include  direct  lifting  costs  (labor,   repairs  and
     maintenance,  materials and supplies),  and the costs of  administration of
     production  offices,  insurance  and  property and  severance  taxes but is
     exclusive of  depreciation  and depletion  applicable to capitalized  lease
     acquisition, exploration and development expenditures.

ACREAGE

     The following  tables  summarize the Company's  gross and net developed and
undeveloped leasehold and mineral acreage at December 31, 1998. Acreage in which
the Company's interest is limited to royalty and overriding royalty interests is
excluded.



LEASEHOLD ACREAGE



MINERAL FEE ACREAGE





TOTAL NET ACREAGE BY AREA OF OPERATION



PRODUCTIVE WELL SUMMARY(1)

     The following  table reflects the Company's  ownership at December 31, 1998
in natural gas and oil wells in the  Appalachian  Region  (consisting of various
fields  located in West Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  New York,  Ohio,  Virginia and
Kentucky),  in the  Western  Region  (consisting  of various  fields  located in
Oklahoma,   Kansas,  Colorado  and  Wyoming),  and  in  the  Gulf  Coast  Region
(consisting of various fields located in Louisiana and Texas).


- ----------
(1)  "Productive"  wells are producing  wells and wells capable of production in
     which the Company has a working interest.

DRILLING ACTIVITY

     The Company  drilled,  participated  in the drilling of, or acquired  wells
presented in the table below for the periods indicated:








- ----------
(1)  Includes the acquisition of net interest in certain wells in 1998, 1997 and
     1996 in which the Company already held an ownership interest.

COMPETITION

     Competition  in  the  Company's   primary   producing   areas  is  intense.
Competition  is  affected  by price,  contract  terms,  and  quality of service,
including  pipeline  connection  times,  distribution  efficiencies and reliable
delivery record.  The Company  believes that its extensive  acreage position and
existing natural gas gathering and pipeline systems and storage fields give it a
competitive  advantage over certain other  producers in the  Appalachian  Region
which do not have such systems or facilities in place. The Company believes that
its competitive  position in the  Appalachian  Region is enhanced by the lack of
significant  competition  from major oil and gas  companies.  The  Company  also
actively  competes against other companies with  substantially  larger financial
and other  resources,  particularly  in the Western and Gulf Coast Regions.  The
Company believes that marketing its own gas through the operation of Cabot Oil &
Gas Marketing Corporation enhances its competitive position.



OTHER BUSINESS MATTERS

MAJOR CUSTOMER

     The Company had no sales to any customer that exceeded 10% of the Company's
total gross revenues in 1998 or 1997.

SEASONALITY

     Demand for natural gas has historically been seasonal, with peak demand and
typically higher prices during the colder winter months.

REGULATION OF OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION

     The Company's oil and gas  production  and  transportation  activities  are
subject to federal, state and local regulations.  These regulations are not only
statutory,  but include rules and  regulations  issued by numerous  governmental
departments and agencies.  Because these statutes, rules and regulations undergo
constant review and often are amended,  expanded and reinterpreted,  the Company
is unable to predict the future  cost or impact of  regulatory  compliance.  The
regulatory  burden  on the oil and gas  industry  increases  its  cost of  doing
business and,  consequently,  affects its profitability.  The Company,  however,
does not believe it is affected materially differently by these regulations than
others in the industry.

EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION

     The  exploration  and  production  operations of the Company are subject to
various  types of  regulation  at the  federal,  state  and local  levels.  Such
regulation  includes  requiring  permits  to drill  wells,  maintaining  bonding
requirements  to drill or operate  wells,  and regulating the location of wells,
the method of drilling  and casing  wells,  the surface use and  restoration  of
properties on which wells are drilled and the plugging and  abandoning of wells.
The  Company's  operations  are also  subject to various  conservation  laws and
regulations.  These  include the  regulation of the size of drilling and spacing
units or  proration  units and the  density  of wells  which may be drilled in a
given field and the  unitization  or pooling of oil and natural gas  properties.
Some states  allow the forced  pooling or  integration  of tracts to  facilitate
exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In
addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil
and natural gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas,
and impose certain  requirements  regarding the  ratability of  production.  The
effect of these  regulations  is to limit the amounts of oil and natural gas the
Company  can  produce  from its  wells,  and to limit the number of wells or the
locations at which the Company can drill.

NATURAL GAS MARKETING, GATHERING AND TRANSPORTATION

     Federal legislation and regulatory controls have historically  affected the
price of the  natural  gas  produced by the Company and the manner in which such
production is transported  and marketed.  Under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulates the interstate transportation and
the  sale  in  interstate  commerce  for  resale  of  natural  gas.  The  FERC's
jurisdiction over interstate natural gas sales was substantially modified by the
Natural Gas Policy Act,  under which the FERC  continued to regulate the maximum
selling prices of certain  categories of gas sold in "first sales" in interstate
and intrastate  commerce.  Effective January 1, 1993,  however,  the Natural Gas
Wellhead Decontrol Act (the "Decontrol Act") deregulated  natural gas prices for
all "first sales" of natural gas,  including all sales by the Company of its own
production.  As a result,  all of the Company's  produced natural gas may now be
sold at market prices,  subject to the terms of any private  contracts which may
be in effect.  The FERC's  jurisdiction over natural gas  transportation was not
affected by the Decontrol Act.



     The Company's  natural gas sales are affected by intrastate  and interstate
gas  transportation  regulation.  Beginning in 1985, the FERC adopted regulatory
changes that have  significantly  altered the  transportation  and  marketing of
natural gas. These changes were intended by the FERC to foster  competition  by,
among other things,  transforming the role of interstate pipeline companies from
wholesaler  marketers  of gas to the primary role of gas  transporters.  All gas
marketing by the pipelines was required to be divested to a marketing affiliate,
which operates  separately from the transporter and in direct  competition  with
all other merchants.  As a result of the various omnibus rulemaking  proceedings
in the late 1980s and the individual pipeline  restructuring  proceedings of the
early to mid-1990s,  the  interstate  pipelines are now required to provide open
and nondiscriminatory  transportation and transportation-related services to all
producers, gas marketing companies, local distribution companies, industrial end
users and other customers  seeking  service.  Through  similar orders  affecting
intrastate pipelines that provide similar interstate services, the FERC expanded
the impact of open access regulations to intrastate commerce.

     More  recently,  the FERC has pursued  other policy  initiatives  that have
affected natural gas marketing. Most notable are (i) the large-scale divestiture
of  interstate   pipeline-owned  gas  gathering   facilities  to  affiliated  or
non-affiliated  companies,  (ii)  further  development  of rules  governing  the
relationship  of the  pipelines  with  their  marketing  affiliates,  (iii)  the
publication of standards  relating to the use of electronic  bulletin boards and
electronic  data  exchange by the  pipelines  to make  available  transportation
information  on a timely basis and to enable  transactions  to occur on a purely
electronic  basis,  (iv) further review of the role of the secondary  market for
released  pipeline  capacity and its  relationship to open access service in the
primary  market  and (v)  development  of  policy  and  promulgation  of  orders
pertaining to its  authorization of market-based  rates (rather than traditional
cost-of-service  based  rates)  for  transportation  or   transportation-related
services  upon the  pipeline's  demonstration  of lack of market  control in the
relevant  service  market.  It remains to be seen what  effect the FERC's  other
activities will have on access to markets,  the fostering of competition and the
cost of doing business.

     As a result of these changes,  sellers and buyers of gas have gained direct
access to the  particular  pipeline  services  they need and are better  able to
conduct  business with a larger number of  counterparties.  The Company believes
these changes  generally have improved the Company's access to markets while, at
the  same  time,   substantially  increasing  competition  in  the  natural  gas
marketplace.  The Company cannot predict what new or different  regulations  the
FERC  and  other  regulatory  agencies  may  adopt,  or what  effect  subsequent
regulations may have on the Company's activities.

     In the past,  Congress has been very active in the area of gas  regulation.
However,  as  discussed  above,  the  more  recent  trend  has  been in favor of
deregulation  and the promotion of  competition  in the gas  industry.  Thus, in
addition  to "first  sale"  deregulation,  Congress  also  repealed  incremental
pricing  requirements and gas use restraints  previously  applicable.  There are
other legislative proposals pending in the Federal and state legislatures which,
if enacted,  would significantly  affect the petroleum industry.  At the present
time, it is  impossible to predict what  proposals,  if any,  might  actually be
enacted by Congress or the various state  legislatures and what effect,  if any,
such  proposals  might have on the  Company.  Similarly,  and  despite the trend
toward  federal  deregulation  of the natural gas  industry,  whether or to what
extent  that trend will  continue,  or what the  ultimate  effect will be on the
Company's sales of gas, cannot be predicted.

     The Company's  pipeline systems and storage fields are regulated for safety
compliance by the U.S.  Department of  Transportation,  the West Virginia Public
Service Commission,  and the Pennsylvania  Department of Natural Resources.  The
Company's  pipeline  systems in each  state  operate  independently  and are not
interconnected.



ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

     General. The Company's  operations are subject to extensive federal,  state
and local laws and regulations  relating to the generation,  storage,  handling,
emission,  transportation  and  discharge  of  materials  into the  environment.
Permits are required  for the  operation of various  Company  facilities.  These
permits can be revoked, modified or renewed by issuing authorities. Governmental
authorities  enforce compliance with their regulations,  with violations subject
to fines,  injunctions or both. Such government regulation can increase the cost
of planning, designing, installing and operating oil and gas facilities. In most
cases,  the  regulatory  requirements  impose  water and air  pollution  control
measures.  Although the Company  believes  that  compliance  with  environmental
regulations  will not have a material  adverse  effect on the Company,  risks of
substantial costs and liabilities related to environmental compliance issues are
part of oil and gas  production  operations.  No  assurance  can be  given  that
significant  costs and  liabilities  will not be incurred.  Also, it is possible
that other  developments,  such as stricter  environmental laws and regulations,
and  claims for  damages  to  property  or  persons  resulting  from oil and gas
production would result in substantial costs and liabilities to the Company.

     Solid and Hazardous Waste. The Company currently owns or leases, and has in
the past owned or leased, numerous properties used for the production of oil and
gas for many  years.  Although  the  Company  utilized  operating  and  disposal
practices that were standard in the industry at the time,  hydrocarbons or other
solid  wastes may have been  disposed of or released on or under the  properties
owned or  leased  by the  Company.  In  addition,  many of the  properties  were
operated  by third  parties.  The  Company  had no control  over other  parties'
treatment of  hydrocarbons or other solid wastes and the way such substances may
have been disposed or released. State and federal laws applicable to oil and gas
wastes and properties have gradually  become stricter over time. Under these new
laws, the Company could be required to remove or remediate  previously  disposed
wastes  (including wastes disposed or released by prior owners and operators) or
property contamination  (including groundwater  contamination by prior owners or
operators)  or  to  perform  remedial  plugging  operations  to  prevent  future
contamination.

     The Company  generates some wastes that are subject to the Federal Resource
Conservation  and  Recovery  Act ("RCRA") and  comparable  state  statutes.  The
Environmental  Protection  Agency  ("EPA") has limited the disposal  options for
certain "hazardous  wastes." It is possible that certain wastes currently exempt
from  treatment  as  "hazardous  wastes"  may in the  future  be  designated  as
"hazardous  wastes" under RCRA or other  applicable  statutes,  and therefore be
subject to more rigorous and costly disposal requirements.

     Superfund.  The Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,  Compensation,  and
Liability Act ("CERCLA"),  also known as the "Superfund" law, imposes liability,
without  regard to fault or the  legality of the  original  conduct,  on certain
classes of persons with respect to the release of a "hazardous  substance"  into
the environment.  These persons include the owner and operator of a site and any
party that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the  hazardous  substance
found at a site.  CERCLA  also  authorizes  the EPA,  and in some  cases,  third
parties, to respond to threats to the public health or the environment.  The EPA
and third parties are also authorized to try to recover the costs of such action
from the  responsible  parties.  In the  course of  business,  the  Company  has
generated  and will  continue to generate  wastes that may fall within  CERCLA's
definition of "hazardous  substances." The Company may also be an owner of sites
on which "hazardous substances" have been released. As a result, the Company may
be responsible under CERCLA for all or part of the costs to clean up sites where
such wastes have been disposed.

     Oil Pollution  Act. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (the "OPA") and resulting
regulations  impose a variety of terms on "responsible  parties"  related to the
prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills in
"waters of the United  States." The term "waters of the United  States" has been
broadly  defined  to  include  inland  water  bodies,   including  wetlands  and
intermittent  streams.  The OPA assigns  liability to each responsible party for
oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages.

     Clean Water Act. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act ("FWPCA" or "Clean
Water  Act")  and  resulting   regulations  also  govern  discharge  of  certain
contaminants to "waters of the United  States."  Sanctions for failure to comply
strictly with the Clean Water Act requirements are generally resolved by payment
of fines and correction of any identified deficiencies,  but regulatory agencies
could require the Company to cease  construction or operation of certain sources
of water discharges.  The Company believes that it complies with the Clean Water
Act and implementing federal and state regulations in all material respects.



     Air Emissions.  The Company's  operations  are subject to local,  state and
federal laws and regulations to control emissions from sources of air pollution.
Payment of fines and correction of any identified deficiencies generally resolve
penalties  for  failure to comply  strictly  with air  regulations  or  permits.
Regulatory  agencies  could also  require the Company to cease  construction  or
operation  of  certain  air  emission  sources.  The  Company  believes  that it
substantially  complies  with the emission  standards  under local,  state,  and
federal laws and regulations.

EMPLOYEES

     The Company had 365 active  employees as of December 31, 1998.  The Company
believes that its relations with its employees are satisfactory. The Company has
not entered into any collective  bargaining  agreements  with its employees.  In
January 1999, the Company instituted a reorganization plan that resulted in a 6%
reduction in the number of active employees.

OTHER

     The Company's  profitability depends on certain factors that are beyond its
control, such as natural gas and crude oil prices. The nature of the oil and gas
business involves a variety of risks, including the risk of experiencing certain
operating hazards such as fires,  explosions,  blowouts,  cratering, oil spills,
and encountering  formations with abnormal  pressures,  the occurrence of any of
which could result in substantial  losses to the Company.  The Company  conducts
operations in shallow offshore areas, which are subject to additional hazards of
marine operations, such as capsizing,  collision and damage from severe weather.
The  Company's  operation of natural gas  gathering  and  pipeline  systems also
involves  certain  risks,  including  the risk of explosions  and  environmental
hazards  caused by pipeline  leaks and  ruptures.  The proximity of pipelines to
populated areas,  including  residential areas,  commercial business centers and
industrial sites, could exacerbate such risks. At December 31, 1998, the Company
owned or  operated  approximately  2,850  miles of  natural  gas  gathering  and
transmission  pipeline systems. As part of its normal maintenance  program,  the
Company  has  identified  certain  segments of its  pipelines  which may require
repair,  replacement or additional maintenance.  According to customary industry
practices,  the Company maintains  insurance against some, but not all, of these
risks.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

See Item 1. Business.


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The  Company and its  subsidiaries  are  defendants  or parties in numerous
lawsuits or other  governmental  proceedings  arising in the ordinary  course of
business.  The Company is also involved in various gas contract  issues.  In the
opinion of the Company,  final  judgments or  settlements,  if any, which may be
awarded in  connection  with any one or more of these suits and claims  could be
significant  to the results of operations and cash flows of any period but would
not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position.


ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were  submitted to a vote of security  holders during the period
from October 1, 1998 to December 31, 1998.



                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The following table shows certain  information about the executive officers
of the Company as of March 1, 1999,  as such term is defined in Rule 3b-7 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and certain other officers of the Company.



     All  officers are elected  annually by the  Company's  Board of  Directors.
Except for the  following,  all  executive  officers  of the  Company  have been
employed by the Company for at least the last five years.

     Ray R.  Seegmiller  joined the Company as Vice  President,  Chief Financial
Officer and  Treasurer in August 1995.  Mr.  Seegmiller  served in this position
until  March  1997 when he was  promoted  to  Executive  Vice  President,  Chief
Operating  Officer.  In September 1997, Mr. Seegmiller was promoted to President
and Chief  Operating  Officer  and was  elected as a  Director.  Mr.  Seegmiller
replaced  Charles Siess as Chief  Executive  Officer upon the  retirement of Mr.
Siess in May 1998. From May 1988 until 1993, Mr.  Seegmiller served as President
and Chief Executive of Terry Petroleum  Company.  Prior to that, Mr.  Seegmiller
held various officer positions with Marathon Manufacturing Company.

     Abraham D. Garza  joined the  Company  in August  1995 as  Director,  Human
Resources.  He was  named  to his  current  position  as Vice  President,  Human
Resources in May 1998.  Prior to joining the Company,  Mr. Garza served as Human
Resources  Director at Texfield,  Inc., and in various  management  positions of
increasing responsibility at Marathon Manufacturing Company.

     Scott C. Schroeder has been Vice President and Treasurer  since April 1998.
From May 1997 to that time he  served as  Treasurer.  From  October  1995 to May
1997, Mr. Schroeder served as Assistant Treasurer. Prior to joining the Company,
Mr. Schroeder held various  managerial  positions with Pride Petroleum  Services
(now  known as Pride  International).  Prior to that,  Mr.  Schroeder  served as
Manager, Treasury Operations and Planning of DeKalb Energy Company.

     Henry C. Smyth has been  Controller  of the Company since  September  1998.
From November 1996 to that time, he served as Manager of Business Analysis. From
January 1996 to November 1996, Mr. Smyth acted in an analytical  role evaluating
business  opportunities.  From September 1994 to December 1995, Mr. Smyth served
as Director of Internal  Audit for the  Company.  Prior to that,  Mr.  Smyth was
associated with Mark Resources Corporation, where he served in various positions
including Vice President of Operations and Controller.



PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The  Common  Stock is listed and  principally  traded on the New York Stock
Exchange  under the ticker symbol "COG".  The following  table presents the high
and low sales prices per share of the Common Stock during  certain  periods,  as
reported in the consolidated  transaction  reporting system. Cash dividends paid
per share of the Common Stock are also shown:



     As of January 31, 1999, there were 1,267  registered  holders of the Common
Stock.  Shareholders  include  individuals,   brokers,   nominees,   custodians,
trustees, and institutions such as banks, insurance companies and pension funds.
Many of these  hold  large  blocks of stock on behalf  of other  individuals  or
firms.

ITEM 6. SELECTED HISTORICAL FINANCIAL DATA

     The following table summarizes selected consolidated financial data for the
Company  for  the  periods  indicated.   This  information  should  be  read  in
conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations,  and the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements and related
Notes.


- ----------
(1)  See  "Earnings  per  Common  Share"  under  Note  15 of  the  Notes  to the
     Consolidated Financial Statements.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following review of operations  should be read in conjunction with 0the
Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes included elsewhere.

     The Company  operates in one segment,  natural gas and oil  exploration and
exploitation.  In previous  years,  the Company  operated  as two  regions:  the
Appalachian  Region and the Western Region,  which included the Anadarko,  Rocky
Mountains  and Gulf Coast  areas.  Beginning in 1998, a third region was created
with the  formation  of the Gulf Coast  Region,  leaving the  Anadarko and Rocky
Mountains  areas in the Western Region.  For purposes of the comparisons  below,
prior  period  results  have been  restated  to conform to the new  three-region
structure.

OVERVIEW

     Despite the low commodity  prices  realized  throughout the energy industry
this year, the Company  reported  earnings of $0.08 per share,  or $1.9 million.
The decline in results from the record earnings and operating cash flow reported
in 1997 was due  largely to a $0.37 per Mcf  decline  in  realized  natural  gas
prices caused mainly by unseasonably  warm  temperatures  for much of the United
States in 1998. Operating results for 1998 included the following:

     o    The average  produced  natural  gas price was $2.16 per Mcf,  down 15%
          compared to 1997,  resulting in a $23.5  million  decrease in produced
          natural gas revenue.  Natural gas  production was up 0.3 Bcf, or 0.4%,
          compared to 1997,  resulting in a $0.7 million increase to revenue. In
          addition,  the average realized oil price was $13.06 per Bbl, down 35%
          from 1997,  resulting in a $4.5 million reduction to oil revenue.  The
          volume of oil sales was up 76 Mbbls,  resulting  in an increase to oil
          revenue of $1.5 million from 1997.

     o    Brokered  natural gas margin  increased $1.4 million as a result of an
          increase in volume of 9 Bcf.

     o    In an effort to  provide  future  growth  opportunities,  the  Company
          increased its exploration spending by $5.7 million, or 41%, over 1997.
          The Company  expanded its seismic program and added to its exploration
          staff. Higher dry hole cost also contributed to this increase.

     o    In December 1998, the Company recognized a $0.9 million reorganization
          charge. The reorganization involved the reduction of employment levels
          by 6%,  and is  expected  to result in future  annual  savings of $1.5
          million.  The 1998 income  statement  reflects the  components of this
          charge in the line items that will show the  benefit in future  years.
          Direct operating expense related to the reorganization charge was $0.4
          million, the exploration charge was $0.3 million, and $0.2 million was
          recognized in general and administrative.

     o    In  December  1998,  the  Company  purchased  producing  oil  and  gas
          properties  and other assets  located in Southern  Louisiana from Oryx
          Energy   Company   for  $70.1   million   (the   "Southern   Louisiana
          properties"). These Southern Louisiana properties include interests in
          ten fields  covering  34,345 net acres with 68  producing  wells.  The
          acquisition  also included a 3-D seismic  inventory.  Proved  reserves
          acquired  were  approximately  72  Bcfe.  Due  to  the  timing  of the
          purchase,  the impact on 1998 production was not  significant,  adding
          11.5 Mmcfe to December's  daily  production rate. The Company plans to
          increase  production by reworking  certain  non-producing  wells,  and
          commencing an exploratory and development drilling program.

     Operating  cash flows were $87.2  million,  down $7.8 million,  or 8%, from
1997's  record  level.  The  significant  reduction in commodity  prices was the
primary factor in the lower net cash flow level realized in 1998. Operating cash
flows, in combination  with the increase in borrowings from the revolving credit
facility,  funded the $223.2 million capital and expenditure program,  including
the $70.1  million  acquisition  of oil and gas  properties  located in Southern
Louisiana from Oryx Energy Company in December 1998.



     The Company drilled 143.7 net wells with a net success rate of 89% compared
to 151.4 net wells and a net 88% success rate in 1997. The Company replaced 112%
of production through drilling additions and revisions, versus a 179% production
replacement  in 1997.  Reserve  replacement  from all  sources in 1998 was 253%,
compared to 294% in 1997.  In 1999,  the  Company  plans to drill 29 gross wells
(15.3 net) and spend $44.9 million in capital and exploration expenditures, down
from  1998  spending  in  reaction  to  continued  low  energy  commodity  price
expectations.  Price  volatility in the gas market  remains  prevalent as it has
over the past few years and management  cannot predict  natural gas price levels
for the  remainder  of 1999 and beyond.  Consequently,  the Company will adjust,
when necessary,  its 1999 spending plan in accordance with material  changes in,
among other things, realized natural gas prices and discretionary cash flows.

     Total  equivalent  production was 68.6 Bcfe, an increase of 1.3% over 1997.
The Company's 1998 drilling  program in the Gulf Coast Region  experienced  some
mechanical  failures  resulting  in redrills  as well as  drilling  difficulties
causing 1998  production  to be 1.9 Bcfe lower than  expected.  Certain of these
wells commenced  production  later than anticipated in 1998 or will come on line
in 1999.

     The Company's  strategic pursuits are sensitive to energy commodity prices,
particularly the price of natural gas. The unseasonably lower natural gas prices
that were seen at the close of 1997 have  remained soft through most of the 1998
winter  period.  Despite a spring that brought  improved  seasonal  prices,  the
balance of 1998 saw prices well below those of the most recent  preceding years.
The unseasonably  mild winter throughout much of the country has kept prices low
into 1999.

     The Company  remains  focused on its  strategies  to grow through the drill
bit,   through   acquisitions   and  through  greater   emphasis  on  marketing.
Additionally,  the Company will continue to capitalize on the  opportunities its
expanded  exploration  efforts have  provided.  The Company  believes that these
strategies remain appropriate in the current industry  environment and establish
a firm base that will  enable the Company to create  shareholder  value over the
long-term.

     The success of these  strategies  is measured by the  achievement  of three
goals.  The first of these  goals is to increase  cash flow from both  increased
production and reduced costs.  Although 1998 production  increased only slightly
from 1997, the newly  acquired Gulf Coast  properties are expected to boost 1999
production by approximately 5 Bcfe. The benefits of the 1998 reorganization will
help to lower costs in 1999 and beyond.

     The  second  goal  is to  maintain  reserves  per  share  while  increasing
production to protect long-term shareholder value. Excluding revisions,  reserve
additions  from  the  1998  drilling   program   replaced  146%  of  production.
Additionally,  the  Company  acquired  reserves  during the year  through  asset
purchases.  Most significantly,  the Company purchased  approximately 72 Bcfe of
proved  reserves from Oryx Energy  Company in December  1998.  As a result,  the
total proved reserve levels increased in 1998 to 1.04 Tcfe, the highest level in
the Company's history.

     Finally,  the  Company  strives  to reduce  debt as a  percentage  of total
capitalization   ("debt-to-capital  percentage")  without  diluting  shareholder
value.  However,  the acquisition of  growth-oriented  opportunities such as the
December 1998 Southern Louisiana properties acquisition,  along with the partial
funding of the 1998 drilling program, increased the Company's debt, resulting in
an increase  in the  debt-to-capital  percentage  from 51.9% in 1997 to 65.2% in
1998. While the debt-to-capital  percentage has increased, the Company's debt to
discretionary  cash flow ratio is 3.7x  compared to the reserve life index (14.2
years, calculated as year-end reserves divided by annual production). These debt
to  discretionary  cash flow and reserve life index amounts have been normalized
to exclude the impact of the Southern Louisiana properties acquisition since the
$65.6 million of related debt incurred is  disproportionate  to the one month of
discretionary  cash  flows  from  these  acquired   properties.   Excluding  the
normalization,  debt to  discretionary  cash flow is 4.6x and the  reserve  life
ratio is 15.2. For a three-year comparison, refer to the table on page 24.

     The preceding  paragraphs,  discussing the Company's strategic pursuits and
goals, contain forward-looking  information.  See Forward-Looking Information on
page 28.



FINANCIAL CONDITION

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

     The Company's  capital  resources  consist primarily of cash flows from its
oil and gas properties and  asset-based  borrowing  supported by its oil and gas
reserves. The Company's level of earnings and cash flows depend on many factors,
including the price of oil and natural gas and its ability to control and reduce
costs.  Demand  for oil  and  gas has  historically  been  subject  to  seasonal
influences  characterized by peak demand and higher prices in the winter heating
season.  However,  unseasonably  warm  temperatures  remained into the winter of
1998/1999,  bringing with it the continuation of lower energy commodity  prices.
Natural gas prices were  generally  down in 1998 compared to 1997,  resulting in
lower operating cash flows than in the previous year.

     The  primary  sources of cash for the  Company  during 1998 were from funds
generated  from  operations  and increased  borrowings on the revolving  line of
credit.  Primary  uses of cash were funds used in  operations,  exploration  and
development expenditures, acquisitions (including $70.1 million for the purchase
of the Southern  Louisiana  properties from Oryx Energy  Company),  dividends on
preferred and common stock and repayment of debt.

     The Company had a net cash inflow of $0.4 million in 1998.  Net cash inflow
from  operating and financing  activities  totaled $222.5  million,  funding the
capital and exploration  expenditures of $222.1 million, net of the $1.1 million
in net proceeds from the sale of assets.



     Cash flows provided by operating activities in 1998 were $7.8 million lower
than in 1997 due  predominantly  to lower natural gas and oil prices,  partially
offset by a  significant  increase in the  accounts  payable  balance  resulting
mainly from higher fourth quarter drilling expenditures.

     Cash flows  provided by  operating  activities  in 1997 were  substantially
higher,  increasing $19.5 million over 1996, due primarily to higher natural gas
prices and production, and a significant reduction in trade receivables.



     Cash flows used by investing  activities in 1998 were $183.7 million higher
than in 1997 due  primarily  to the capital and  exploration  expenditures  that
increased $135.8 million over 1997, and in part to $47.7 million in net proceeds
from the Meadville sale in 1997. These 1998 expenditures  included (1) the $70.1
million purchase of the Southern  Louisiana  properties from Oryx Energy Company
in  December,  (2) the  $6.6  million  spent  as part of the  joint  exploration
agreement with Union Pacific Resources Group,  Inc.  ("UPR"),  and (3) the $12.0
million used to acquire  21.8 Bcfe of proved  reserves in the Anadarko and Rocky
Mountains areas of the Western Region.



     Cash flows used by investing  activities  in 1997 were $29.2  million lower
than  in  1996  due  to  net  proceeds  of  $47.7  million   received  from  the
Meadville/Green River property transaction,  partially offset by the expenses of
the stronger 1997 drilling program.



     Cash flows  provided by  financing  activities  in 1998 were  increases  in
borrowings on the revolving credit facility related to the 1998 drilling program
and $83.6 million in property  acquisitions.  Financing  activities in 1998 also
included the payment of stock dividends and the purchase of treasury stock.

     Cash flows used by financing  activities from 1997 consist primarily of the
$49.0 million net reduction in  borrowings on the revolving  credit  facility as
well as dividend payments. The 1996 activity was mostly attributable to dividend
payments, but also included a $1.0 reduction in debt under the credit facility.

     The Company's available credit line under the revolving credit facility was
$235 million from June 1995 until  November  1997. In November 1997, the Company
issued $100 million in 7.19% Notes (See Note 5. of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial  Statements for further  discussion) and reduced the available  credit
line to $135  million.  In December  1998,  the  revolving  credit  facility was
increased to include five additional  banks. The new agreement gives the Company
the  ability to borrow up to $250  million in  addition  to its other  long-term
debt. The Company's outstanding indebtedness under the revolving credit facility
was $179 million at December 31, 1998.

     The  available  credit  line is subject to  adjustment  on the basis of the
projected  present value of estimated  future net cash flows from proved oil and
gas reserves (as determined by the banks' petroleum  engineer) and other assets.
Accordingly,  oil and gas prices are an important part of this computation.  Oil
and gas prices  also effect the  calculation  of the  financial  ratios for debt
covenant  compliance.  While the Company  does not  currently  believe  that its
credit  availability is likely to be significantly  reduced,  management  cannot
predict how current price levels may change the banks'  long-term  price outlook
and,  therefore,  can give no assurance that the Company's available credit line
will not be  adversely  impacted in 1999 or as to the amount of credit that will
continue to be  available  under this  facility.  To reduce the impact of such a
redetermination,  the  Company  strives to manage its debt at a level  below the
available  credit line in order to maintain excess borrowing  capacity.  At year
end, this excess  capacity  totaled $57 million,  or 14% of the total  available
credit line. See Note 5. Debt and Credit Agreements for further discussion.

     In the  event  that  the  available  credit  line  is  adjusted  below  the
outstanding level of borrowings,  the Company has a period of 180 days to reduce
its outstanding debt to the adjusted credit line. The Revolving Credit Agreement
also  includes  a  requirement  to pay down  half of the debt in  excess  of the
adjusted credit line within the first 90 days of such an adjustment.

     The Company's 1999 interest  expense is projected to be  approximately  $27
million.  A principal  payment of $16 million on the 10.18% private placement of
senior notes is due in the second quarter of 1999.



Capitalization information on the Company is as follows:



The Company's debt, discretionary cash flow and reserve life index are comprised
as follows:


     ----------

     (1)  Discretionary cash flow is defined as net income plus non-cash charges
          and  exploration  expense  less  preferred  dividends.   Excludes  net
          proceeds on property sales.
 
     (2)  Reserve life index is year-end reserves divided by annual production.

     (3)  The Debt to DCF Coverage ratio was normalized to exclude the impact of
          the December 1998 Southern Louisiana properties  acquisition since the
          ratio was  disproportionately  impacted by the full  inclusion  of the
          $65.6  million in related debt  incurred  compared to the one month of
          discretionary  cash flows from these acquired  properties.  Before the
          normalization,Debt to DCF coverage is 4.6x.

     (4)  Amount  normalized  to exclude the reserves  purchased in the December
          1998  Southern  Louisiana  properties  acquisition.   Including  these
          reserves, the reserve life index is 15.2.

GAS PRICE SWAPS

     From time to time,  the  Company  enters into  natural gas swap  agreements
("price swaps"), a type of derivative  instrument,  with counterparties to hedge
price risk  associated with a portion of the Company's  production.  Under these
price  swaps,  the Company  receives a fixed price  ("fixed  price  swaps") on a
notional  quantity of natural gas in exchange for paying a variable  price based
on a market-based  index, such as the Nymex gas futures.  Notional quantities of
natural gas are used in each price swap, since no physical  exchange or delivery
of natural gas is involved.  During 1998 and 1997,  the Company  entered into no
fixed price swaps to hedge natural gas prices on its  production.  In 1996,  the
prices  received on fixed  price  swaps  ranged from $1.02 to $2.54 per Mmbtu on
total  notional  quantities  of  17,600,000  Mmbtu,  representing  27%  of  1996
production.



     In  addition,  the Company  uses price swaps to hedge the natural gas price
risk on brokered transactions.  Typically,  the Company enters into contracts to
broker natural gas at a variable price based on the market index price. However,
in some circumstances, some of the Company's customers or suppliers request that
a fixed price be stated in the contract.  After  entering into these fixed price
contracts to meet the needs of its customers or  suppliers,  the Company may use
price  swaps  to   effectively   convert   these  fixed   price   contracts   to
market-sensitive  price contracts.  These price swaps are held by the Company to
their maturity and are not held for trading  purposes.  During 1998, the Company
entered  into price swaps with total  notional  quantities  of  2,226,000  Mmbtu
related to its brokered  activities,  representing less than 5% of the Company's
total  volume of brokered  natural gas sold.  A pre-tax loss of $0.3 million was
recorded from these price swaps in 1998. In 1997 and 1996, these price swaps had
total  notional  quantities of 1,416,000  Mmbtu and  1,002,000  Mmbtu related to
brokered transactions, and represented approximately 4% and 3%, respectively, of
the Company's  total volume of brokered  natural gas sold. At December 31, 1998,
the Company had open price swaps with notional quantities of 1,730,000 Mmbtu and
an  unrealized  loss of $0.2  million  on  these  open  contracts.  See Note 11.
Financial Instruments for further discussion.

     The Company is exposed to market risk on these open contracts to the extent
of changes in market prices for natural gas.  However,  the market risk exposure
on these hedged  contracts is  generally  offset by the gain or loss  recognized
upon the ultimate sale of the natural gas that is hedged.

     In June 1998, the Financial  Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting  Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative  Instruments
and Hedging  Activities"  ("SFAS 133").  SFAS 133 requires all derivatives to be
recognized  in  the  statement  of  financial   position  as  either  assets  or
liabilities and measured at fair value. In addition,  all hedging  relationships
must be designated, reassessed and documented pursuant to the provisions of SFAS
133.  This  statement is effective  for  financial  statements  for fiscal years
beginning  after June 15, 1999. The Company has not yet completed its evaluation
of the  impact of the  provisions  from SFAS 133 on its  financial  position  or
operations.

     At December 31,  1998,  the Company had entered into natural gas price swap
contracts that remain open at year end as follows:



YEAR 2000

     Many  computer  systems  have been  built  using  software  that  processes
transactions  using two digits to represent the year. This type of software will
generally  require  modifications to function properly with dates after December
31, 1999.  The same issue applies to  microprocessors  embedded in machinery and
equipment, such as gas compressors and pipeline meters. The impact of failing to
identify and correct this problem could be significant to the Company's  ability
to operate and report  results,  as well as potentially  exposing the Company to
third-party liability.

     The  Company  has begun  making  necessary  modifications  to its  computer
systems and embedded  microprocessors  in preparation  for the Year 2000.  These
projects are on schedule and the Company  believes  that the total related costs
will be approximately $2.1 million, funded by cash from operations or short-term
borrowings,  when  completed  in  1999.  Of the  total  cost,  $1.8  million  is
attributable  to the  purchase  of new  software  and  equipment  which  will be
capitalized.  The remaining  $0.3 million is being  expensed over 1998 and 1999,
and will not have a  material  impact on the  Company's  financial  position  or
operating results.  Actual costs through 1998 were $0.6 million, $0.4 million of
which has been capitalized and $0.2 million of which has been expensed.



     The Company has begun reviewing the compliance of field equipment including
compressor  stations,  gas control  systems  and data  logging  equipment.  Most
equipment   reviewed  was  found  to  be  compliant,   and,   where   necessary,
microprocessor  chip  replacements  are  scheduled  to be  complete in the first
quarter of 1999 at a cost less than $0.1 million.

     Additionally,  the Company is in the process of contacting its  significant
customers and  suppliers in order to determine  the Company's  exposure to their
potential  failure to become Year 2000  compliant.  Although  the Company is not
aware  of any  Year  2000  compliance  problems  with  any of its  customers  or
suppliers,  there can be no guarantee  that the systems of these  companies will
operate without interruption in the new millennium.

     The Company  has formed an  internal  committee  to not only  identify  and
respond to these  issues,  but also to develop a  contingency  plan in the event
that a problem  arises  after the turn of the  century.  Management  expects the
contingency plan to be  substantially  complete by mid 1999.  Additionally,  the
Company  has  engaged  outside  consultants  to review the  Company's  plans and
periodically  update the status of the plan  implementation.  At this time,  the
Company does not  anticipate  that the arrival of the Year 2000 will  materially
impact its financial position or results of operations.

     The  project  costs and  timetable  for Year 2000  compliance  are based on
management's  best estimates.  In developing these  estimates,  assumptions were
made regarding future events including,  among other things, the availability of
certain resources and the continued  cooperation of the Company's  customers and
suppliers. Actual costs and timing may differ from management's estimates due to
unexpected difficulties in obtaining trained personnel,  locating and correcting
relevant computer code and other factors.

CAPITAL AND EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES

     The following  table lists  capital and  exploration  expenditures  for the
three years ended December 31, 1998.


- ----------
     (1)  An  adjustment  to the $40.2 million  non-cash  component  relating to
          deferred  taxes for the  difference  between the tax and book bases of
          the  acquired  properties,  as required by SFAS 109,  "Accounting  for
          Income Taxes",  of the Washington  Energy Resources  Company ("WERCO")
          acquisition  as a result  of the  $8.4  million  valuation  adjustment
          received in 1995.

     (2)  Includes  $45.2  million  in oil  and  gas  properties  acquired  from
          Equitable Resources Energy Company in a like-kind exchange transaction
          with a portion of the assets sold in the Meadville property sale.

     (3)  Includes  $70.1 million in oil and gas  properties  acquired from Oryx
          Energy Company in December 1998.



     The  Company  generally  funds  its  capital  and  exploration  activities,
excluding  major oil and gas property  acquisitions,  with cash  generated  from
operations.  The Company budgets such capital  expenditures based upon projected
cash flows, exclusive of acquisitions.

     Planned  expenditures  for 1999 have been reduced 68%  compared  with 1998,
excluding proved property acquisitions. The Company intends to review and adjust
the capital and exploration expenditures planned for 1999 as industry conditions
dictate.   Currently,   the  Company  projects  $44.9  million  in  capital  and
exploration  expenditures for 1999, including $33.4 million for the drilling and
exploration  program.  The Company plans to drill 29 wells (15.3 net),  compared
with 205 wells (143.7 net) drilled in 1998.

     In addition to the drilling  and  exploration  program,  other 1999 capital
expenditures are planned primarily for lease  acquisitions and for gathering and
pipeline infrastructure maintenance and construction.

     During 1998,  dividends  were paid on the Company's  Common Stock  totaling
$4.0 million and on the 6% convertible  redeemable preferred stock totaling $3.4
million.  The Company has paid  quarterly  Common  Stock  dividends of $0.04 per
share since becoming  publicly traded in 1990. The amount of future dividends is
determined by the Board of Directors and is dependent  upon a number of factors,
including future earnings, financial condition, and capital requirements.

OTHER ISSUES AND CONTINGENCIES

     Corporate Income Tax. The Company  generates tax credits for the production
of certain  qualified  fuels,  including  natural gas produced  from tight sands
formations  and  Devonian  Shale.  The credit for natural gas from a tight sands
formation  ("tight gas  sands")  amounts to $0.52 per Mmbtu for natural gas sold
prior to 2003 from  qualified  wells drilled in 1991 and 1992. A number of wells
drilled in the  Appalachian  Region during 1991 and 1992 qualified for the tight
gas sands tax credit. The credit for natural gas produced from Devonian Shale is
approximately  $1.07 per Mmbtu in 1998. In 1995 and 1996, the Company  completed
three  transactions  to monetize  the value of these tax  credits,  resulting in
revenues  of $2.7  million  in 1998 and  approximately  $11.1  million  over the
remaining  four years.  See Note 13 of the Notes to the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements for further discussion.

     The  Company has  benefited  in the past and may benefit in the future from
the  alternative  minimum tax ("AMT")  relief  granted  under the  Comprehensive
National  Energy  Policy Act of 1992.  The Act  repealed  provisions  of the AMT
requiring a taxpayer's  alternative  minimum  taxable  income to be increased on
account of certain  intangible  drilling costs ("IDC") and percentage  depletion
deductions.  The repeal of these provisions  generally  applies to taxable years
beginning  after 1992. The repeal of the excess IDC  preference  cannot reduce a
taxpayer's  alternative minimum taxable income by more than 40% of the amount of
such income determined without regard to the repeal of such preference.

     Regulations.  The  Company's  operations  are  subject to various  types of
regulation by federal,  state and local authorities.  See "Regulation of Oil and
Natural Gas Production and  Transportation"  and "Environmental  Regulations" in
the Other Business Matters section of Item 1. Business for a discussion of these
regulations.

     Restrictive  Covenants.  The  Company's  ability  to  incur  debt,  to  pay
dividends  on its common  and  preferred  stock,  and to make  certain  types of
investments is subject to certain restrictive covenants in the Company's various
debt  instruments.  Among other  requirements,  the Company's  Revolving  Credit
Agreement and 7.19% Notes specify a minimum  annual  coverage ratio of operating
cash flow to interest  expense for the trailing  four quarters of 2.8 to 1.0. At
December 31, 1998, the calculated ratio for 1998 was 5.4 to 1. In the unforeseen
event that the Company fails to comply with these covenants,  it may apply for a
temporary  waiver with the bank,  which,  if granted,  would allow the Company a
period  of time to remedy  the  situation.  See  further  discussion  in Item 7.
Capital Resources and Liquidity and Note 5. Debt and Credit Agreements.



CONCLUSION

     The Company's financial results depend upon many factors,  particularly the
price of natural gas and its ability to market its  production  on  economically
attractive terms. The realized natural gas sales price decreased 15% compared to
1997, while production  volumes increased less than 1%. As a result, the Company
experienced  a lower level of earnings and  operating  cash flow than its record
highs in 1997. Price volatility in the gas market has remained  prevalent in the
last few years, as demonstrated  most recently in the first and last quarters of
1998 and the  beginning  of 1999,  with monthly  natural gas prices  dropping to
levels  substantially below the prices of the corresponding  months of the prior
year.  Given this continued  price  volatility,  management  cannot predict with
certainty what pricing  levels will be for the rest of 1999 and beyond.  Because
future cash flows and  earnings are subject to such  variables,  there can be no
assurance that the Company's  operations  will provide cash  sufficient to fully
fund its capital  requirements if commodity  prices should become  substantially
more depressed.

     While the Company's 1999 plans include approximately $45 million in capital
spending,  the Company will  periodically  assess  industry  conditions and will
adjust its 1999  spending  plan to ensure the  adequate  funding of its  capital
requirements,  including, among other things, reductions in capital expenditures
or common stock dividends.

     The Company  believes its capital  resources,  supplemented,  if necessary,
with external financing, are adequate to meet its current capital requirements.

     The  preceding   paragraphs  contain   forward-looking   information.   See
Forward-Looking Information on the following page.

                                      * * *

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

     The  statements  regarding  future  financial  performance  and results and
market prices and the other  statements which are not historical facts contained
in this report are forward-looking  statements.  The words "expect,"  "project,"
"estimate,"  "believe,"  "anticipate,"  "intend,"  "budget," "plan," "forecast,"
"predict" and similar expressions are also intended to identify  forward-looking
statements. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties,  including, but not
limited  to,  market   factors,   market  prices   (including   regional   basis
differentials) of natural gas and oil, results for future drilling and marketing
activity,  future  production and costs and other factors detailed herein and in
the Company's other Securities and Exchange  Commission  filings.  Should one or
more  of  these  risks  or  uncertainties  materialize,   or  should  underlying
assumptions  prove  incorrect,  actual  outcomes may vary  materially from those
indicated.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     For the purpose of reviewing  the  Company's  results of  operations,  "Net
Income" is defined as net income available to common stockholders.



SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA



1998 AND 1997 COMPARED

     Net Income and  Revenues.  The Company  reported net income in 1998 of $1.9
million, or $0.08 per share, down $21.3 million, or $0.92 per share, compared to
1997. Net operating  revenue of $159.6  million was down $25.5  million,  or 14%
from  1997.  Natural  gas  sales  of  $138.9  million  accounted  for 87% of net
operating revenue in 1998. The decrease in net operating revenue was a result of
a 15% decline in realized natural gas prices and a 35% reduction in realized oil
prices.  Operating income and net income were similarly impacted by the decrease
in energy  commodity  prices  along with  higher  expenses  attributable  to the
Company's increased exploration program.

     Natural gas  production  volumes  were down 2.6 Bcf, or 10%, to 22.7 Bcf in
the  Appalachian  Region due to the September 1997 sale of producing  properties
located in Northwest  Pennsylvania  (the  "Meadville  properties").  Natural gas
production volumes in the Western Region were up 0.7 Bcf, or 2%, to 30.9 Bcf due
to increases in Rocky Mountains area  production.  This increase was a result of
both the 1997 purchase of oil and gas producing  properties located in the Green
River Basin of Wyoming (the "Green River  properties")  and new wells brought on
line. In the Gulf Coast Region,  natural gas production volumes were up 2.2 Bcf,
or 26%, to 10.6 Bcf due to results of the 1997 and 1998 drilling programs and in
part to the December 1998 purchase of the Southern Louisiana  properties.  While
production increased over 1997 levels, the region did experience drilling delays
and mechanical  failures in a significant  field that deferred  production  into
1999, but left the field's total reserves substantially unchanged.

     The average  natural gas sales  price  decreased  $0.47 per Mcf, or 16%, to
$2.53  in  the  Appalachian   Region,   decreasing  net  operating  revenues  by
approximately  $10.7 million on 22.7 Bcf of production.  In the Western  Region,
the average  natural gas sales price  decreased $0.24 per Mcf, or 11%, to $1.90,
decreasing net operating revenues by $7.4 million on 30.9 Bcf of production. The
average  natural gas sales price in the Gulf Coast  Region  decreased  $0.37 per
Mcf, or 15%, to $2.15,  reducing net  operating  revenue by $3.9 million on 10.6
Bcf of production.  The overall  weighted  average natural gas production  sales
price decreased $0.37 per Mcf, or 15%, to $2.16.

     Crude oil and  condensate  sales  increased by 76 Mbbl, or 13%,  increasing
revenue by $1.5  million  over 1997.  This  increase  was due to new  production
brought on line,  combined with the December  production  of the newly  acquired
Southern  Louisiana  properties.  However,  the 1998  average  crude  oil  price
declined 35%, reducing oil revenue by $4.5 million.



     Brokered  natural gas margin was up $1.4  million to $5.5  million due to a
26% volume increase over 1997, combined with a $0.01 per Mcf increase in the net
margin to $0.13 per Mcf.

     Operating  Expenses.  Total operating expenses increased $11.3 million,  or
9%, to $132.7 million.  In December 1998, the Company  recognized a $0.9 million
reorganization  charge  designed  to  reduce  future  operating  expenses.   The
reorganization charge was comprised of $0.4 million in direct operating expense,
$0.3   million  in   exploration   expense  and  $0.2  million  in  general  and
administrative  expense.  The  reorganization  reduced  the  number  of  Company
employees by 6%. The significant  changes in operating expenses are explained as
follows:

     o    Direct operations expense increased $0.9 million, or 3%, due primarily
          to the $0.4 million direct operations  component of the reorganization
          charge in the fourth quarter and $0.5 million in higher workover costs
          incurred primarily in the Gulf Coast Region.

     o    Exploration  expense increased $5.7 million, or 41%, due to (1) a $1.5
          million  increase in geological  and  geophysical  activity  including
          seismic  data  purchases  and  consulting  fees,  (2) a  $2.3  million
          increase  in dry hole  cost,  resulting  from the  Company's  expanded
          drilling  efforts in the Gulf Coast where wells are generally  drilled
          at higher costs, (3) a $1.4 million increase in exploration personnel-
          related expenses such as salaries, benefits, and relocation associated
          with the increase in the exploration program, and (4) $0.3 million for
          the  exploration  expense  component  of the  reorganization  that was
          expensed in December 1998.

     o    Depreciation, depletion, amortization and impairment expense increased
          $2.1  million,  or 5%,  primarily due to the  amortization  of a lease
          option  purchased  in the second  quarter  of 1998  related to a joint
          venture with UPR in the Gulf Coast Region. Additionally,  this expense
          increased  in part  due to  higher  units  of  production  expense  in
          connection with increased production.

     o    General and  administrative  expense  increased $2.2 million primarily
          due to (1) $0.5  million  due to staffing  increases  in the third and
          fourth   quarters  of  1997,  (2)  $0.7  million  for  non-cash  stock
          compensation for stock awards,  (3) $0.5 million for certain executive
          retirement  and severance  packages  accrued in 1998, (4) $0.3 million
          due to higher  relocation  and travel  expenses,  and (5) $0.2 million
          that was recorded for the general and administrative  component of the
          reorganization in December 1998.

     Interest  expense  increased  $0.6 million,  or 4%, due to higher levels of
debt outstanding on the revolving credit facility.

     Income tax expense was down $14.1 million due to the comparable decrease in
earnings  before  income tax.  Included  in income tax  expense is the  interest
charged by the  Internal  Revenue  Service on a deferred tax gain related to the
monetization of the Section 29 credits. This interest amount was $0.3 million in
1998 and $0.5 million in 1997.

1997 AND 1996 COMPARED

     Net Income and Revenues.  The Company  reported net income in 1997 of $23.2
million, or $1.00 per share, up $10.7 million,  or $0.45 per share,  compared to
1996,  excluding the impact of an income tax refund. The $2.8 million income tax
refund,  or $0.12 per share,  in 1996  related to a $1.8  million tax refund for
percentage  depletion claimed for certain periods prior to 1990 and $1.7 million
of  interest  income  ($1.0  million  after tax)  earned on the  refund  amount.
Excluding these pre-tax effects of the income tax refund,  1997 operating income
and  net  operating   revenues   increased  $15.1  million  and  $22.1  million,
respectively.  Natural  gas  sales  comprised  87%,  or $161.7  million,  of net
operating revenue in 1997. The increase in net operating revenue was a result of
both an 8% increase in the produced natural gas sales price and an 8.5% increase
in  equivalent  production.  Operating  income  and net  income  were  similarly
impacted by the increases in natural gas prices and equivalent  production along
with  lower  depreciation,  depletion  and  amortization  expense  and  interest
expense.



     Effective September 1, 1997, the Company sold the Meadville  properties for
$92.9  million to Lomak  Petroleum  Incorporated  (now known as Range  Resources
Corporation). The properties sold included 912 wells, producing approximately 15
Mmcfe net per day primarily from the Medina formation. A portion of these assets
were  replaced,  in a  like-kind  exchange  transaction,  with the  Green  River
properties purchased for $45.2 million in a transaction with Equitable Resources
Energy Company which closed on October 3, 1997. The purchased  properties  added
an estimated 72 Bcfe of reserves, interests in 63 wells with estimated daily net
production  of 10 Mmcfe  and 74  potential  drilling  locations  to the  Western
Region. This acquisition increased the Company's presence in the Rocky Mountains
area by 46%.

     Natural gas production volumes were down 1.5 Bcf, or 6%, to 25.3 Bcf in the
Appalachian Region as a result of the September sale of the Meadville properties
which were  estimated to have produced 1.7 Bcfe in 1997 after the sale.  Natural
gas production volumes were up 3.1Bcf, or 11%, to 30.2 Bcf in the Western Region
due largely to new  production  from wells  drilled and put on line in the Rocky
Mountains  area during the last half of 1996 and in 1997,  and from the acquired
Green River properties which produced 1.9 Bcfe.  Natural gas production  volumes
were up 3.5 Bcf, or 71%, to 8.4 Bcf in the Gulf Coast  Region due largely to new
production  from wells  drilled and put on line during the last half of 1996 and
in 1997.

     In the Appalachian  Region,  the average natural gas production sales price
increased $0.28 per Mcf, or 10%, to $3.00,  increasing net operating revenues by
approximately $7.1 million on 25.3 Bcf of production. The average Western Region
natural gas  production  sales price  increased  $0.18 per Mcf, or 9%, to $2.14,
increasing net operating  revenues by approximately  $5.4 million on 30.2 Bcf of
production.  In the Gulf Coast Region,  the average natural gas production sales
price  increased  $0.18  per Mcf,  or 8%,  to $2.52,  increasing  net  operating
revenues by  approximately  $1.5 million on 8.4 Bcf of  production.  The overall
weighted  average natural gas production sales price increased $0.19 per Mcf, or
8%, to $2.53.

     Crude oil and condensate sales increased by 54 Mbbl, or 10%,  primarily due
to new production brought on by the higher rate of drilling activity in 1996 and
1997 compared to 1995 levels.

     Brokered  natural  gas margin was down $1.5  million  to $4.1  million  due
primarily  to a $0.03 per Mcf decrease in the net margin to $0.12 per Mcf and in
part to a brokered volume decrease of 8% from 1996.

     Operating Expenses. The total operating expenses increased $5.3 million, or
5%, to $77.9 million. The significant changes are explained as follows:

     o    Direct operation expense increased $1.0 million,  or 4%, due to office
          consolidation  costs in the  Western  Region and the 8.5%  increase in
          equivalent  production.  Direct  operating  costs  per Mcfe  declined,
          however,  from  $0.45 to $0.43  due in part to the sale of the  higher
          cost  Meadville   properties  and  the  addition  of  new  lower  cost
          production.

     o    Exploration  expense  increased  $1.3 million  primarily due to a $0.9
          million rise in geological and geophysical expenses and a $0.3 million
          increase in contract labor services related to the increased  drilling
          and exploration program in 1997.

     o    Depreciation, depletion, amortization and impairment expense decreased
          $1.9 million, or 4%, due to the benefit of the  Meadville/Green  River
          like-kind  exchange  transaction  in the third  quarter and due to the
          decline in the Western Region DD&A rate related to the addition of new
          lower cost production to existing fields.

     o    Taxes other than income  increased  $2.0  million,  or 16%, due to the
          increase in natural gas production revenues.

     o    General and administrative expense increased $2.9 million, or 17%, due
          primarily to higher incentive and stock compensation  expenses related
          to the Company's marked improvement in earnings performance.

     Interest  expense,  excluding  the 1996  income tax refund,  declined  $1.1
million, or 6%, due to a reduction in the Company's long-term debt level.



     Income tax expense,  excluding the $2.8 million refund, was up $5.2 million
due to the  comparable  increase in earnings  before  income tax. The  Company's
effective  tax rate declined  slightly due to a 0.2%  reduction in the effective
state tax rate  combined with a $0.2 million  refund  received on the prior year
percentage depletion claim.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

     The  management  of Cabot  Oil & Gas  Corporation  is  responsible  for the
preparation and integrity of all information contained in the annual report. The
consolidated  financial statements and other financial  information are prepared
in conformity with generally accepted  accounting  principles and,  accordingly,
include certain informed judgments and estimates of management.

     Management  maintains  a  system  of  internal  accounting  and  managerial
controls and engages  internal  audit  representatives  who monitor and test the
operation of these  controls.  Although no system can ensure the  elimination of
all errors and  irregularities,  the system is  designed  to provide  reasonable
assurance that assets are  safeguarded,  transactions are executed in accordance
with  management's   authorization  and  accounting  records  are  reliable  for
financial statement preparation.

     An Audit  Committee of the Board of Directors,  consisting of directors who
are not  employees of the  Company,  meets  periodically  with  management,  the
independent  accountants and internal audit representatives to obtain assurances
to the integrity of the  Company's  accounting  and  financial  reporting and to
affirm the  adequacy  of the system of  accounting  and  managerial  controls in
place. The independent  accountants and internal audit representatives have full
and free access to the Audit Committee to discuss all appropriate matters.

     We  believe  that the  Company's  policies  and  system of  accounting  and
managerial  controls  reasonably  assure the integrity of the information in the
consolidated  financial  statements  and in the  other  sections  of the  annual
report.



                                           Ray Seegmiller
                                           President and Chief Executive Officer


March 3, 1999



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

TO THE STOCKHOLDERS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION:

     In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the related
consolidated statements of operations and stockholders' equity and of cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects,  the financial position of Cabot Oil &
Gas  Corporation  and its  subsidiaries  at December 31, 1998 and 1997,  and the
results of their  operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended  December 31,  1998,  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted
accounting principles.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's  management;  our  responsibility  is to  express  an opinion on these
financial  statements  based on our  audits.  We  conducted  our audits of these
statements  in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing  standards  which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about
whether the financial  statements  are free of material  misstatement.  An audit
includes  examining,  on a test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures in the financial  statements,  assessing the  accounting  principles
used and  significant  estimates made by management,  and evaluating the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.



                                                   PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Houston, Texas
February 26, 1999



CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS

- ----------
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.



CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

- ----------
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.



CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS


- ----------
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.



CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

- ----------
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.



CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

     Cabot  Oil & Gas  Corporation  and its  subsidiaries  (the  "Company")  are
engaged in the exploration, development, production and marketing of natural gas
and, to a lesser  extent,  crude oil and natural gas  liquids.  The Company also
transports,  stores,  gathers and purchases natural gas for resale.  The Company
operates in one segment, natural gas and oil exploration and exploitation.

     The consolidated  financial  statements contain the accounts of the Company
after eliminating all significant intercompany balances and transactions.

PIPELINE EXCHANGES

     Natural gas gathering and pipeline  operations  normally  include  exchange
arrangements with customers and suppliers.  The volumes of natural gas due to or
from the Company under exchange  agreements  are recorded at average  selling or
purchase prices,  as the case may be, and are adjusted monthly to reflect market
changes.  The net value of exchanged  natural gas is included in  inventories in
the consolidated balance sheet.

PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

     The Company uses the  successful  efforts  method of accounting for oil and
gas producing  activities.  Under this method,  acquisition costs for proved and
unproved properties are capitalized when incurred.  Exploration costs, including
geological and geophysical  costs, the costs of carrying and retaining  unproved
properties and exploratory dry hole drilling  costs,  are expensed.  Development
costs,  including the costs to drill and equip development wells, and successful
exploratory drilling costs to locate proved reserves, are capitalized.

     The  impairment of  unamortized  capital costs is measured at a lease level
and is reduced to fair value if it is determined that the sum of expected future
net cash flows is less than the net book  value.  The Company  determines  if an
impairment has occurred through either adverse changes or a review of all fields
each year.

     Capitalized  costs of  proved  oil and gas  properties,  after  considering
estimated  dismantlement,  restoration and abandonment  costs,  net of estimated
salvage  values,   are  depreciated  and  depleted  on  a  field  basis  by  the
unit-of-production method using proved developed reserves. The costs of unproved
oil and gas properties  are generally  combined and amortized over a period that
is based on the average  holding  period for such  properties  and the Company's
experience of successful drilling.  Properties related to gathering and pipeline
systems and equipment are depreciated  using the  straight-line  method based on
estimated  useful lives  ranging from 10 to 25 years.  Certain  other assets are
also depreciated on a straight-line basis.

     Future  estimated plug and abandonment  cost is accrued over the productive
life of the oil and gas properties on a units of production  basis.  The accrued
liability for plug and abandonment cost is included in accumulated depreciation,
depletion and amortization.

     Costs of retired, sold or abandoned properties,  which make up a part of an
amortization  base,  are  charged to  accumulated  depreciation,  depletion  and
amortization.  Accordingly,  a gain or loss, if any, is  recognized  only when a
group of proved properties (or field),  that make up the amortization  base, has
been retired, abandoned or sold.

REVENUE RECOGNITION AND GAS IMBALANCES

     The Company applies the sales method of accounting for natural gas revenue.
Under this method, revenues are recognized based on the actual volume of natural
gas sold to  purchasers.  Natural gas  production  operations  may include joint
owners who take more or less than the  production  volumes  entitled  to them on
certain properties. Production volume is monitored to minimize these natural gas
imbalances.  A natural gas imbalance  liability is recorded in other liabilities
in the  consolidated  balance sheet if the Company's excess takes of natural gas
exceed its estimated remaining recoverable reserves for these properties.



INCOME TAXES

     The Company follows the asset and liability method of accounting for income
taxes.  Under this method,  deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for
the estimated  future tax consequences  attributable to the differences  between
the financial  carrying  amounts of existing  assets and  liabilities  and their
respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the
tax rate in  effect  for the  year in  which  those  temporary  differences  are
expected to turn  around.  The effect of a change in tax rates on  deferred  tax
assets and liabilities is recognized in the year of the enacted rate change.

NATURAL GAS MEASUREMENT

     The Company records  estimated amounts for natural gas revenues and natural
gas purchase costs based on volumetric  calculations under its natural gas sales
and purchase contracts. Variances or imbalances resulting from such calculations
are  inherent  in natural gas sales,  production,  operation,  measurement,  and
administration.  Management does not believe that differences between actual and
estimated natural gas revenues or purchase costs  attributable to the unresolved
variances or imbalances are material.

ACCOUNTS PAYABLE

     This account includes credit balances to the extent that checks issued have
not been  presented to the  Company's  bank for payment.  These credit  balances
included in accounts payable were approximately $9.1 million and $5.5 million at
December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES

     From time to time, the Company enters into  derivative  contracts,  such as
natural gas price swaps,  as a hedging  strategy to manage  commodity price risk
associated with its inventories,  production or other  contractual  commitments.
Gains or losses on these hedging  activities are generally  recognized  over the
period that the inventory,  production or other underlying  commitment is hedged
as on  offset  to the  specific  hedged  item.  The cash  flows  related  to any
recognized  gains or losses  associated  with these  hedges are reported as cash
flows from operations.  If the hedge is terminated  prior to expected  maturity,
gains or losses are  deferred and included in income in the same period that the
underlying production or other contractual  commitment is delivered.  Unrealized
gains or losses associated with any derivative  contracts not considered a hedge
are recognized currently in the results of operations.

     A derivative  instrument qualifies as a hedge if: (1) the item to be hedged
exposes the Company to price risk; (2) the derivative  reduces the risk exposure
and is  designated  as a hedge at the time the  derivative  contract  is entered
into;  and (3) at the  inception  of the hedge and  throughout  the hedge period
there is a high correlation of the changes in the market value of the derivative
instrument and the fair value of the underlying item being hedged.

     When the designated item associated with a derivative  instrument  matures,
is sold,  extinguished or terminated,  derivative gains or losses are recognized
as part of the gain or loss on the sale or  settlement of the  underlying  item.
When a derivative instrument is associated with an anticipated  transaction that
is no longer  expected to occur or if correlation no longer exists,  the gain or
loss on the  derivative is recognized  currently in the results of operations to
the extent the market value  changes in the  derivative  have not been offset by
the effects of the price  changes on the hedged item since the  inception of the
hedge. See Note 11. Financial Instruments for further discussion.

     In June 1998, the Financial  Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting  Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative  Instruments
and Hedging  Activities"  ("SFAS 133").  SFAS 133 requires all derivatives to be
recognized  in  the  statement  of  financial   position  as  either  assets  or
liabilities and measured at fair value. In addition,  all hedging  relationships
must be designated, reassessed and documented pursuant to the provisions of SFAS
133.  This  statement is effective  for  financial  statements  for fiscal years
beginning  after June 15, 1999. The Company has not yet completed its evaluation
of the  impact of the  provisions  from SFAS 133 on its  financial  position  or
operations.



CASH EQUIVALENTS

     The  Company  considers  all  highly  liquid  short-term  investments  with
original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.  At December
31, 1998 and 1997, the majority of cash and cash  equivalents is concentrated in
one  financial  institution.  The Company  periodically  assesses the  financial
condition  of the  institution  and believes  that any  possible  credit risk is
minimal.

USE OF ESTIMATES

     Preparing  financial   statements  that  conform  with  generally  accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets  and  liabilities  and  disclosure  of
contingent  assets and  liabilities at the date of the financial  statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting  period.  The
Company's most significant financial estimates are based on the remaining proved
oil and gas reserves (see Supplemental Oil and Gas Information).  Actual results
could differ from those estimates.

2. PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

    Properties and equipment are comprised of the following:


     As a component of  accumulated  depreciation,  depletion and  amortization,
total future plug and abandonment cost,  accrued on a units of production basis,
was $11.6 million and $13.1 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
The Company  believes  that this  accrual  method  adequately  provides  for its
estimated  future plug and abandonment cost over the reserve life of the oil and
gas properties.



3. ADDITIONAL BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION

     Certain balance sheet amounts are comprised of the following:


4. INVENTORIES

     Inventories are comprised of the following:




5. DEBT AND CREDIT AGREEMENTS

10.18% NOTES

     In May 1990,  the  Company  issued  an  aggregate  principal  amount of $80
million of its  12-year  10.18%  Notes (the  "10.18%  Notes") to a group of nine
institutional  investors  in a private  placement  offering.  The  10.18%  Notes
require five annual $16 million  principal  payments  each May starting in 1998.
The payment due in May 1999,  classified as "Current Portion of Long-Term Debt",
is a current liability on the Company's  Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company
may prepay all or any portion of the debt at any time with a prepayment penalty.
The  10.18%  Notes  contain  restrictions  on the  merger of the  Company or any
subsidiary with a third party except under certain limited conditions. There are
also  various  other  restrictive  covenants  customarily  found  in  such  debt
instruments,  including a restriction on the payment of dividends and a required
asset  coverage  ratio  (present  value of  proved  reserves  to debt and  other
liabilities) that must be at least 1.5 to 1.0.

7.19% NOTES

     In November 1997, the Company issued an aggregate  principal amount of $100
million  of its  12-year  7.19%  Notes  (the  "7.19%  Notes")  to a group of six
institutional investors in a private placement offering. The 7.19% Notes require
five annual $20 million  principal  payments  starting  in  November  2005.  The
Company  may prepay all or any  portion of the  indebtedness  on any date with a
prepayment  penalty.  The 7.19% Notes contain  restrictions on the merger of the
Company or any  subsidiary  with a third party other than under certain  limited
conditions. There are also various other restrictive covenants customarily found
in such debt  instruments,  including a required  asset  coverage ratio (present
value of proved  reserves to debt and other  liabilities)  that must be at least
1.5 to 1.0;  and a  minimum  annual  coverage  ratio of  operating  cash flow to
interest expense for the trailing four quarters of 2.8 to 1.0.

REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT

     In November 1998, the Company  replaced its $135 million  Revolving  Credit
Agreement  that  utilized  five banks with a new $250 million  Revolving  Credit
Agreement  (the  "Credit  Facility")  with ten  banks.  The  term of the  credit
facility is five years and expires on December 17, 2003.  The  available  credit
line is subject to adjustment  from  time-to-time  on the basis of the projected
present  value (as  determined  by the banks'  petroleum  engineer) of estimated
future net cash flows from certain  proved oil and gas reserves and other assets
of the  Company.  While the  Company  does not expect a change in the  available
credit line,  in the event that it is adjusted  below the  outstanding  level of
borrowings,  the Company has a period of 180 days to reduce its outstanding debt
to the adjusted  credit line.  The Revolving  Credit  Agreement  also includes a
requirement  to pay down half of the debt in excess of the adjusted  credit line
within the first 90 days of such an adjustment.  Interest rates are  principally
based on a reference  rate of either the rate for  certificates  of deposit ("CD
rate")  or  LIBOR,  plus a  margin,  or the  prime  rate.  For CD rate and LIBOR
borrowings, interest rates are subject to increase if the indebtedness under the
Credit Facility is either greater than 60% or 80% of the Company's debt limit of
$400 million, as shown below.



     The Credit Facility  provides for a commitment fee on the unused  available
balance  at an  annual  rate 1/4 of 1% and 3/8 of 1%  depending  on the level of
indebtedness as indicated above. The Company's  effective interest rates for the
Credit  Facility in the years ended December 31, 1998,  1997 and 1996 were 6.8%,
6.6% and 6.6%,  respectively.  The Credit Facility  contains  various  customary
restrictions,  including  (i)  prohibiting  the  merger  of the  Company  or any
subsidiary  with a third party except under  certain  limited  conditions,  (ii)
prohibiting  the  sale  of all or  substantially  all  of the  Company's  or any
subsidiary's  assets to a third  party,  and (iii)  requiring  a minimum  annual
coverage ratio of operating cash flow to interest  expense for the trailing four
quarters of 2.8 to 1.0.



6. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

PENSION PLAN

     The Company has a  non-contributory,  defined  benefit pension plan for all
full-time  employees.  Plan benefits are based primarily on years of service and
salary level near  retirement.  Plan assets are mainly fixed income  investments
and equity securities.  The Company complies with the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 and  Internal  Revenue  Code  limitations  when funding the
plan.

     The Company has a  non-qualified  equalization  plan to ensure  payments to
certain  executive  officers of amounts to which they are already entitled under
the provisions of the pension plan, but which are subject to limitations imposed
by federal tax laws. This plan is unfunded.

     Net periodic  pension cost of the Company for the years ended  December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996 are comprised of the following:



     The following table  illustrates the funded status of the Company's pension
plans at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively:





     In February 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 132, Employers' Disclosures about Pensions
and Other  Postretirement  Benefits  ("SFAS 132").  The Company has adopted this
statement  effective  December 31, 1998.  SFAS 132  standardizes  the disclosure
requirements for pensions and other postretirement  benefits as contained below.
This is a  presentation  requirement  only and does  not have an  effect  on the
financial position or operating results of the Company.

     The change in the combined  projected  benefit  obligation of the Company's
qualified  and  non-qualified  pension  plans  during  the last  three  years is
explained as follows:



     The  change in the  combined  plan  assets at fair  value of the  Company's
qualified  and  non-qualified  pension  plans  during  the last  three  years is
explained as follows:



     The reconciliation of the combined funded status of the Company's qualified
and non-qualified  pension plans at the end of the last three years is explained
as follows:





     Assumptions used to determine benefit  obligations and pension costs are as
follows:


- ----------

(1)  Represents  the rate  used to  determine  the  benefit  obligation.  A 7.5%
     discount rate was used to compute pension costs.

SAVINGS INVESTMENT PLAN

     The Company has a Savings  Investment  Plan (the "SIP")  which is a defined
contribution  plan. The Company  matches a portion of employees'  contributions.
Participation  in the SIP is voluntary and all regular  employees of the Company
are eligible to participate.  The Company charged to expense plan  contributions
of $0.8  million,  $0.6  million  and  $0.6  million  in 1998,  1997  and  1996,
respectively. The Company's Common Stock is an investment option within the SIP.

DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

     In 1998, the Company established a deferred compensation plan. This plan is
available  to officers of the  Company and acts as a  supplement  to the savings
investment  plan. The Company  matches a portion of the employee's  contribution
and those assets are invested in  instruments  selected by the employee.  Unlike
the SIP,  the  deferred  compensation  plan does not have  dollar  limits on tax
deferred  contributions.  However,  the  assets of this plan are held in a rabbi
trust and are subject to  additional  risk of loss in the event of bankruptcy or
insolvency  of the  Company.  At  December  31,  1998,  the  balance in deferred
compensation plan's rabbi trust was $0.9 million.

POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS

     In addition to providing  pension  benefits,  the Company  provides certain
health care and life insurance benefits ("postretirement  benefits") for retired
employees,  including their spouses,  eligible  dependents and surviving spouses
("retirees").  Most  employees  become  eligible for these benefits if they meet
certain age and service  requirements  at retirement.  The Company was providing
postretirement  benefits to 251 retirees and 259 retirees at the end of 1998 and
1997, respectively.

     When  the   Company   adopted   SFAS  106,   "Employers'   Accounting   for
Postretirement  Benefits Other Than Pensions",  in 1992, it began amortizing the
$16.9 million accumulated  postretirement benefit (the "Transition  Obligation")
over a period of 20 years.

     The amortization benefit of the unrecognized Transition Obligation in 1998,
1997 and 1996, presented in the table below, is due to a cost-cutting  amendment
to the  postretirement  medical  benefits in 1993.  The amendment  prospectively
reduced the unrecognized Transition Obligation by $9.8 million and was amortized
over a 5.75 year period beginning in 1993 and ending in 1998.

     Postretirement  benefit costs  recognized  in the years ended  December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996 are as follows:





     The health care cost trend rate used to measure the  expected  cost in 1998
for medical  benefits to retirees  over age 65 was 8.1%,  graded down to a trend
rate of 0% in 2001. The health care cost trend rate used to measure the expected
cost in 1998 for retirees under age 65 was 8.2%,  graded down to a trend rate of
0% in 2001.  Provisions of the plan should prevent further increases in employer
cost after 2001.

     The weighted average discount rate used to determine the actuarial  present
value of the  benefit  obligation  was  7.0% at  December  31,  1998 and 7.5% at
December 31, 1997.

     A one-percentage-point  increase in health care cost trend rates for future
periods would increase the accumulated net postretirement  benefit obligation by
approximately $105 thousand and, accordingly,  the total postretirement  benefit
cost recognized in 1998 would have also increased by approximately $12 thousand.
Similarly, a  one-percentage-point  decrease in health care cost trend rates for
future  periods  would  decrease  the  accumulated  net  postretirement  benefit
obligation  by  approximately   $144  thousand  and,   accordingly,   the  total
postretirement  benefit  cost  recognized  in 1998 would have also  decreased by
approximately $13 thousand.

     The funded status of the  Company's  postretirement  benefit  obligation at
December 31, 1998 and 1997 is comprised of the following:



     The change in the accumulated  postretirement benefit obligation during the
last three years is explained as follows:





7. INCOME TAXES

     Income tax expense (benefit) is summarized as follows:



     Total income taxes were different than the amounts computed by applying the
statutory federal income tax rate as follows:



     Income taxes for the year ended  December  31, 1996 were  decreased by $1.8
million  due to a federal  income  tax  refund  in  connection  with  percentage
depletion  claimed in certain  periods prior to the  Company's IPO in 1990.  The
Company also  received $1.7 million of interest  income in  connection  with the
income tax refund.

     The tax effects of  temporary  differences  that  resulted  in  significant
portions of the deferred tax  liabilities and deferred tax assets as of December
31, 1998 and 1997 were as follows:


- ----------
(1)  The 1998 amount  includes  the effect of $2.7 million in income tax refunds
     received in 1998 that applied to a net operating loss carryback to 1992 and
     an overpayment of 1997 federal income tax.
(2)  As a result of the monetization of Section 29 tax credits in 1996 and 1995,
     the  Company  recorded an asset sale for tax  purposes  in  exchange  for a
     long-term  note  receivable  which will be repaid  through 100% working and
     royalty interest in the production from the sold properties.



     At December 31, 1998, the Company has a net operating loss carryforward for
regular income tax reporting  purposes of $64.2 million that will begin expiring
in 2011.  In  addition,  the  Company  has an  alternative  minimum  tax  credit
carryforward  of $7.2  million  which  does not expire and can be used to offset
regular  income taxes in future  years to the extent that  regular  income taxes
exceed the alternative minimum tax in any year.

8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

LEASE COMMITMENTS

     The Company leases certain transportation  vehicles,  warehouse facilities,
office space and machinery and equipment  under  cancelable  and  non-cancelable
leases.  Most of the leases  expire  within five years and may be renewed.  Rent
expense  under such  arrangements  totaled $4.3  million,  $4.1 million and $4.8
million for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996,  respectively.  In
1998, the Company  entered into a ten-year  lease  agreement for office space in
Houston, Texas intended to house the corporate offices and the Gulf Coast Region
offices.  This new office space is currently under  construction and the Company
expects  to begin  leasing  the  space in mid to late  1999.  The  lease for the
existing office space will expire in the fourth quarter of 1999.

     Future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable  leases in effect at
December 31, 1998 are as follows:

        

Minimum rental  commitments are not reduced by minimum sublease rental income of
$1.4 million due in the future under non-cancelable subleases.

CONTINGENCIES

     The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits and is involved in other gas
contract issues. In the Company's  opinion,  final judgments or settlements,  if
any, which may be awarded in connection  with any one or more of these suits and
claims could have a  significant  impact on the results of  operations  and cash
flows of any period.  However,  there would not be a material  adverse effect on
the Company's financial position.

9.  CASH FLOW INFORMATION

     Cash paid for interest and income taxes is as follows:



     At  December  31,  1998 and  1997,  the  Accounts  Payable  balance  on the
Consolidated  Balance Sheet included payables for capital  expenditures of $20.2
million and $12.9 million, respectively.



10.  CAPITAL STOCK

INCENTIVE PLANS

     On May 12, 1998, the Amended and Restated 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan and
the Amended and  Restated  1994  Non-Employee  Director  Stock  Option Plan were
approved by the shareholders. The Company has two other stock option plans - the
1990 Incentive Stock Option Plan and the 1990 Non-Employee Director Stock Option
Plan.   Under  these  four  plans  (the   "Incentive   Plans"),   incentive  and
non-statutory stock options, stock appreciation rights ("SARs") and stock awards
may be granted to key employees and officers of the Company,  and  non-statutory
stock options may be granted to non-employee directors of the Company. A maximum
of 3,860,000  shares of Common Stock,  par value $0.10 per share,  may be issued
under the Incentive  Plans. All stock options have a maximum term of five or ten
years from the date of grant,  with most  vesting  over time.  The  options  are
issued at market  value on the date of grant.  The minimum  exercise  period for
stock  options is six months from the date of grant.  No SARs have been  granted
under the Incentive Plans.

     Information regarding the Company's Incentive Plans is summarized below:



     Under  the  Amended  and  Restated  1994  Long-Term   Incentive  Plan,  the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors may grant awards of performance
shares of stock to  members of the  executive  management  group.  Each grant of
performance shares has a three-year  performance period,  measured as the change
from  July 1 of the  initial  year of the  performance  period to June 30 of the
third  year.  The number of shares of Common  Stock  received  at the end of the
performance  period is based mainly on the relative  stock price growth  between
the two  measurement  dates of Common Stock  compared to that of a group of peer
companies.  The performance  shares that were granted on July 1, 1994 expired on
June 30, 1997  without  issuing  any Common  Stock of the  Company.  Performance
shares  granted in July 1995 were  converted to 21,692  shares of the  Company's
Common Stock in 1998.  Performance  shares granted in July 1996 may be converted
to shares of Common Stock,  depending upon the Company's relative performance to
the peer group measured on June 30, 1999.

     Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards ("SFAS") No. 123, "Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation",  outlines a fair value based method of accounting
for stock  options or  similar  equity  instruments.  The  Company  has opted to
continue  using the intrinsic  value based method,  as recommended by Accounting
Principles  Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, to measure  compensation  cost for its
stock option plans.

     If the Company had adopted  SFAS 123, the pro forma  results of  operations
would be net income of $1.6 million, $22.9 million and $14.8 million, or $0.06 ,
$0.98 and $0.65 per share, in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  Under the fair
value based method,  the weighted  average fair values of options granted during
1998, 1997 and 1996 were $6.21, $4.26 and $5.51, respectively. The fair value of
stock options was calculated using a Black-Scholes  stock option valuation model
with the following  weighted  average  assumptions  for grants in 1998, 1997 and
1996: stock price volatility of 26.1, 27.8 and 25.9 percent, respectively;  risk
free rate of return of 5.63, 6.34 and 6.24 percent, respectively;  dividend rate
of $0.16 per year;  and an expected term of three to four years.  The fair value
of stock  options  included in the pro forma results for each of the three years
is not  necessarily  indicative of future effects on net income and earnings per
share.



DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

     The Board of Directors of the Company  determines the amount of future cash
dividends,  if any, to be declared  and paid on the Common Stock  depending  on,
among other things, the Company's  financial  condition,  funds from operations,
the level of its capital and exploration  expenditures,  and its future business
prospects.  The  Company's  10.18% Note  Agreement  restricts  certain  payments
("Restricted  Payments," as defined in the Note  Agreement)  associated with (i)
purchasing,  redeeming, retiring or otherwise acquiring any capital stock of the
Company or any option,  warrant or other right to acquire such capital  stock or
(ii) declaring any dividend,  if immediately  prior to or after making payments,
the dividend  exceeds  consolidated  net cash flow (as defined) and the ratio of
proved  reserves  to debt is less  than 1.7 to 1, or there  has been an event of
default under the Note Agreement.  As of December 31, 1998,  these  restrictions
did not impact on the Company's ability to pay regular dividends. The 7.19% Note
Agreement issued in 1997 does not have a restricted payment provision.

TREASURY STOCK

     In August 1998, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase
up to two million  shares of  outstanding  Common  Stock at market  prices.  The
timing and amount of these stock  purchases are  determined at the discretion of
management.   The  Company  may  use  the  repurchased   shares  to  fund  stock
compensation  programs presently in existence,  or for other corporate purposes.
As of December 31, 1998, the Company had repurchased  302,600 shares,  or 15% of
the total authorized  number of shares,  for a total cost of approximately  $4.4
million.  The  stock  repurchase  plan  was  funded  with  cash  from  increased
borrowings on the revolving credit  facility.  No treasury shares were delivered
or sold by the Company during the year.

PURCHASE RIGHTS

     On January 21, 1991,  the Board of Directors  adopted the  Preferred  Stock
Purchase Rights Plan and declared a dividend  distribution of one right for each
outstanding share of Common Stock. Each right becomes exercisable, at a price of
$55,  when any person or group has  acquired,  obtained  the right to acquire or
made a tender or exchange offer for  beneficial  ownership of 15 percent or more
of the  Company's  outstanding  Common  Stock.  An exception to the right occurs
following a tender or exchange offer for all outstanding  shares of Common Stock
determined  to be  fair  and in  the  best  interests  of the  Company  and  its
stockholders by a majority of the independent  Continuing  Directors (as defined
in the plan). Each right entitles the holder, other than the acquiring person or
group, to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred  Stock  ("Junior  Preferred  Stock"),  or to  receive,  after  certain
triggering  events,  Common  Stock or other  property  having a market value (as
defined  in the plan) of twice the  exercise  price of each  right.  The  rights
become  exercisable  if the Company is  acquired  in a merger or other  business
combination  in  which  it is not the  survivor,  or 50  percent  or more of the
Company's  assets or  earning  power are sold or  transferred.  Once it  becomes
exercisable,  each right  entitles  the holder to purchase  common  stock of the
acquiring  company  with a market  value (as defined in the plan) equal to twice
the exercise price of each right.  At December 31, 1998 and 1997,  there were no
shares of Junior Preferred Stock issued.

     The rights,  which expire on January 21, 2001,  and the exercise  price are
subject to adjustment  and may be redeemed by the Company for $0.01 per right at
any time  before they  become  exercisable.  Under  certain  circumstances,  the
Continuing  Directors  may opt to  exchange  one share of Common  Stock for each
exercisable right.

PREFERRED STOCK

     At  December  31,  1998  and  1997,  1,134,000  shares  of  6%  convertible
redeemable  preferred stock ("6% preferred  stock") were issued and outstanding.
Each share has voting rights equal to  approximately  1.7 shares of Common Stock
and a stated value of $50. At any time,  the stock is  convertible by the holder
into  Common  Stock at a  conversion  price of $28.75  per  share.  While the 6%
preferred  stock  does  not  have  a  mandatory  redemption  requirement,  it is
redeemable,  starting  after May 1, 1998, at the Company's  option  ("redemption
option"). During the first year of the redemption option, the Company may redeem
the 6%  preferred  stock at $50 per  share,  payable in Common  Stock,  using an
average  market  price of the Common Stock for a 30 day period as defined in the
agreement,  plus a cash  payment  for the  accrued  dividends  due on the shares
redeemed.  After  the first  year of the  redemption  option,  the $50 per share
redemption  price is payable in cash, plus a cash payment for accrued  dividends
due on the shares redeemed.




     Prior to the  Company  converting  these  shares into  1,648,664  shares of
Common Stock in October 1997,  692,439 shares of the Company's $3.125 cumulative
convertible   preferred  stock  ("$3.125   preferred  stock")  were  issued  and
outstanding.  Each share had a stated  value of $50 and could be  converted  any
time by the holder into  Common  Stock at a  conversion  price of $21 per share.
While there was no  mandatory  requirement,  these shares could also be redeemed
under certain provisions and fixed redemption prices. The Company had the option
to convert the $3.125  preferred stock into shares of Common Stock valued at the
conversion  price if the closing price of the Common Stock was at least equal to
the conversion price for 20 consecutive trading days.

11. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The estimated  fair value of financial  instruments  is the amount at which
the  instrument  could be  exchanged  currently  between  willing  parties.  The
carrying amounts  reported in the  consolidated  balance sheet for cash and cash
equivalents,  accounts receivable,  and accounts payable approximate fair value.
The  Company  uses  available  marketing  data and  valuation  methodologies  to
estimate fair value of debt.



LONG-TERM DEBT

     The fair value of long-term debt is the estimated cost to acquire the debt,
including a premium or discount  for the  difference  between the issue rate and
the year-end market rate. The fair value of the 10.18% Notes and the 7.19% Notes
is based on  interest  rates  currently  available  to the  Company.  The Credit
Facility approximates fair value because this instrument bears interest at rates
based on current market rates.

GAS PRICE SWAPS

     From time to time,  the  Company  enters into  natural gas swap  agreements
("price swaps"), a type of derivative  instrument,  with counterparties to hedge
price risk  associated with a portion of the Company's  production.  Under these
price  swaps,  the Company  receives a fixed price  ("fixed  price  swaps") on a
notional  quantity of natural gas in exchange for paying a variable  price based
on a market-based  index, such as the Nymex gas futures.  Notional quantities of
natural gas are used in each price swap, since no physical  exchange or delivery
of natural gas is involved.  During 1998 and 1997,  the Company  entered into no
fixed price swaps to hedge natural gas prices on its  production.  In 1996,  the
prices  received on fixed  price  swaps  ranged from $1.02 to $2.54 per Mmbtu on
total  notional  quantities  of  17,600,000  Mmbtu,  representing  27%  of  1996
production.



     In  addition,  the Company  uses price swaps to hedge the natural gas price
risk on brokered transactions.  Typically,  the Company enters into contracts to
broker natural gas at a variable price based on the market index price. However,
in some circumstances, some of the Company's customers or suppliers request that
a fixed price be stated in the contract.  After  entering into these fixed price
contracts to meet the needs of its customers or  suppliers,  the Company may use
price  swaps  to   effectively   convert   these  fixed   price   contracts   to
market-sensitive  price contracts.  These price swaps are held by the Company to
their maturity and are not held for trading  purposes.  During 1998, the Company
entered  into price swaps with total  notional  quantities  of  2,226,000  Mmbtu
related to its brokered  activities,  representing less than 5% of the Company's
total  volume of brokered  natural gas sold.  A pre-tax loss of $0.3 million was
recorded from these price swaps in 1998. In 1997 and 1996, these price swaps had
total  notional  quantities of 1,416,000  Mmbtu and  1,002,000  Mmbtu related to
brokered transactions, and represented approximately 4% and 3%, respectively, of
the Company's  total volume of brokered  natural gas sold. At December 31, 1998,
the Company had open price swaps with notional quantities of 1,730,000 Mmbtu and
an unrealized loss of $0.2 million on these open contracts.

     The  estimated  fair value of price swaps in the table above are for hedged
transactions  in which gains or losses are  recognized  in results of operations
over the periods that production or purchased gas is hedged. See Risk Management
Activities under Note 1 and the Capital  Resources and Liquidity section of Item
7.

     The Company is exposed to market risk on these open contracts to the extent
of changes in market prices for natural gas.  However,  the market risk exposure
on these hedged  contracts is  generally  offset by the gain or loss  recognized
upon the ultimate sale of the natural gas that is hedged.

CREDIT RISK

     Although  notional  contract  amounts  are used to  express  the  volume of
natural gas price agreements,  the amounts that can be subject to credit risk in
the event of  non-performance  by third parties are substantially  smaller.  The
Company does not anticipate any material impact on its financial  results due to
non-performance by the third parties.

12. OIL AND GAS PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS

     The Company  acquired oil and gas producing  properties in Oklahoma  during
the second  quarter of 1998 for $6.6 million.  Included in the purchase were 9.3
Bcfe of proved reserves, ten wells and undeveloped acreage.

     In the fourth quarter of 1998, the Company  purchased oil and gas producing
properties  in the  Lookout  Wash Unit of Wyoming  from Oxy USA,  Inc.  for $5.2
million.  The properties acquired included 11.2 Bcfe of proved reserves and more
than ten potential drilling locations.

     Effective   December  1,  1998,  the  Company  purchased  onshore  Southern
Louisiana  properties  and 3-D seismic  inventory  from Oryx Energy  Company for
approximately  $70.1 million.  The purchased assets included ten fields covering
over  34,000  net acres with 68  producing  wells.  Total  proved  reserves  are
approximately  72 Bcfe.  This  transaction  was  funded by the  Company's  newly
expanded  revolving  line of credit.  See  discussion in Note 5. Debt and Credit
Agreements.

     In the fourth  quarter  of 1997,  the  Company  closed  two  notable  asset
transactions. Properties in Northwest Pennsylvania (the "Meadville properties"),
including  912 wells and 15 Mmcfed of  production  were sold to Lomak  Petroleum
Incorporated (now known as Range Resources  Corporation) for $92.9 million. In a
like-kind exchange  transaction,  the Company matched a portion of the Meadville
properties  sold  with  approximately  $45  million  in oil  and  gas  producing
properties acquired from Equitable Resources Energy Company,  including 63 wells
and 10 Mmcfed of production.

     The Company sold various non-core oil and gas properties in the Appalachian
Region for $4.6 million in 1996.



13. OTHER REVENUE

     The Company completed two transactions in September and November 1995 and a
third transaction in August 1996 to monetize the value of Section 29 tax credits
from most of its  qualifying  Appalachian  and Rocky  Mountain  properties.  The
transactions  provided up-front cash of $2.8 million in 1995 and $0.6 million in
1996.  This income was  recorded as a reduction to the net book value of natural
gas properties.  Revenue from these  transactions was $2.7 million in 1998, $3.6
million in 1997 and $3.4  million in 1996.  These  transactions  are expected to
generate additional future revenues through 2002 of $11.1 million related to the
value of future Section 29 tax credits attributable to these properties. Using a
volumetric production payment structure, the production,  revenues, expenses and
proved reserves for these properties will continue to be reported by the Company
as Other Revenue until the production payment is satisfied.

14. SUPPLEMENTAL FULL COST ACCOUNTING INFORMATION

     U.S.  oil and gas  producing  entities  may  utilize  one of two methods of
financial  accounting:  successful  efforts  or full  cost.  Given  the  current
composition  of the Company's  properties,  management  considers the successful
efforts  method  to be more  appropriate  than the full  cost  method  primarily
because the successful  efforts method results in moderately  better matching of
costs and revenues. It has come to management's  attention that certain users of
the Company's  financial  statements  believe that information about the Company
prepared  under the full cost  method  would  also be useful.  As a result,  the
following supplemental full cost information is also included.

     Successful  efforts   methodology  is  explained  in  Note  1.  Summary  of
Significant Accounting Policies.

     Under  the full cost  method  of  accounting,  all  costs  incurred  in the
acquisition,   exploration  and  development  of  oil  and  gas  properties  are
capitalized.  These  capitalized  costs and  estimated  future  development  and
dismantlement costs are amortized on a unit-of-production method based on proved
reserves.  Net  capitalized  costs of oil and gas  properties are limited to the
lower of  unamortized  cost or the cost  center  ceiling,  defined  as:  (1) the
present value (10% discount rate) of estimated  unescalated  future net revenues
from proved reserves, plus (2) the cost of properties not being amortized,  plus
(3) the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in
the costs  being  amortized,  minus (4) the  deferred  tax  liabilities  for the
temporary  differences between the book and tax basis of oil and gas properties.
Proceeds from the sale of oil and gas properties are applied to reduce the costs
in the cost center unless the sale  involves a significant  quantity of reserves
in  relation to the cost  center.  In this case,  a gain or loss is  recognized.
Unevaluated  properties and associated  costs not currently  being amortized and
included in oil and gas  properties  totaled $42.4 million,  $24.6 million,  and
$15.7 million at December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.

     Because  of the  capital  cost  limitations,  described  above,  full  cost
entities are not subject to the impairment test prescribed by SFAS 121.


- ----------
(1)  Supplementary  full  cost  information  does  not  include  the  effect  of
     allowable  capitalization of general and administrative,  region office and
     interest expense.  Pretax capitalizable  administrative  expenses were $4.6
     million in 1998,  $4.2 million in 1997,  and $3.7  million in 1996.  Pretax
     capitalizable  interest  expense was $2.0 million in 1998,  $1.4 million in
     1997 and $1.1 million in 1996.



15. EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

     Basic  earnings per share for the Company were $0.08,  $1.00,  and $0.67 in
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively, and were based on the weighted average shares
outstanding  of 24,733,465 in 1998,  23,272,432 in 1997, and 22,806,516 in 1996.
Diluted earnings per share for the Company were $0.08, $0.97, and $0.66 in 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively. The diluted earnings per share amounts are based on
weighted average shares outstanding plus common stock equivalents.  Common stock
equivalents include both stock awards and stock options,  and totaled 372,937 in
1998, 649,632 in 1997, and 186,000 in 1996.

     Both  the  $3.125  cumulative   convertible  preferred  stock  and  the  6%
convertible  redeemable  preferred stock ("preferred stock") issued May 1993 and
May 1994, respectively, had an antidilutive effect on earnings per common share.
The preferred  stock was determined not to be a common stock  equivalent when it
was issued.  As such,  no  adjustments  were made to reported  net income in the
computation  of earnings per share.  The Company,  under the  provisions  of the
stock,  converted the $3.125  cumulative  convertible  preferred stock to Common
Stock in October 1997. See Note 10. Capital Stock for further discussion.

CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

OIL AND GAS RESERVES

     Users of this  information  should be aware that the process of  estimating
quantities of "proved" and "proved developed" natural gas and crude oil reserves
is very complex, requiring significant subjective decisions in the evaluation of
all available geological,  engineering and economic data for each reservoir. The
data for a given reservoir may also change  substantially  over time as a result
of  numerous  factors  including,  but not limited  to,  additional  development
activity,   evolving  production  history  and  continual  reassessment  of  the
viability of production under varying economic conditions. As a result, material
revisions to existing  reserve  estimates may occur from time to time.  Although
every  reasonable  effort  is made to ensure  that  reserve  estimates  reported
represent the most accurate assessments  possible,  the subjective decisions and
variances  in  available  data  for  various  reservoirs  make  these  estimates
generally less precise than other estimates included in the financial  statement
disclosures.

     Proved reserves  represent  estimated  quantities of natural gas, crude oil
and condensate that geological and engineering data demonstrate, with reasonable
certainty,  to be  recoverable  in future  years  from  known  reservoirs  under
economic and operating conditions in effect when the estimates were made.

     Proved  developed  reserves  are proved  reserves  expected to be recovered
through wells and equipment in place and under  operating  methods used when the
estimates were made.

     Estimates  of proved and proved  developed  reserves at December  31, 1998,
1997 and 1996  were  based  on  studies  performed  by the  Company's  petroleum
engineering  staff.  The estimates were reviewed by Miller and Lents,  Ltd., who
indicated  in  their  letter  dated  February  9,  1999  that,  based  on  their
investigation  and subject to the  limitations  described in their letter,  they
believe that the results of those estimates and  projections  were reasonable in
the aggregate.

     No major discovery or other  favorable or unfavorable  event after December
31, 1998 is believed to have caused a material change in the estimates of proved
or proved developed reserves as of that date.

     The  following  table   illustrates  the  Company's  net  proved  reserves,
including changes,  and proved developed reserves for the periods indicated,  as
estimated by the Company's  engineering  staff.  All reserves are located in the
United States.







CAPITALIZED COSTS RELATING TO OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES

     The  following  table  illustrates  the total amount of  capitalized  costs
relating to natural gas and crude oil producing  activities and the total amount
of related accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization.



COSTS INCURRED IN OIL AND GAS PROPERTY ACQUISITION, EXPLORATION AND
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES

     Costs  incurred  in  property  acquisition,   exploration  and  development
activities were as follows:





HISTORICAL RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FROM OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES

     The  results  of  operations  for  the  Company's  oil  and  gas  producing
activities were as follows:



STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS RELATING TO
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES

     The following  information has been developed  utilizing SFAS 69 procedures
and based on natural gas and crude oil reserve and production  volumes estimated
by the Company's  engineering  staff. It can be used for some  comparisons,  but
should not be the only method used to evaluate  the Company or its  performance.
Further,  the  information  in the following  table may not represent  realistic
assessments  of future  cash  flows,  nor  should  the  Standardized  Measure of
Discounted  Future Net Cash  Flows be viewed as  representative  of the  current
value of the Company.

     The  Company  believes  that the  following  factors  should be taken  into
account when reviewing the following  information:  (i) future costs and selling
prices  will  probably   differ  from  those   required  to  be  used  in  these
calculations; (ii) due to future market conditions and governmental regulations,
actual rates of production in future years may vary  significantly from the rate
of production  assumed in the  calculations;  (iii)  selection of a 10% discount
rate is arbitrary and may not be a reasonable  measure of the relative risk that
is part of  realizing  future  net oil and gas  revenues;  and (iv)  future  net
revenues may be subject to different rates of income taxation.

     Under the  Standardized  Measure,  future cash  inflows  were  estimated by
applying  year-end  oil and gas  prices,  adjusted  for fixed  and  determinable
escalations, to the estimated future production of year-end proved reserves.

     The average  prices related to proved  reserves at December 31, 1998,  1997
and 1996 were for natural gas ($/Mcf) $2.26, $2.62 and $3.77, respectively,  and
for oil ($/Bbl)  $10.23,  $19.02 and $22.86,  respectively.  Future cash inflows
were reduced by  estimated  future  development  and  production  costs based on
year-end costs to arrive at net cash flow before tax.  Future income tax expense
was computed by applying year-end  statutory tax rates to future pretax net cash
flows, less the tax basis of the properties  involved.  SFAS 69 requires the use
of a 10% discount rate.



     Management  does  not  use  only  the  following  information  when  making
investment  and operating  decisions.  These  decisions are based on a number of
factors, including estimates of probable as well as proved reserves, and varying
price  and  cost  assumptions  considered  more  representative  of a  range  of
anticipated economic conditions.

Standardized Measure is as follows:


- ----------
(1)  Includes the future cash inflows,  production costs and development  costs,
     as  well as the tax  basis,  relating  to the  properties  included  in the
     transactions to monetize the value of Section 29 tax credits.  See Note 13.
     of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2)  Future income taxes before  discount were  $446,980,  $582,639 and $887,583
     for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

(3)  The change in discounted future cash flows from 1996 to 1997 is primarily a
     result of the $1.15 per Mcf decrease in average natural gas price.

(4)  Future income tax expense decreased as a result of tax benefits realized on
     property acquisitions and drilling activity late in 1998.

CHANGES IN STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS
RELATING TO PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES

     The following is an analysis of the changes in the Standardized Measure:


- ----------
(1)  Includes the effect of a 14.3 Bcfe  downward  revision in 1998 due to lower
     year-end pricing.



CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

SELECTED DATA (UNAUDITED)

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
        AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information  under the caption "Election of Directors" in the Company's
definitive  proxy  statement  ("Proxy  Statement")  in connection  with the 1999
annual stockholders meeting is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information  under the caption  "Executive  Compensation"  in the Proxy
Statement is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The  information  under the  captions  "Beneficial  Ownership  of Over Five
Percent of Common  Stock" and  "Beneficial  Ownership of Directors and Executive
Officers" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     None.



PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

A.   INDEX

     1.   Consolidated Financial Statements

          See Index on page 33.

     2.   Financial Statement Schedules

          None.

     3.   Exhibits

     The following  instruments  are included as exhibits to this report.  Those
exhibits  below  incorporated  by reference  herein are indicated as such by the
information  supplied  in  the  parenthetical  thereafter.  If no  parenthetical
appears after an exhibit, copies of the instrument have been included herewith.

Exhibit
Number                              Description
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3.1    Certificate of Incorporation of the Company  (Registration  Statement No.
       33-32553).
3.2    Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company adopted August 5, 1994.
4.1    Form  of  Certificate  of  Common  Stock  of  the  Company  (Registration
       Statement No. 33-32553).
4.2    Certificate of Designation  for Series A Junior  Participating  Preferred
       Stock (Form 10-K for 1994).
4.3    Rights Agreement dated as of March 28, 1991,  between the Company and The
       First National Bank of Boston, as Rights Agent, which includes as Exhibit
       A the form of Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating
       Preferred Stock (Form 8-A, File No. 1-10477).  (a) Amendment No. 1 to the
       Rights Agreement dated February 24, 1994 (Form 10-K for 1994).
4.4    Certificate of Designation for 6% Convertible  Redeemable Preferred Stock
       (Form 10-K for 1994).  4.5 Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as
       of May 30, 1995,  among the Company,  Morgan  Guaranty Trust Company,  as
       agent and the banks named therein.
       (a)    Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement dated September 15, 1995 (Form
              10-K for 1995).
       (b)    Amendment No. 2 to Credit  Agreement dated December 24, 1996 (Form
              10-K for 1996).
4.6    Note Purchase Agreement dated May 11, 1990, among the Company and certain
       insurance companies parties thereto (Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
       30, 1990).
       (a)    First Amendment dated June 28, 1991 (Form 10-K for 1994).
       (b)    Second Amendment dated July 6, 1994 (Form 10-K for 1994).
4.7    Note Purchase  Agreement  dated November 14, 1997,  among the Company and
       the purchasers named therein (Form 10-K for 1997).
10.1   Supplemental  Executive  Retirement  Agreement  between  the  Company and
       Charles P. Siess, Jr. (Form 10-K for 1995).
10.2   Form of Change in Control  Agreement  between  the  Company  and  Certain
       Officers (Form 10-K for 1995).
10.3   Letter  Agreement  dated January 11, 1990,  between Morgan Guaranty Trust
       Company  of  New  York  and  the  Company  (Registration   Statement  No.
       33-32553).
10.4   Form of Annual Target Cash  Incentive  Plan of the Company  (Registration
       Statement No. 33-32553).
10.5   Form  of  Incentive  Stock  Option  Plan  of  the  Company  (Registration
       Statement No. 33-32553).
       (a)    First Amendment to the Incentive Stock Option Plan (Post-Effective
              Amendment No. 1 to S-8 dated April 26, 1993).
10.6   Form of Stock  Subscription  Agreement  between  the  Company and certain
       executive officers and directors of the Company  (Registration  Statement
       No. 33-32553).
10.7   Transaction  Agreement  between Cabot  Corporation  and the Company dated
       February 1, 1991 (Registration Statement No. 33-37455).
10.8   Tax Sharing  Agreement  between Cabot  Corporation  and the Company dated
       February 1, 1991 (Registration Statement No. 33-37455).



10.9   Amendment  Agreement  (amending  the  Transaction  Agreement  and the Tax
       Sharing  Agreement)  dated March 25,  1991  (incorp.  by ref.  from Cabot
       Corporation's Schedule 13E-4, Am. No. 6, File No. 5-30636).
10.10  Savings  Investment  Plan & Trust Agreement of the Company (Form 10-K for
       1991).
       (a)    First Amendment to the Savings  Investment Plan dated May 21, 1993
              (Form S-8 dated November 1, 1993).
       (b)    Second Amendment to the Savings Investment Plan dated May 21, 1993
              (Form S-8 dated November 1, 1993).
       (c)    First through Fifth  Amendments to the Trust  Agreement (Form 10-K
              for 1995).
       (d)    Third through  Fifth  Amendments  to the Savings  Investment  Plan
              (Form 10-K for 1996).
10.11  Supplemental  Executive  Retirement  Agreements of the Company (Form 10-K
       for 1991).
10.12  Settlement  Agreement  and Mutual  Release  (Tax  Issues)  between  Cabot
       Corporation and the Company dated July 7, 1992 (Form 10-Q for the quarter
       ended June 30, 1992).
10.13  Agreement  of Merger  dated  February  25, 1994 among  Washington  Energy
       Company,  Washington  Energy  Resources  Company,  the  Company  and  COG
       Acquisition Company (Form 10-K for 1993).
10.14  1990  Nonemployee  Director  Stock  Option Plan of the Company  (Form S-8
       dated June 23, 1990).
       (a)    First  Amendment to 1990  Nonemployee  Director  Stock Option Plan
              (Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to Form S-8 dated March 7, 1994).
       (b)    Second  Amendment to 1990  Nonemployee  Director Stock Option Plan
              (Form 10-K for 1995).
10.15  Amended and Restated 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan of the Company.
10.16  Amended and Restated 1994 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan.
10.17  Employment  Agreement  between the Company  and Ray R.  Seegmiller  dated
       September 25, 1995 (Form 10-K for 1995).
10.18  Form of  Indemnity  Agreement  between the Company and Certain  Officers.
       (Form 10-K for 1997) 10.19 Deferred Compensation Plan of the Company.
10.20  Trust  Agreement  dated August 1998 between Bankers Trust Company and the
       Company.
10.21  Lease  Agreement  between the Company and DNA COG,  Ltd.  dated April 24,
       1998.
10.22  Credit  Agreement  dated as of December  17, 1998 between the Company and
       the banks named therein.
21.1   Subsidiaries of Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation.
23.1   Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
23.2   Consent of Miller and Lents, Ltd.
27     Financial Data Schedule.
28.1   Miller and Lents, Ltd. Review Letter dated February 9, 1999.

B.   REPORTS ON FORM Form 8-K

     Item 5 Form 8-K filed on January 27, 1999.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant  has duly  caused  this  report  to be  signed  on its  behalf by the
undersigned,  thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Houston, State of Texas,
on the 19 of March 1999.

                                      CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

                                      By:  /s/ Ray Seegmiller
                                           ---------------------------------
                                           Ray Seegmiller
                                           President and Chief Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following  persons in the  capacities and on
the dates indicated.





                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS










