
10-K
CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION - 12/31/99



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

                         Commission file number 1-10447

                          CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                 DELAWARE                                04-3072771
      (State or other jurisdiction of                 (I.R.S. Employer
      incorporation or organization)               Identification Number)

                   1200 ENCLAVE PARKWAY, HOUSTON, TEXAS 77077
           (Address of principal executive offices including Zip Code)

                                 (281) 589-4600
                        (Registrant's telephone number)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                     Name of each exchange
         Title of each class                          on which registered
         -------------------                          -------------------
Class A Common Stock, par value $.10 per share       New York Stock Exchange
Rights to Purchase Preferred Stock                   New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during the  preceding  12 months and (2) has been  subject to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                                Yes [ X ] No [  ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K [__].

     The  aggregate  market  value of Class A Common  Stock,  par value $.10 per
share ("Common  Stock"),  held by  non-affiliates  (based upon the closing sales
price on the New York Stock  Exchange on February 29, 2000),  was  approximately
$390,000,000.

     As of February  29,  2000,  there were  24,793,578  shares of Common  Stock
outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders to
be held May 9, 2000,  are  incorporated  herein by reference in Items 10, 11, 12
and 13 of Part III of this report.





                           --------------------------

     The statements  regarding  future  financial  performance and results,  and
market prices and other  statements  that are not historical  facts contained in
this  report are  forward-looking  statements.  The words  "expect,"  "project,"
"estimate,"  "believe,"  "anticipate,"  "intend,"  "budget," "plan," "forecast,"
"predict" and similar expressions are also intended to identify  forward-looking
statements. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not
limited  to,  market   factors,   market  prices   (including   regional   basis
differentials) of natural gas and oil, results for future drilling and marketing
activity,  future  production  and costs,  and other  factors  detailed  in this
document and in our other Securities and Exchange  Commission filings. If one or
more of these risks or uncertainties  materialize,  or if underlying assumptions
prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those included in this
document.



PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

     Cabot  Oil & Gas is an  independent  oil and  gas  company  engaged  in the
exploration, development, acquisition and exploitation of oil and gas properties
located in four areas of the United States:

     -    The onshore Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast
     -    The Rocky Mountains
     -    Appalachia
     -    The Mid-Continent or Anadarko Basin

Administratively,  we operate  in three  regions - the Gulf  Coast  region,  the
Western  region,  which is comprised of the Rocky  Mountains  and  Mid-Continent
areas, and the Appalachian region.

     Our asset base combines the  opportunity  for production and reserve growth
from shorter life,  higher margin  properties with a core of stable,  long-lived
reserves.  Since our initial  public  offering in 1990,  when our reserves  were
located only in the  longer-lived,  lower-growth  Appalachian and  Mid-Continent
areas,  we have  acquired two new core areas that we believe have higher  growth
potential  - the  onshore  Gulf  Coast  and the  Rocky  Mountains  - and we have
divested certain non-strategic properties, primarily in Appalachia. As a result,
we have  focused  our  capital  budget on  projects  that we  believe  have more
favorable  risk/reward  potential.  We deploy the relatively  stable excess cash
flows from our  Appalachian and  Mid-Continent  properties to fund activities in
our higher  growth,  higher rate of return areas of the Gulf Coast and the Rocky
Mountains.

     As of December  31,  1999,  our proved  reserves  totaled  978.7 Bcfe,  and
natural gas comprised 95% of our reserves.  We operate  approximately 83% of the
wells in  which we have an  interest.  Despite  the  second  and  third  quarter
divestiture of non-strategic  properties  producing 13.5 Mmcfe per day primarily
in  Appalachia,  our average daily net  production  for 1999 was 195.3 Mmcfe per
day, an increase of 4% over 1998.  Exploration and  exploitation  success in the
Gulf Coast region has largely accounted for the production increase.  Production
from the region rose 60% for 1999  compared to 1998,  with average daily volumes
from the region  increasing  from 32.6 Mmcfe per day to 52.0 Mmcfe per day.  The
following table presents certain information as of December 31, 1999.


- ----------
(1)  Reserve  Life  Index  is equal  to  year-end  reserves  divided  by  annual
     production.



     GULF COAST.  Our Gulf Coast  activities are concentrated in south Louisiana
and south Texas.  Principal  producing intervals are in the Wilcox and Vicksburg
formations  in Texas  and the  Miocene  age  formations  in  Louisiana.  Capital
expenditures  were  $36.8  million  in 1999,  or 42% of our total  1999  capital
expenditures  and  $128.7  million  for 1998,  which  included  a $70.1  million
acquisition  in southern  Louisiana from Oryx Energy  Company.  Our drilling and
acquisition  program has increased  average daily  production in the region from
15.6 Mmcfe per day in 1994,  when we  acquired  our first Gulf Coast  properties
from  Washington  Energy,  to 52.0  Mmcfe  per day in 1999.  For  2000,  we have
budgeted  $49.8  million  (57% of our total 2000  capital  budget)  for  capital
expenditures in the region.

     ROCKY  MOUNTAINS.  Our Rocky Mountains  activities are  concentrated in the
Green  River Basin of Wyoming.  Since our initial  acquisition  in the region in
1994 from  Washington  Energy,  we have  increased  reserves  from 171.6 Bcfe at
December 31, 1994,  to 257.7 Bcfe at December  31, 1999.  Capital  expenditures,
including $17.4 million in property  acquisitions,  were $29.5 million for 1999,
or 33% of our total 1999 capital  expenditures  and $32.3 million for 1998.  For
2000, we have budgeted $20.0 million (23% of our total 2000 capital  budget) for
capital expenditures in the region.

     MID-CONTINENT.   Our  Mid-Continent  activities  are  concentrated  in  the
Anadarko  Basin in  southwestern  Kansas,  Oklahoma and the  panhandle of Texas.
Capital expenditures were $4.1 million for 1999, or 5% of our total 1999 capital
expenditures and $20.2 million for 1998. For 2000, we have budgeted $1.8 million
(2% of our total 2000 capital budget) for capital expenditures in the region.

     APPALACHIA.  Our Appalachian  activities are  concentrated in Pennsylvania,
Ohio, West Virginia and Virginia.  We believe that our large undeveloped acreage
position,  high  concentration  of wells,  natural gas  gathering  and  pipeline
systems, and storage capacity give us a competitive  advantage in the region. We
have achieved a drilling  success rate of 89% in the region since 1991.  Capital
expenditures  were $14.6  million  for 1999,  or 17% of our total  1999  capital
expenditures  and $43.2  million  for 1998.  For 2000,  we have  budgeted  $16.0
million (18% of our total 2000 capital  budget) for capital  expenditures in the
region.


EXPLORATION, DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION

     Cabot  Oil & Gas is one of the  largest  producers  of  natural  gas in the
Appalachian  Basin,  where we have  operated  for more than a  century.  We have
operated in the Anadarko Basin (Mid-Continent) for more than 60 years. Our Rocky
Mountains  and  Gulf  Coast  activities  were  added  with  the  acquisition  of
Washington Energy Resources Company in 1994.

GULF COAST REGION

     Our  exploration,  development and production  activities in the Gulf Coast
region are concentrated in south Louisiana and south Texas. A regional office in
Houston  manages  operations.  At December 31, 1999, we had 123.9 Bcfe of proved
reserves (77.8% natural gas) in the Gulf Coast region,  constituting  13% of our
total proved reserves.

     We had 367  productive  wells  (264.1  net) in the Gulf Coast  region as of
December 31, 1999,  of which 220 wells are operated by us.  Principal  producing
intervals in the Gulf Coast are in the Wilcox and Vicksburg formations in Texas,
and Miocene age  formations in Louisiana at depths  ranging from 3,000 to 18,000
feet. Average net daily production in 1999 was 52.0 Mmcfe.

     In 1999, we drilled 16 wells (10.3 net) in the Gulf Coast region,  of which
13 wells (9.2 net) were development wells. Capital and exploration  expenditures
for the year were $36.8 million. Our most significant  discovery occurred in the
first well drilled on the south Louisiana Etouffee prospect,  a project in which
we have a 33%  working  interest.  At year end,  this field had 17.1 Bcfe of net
proved  reserves.  Production  is  expected  to  commence  on the first  well in
Etouffee  during  March 2000.  The Gulf Coast region plans to drill 24 wells and
spend 57% of our $88.9 million capital budget in 2000.

     At December  31,  1999,  we had 113,716 net acres in the region,  including
50,746 net  developed  acres.  At the end of 1999,  we had  identified 17 proved
undeveloped drilling locations.



WESTERN REGION

     Our  exploration,  development  and  production  activities  in the Western
region are primarily focused in the Rocky Mountains within the Green River Basin
of Wyoming and in the  Mid-Continent  within the Anadarko Basin in  southwestern
Kansas, Oklahoma and the panhandle of Texas. A regional office in Denver manages
the  operations.  At December  31,  1999,  we had 471.0 Bcfe of proved  reserves
(96.0% natural gas) in the Western region,  constituting 48% of our total proved
reserves.

     ROCKY  MOUNTAINS.  We had 469  productive  wells  (210.1  net) in the Rocky
Mountains  area as of December 31, 1999,  of which 225 wells are operated by us.
Principal  producing  intervals in the Rocky  Mountains area are in the Frontier
and Dakota  formations at depths ranging from 9,000 to 13,000 feet.  Average net
daily production in 1999 was 48.6 Mmcfe.

     In 1999, we drilled 19 wells (10.4 net) in the Rocky Mountains, of which 18
wells (9.4 net) were  development and extension  wells.  Capital and exploration
expenditures for the year were $29.5 million. In 2000, we plan to drill 45 wells
and spend 23% of our capital budget in this area.

     At December  31,  1999,  we had  142,192  net acres in the area,  including
75,062 net  developed  acres.  At the end of 1999,  we had  identified 83 proved
undeveloped drilling locations.

     MID-CONTINENT.  As of December 31, 1999, we had 661 productive wells (433.5
net) in the Mid-Continent area, of which 491 wells are operated by us. Principal
producing intervals in the Mid-Continent are in the Chase,  Morrow, Red Fork and
Chester  formations  at depths  ranging from 1,500 to 13,000  feet.  Average net
daily production in 1999 was 37.2 Mmcfe.

     In 1999,  we drilled  four wells (1.2 net) in the  Mid-Continent,  of which
three  wells  (0.8  net) were  development  and  extension  wells.  Capital  and
exploration  expenditures  for the year were $4.1  million.  In 2000, we plan to
drill four wells and spend 2% of our capital budget in this area.

     At December  31,  1999,  we had  204,966  net acres in the area,  including
180,352 net developed  acres.  At the end of 1999,  we had  identified 67 proved
undeveloped drilling locations.

APPALACHIAN REGION

     Our exploration,  development and production  activities in the Appalachian
region are  concentrated in  Pennsylvania,  Ohio, West Virginia and Virginia.  A
regional office in Pittsburgh manages  operations.  At December 31, 1999, we had
383.8 Bcfe of proved reserves (substantially all natural gas) in the Appalachian
region, constituting 39% of our total proved reserves.

     At December 31, 1999, we had 2,270 productive wells (2,105.8 net), of which
2,187 wells are  operated by us.  There are multiple  producing  intervals  that
include the Devonian  Shale,  Oriskany,  Berea and Big Lime formations at depths
primarily ranging from 1,500 to 9,000 feet. Average net daily production in 1999
was 57.4 Mmcfe. While natural gas production volumes from Appalachian reservoirs
are  relatively  low on a per-well  basis  compared to other areas of the United
States, the productive life of Appalachian reserves is relatively long.

     In 1999, we drilled 34 wells (23.5 net) in the Appalachian region, of which
27  wells  (19.5  net)  were   development   wells.   Capital  and   exploration
expenditures,  including pipeline expenditures, were $14.6 million for the year.
In 2000,  we plan to drill 38 wells and spend 18% of our capital  budget in this
region.

     At December 31, 1999, we had  1,042,196 net acres in the region,  including
745,346 net developed  acres.  At the end of 1999, we had  identified 216 proved
undeveloped drilling locations.

     We own and operate two natural gas storage  fields in West  Virginia with a
combined working gas capacity of 4 Bcf.



     Ancillary to our exploration and production operations,  we own and operate
two brine treatment  plants that process and treat waste fluid generated  during
the drilling,  completion and production of oil and gas wells.  The first plant,
near  Franklin,  Pennsylvania,  began  operating in 1985.  It provides  services
primarily to other oil and gas producers in southwestern New York,  eastern Ohio
and western  Pennsylvania.  In April 1998, we acquired a second brine  treatment
plant in Indiana, Pennsylvania that had been in existence since 1987.

     We believe that we gain  operational  efficiency in the Appalachian  region
because of our large acreage position,  high concentration of wells,  contiguous
natural gas gathering and pipeline systems and storage capacity.

GAS MARKETING

     We are  engaged  in a wide  array  of  marketing  activities  offering  our
customers  long-term,  reliable supplies of natural gas.  Utilizing our pipeline
and storage  facilities,  gas procurement ability and transportation and natural
gas risk management  expertise,  we provide a menu of services that includes gas
supply and transportation management, short-term and long-term supply contracts,
capacity brokering and risk management alternatives.

     The marketing of natural gas has changed  significantly as a result of FERC
Order 636, which was issued by the Federal Energy  Regulatory  Commission (FERC)
in 1992. FERC Order 636 required pipelines to unbundle their gas sales,  storage
and  transportation  services.  As a result,  local  distribution  companies and
end-users  separately  contract these services from gas marketers and producers.
FERC  Order  636 has had the  effect  of  creating  greater  competition  in the
industry while also providing us the opportunity to serve broader markets. Since
FERC  Order  636 was  issued,  there  has  been an  increase  in the  number  of
third-party producers that use us to market their gas. Additionally, as a result
of FERC Order 636, we have experienced increased competition for markets,  which
has placed pressure on the premiums we have received.

GULF COAST REGION

     Our  principal  markets  for  Gulf  Coast  region  natural  gas  are in the
industrialized  Gulf  Coast  areas  and  the  northeastern  United  States.  Our
marketing subsidiary,  Cabot Oil & Gas Marketing  Corporation,  purchases all of
our natural gas  production in the Gulf Coast region.  The marketing  subsidiary
sells the natural  gas to  intrastate  pipelines,  natural  gas  processors  and
marketing companies.

     Currently,  all of our natural gas sales  volumes in the Gulf Coast  region
are sold at market-responsive  prices under contracts with terms of one to three
years. The Gulf Coast properties are connected to various  processing  plants in
Texas  and  Louisiana  with  multiple  interstate  and  intrastate   deliveries,
affording us access to multiple markets.

     We also  produce  and  market  approximately  1,500  barrels a day of crude
oil/condensate in the Gulf Coast region at market-responsive prices.

WESTERN REGION

     Our  principal   markets  for  Western   region  natural  gas  are  in  the
northwestern,  midwestern  and  northeastern  United  States.  Cabot  Oil  & Gas
Marketing purchases all of our natural gas production in the Western region. The
marketing  subsidiary  sells  the  natural  gas  to  cogenerators,  natural  gas
processors,  local distribution  companies,  industrial  customers and marketing
companies.

     Currently, most of our natural gas production in the Western region is sold
primarily under  contracts with a term of one year or less at  market-responsive
prices.  Through 1999,  approximately 20% of the Western region's production was
sold under a 15-year cogeneration  contract due to expire in 2009 that escalated
5% in price per year. In December  1999,  the contract was bought out for a cash
payment  of $12  million  to Cabot Oil & Gas.  Accordingly,  our  obligation  to
deliver natural gas to the  cogeneration  facility was terminated and we have no
other obligation under the contract. The Western region properties are connected
to the majority of the  midwestern  and  northwestern  interstate and intrastate
pipelines,  affording us access to multiple markets.  We also produce and market
approximately 900 barrels of crude oil/condensate a day in the Western region at
market-responsive prices.



APPALACHIAN REGION

     The principal  markets for our  Appalachian  region  natural gas are in the
northeastern United States.  Cabot Oil & Gas Marketing purchases our natural gas
production  in  the  Appalachian   region  as  well  as  production  from  local
third-party producers and other suppliers to aggregate larger volumes of natural
gas for  resale.  Our  marketing  subsidiary  sells  natural  gas to  industrial
customers,  local  distribution  companies and gas marketers both on and off our
pipeline and gathering system.

     Most of our natural gas sales volume in the  Appalachian  region is sold at
market-responsive  prices under  contracts  with a term of one year or less.  Of
these  short-term  sales,  spot  market  sales  are  made  under  month-to-month
contracts,   while  industrial  and  utility  sales  generally  are  made  under
year-to-year  contracts.  Approximately 10% of Appalachian production is sold on
fixed price contracts that typically renew annually.

     Our  Appalachian  natural  gas  production  is  generally  sold at a higher
realized price, or premium,  compared to production from other producing regions
due to its close proximity to eastern markets.  While year-to-year  fluctuations
in that premium are normal due to changes in market conditions, this premium has
typically been in the range of $0.40 to $0.50 per Mmbtu above the Henry Hub cash
price  throughout the 1990s. In 1999,  however,  the average premium declined to
$0.27 per Mmbtu due to increases in supply in the eastern market. We expect that
the premium will remain at this lower level for the near future.

     Ancillary to our exploration and production operations, we operate a number
of gas gathering and  transmission  pipeline  systems,  made up of approximately
2,390 miles of pipeline  with  interconnects  to three  interstate  transmission
systems  and  seven  local  distribution  companies  as of the end of 1999.  The
majority of our  pipeline  infrastructure  in West  Virginia is regulated by the
FERC.  As such,  the  transportation  rates and terms of service of our pipeline
subsidiary,  Cranberry  Pipeline  Corporation,  are  subject  to the  rules  and
regulations  of the FERC.  Our natural gas gathering and  transmission  pipeline
systems enable us to connect new wells quickly and to transport natural gas from
the wellhead directly to interstate pipelines,  local distribution companies and
industrial end users. Control of our gathering and transmission pipeline systems
also  enables us to purchase,  transport  and sell natural gas produced by third
parties.  In  addition,  we can take  part in  development  drilling  operations
without  relying upon third parties to transport our natural gas while incurring
only the incremental costs of pipeline and compressor additions to our system.

     We have two natural gas storage  fields  located in West  Virginia,  with a
combined working capacity of approximately 4 Bcf. We use these storage fields to
take advantage of the seasonal  variations in the demand for natural gas and the
higher  prices  typically  associated  with  winter  natural  gas  sales,  while
maintaining  production  at a nearly  constant  rate  throughout  the year.  The
storage fields also enable us to periodically increase the volume of natural gas
that we can  deliver  by more than 40% above the  volume  that we could  deliver
solely from our production in the Appalachian  region.  The pipeline systems and
storage fields are fully integrated with our operations.

RISK MANAGEMENT

     In 1999, we used certain  financial  instruments,  called  derivatives,  to
manage price risks associated with our production and brokering activities.  The
impact of these  derivatives  on our financial  results was not material.  While
there are many  different  types of  derivatives  available,  we primarily  used
natural gas and oil price swap  agreements  to attempt to manage price risk more
effectively.  These  price  swaps  call  for  payments  to,  or  receipts  from,
counterparties  based on the  differential  between a fixed and a  variable  gas
price.  We will continue to evaluate the benefit of this strategy in the future.
Please read  Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition  and
Results of Operations - Commodity Price Swaps for further discussion  concerning
our use of derivatives.




RESERVES

CURRENT RESERVES

     The following table presents our estimated  proved reserves at December 31,
1999.


- ----------
(1)  Liquids  include crude oil,  condensate and natural gas liquids (Ngl).
(2)  Natural gas equivalents are determined  using the ratio of 6 Mcf of natural
     gas to 1 Bbl of crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids.

     The proved reserve estimates  presented here were prepared by our petroleum
engineering staff and reviewed by Miller and Lents, Ltd.,  independent petroleum
engineers.  For additional  information  regarding estimates of proved reserves,
the review of such estimates by Miller and Lents,  Ltd.,  and other  information
about our oil and gas reserves,  see the Supplemental Oil and Gas Information to
the Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in Item 8. A copy of the review
letter by Miller and Lents, Ltd. has been filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.
Our  estimates  of proved  reserves in the table above do not differ  materially
from those filed by us with other federal  agencies.  Our reserves are sensitive
to natural gas sales prices and their effect on economic  producing  rates.  Our
reserves are based on oil and gas prices in effect for December 1999.

     There are a number of  uncertainties  inherent in estimating  quantities of
proved  reserves,  including  many factors  beyond our control.  Therefore,  the
reserve  information  in this  Form  10-K  represents  only  estimates.  Reserve
engineering is a subjective process of estimating  underground  accumulations of
crude oil and  natural  gas that  cannot be  measured  in an exact  manner.  The
accuracy of any reserve  estimate is a function of the quality of available data
and of engineering  and  geological  interpretation  and judgment.  As a result,
estimates of different  engineers often vary. In addition,  results of drilling,
testing  and  production  subsequent  to the  date of an  estimate  may  justify
revising  the  original  estimate.  Accordingly,  reserve  estimates  are  often
different  from the  quantities of crude oil and natural gas that are ultimately
recovered.  The  meaningfulness  of  such  estimates  depends  primarily  on the
accuracy of the assumptions  upon which they were based. In general,  the volume
of  production  from oil and gas  properties  declines as reserves are depleted.
Except to the extent we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves
or conduct successful exploration and development activities or both, our proved
reserves will decline as reserves are produced.




HISTORICAL RESERVES

     The following table presents our estimated  proved reserves for the periods
indicated.



Gulf = Gulf Coast
Rocky Mtn = Rocky Mountains
Mid-Cont = Mid-Continent or Anadarko
Total West = Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent combined
App = Appalachia




Gulf = Gulf Coast
Rocky Mtn = Rocky Mountains
Mid-Cont = Mid-Continent or Anadarko
Total West = Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent combined
App = Appalachia
- ----------
(1)  Includes  natural gas and natural gas  equivalents  determined by using the
     ratio of 6 Mcf of natural gas to 1 Bbl of crude oil,  condensate or natural
     gas liquids.



VOLUMES AND PRICES; PRODUCTION COSTS

     The following table presents regional historical  information about our net
wellhead sales volume for natural gas and oil (including  condensate and natural
gas liquids)  produced natural gas and oil sales prices and production costs per
equivalent.


- ---------------
(1)  Equal to the  aggregate  of  production  and the net changes in storage and
     exchanges.
(2)  The  decline  in  the  Appalachian  region  natural  gas  sales  volume  is
     attributed to the sale of the Meadville  properties  effective September 1,
     1997. Prior to the sale,  these  properties  produced 3.6 Bcf, or 14.7 Mmcf
     per day, during the eight-month period ending August 31, 1997. In addition,
     a  further  decline  is  associated  with  the  sale of  properties  in the
     Clarksburg  district  effective  October 1, 1999. Prior to this sale, those
     properties produced approximately 7 Mmcf per day.
(3)  Represents the average sales prices for all production  volumes  (including
     royalty  volumes)  sold by Cabot Oil & Gas during the periods  shown net of
     related  costs  (principally  purchased  gas  royalty,  transportation  and
     storage).
(4)  Production   costs  include  direct  lifting  costs  (labor,   repairs  and
     maintenance,  materials and supplies),  and the costs of  administration of
     production  offices,  insurance  and property and severance  taxes,  but is
     exclusive of  depreciation  and depletion  applicable to capitalized  lease
     acquisition, exploration and development expenditures.

ACREAGE

     The following  tables summarize our gross and net developed and undeveloped
leasehold  and  mineral  acreage  at  December  31,  1999.  Acreage in which our
interest is limited to royalty and overriding royalty interests is excluded.




LEASEHOLD ACREAGE



MINERAL FEE ACREAGE




TOTAL NET ACREAGE BY REGION OF OPERATION



PRODUCTIVE WELL SUMMARY

     The following table presents our ownership at December 31, 1999, in natural
gas and oil wells in the Gulf Coast region (consisting of various fields located
in Louisiana and Texas),  in the Western  region  (consisting  of various fields
located in Oklahoma, Kansas, Colorado and Wyoming) and in the Appalachian region
(consisting of various fields located in West Virginia,  Pennsylvania, New York,
Ohio, Virginia and Kentucky). We consider productive wells to be producing wells
and  wells  capable  of  production  in which we have a  working  interest  or a
reversionary interest as in the case of certain Section 29 tight sands wells.



DRILLING ACTIVITY

     We drilled, participated in the drilling of, or acquired wells presented by
region in the table below for the periods indicated.










- ----------
(1)  Includes  the  acquisition  of net  interest  in certain  wells in which we
     already held an ownership  interest.  Does not include certain interests in
     Section 29 tight sands wells purchased and then resold during 1999.




COMPETITION

     Competition  in our primary  producing  areas is intense.  Price,  contract
terms and quality of service,  including pipeline connection times, distribution
efficiencies and reliable delivery records, affect competition.  We believe that
our extensive  acreage  position and existing natural gas gathering and pipeline
systems and storage fields give us a competitive  advantage over other producers
in the  Appalachian  region who do not have  similar  systems or  facilities  in
place.  We believe that our competitive  position in the  Appalachian  region is
enhanced  by the  lack  of  significant  competition  from  major  oil  and  gas
companies.  We also actively compete against other companies with  substantially
larger financial and other resources, particularly in the Western and Gulf Coast
regions.  We believe that  marketing  our own gas through the operation of Cabot
Oil & Gas Marketing Corporation enhances our competitive position.

OTHER BUSINESS MATTERS

MAJOR CUSTOMER

     We had no  sales to any  customer  that  exceeded  10% of our  total  gross
revenues in 1999 or 1998.

SEASONALITY

     Demand for natural gas has historically been seasonal, with peak demand and
typically higher prices during the colder winter months.

REGULATION OF OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION

     Exploration  and  production  operations  are  subject to various  types of
regulation at the federal,  state and local  levels.  Such  regulation  includes
requiring permits to drill wells,  maintaining bonding  requirements to drill or
operate wells,  and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and
casing wells,  the surface use and  restoration of properties on which wells are
drilled and the  plugging  and  abandoning  of wells.  Our  operations  are also
subject  to  various  conservation  laws  and  regulations.  These  include  the
regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration  units and the
density of wells  which may be drilled in a given field and the  unitization  or
pooling of oil and natural gas properties.  Some states allow the forced pooling
or  integration of tracts to facilitate  exploration  while other states rely on
voluntary  pooling of lands and leases.  In addition,  state  conservation  laws
establish maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells,  generally
prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas, and impose certain  requirements
regarding the  ratability of production.  The effect of these  regulations is to
limit the amounts of oil and natural gas we can produce  from our wells,  and to
limit the number of wells or the  locations  where we can drill.  Because  these
statutes,  rules and regulations  undergo constant review and often are amended,
expanded and  reinterpreted,  we are unable to predict the future cost or impact
of  regulatory  compliance.  The  regulatory  burden on the oil and gas industry
increases   its  cost  of  doing   business  and,   consequently,   affects  its
profitability.  Cabot  Oil & Gas,  however,  does  not  believe  it is  affected
materially differently by these regulations than others in the industry.

NATURAL GAS MARKETING, GATHERING AND TRANSPORTATION

     Federal legislation and regulatory controls have historically  affected the
price of the natural gas  produced  and the manner in which such  production  is
transported and marketed.  Under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, the FERC regulates
the interstate  transportation and the sale in interstate commerce for resale of
natural  gas.  The FERC's  jurisdiction  over  interstate  natural gas sales was
substantially  modified  by the  Natural  Gas Policy  Act,  under which the FERC
continued to regulate the maximum  selling  prices of certain  categories of gas
sold in "first sales" in interstate and intrastate  commerce.  Effective January
1, 1993,  however,  the Natural  Gas  Wellhead  Decontrol  Act  (Decontrol  Act)
deregulated  natural gas prices for all "first sales" of natural gas,  including
all sales of our own production.  As a result,  all of our produced  natural gas
may now be sold at market prices, subject to the terms of any private contracts,
which may be in effect. The FERC's  jurisdiction over natural gas transportation
was not affected by the Decontrol Act.



     Natural  gas  sales  are  affected  by  intrastate   and   interstate   gas
transportation  regulation.  Beginning  in  1985,  the FERC  adopted  regulatory
changes that have  significantly  altered the  transportation  and  marketing of
natural gas. These changes were intended by the FERC to foster  competition  by,
among other things,  transforming the role of interstate pipeline companies from
wholesaler  marketers  of gas to the primary role of gas  transporters.  All gas
marketing by the pipelines was required to be divested to a marketing affiliate,
which operates  separately from the transporter and in direct  competition  with
all other merchants.  As a result of the various omnibus rulemaking  proceedings
in the late 1980s and the individual pipeline  restructuring  proceedings of the
early to mid-1990s,  the  interstate  pipelines are now required to provide open
and nondiscriminatory  transportation and transportation-related services to all
producers, gas marketing companies, local distribution companies, industrial end
users and other customers  seeking  service.  Through  similar orders  affecting
intrastate pipelines that provide similar interstate services, the FERC expanded
the impact of open access regulations to intrastate commerce.

     More  recently,  the FERC has pursued  other policy  initiatives  that have
affected natural gas marketing. Most notable are (1) the large-scale divestiture
of  interstate   pipeline-owned  gas  gathering   facilities  to  affiliated  or
non-affiliated  companies,  (2)  further  development  of  rules  governing  the
relationship  of  the  pipelines  with  their  marketing  affiliates,   (3)  the
publication of standards  relating to the use of electronic  bulletin boards and
electronic  data  exchange by the  pipelines  to make  available  transportation
information  on a timely basis and to enable  transactions  to occur on a purely
electronic  basis,  (4) further  review of the role of the secondary  market for
released  pipeline  capacity and its  relationship to open access service in the
primary  market,  and (5)  development  of  policy  and  promulgation  of orders
pertaining to its  authorization of market-based  rates (rather than traditional
cost-of-service  based  rates)  for  transportation  or   transportation-related
services  upon the  pipeline's  demonstration  of lack of market  control in the
relevant  service  market.  It remains to be seen what  effect the FERC's  other
activities will have on access to markets,  the fostering of competition and the
cost of doing business.

     As a result of these changes,  sellers and buyers of gas have gained direct
access to the  particular  pipeline  services  they need and are better  able to
conduct  business  with a larger  number of  counterparties.  We  believe  these
changes  generally have improved our access to markets while,  at the same time,
substantially  increasing competition in the natural gas marketplace.  We cannot
predict what new or different regulations the FERC and other regulatory agencies
may adopt, or what effect subsequent regulations may have on our activities.

     In the past,  Congress has been very active in the area of gas  regulation.
However,  as  discussed  above,  the  more  recent  trend  has  been in favor of
deregulation  and the promotion of  competition  in the gas  industry.  Thus, in
addition  to "first  sale"  deregulation,  Congress  also  repealed  incremental
pricing  requirements  and gas use restraints that were  previously  applicable.
There  are  other  legislative  proposals  pending  in  the  Federal  and  state
legislatures  which,  if  enacted,  would  significantly  affect  the  petroleum
industry.  At the present time, it is impossible to predict what  proposals,  if
any, might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures and
what effect, if any, such proposals might have on us. Similarly, and despite the
trend toward  federal  deregulation  of the natural gas industry,  whether or to
what extent that trend will continue, or what the ultimate effect will be on our
sales of gas, cannot be predicted.

     Our pipeline systems and storage fields are regulated for safety compliance
by the U.S.  Department  of  Transportation,  the West Virginia  Public  Service
Commission and the Pennsylvania  Department of Natural  Resources.  Our pipeline
systems in each state operate independently and are not interconnected.




FEDERAL REGULATION OF PETROLEUM

     Sales of oil and natural gas liquids by the Company are not  regulated  and
are at market  prices.  The price  received  from the sale of these  products is
affected  by the cost of  transporting  the  products  to  market.  Much of that
transportation is through interstate common carrier pipelines. Effective January
1,  1995,  the  FERC  implemented   regulations  generally   grandfathering  all
previously approved interstate transportation rates and establishing an indexing
system for those rates by which  adjustments are made annually based on the rate
of inflation,  subject to certain conditions and limitations.  These regulations
may tend to  increase  the cost of  transporting  oil and natural gas liquids by
interstate  pipeline,  although the annual  adjustments  may result in decreased
rates in a given  year.  These  regulations  have  generally  been  approved  on
judicial  review.  Every five  years,  the FERC will  examine  the  relationship
between the annual  change in the  applicable  index and the actual cost changes
experienced in the oil pipeline industry. The first such review is scheduled for
2000.  The Company is not able to predict with  certainty  the effect upon it of
these  relatively new federal  regulations or of the periodic  review by FERC of
the index.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

     GENERAL.  Our operations are subject to extensive federal,  state and local
laws and regulations relating to the generation,  storage,  handling,  emission,
transportation  and  discharge of materials  into the  environment.  Permits are
required for the operation of various Cabot Oil & Gas facilities.  These permits
can be  revoked,  modified  or  renewed  by  issuing  authorities.  Governmental
authorities   enforce   compliance   with  their   regulations   through  fines,
injunctions,  or both. Government regulations can increase the cost of planning,
designing,  installing and operating oil and gas facilities. Although we believe
that compliance with environmental  regulations will not have a material adverse
effect  on  us,  risks  of  substantial   costs  and   liabilities   related  to
environmental  compliance issues are parts of oil and gas production operations.
No assurance can be given that  significant  costs and  liabilities  will not be
incurred.  Also,  it is  possible  that  other  developments,  such as  stricter
environmental  laws and  regulations,  and claims for  damages  to  property  or
persons  resulting from oil and gas production would result in substantial costs
and liabilities to us.

     SOLID AND HAZARDOUS  WASTE. We currently own or lease, and have in the past
owned or leased,  numerous  properties  that were used for the production of oil
and gas for many years.  Although  operating  and disposal  practices  that were
standard in the industry at the time may have been utilized, it is possible that
hydrocarbons  or other solid wastes may have been  disposed of or released on or
under the  properties  currently  owned or leased by us.  State and federal laws
applicable to oil and gas wastes and properties  have become stricter over time.
Under  these more  stringent  requirements,  we could be  required  to remove or
remediate  previously  disposed wastes (including wastes disposed or released by
prior  owners and  operators)  or  clean up  property  contamination  (including
groundwater  contamination  by prior owners or operators) or to perform plugging
operations to prevent future contamination.

     We generate some hazardous  wastes that are already  subject to the Federal
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and comparable state statutes. The
Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA) has  limited the  disposal  options for
certain  hazardous  wastes.  It is possible that certain wastes currently exempt
from treatment as hazardous  wastes may in the future be designated as hazardous
wastes under RCRA or other applicable statutes. We could,  therefore, be subject
to more rigorous and costly disposal requirements.



     SUPERFUND.  The Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,  Compensation,  and
Liability Act (CERCLA),  also known as the "Superfund" law,  imposes  liability,
without  regard to fault or the  legality of the  original  conduct,  on certain
persons  with  respect  to  the  release  of  a  hazardous  substance  into  the
environment.  These  persons  include  the owner and  operator of a site and any
party that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the  hazardous  substance
found at a site.  CERCLA also  authorizes  the EPA,  and in some cases,  private
parties,  to  undertake  actions to clean up such  hazardous  substances,  or to
recover the costs of such actions from the responsible parties. In the course of
business,  we have generated and will continue to generate  wastes that may fall
within CERCLA's definition of hazardous substances.  Cabot Oil & Gas may also be
an owner or operator of sites on which hazardous  substances have been released.
As a result,  we may be responsible under CERCLA for all or part of the costs to
clean up sites where such wastes have been disposed.

         OIL POLLUTION ACT.  The federal Oil  Pollution  Act of 1990 (OPA) and
resulting  regulations  impose a variety of obligations  on responsible  parties
related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from
such  spills in waters of the  United  States.  The term  "waters  of the United
     States" has been broadly defined to include inland water bodies, including
wetlands and intermittent streams. The OPA assigns liability to each responsible
party for oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages.

     CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal  Water  Pollution  Control Act (FWPCA or Clean
Water Act) and resulting regulations,  which are implemented through a system of
permits,  also govern discharge of certain  contaminants to waters of the United
States.  Sanctions  for  failure  to comply  strictly  with the Clean  Water Act
requirements  are generally  resolved by payment of fines and  correction of any
identified  deficiencies,  but  regulatory  agencies  could  require us to cease
construction  or operation of certain  facilities  that are the sources of water
discharges.  We  believe  that we comply  with the Clean  Water Act and  related
federal and state regulations in all material respects.

     CLEAN AIR ACT. Our operations are subject to local,  state and federal laws
and regulations to control  emissions from sources of air pollution.  Payment of
fines and correction of any identified  deficiencies generally resolve penalties
for failure to comply  strictly  with air  regulations  or  permits.  Regulatory
agencies could also require Cabot Oil & Gas to cease  construction  or operation
of  certain  facilities  that  are air  emission  sources.  We  believe  that we
substantially comply with the emission standards under local, state, and federal
laws and regulations.

EMPLOYEES

     As of  December  31,  1999,  Cabot Oil & Gas had 332 active  employees.  We
recognize that our success is  significantly  influenced by the  relationship we
maintain with our  employees.  Overall,  we believe that our relations  with our
employees are satisfactory. The Company and its employees are not represented by
a  collective   bargaining   agreement.   In  January   1999,  we  instituted  a
reorganization  plan that  resulted  in a 6%  reduction  in the number of active
employees. In September 1999, we completed the divestiture of certain properties
in the Appalachian  region that  effectively  transferred 19 active employees to
the acquiring company.

OTHER

     Our  profitability  depends on certain factors that are beyond our control,
such as natural gas and crude oil  prices.  Please see Item 7. We face a variety
of hazards and risks that could cause substantial financial losses. Our business
involves a variety of operating risks, including blowouts, cratering, explosions
and fires,  mechanical problems,  uncontrolled flows of oil, natural gas or well
fluids,  formations with abnormal  pressures,  pollution and other environmental
risks, and natural  disasters.  We conduct operations in shallow offshore areas,
which are subject to additional hazards of marine operations, such as capsizing,
collision and damage from severe weather.




     Our operation of natural gas  gathering and pipeline  systems also involves
various risks, including the risk of explosions and environmental hazards caused
by pipeline leaks and ruptures.  The location of pipelines near populated areas,
including  residential areas,  commercial business centers and industrial sites,
could  increase  these  risks.  At  December  31,  1999,  we owned  or  operated
approximately  2,590 miles of natural gas  gathering and  transmission  pipeline
systems throughout the United States. As part of our normal maintenance program,
we have identified certain segments of our pipelines that we believe may require
repair, replacement or additional maintenance.  Any of these events could result
in loss of human life, significant damage to property,  environmental pollution,
impairment of our operations and  substantial  losses to us. In accordance  with
customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of
these risks and losses.  The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered
by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial  position and
results of operations.

     The  sale of our oil and gas  production  depends  on a number  of  factors
beyond our  control.  The  factors  include  the  availability  and  capacity of
transportation and processing facilities. Our failure to access these facilities
and  obtain  these  services  on  acceptable  terms  could  materially  harm our
business.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     See Item 1. Business.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     We are a party to various legal proceedings arising in the normal course of
our business, none of which, in management's opinion, should result in judgments
which would have a material adverse effect on us.

     The EPA notified us in February 2000 that we may have  potential  liability
for waste material disposed of at the Casmalia  Superfund Site ("Site),  located
on a 252-acre parcel in Santa Barbara County,  California.  Over 10,000 separate
parties  disposed  of waste at the Site  while it was  operational  from 1973 to
1989. The EPA stated that federal,  state and local governmental  agencies along
with the numerous private entities that used the Site for waste disposal will be
expected  to pay for the  clean-up  costs  which  could total as much as several
hundred million dollars.  The EPA is also pursuing the  owner(s)/operator(s)  of
the Site to pay for remediation.

     The total amount of environmental  investigation  and cleanup costs that we
may  incur  with  respect  to the  foregoing  is not  known  at this  time  and,
accordingly,  we have not recorded a reserve related to this possible liability.
While the potential impact to the quarterly or annual  financial  results may be
material, we do not believe it would materially impact our financial position.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were  submitted to a vote of security  holders during the period
from October 1, 1999 to December 31, 1999.




EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The following table shows certain  information about our executive officers
as of March 1,  2000,  as such term is  defined  in Rule 3b-7 of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, and certain of our other officers.



     All officers are elected annually by our Board of Directors. Except for the
following,  all of the executive  officers have been employed by Cabot Oil & Gas
for at least the last five years.

     Ray R. Seegmiller joined Cabot Oil & Gas as Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and  Treasurer in August 1995.  Mr.  Seegmiller  served in this position
until March 1997 when he was  promoted to  Executive  Vice  President  and Chief
Operating  Officer.  In September 1997, Mr. Seegmiller was promoted to President
and Chief  Operating  Officer  and was  elected as a  Director.  Mr.  Seegmiller
replaced  Charles Siess as Chief  Executive  Officer upon the  retirement of Mr.
Siess in May 1998.  Mr.  Seegmiller was named Chairman of the Board in May 1999.
From May 1988 until 1993, Mr. Seegmiller served as President and Chief Executive
Officer of Terry Petroleum  Company.  Prior to that, Mr. Seegmiller held various
officer positions with Marathon Manufacturing Company.

     Abraham D. Garza joined  Cabot Oil & Gas in August 1995 as Director,  Human
Resources.  He was  named  to his  current  position  as Vice  President,  Human
Resources in May 1998. Previously,  Mr. Garza served as Human Resources Director
at  Texfield,   Inc.  and  in  various   management   positions  of   increasing
responsibility at Marathon Manufacturing Company.

     Scott C. Schroeder has been Vice President and Treasurer  since April 1998.
From May 1997 to that time he  served as  Treasurer.  From  October  1995 to May
1997, Mr. Schroeder served as Assistant Treasurer.  Prior to joining Cabot Oil &
Gas,  Mr.  Schroeder  held various  managerial  positions  with Pride  Petroleum
Services (now known as Pride International). Prior to that, Mr. Schroeder served
as Manager, Treasury Operations and Planning of DeKalb Energy Company.

     Robert R.  McBride  joined Cabot Oil & Gas as Vice  President  and Regional
Manager in September 1999. Prior to his current position, he served as President
and General Manager for Pennzoil  Venezuela  Corporation S.A. He previously held
positions  of  increasing  responsibility  at American  Exploration  Company and
Tenneco.




PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The  Common  Stock is listed and  principally  traded on the New York Stock
Exchange  under the ticker symbol "COG".  The following  table presents the high
and low sales prices per share of the Common Stock during  certain  periods,  as
reported in the consolidated  transaction  reporting system. Cash dividends paid
per share of the Common Stock are also shown.



     As of January 31, 2000, there were 1,087  registered  holders of the Common
Stock.  Shareholders  include  individuals,   brokers,   nominees,   custodians,
trustees, and institutions such as banks, insurance companies and pension funds.
Many of these  hold  large  blocks of stock on behalf  of other  individuals  or
firms.


ITEM 6. SELECTED HISTORICAL FINANCIAL DATA

     The following table  summarizes  selected  consolidated  financial data for
Cabot Oil & Gas for the periods  indicated.  This information  should be read in
conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations,  and the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements and related
Notes.


- ----------
(1)  See  "Earnings  per  Common  Share"  under  Note  15 of  the  Notes  to the
     Consolidated Financial Statements.




ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The  following  discussion is intended to assist you in  understanding  our
results of operations  and our present  financial  condition.  Our  Consolidated
Financial  Statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form
10-K contain  additional  information  that should be referred to when reviewing
this material.

     Statements in this discussion may be forward-looking. These forward-looking
statements  involve risks and  uncertainties,  including those discussed  below,
which could cause  actual  results to differ from those  expressed.  Please read
"Forward-Looking Information" on page 27.

     We  operate  in  one  segment,   natural  gas  and  oil   exploration   and
exploitation.  Prior to 1998, we operated in two regions: the Appalachian region
and the Western region,  which included the  Mid-Continent,  Rocky Mountains and
Gulf  Coast  areas.  Beginning  in 1998,  a third  region was  created  with the
formation  of the  Gulf  Coast  region,  leaving  the  Mid-Continent  and  Rocky
Mountains  areas in the Western region.  For purposes of the comparisons  below,
prior  period  results  have  been  restated  to  conform  to this  three-region
structure.

OVERVIEW

     Our financial  results depend upon many factors,  particularly the price of
natural gas and our ability to market our production on economically  attractive
terms.  Price volatility in the natural gas market has remained prevalent in the
last few years.  From the third  quarter of 1998  through  the first  quarter of
1999, we experienced a decline in energy  commodity  prices,  resulting in lower
revenues and net income during this period.  However,  in the summer of 1999 and
continuing  into  early  2000,  prices  improved.   This  more  favorable  price
environment  helped us improve from a $3.3 million net loss in the first quarter
of 1999 to net income of $4.6 million in the fourth quarter.

     We reported earnings of $0.21 per share, or $5.1 million, for 1999. This is
up from the $0.08 per share, or $1.9 million,  reported in 1998. The improvement
is partially  credited to the stronger  commodity price  environment  during the
last half of the year,  accompanied  by a 4% increase in equivalent  production.
Our realized  natural gas price for the fourth  quarter of $2.61 per Mcf was 21%
higher than last year's fourth quarter price of $2.16 per Mcf. Our price for the
entire year of $2.22 per Mcf was 3% higher than the 1998 price of $2.16 per Mcf.
Also contributing to our 1999 results were the following selected items:

     -    $12 million in revenue  received for the  monetization  of a long-term
          gas sales contract in December 1999
     -    A $4  million  gain  realized  on the  sale of  non-strategic  assets,
          primarily in Appalachia
     -    The recognition of a $7 million impairment of long-lived assets
     -    The $1.2 million pre-tax  provision for certain wells no longer deemed
          to be eligible for the Section 29 tight gas sands  credit  following a
          recent industry tax court ruling.

A discussion of these  selected  items can be found in the Results of Operations
section, beginning on page 28.

     Total equivalent  production for 1999 was 71.3 Bcfe, an increase of 4% over
1998, despite the Appalachian divestiture and the significantly reduced drilling
program in place for 1999  compared to 1998.  This increase was due primarily to
production from the December 1998 Oryx acquisition and new production brought on
by the 1998 and 1999  drilling  programs  of a combined  278 gross  (189.1  net)
wells.




     During 1999, we entered into several  property sales intended to high grade
our reserve  base.  In  September  1999,  we sold  Appalachian  properties  with
reserves of 58.8 Bcfe for $46.3  million.  Subsequent to this sale, we used part
of the proceeds from this  divestiture of  non-strategic  properties to purchase
$17.4  million  of  proved  reserves  adjacent  to our  existing  properties  in
Wyoming's  Green River  Basin and the balance of the  proceeds to reduce debt by
$28.6 million.  These acquired properties added 15.8 Bcfe of proved reserves and
approximately   43,000   undeveloped   acres.   Additionally,   we  sold   other
non-strategic properties in several smaller transactions during the year for $10
million.  In total,  1999 assets sales  resulted in a gain of $4 million.  These
actions  eliminated  approximately  22% of our total well count but  reduced our
production by only 5%.

     We purchased  producing oil and gas  properties and other assets located in
south  Louisiana  from Oryx Energy  Company for $70.1 million in December  1998.
These properties  included interests in 10 fields covering 34,345 net acres with
68 producing  wells. The acquisition also included a 160 square mile 3-D seismic
inventory.  Proved reserves  acquired were  approximately  72 Bcfe. By reworking
certain  non-producing  wells, we have increased the daily  production rate from
11.5  Mmcfe in  December  1998 to an  average  rate of 15.8  Mmcfe  in 1999.  In
addition,  we plan to commence our exploration and development  drilling program
on these properties in 2000.

     We drilled 73 gross  wells with a success  rate of 84% in 1999  compared to
205 gross wells and an 89% success rate in 1998. Total capital expenditures were
$88.1 million for 1999 compared to $225.9 million in 1998,  which included $70.1
million for the  acquisition of the south Louisiana  properties.  We reduced our
1999  budgeted  capital  and  exploration  expenditures  in response to the weak
energy  price  environment  in the  fourth  quarter  of 1998 and in early  1999.
However,  we  front-end  loaded the 1999  development  and  exploration  plan to
maximize  production  from this  year's  drilling  program  and to provide  more
flexibility to drill more wells if cash flows improved later in the year,  which
they did.  Accordingly,  during the year,  we  increased  our 1999  capital  and
exploration  expenditure program by approximately $35 million in response to the
improving natural gas prices during the third quarter.

     As mentioned earlier,  we received $12 million in December 1999 to monetize
a long-term gas sales  contract,  which had been sourced by production  from our
Rocky Mountains  area. The contract  provided for a fixed natural gas price that
escalated  5%  annually.  The  contract  had a remaining  term of less than nine
years.  We  have  entered  into  certain  forward-sale   agreements  with  other
counterparties  to deliver a similar  quantity of gas at prices similar to those
of the monetized contract.  These forward-sale contracts had a remaining life of
16 months at the end of 1999.

     During the fourth quarter of 1999, we experienced a significant  production
decline from the only well in our Chimney  Bayou field located in the Texas Gulf
Coast. This decline,  along with an unsuccessful workover in our Lawson field in
Louisiana, resulted in a $7 million impairment of long-lived assets.

     We  remain  focused  on our  strategies  to grow  through  the  drill  bit,
concentrating  on  the  highest  return  opportunities,   and  from  synergistic
acquisitions.  We  believe  these  strategies  are  appropriate  in the  current
industry environment, enabling us to add shareholder value over the long-term.

     The preceding  paragraphs,  discussing  our  strategic  pursuits and goals,
contain forward-looking information.  Please read "Forward-Looking  Information"
on page 27.




FINANCIAL CONDITION

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

     Our capital  resources consist primarily of cash flows from our oil and gas
properties  and  asset-based  borrowing  supported by oil and gas reserves.  Our
level of earnings and cash flows depends on many factors, including the price of
oil and  natural gas and our  ability to control  and reduce  costs.  Demand for
natural gas has historically been subject to seasonal  influences  characterized
by peak  demand and higher  prices in the winter  heating  season.  Natural  gas
prices  were  unseasonably  low  during  much of 1998 and into the first half of
1999.  In late  spring  and  into  the  summer  of  1999,  prices  began to show
improvement  and by the fourth  quarter,  we experienced  the highest  quarterly
realized price in two years.

     The primary  sources of cash for us during 1999 were funds  generated  from
operations,  proceeds from the sale of non-strategic  oil and gas properties and
the proceeds from the  monetization of the long-term gas sales  contract.  Funds
were  used  primarily  for  exploration  and  development  expenditures,  proved
property  acquisitions,  dividend payments and the repayment of borrowings under
the credit facility.

     We had net cash outflows of $0.5 million  during 1999.  The net cash inflow
from  operating  activities  of $92.5  million  substantially  offsets the $93.7
million of cash used for capital and exploration expenditures. The cash proceeds
from asset sales of $56.3  million  effectively  funded the debt  reduction  and
dividend payment.



     Cash flows  provided  by  operating  activities  in 1999 were $5.3  million
higher than in 1998. This  improvement  was a result of increased  revenues from
higher realized commodity prices and the monetization of the long-term gas sales
contract. Partially offsetting this benefit was the less favorable change in the
balance sheet as we reduced the balance in accounts payable between year ends.

     Cash flows provided by operating activities in 1998 were $7.8 million lower
than in 1997, due  predominantly to lower natural gas and oil prices,  partially
offset by a  significant  increase in the  accounts  payable  balance  resulting
mainly from higher fourth quarter spending activity.



     Cash  flows  used by  investing  activities  in 1999 were  attributable  to
capital and exploration  expenditures of $93.7 million, offset by the receipt of
$56.3 million in proceeds  received from the sale of  non-strategic  oil and gas
properties.  Cash flows used by investing  activities in 1998 were substantially
attributable to capital and exploration  expenditures of $223.2 million,  offset
by the receipt of $1.1 million in proceeds  from the sale of certain oil and gas
properties.




     Cash flows used by investing  activities in 1998 were $183.7 million higher
than in 1997,  due primarily to the capital and  exploration  expenditures  that
increased  $135.8 million over 1997, and the receipt in 1997 of $47.7 million in
net  proceeds  from  the  sale of  producing  properties  located  in  northwest
Pennsylvania. These 1998 expenditures included:

     -    $70.1 million used to purchase south Louisiana properties from Oryx in
          December.
     -    $6.6 million  spent as part of the joint  exploration  agreement  with
          Union Pacific Resources.
     -    $12  million  used to  acquire  21.8  Bcfe of proved  reserves  in the
          Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountains areas of the Western region.



     Cash flows used by financing  activities  in 1999 included $50 million used
to reduce the  year-end  debt  balance to $293 million from $343 million in 1998
and cash used to pay cash dividends to stockholders.

     Cash flows  provided by  financing  activities  in 1998 were  increases  in
borrowings on the revolving credit facility related to the 1998 drilling program
and $83.6 million in property  acquisitions.  Financing  activities in 1998 also
included the payment of stock  dividends  and the purchase of shares in the open
market under our share  repurchase  program.  The  purchased  shares are held as
treasury shares.

     Cash flows used by financing  activities from 1997 consist primarily of the
$49.0 million net reduction in  borrowings on the revolving  credit  facility as
well as dividend payments.

     We have a revolving  credit  facility with a group of banks,  the revolving
term of which  runs to  December  2003.  The  available  credit  line under this
facility,  currently $250 million,  is subject to adjustment on the basis of the
present  value of  estimated  future  net cash  flows  from  proved  oil and gas
reserves (as  determined  by the banks'  petroleum  engineer)  and other assets.
Accordingly,  oil and gas prices are an important part of this computation.  Oil
and gas prices  also affect the  calculation  of the  financial  ratios for debt
covenant  compliance.  While  we  do  not  currently  believe  that  our  credit
availability is likely to be significantly  reduced,  management  cannot predict
how  current  price  levels  may  change the  banks'  long-term  price  outlook.
Therefore,  we can give no assurance that our available  credit line will not be
adversely  impacted in 2000 or as to the amount of credit that will  continue to
be available under this facility.  To reduce the impact of any  redetermination,
we strive to manage our debt at a level below the available credit line in order
to maintain excess borrowing capacity. At year end, this excess capacity totaled
$105 million,  or 42% of the total available  credit line.  Management  believes
that we have the ability to finance,  if  necessary,  our capital  requirements,
including  acquisitions.  Please  read Note 5 of the  Notes to the  Consolidated
Financial  Statements  for a more detailed  discussion  of our revolving  credit
facility.

     In the  event  that  the  available  credit  line  is  adjusted  below  the
outstanding  level of  borrowings,  we have a period of 180 days to  reduce  our
outstanding  debt to the adjusted  credit line. The revolving  credit  agreement
also  includes  a  requirement  to pay down  half of the debt in  excess  of the
adjusted credit line within the first 90 days of any adjustment.




     Our  interest  expense for 2000 is projected  to be $23.3  million.  In May
2000, a $16.0 million  principal  payment is due on our 10.18% Notes. The amount
is reflected as "Current  Portion of Long-Term  Debt" on our balance sheet.  The
payment is expected to be made with cash from operations and, if necessary, from
increased borrowings under our revolving credit facility.

CAPITALIZATION

     Our capitalization information is as follows:



     During 1999,  dividends were paid on our common stock totaling $4.0 million
and on our 6% convertible  redeemable  preferred stock totaling $3.4 million. We
have paid  quarterly  common stock  dividends of $0.04 per share since  becoming
publicly  traded in 1990.  The amount of future  dividends is  determined by our
board of directors and is dependent upon a number of factors,  including  future
earnings, financial condition and capital requirements.

     We have entered into an agreement with Puget Sound Energy, Inc., the holder
of our preferred  stock,  to repurchase  their  preferred  shares by November 1,
2000. As outlined in the  agreement,  the preferred  shares that are recorded on
our balance sheet for $56.7 million will be repurchased for $51.6 million.  Cash
flow from operations,  additional borrowings or proceeds from the sale of equity
may be used to fund this  transaction.  Please  read Note 10 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this agreement.


CAPITAL AND EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES

     On an annual basis,  we generally fund most of our capital and  exploration
activities,  excluding  major  oil  and gas  property  acquisitions,  with  cash
generated from  operations.  We budget these capital  expenditures  based on our
projected cash flows for the year.



     The  following   table  presents  major   components  of  our  capital  and
exploration expenditures for the three years ended December 31, 1999.


- ----------
(1)  Includes $70.1 million in oil and gas properties  acquired from Oryx Energy
     Company in December 1998.
(2)  Includes  $45.2 million in oil and gas  properties  acquired from Equitable
     Resources Energy Company in a like-kind exchange transaction with a portion
     of the assets sold in the Meadville property sale.

     Total  capital  and  exploration  expenditures  for 1999  decreased  $137.8
million compared to 1998,  primarily as a result of this year's reduced drilling
program and the $70.1  million  acquisition  of proved  properties  from Oryx in
December 1998.  Additionally in 1998, we made an initial $5.0 million  leasehold
acquisition in connection with our joint exploration  program with Union Pacific
Resources and also purchased 9.3 Bcfe of proved  resources in the  Mid-Continent
for $6.6 million. During the last half of 1999, we acquired $17.4 million of oil
and gas properties in the Moxa Arch in the Rocky  Mountains  area,  including 27
gross wells,  approximately 16 Bcfe of proved reserves and approximately  43,000
net undeveloped acres that complement our existing Moxa Arch development.

         We plan to drill 110 gross wells in 2000  compared  with 73 gross wells
drilled in 1999.  This 2000  drilling  program  includes  $88.9 million in total
capital and exploration  expenditures,  up from $88.1 million in 1999.  Expected
spending in 2000 includes $49.1 million for drilling and  facilities,  and $25.2
million in  exploration  expenses.  In addition to the drilling and  exploration
program,  other  2000  capital  expenditures  are  planned  primarily  for lease
acquisitions  and for  gathering  and pipeline  infrastructure  maintenance  and
construction.  We will continue to assess the natural gas price  environment and
may increase or decrease the capital and exploration expenditures accordingly.

YEAR 2000

     Many computer systems were built using software that processed transactions
using two digits to represent the year. This type of software generally required
modifications  to function  properly  with dates after  December  31, 1999 or to
become year 2000 compliant.  The same issue applied to microprocessors  embedded
in machinery and equipment,  such as gas  compressors and pipeline  meters.  The
impact of failing to  identify  those  computer  systems  operated  by us or our
business  partners  that are not year 2000  compliant and to correct the problem
could have been  significant  to our ability to operate and report  results,  as
well as potentially  expose us to third-party  liability.  We did not experience
any computer system failures as a result of entering the year 2000.  Cabot Oil &
Gas will continue to monitor its computer  systems for any potential errors that
may have resulted from this change.




     Prior to January 1, 2000, we completed  all of the necessary  modifications
to our computer systems and embedded microprocessors. This project was completed
on schedule and the total related  costs were $2.2 million,  funded by cash from
operations or borrowings on our revolving credit facility.  Of the total project
cost,  $2.0  million  was  attributable  to the  purchase  of new  software  and
equipment that was capitalized. The remaining $0.2 million was expensed.

     Prior  to the end of 1999,  we  contacted  our  significant  customers  and
suppliers  in order to  determine  our  exposure to their  potential  failure to
become  year  2000  compliant.  Although  we are  not  aware  of any  year  2000
compliance problems with any of our customers or suppliers,  we cannot guarantee
that their  systems  have been  operating  or will  continue to operate  without
interruption in the new millennium.

OTHER ISSUES AND CONTINGENCIES

     CORPORATE  INCOME  TAX.  Cabot  Oil & Gas  generates  tax  credits  for the
production of certain qualified fuels, including natural gas produced from tight
sands  formations  and Devonian  Shale.  The credit for natural gas from a tight
sand formation (tight gas sands) amounts to $0.52 per Mmbtu for natural gas sold
prior to 2003 from  qualified  wells drilled in 1991 and 1992. A number of wells
drilled in the  Appalachian  region during 1991 and 1992 qualified for the tight
gas sands tax credit. The credit for natural gas produced from Devonian Shale is
$1.07 per  Mmbtu in 1999.  In 1995 and 1996,  Cabot  Oil & Gas  completed  three
transactions  to monetize the value of these tax credits,  resulting in revenues
of $1.3 million in 1999 and approximately  $5.4 million over the remaining three
years.  See Note 13 of the Notes to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements for
further discussion.

     Cabot Oil & Gas has  benefited  in the past and may  benefit  in the future
from the  alternative  minimum tax (AMT) relief granted under the  Comprehensive
National Energy Policy Act of 1992 (the Act). The Act repealed provisions of the
AMT requiring a taxpayer's alternative minimum taxable income to be increased on
account of certain  intangible  drilling  costs (IDC) and  percentage  depletion
deductions.  The repeal of these provisions  generally  applies to taxable years
beginning  after 1992. The repeal of the excess IDC  preference  cannot reduce a
taxpayer's  alternative minimum taxable income by more than 40% of the amount of
such income determined without regard to the repeal of such preference.

     REGULATIONS.  The  Company's  operations  are  subject to various  types of
regulation by federal,  state and local  authorities.  See Regulation of Oil and
Natural Gas Production and Transportation  and Environmental  Regulations in the
Other  Business  Matters  section of Item 1 Business for a  discussion  of these
regulations.

     RESTRICTIVE  COVENANTS.  The  Company's  ability  to  incur  debt,  to  pay
dividends  on its common  and  preferred  stock,  and to make  certain  types of
investments is subject to certain restrictive covenants in the Company's various
debt  instruments.  Among other  requirements,  the Company's  Revolving  Credit
Agreement and 7.19% Notes specify a minimum  annual  coverage ratio of operating
cash flow to interest  expense for the trailing  four quarters of 2.8 to 1.0. At
December 31, 1999, the calculated ratio for 1999 was 4.6 to 1. In the unforeseen
event that Cabot Oil & Gas fails to comply  with these  covenants,  it may apply
for a temporary waiver with the bank, which, if granted, would allow the Company
a period of time to remedy the  situation.  See  further  discussion  in Capital
Resources and Liquidity  and Note 5 of the Notes to the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements for further discussion.




CONCLUSION

     Our financial  results depend upon many factors,  particularly the price of
natural  gas and oil and our  ability to market gas on  economically  attractive
terms.  The average  produced natural gas sales price received in 1999 was up 3%
over 1998,  after declining 15% from 1997 to 1998. The volatility of natural gas
prices in recent  years  remains  prevalent  in 2000 with wide  price  swings in
day-to-day  trading on the NYMEX  futures  market.  Given this  continued  price
volatility,  we cannot predict with certainty what pricing levels will be in the
future.  Because  future  cash flows are subject to these  variables,  we cannot
assure you that our  operations  will provide cash  sufficient to fully fund our
planned capital expenditures.

     While our 2000 plans now include $88.9 million in capital spending, we will
periodically  assess  industry  conditions  and adjust our 2000 spending plan to
ensure the adequate funding of our capital requirements,  including, among other
things, reductions in capital expenditures or common stock dividends.

     We believe our capital  resources,  supplemented with external financing if
necessary, are adequate to meet our capital requirements.

     The  preceding   paragraphs  contain   forward-looking   information.   See
Forward-Looking Information in the following paragraph.

                                     * * *

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

     The statements  regarding  future  financial  performance and results,  and
market prices and other  statements  that are not historical  facts contained in
this  report are  forward-looking  statements.  The words  "expect,"  "project,"
"estimate,"  "believe,"  "anticipate,"  "intend,"  "budget," "plan," "forecast,"
"predict" and similar expressions are also intended to identify  forward-looking
statements. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties,  including, but not
limited  to,  market   factors,   market  prices   (including   regional   basis
differentials) of natural gas and oil, results for future drilling and marketing
activity,  future  production and costs and other factors detailed herein and in
our other  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  filings.  Should one or more of
these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those indicated.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     For the purpose of  reviewing  our results of  operations,  "Net Income" is
defined as net income available to common stockholders.


SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA



     The table below presents the after-tax effects of certain selected items on
our results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 1999.



     These selected items impacted our 1999 financial results.  Because they are
not a part of our normal  business,  we have isolated their effects in the table
above. These selected items were as follows:

     -    We  had  a  15-year   cogeneration   contract   under  which  we  sold
          approximately  20% of our Western  region  natural  gas per year.  The
          contract  was due to expire in 2008,  but  during  1999 we  reached an
          agreement with the counterparty  under which the  counterparty  bought
          out the remainder of the contract for $12 million.  This  transaction,
          completed in December 1999,  accelerated the realization of any future
          price  premium  that may have been  associated  with the  contract and
          added $12 million of pre-tax other  revenue.  We  simultaneously  sold
          forward a  similar  quantity  of  Western  region  gas for the next 16
          months at similar prices to those in the monetized contract.



     -    In the fourth  quarter of 1999,  we recorded  impairments  totaling $7
          million on two of our producing  fields in the Gulf Coast region.  The
          Chimney  Bayou field was impaired by $6.6 million due to a significant
          reserve revision on the Broussard-Middleton 1R well in connection with
          a  decline  in its  natural  gas  production  accompanied  by a marked
          increase in water production.  The Broussard-Middleton 1R was the only
          producing  well in this field.  The Lawson  field was impaired by $0.4
          million due to an unsuccessful workover on one of its wells.
     -    We recorded a $4 million gain on the sale of certain non-strategic oil
          and  gas  assets,  most  notably  the  Clarksburg  properties  in  the
          Appalachian region sold to EnerVest effective October 1999.
     -    We recorded a $1.2 million  reserve  against other revenue for certain
          wells no longer  deemed to be  eligible  for the  Section 29 tight gas
          sands credit  following a recent  industry tax court ruling.  The FERC
          recently  issued a rule  proposal  that  may  ultimately  restore  the
          eligibility for some or all of the wells in question. We will continue
          to monitor other tax court decisions and  announcements  from the FERC
          regarding this issue.

1999 AND 1998 COMPARED

     NET INCOME AND REVENUES. We reported net income in 1999 of $0.4 million, or
$0.02 per share,  excluding  the impact of the selected  items.  During 1998, we
reported net income of $1.9 million,  or $0.08 per share.  Excluding the pre-tax
effect of the selected items,  operating income increased $4.4 million,  or 16%,
and operating  revenues  increased  $11.5 million,  or 7%, in 1999.  Natural gas
production  made up 87%,  or  $145.5  million,  of net  operating  revenue.  The
improvement  in operating  revenues was mainly a result of the $7.4 million rise
in crude oil and condensate sales, due to both price improvements and production
volume  increases.  Price and  production  volume  increases in natural gas also
contributed to the higher  operating  revenues.  Operating  income was similarly
impacted by these  revenue  changes.  Net income was  reduced by a $7.2  million
increase in interest expense.

     Natural gas  production  volume in the Gulf Coast region was up 4.9 Bcf, or
46%, to 15.5 Bcf primarily due to production from the Oryx  acquisition,  recent
discoveries  and  development  in the  Kacee  field  in  south  Texas,  and  the
redrilling  of certain  wells in the  Beaurline  field.  Natural gas  production
volume in the Western region was down 1.6 Bcf to 29.3 Bcf due primarily to lower
levels of  drilling  activity  in the  Mid-Continent  area during 1998 and 1999.
Natural gas production volume in the Appalachian region was down 2.0 Bcf to 20.7
Bcf, as a result of the sale of certain  non-strategic assets in the Appalachian
region  effective  October 1, 1999,  and a decrease in drilling  activity in the
region in 1999.  Total natural gas production was up 1.3 Bcf, or 2%,  yielding a
revenue increase of $2.7 million in 1999.

     The average Gulf Coast  natural gas  production  sales price rose $0.14 per
Mcf, or 7%, to $2.29,  increasing net operating  revenues by approximately  $2.2
million.  In the Western region,  the average natural gas production sales price
increased $0.06 per Mcf, or 3%, to $1.96,  increasing net operating  revenues by
approximately $1.8 million. The average Appalachian natural gas production sales
price remained flat to last year at $2.53.  The overall weighted average natural
gas production sales price increased $0.06 per Mcf, or 3%, to $2.22,  increasing
revenues by $3.9 million.

     The volume of crude oil sold in the year increased by 279 Mbbls, or 43%, to
929  Mbbls,  increasing  net  operating  revenues  by $3.6  million.  The volume
increase  was largely due to  production  from the Oryx  acquisition.  Crude oil
prices rose $4.16 per Bbl, or 32%,  to $17.22,  resulting  in an increase to net
operating revenues of approximately $3.8 million.

     The brokered natural gas margin decreased $1.2 million to $4.4 million. The
primary  cause was a $0.04 per Mcf  reduction  to net margin that  resulted in a
$2.0  million  revenue  decline.  The effect of the lower  margin was  partially
offset by a 6.5 Bcf volume  increase,  resulting in a $0.8  million  increase in
brokered natural gas margin.




     Excluding the selected items regarding the sales contract  monetization and
the Section 29 tax credit provision, other net operating revenues decreased $1.3
million to $5.4  million.  The decline was a result of  decreases in activity in
the following areas:

     -    Transportation revenue declined $0.6 million.
     -    Revenue from our brine treatment plants declined $0.3 million.
     -    Natural gas liquid sales  declined $0.2 million due to lower  activity
          levels during 1999.
     -    Section  29  revenues  decreased  slightly  due to  normal  production
          decline.

     COSTS AND EXPENSES. Total costs and expenses from operations, excluding the
selected item related to the  impairment of long-lived  assets,  increased  $6.6
million,  or 5%, from 1998 due primarily to the  following:

     -    Direct operating expense increased $3.1 million,  or 10%, primarily as
          a result of the  incremental  cost of  operating  the Oryx  properties
          acquired in December  1998.  On a  units-of-production  basis,  direct
          operating  expense was $0.47 per Mcfe in 1999 versus $0.44 per Mcfe in
          1998.
     -    Exploration  expense  decreased $8.1 million,  or 41%,  primarily as a
          result of:
          o    A $5.5 million reduction in dry hole costs from 1998, largely due
               to a smaller  drilling program in 1999 that resulted in seven dry
               holes compared to 12 dry holes in 1998.
          o    A $2.2 million decrease in geological and geophysical  costs over
               last year largely due to a decline in seismic  acquisition  costs
               in the Appalachian region.
     -    Depreciation,   depletion,   amortization   and  impairment   expense,
          excluding the select item related to the FAS 121 impairment, increased
          $11.7  million,  or 26%,  over 1998.  This  increase  was due to costs
          associated with the Oryx  properties,  as well as higher finding costs
          in 1998 on certain  fields in the Gulf Coast  region that were largely
          related to mechanical  difficulties  associated  with  drilling.  A 4%
          increase in total natural gas equivalent  production,  including a 59%
          production  increase in the higher finding cost Gulf Coast region,  is
          the other major component of the DD&A increase.
     -    General and administrative expenses decreased $1.8 million, or 8%, due
          to:
          o    Lower non-cash stock compensation  expense for stock awards ($1.2
               million).
          o    Lower outside consulting services ($0.6 million).

     Interest expense  increased $7.2 million primarily due to the debt increase
for the  Oryx  acquisition  in  December  1998  and to  partially  fund the 1998
drilling program.

     Income tax expense was up $1.7  million due to the  comparable  increase in
earnings before income tax.

     Gain on the sale of assets  totaled $4 million  for 1999  compared  to $0.5
million  in  1998.  These  gains  are  the  result  of the  non-strategic  asset
divestitures, primarily the sale of the Clarksburg properties in the Appalachian
region to EnerVest effective October 1999.

1998 AND 1997 COMPARED

     NET INCOME AND REVENUES. We reported net income in 1998 of $1.9 million, or
$0.08 per share, down $21.3 million,  or $0.92 per share,  compared to 1997. Net
operating  revenue of $159.6 million was down $25.5 million,  or 14%, from 1997.
Natural gas sales of $138.9 million  accounted for 87% of net operating  revenue
in 1998.  The decrease in net operating  revenue was the result of a 15% decline
in realized  natural  gas prices and a 35%  reduction  in  realized  oil prices.
Operating  income and net income  were  similarly  impacted  by the  decrease in
energy commodity prices along with higher expenses attributable to our increased
exploration program.




     In the Gulf Coast region,  natural gas production volume was up 2.2 Bcf, or
26%, to 10.6 Bcf due to results of the 1997 and 1998 drilling  programs,  and in
part to the December 1998 acquisition of the Oryx  properties.  While production
increased  over 1997  levels,  the region  did  experience  drilling  delays and
mechanical  failures in a significant  field that deferred  production into 1999
but left  the  field's  total  reserves  substantially  unchanged.  Natural  gas
production  volume in the Western  region was up 0.7 Bcf, or 2%, to 30.9 Bcf due
to increases in Rocky Mountains area production. This increase was the result of
both the 1997 purchase of oil and gas producing  properties located in the Green
River Basin of Wyoming,  and new wells brought  on-line.  Natural gas production
volume was down 2.6 Bcf,  or 10%, to 22.7 Bcf in the  Appalachian  region due to
the  September   1997  sale  of  producing   properties   located  in  northwest
Pennsylvania, which we refer to as the Meadville properties.

     The average  natural gas sales price for the year in the Gulf Coast  region
decreased  $0.37 per Mcf, or 15%, to $2.15,  reducing net  operating  revenue by
$3.9  million on 10.6 Bcf of  production.  In the  Western  region,  the average
natural gas sales price  decreased  $0.24 per Mcf, or 11%, to $1.90,  decreasing
net operating  revenues by $7.4 million on 30.9 Bcf of  production.  The average
natural  gas  sales  price  decreased  $0.47  per Mcf,  or 16%,  to $2.53 in the
Appalachian  region,  decreasing net operating  revenues by approximately  $10.7
million on 22.7 Bcf of  production.  The overall  weighted  average  natural gas
production sales price for the year decreased $0.37 per Mcf, or 15%, to $2.16.

     Crude oil and condensate  sales increased by 76 Mbbls,  or 13%,  increasing
revenue by $1.5  million  over 1997.  This  increase  was due to new  production
brought  on-line,  combined with December  production from the Oryx  properties.
However,  the 1998  average  crude oil  price  declined  35% from  1997  levels,
reducing oil revenue by $4.5 million.

     Brokered  natural gas margin was up $1.4  million to $5.5  million due to a
26% volume increase over 1997, combined with a $0.01 per Mcf increase in the net
margin to $0.13 per Mcf.

     OPERATING  EXPENSES.  Total operating expenses increased $11.3 million,  or
9%,  to  $132.7  million.  In  December  1998,  we  recognized  a  $0.9  million
reorganization  charge  designed  to  reduce  future  operating  expenses.   The
reorganization charge was comprised of $0.4 million in direct operating expense,
$0.3  million  in  exploration   expense,   and  $0.2  million  in  general  and
administrative  expense. The reorganization  reduced the number of our employees
by 6%. The significant changes in operating expenses are explained as follows:

     -    Direct operations expense increased $0.9 million, or 3%, due primarily
          to the $0.4 million direct operations  component of the reorganization
          charge in the fourth quarter and $0.5 million in higher workover costs
          incurred primarily in the Gulf Coast region.
     -    Exploration expense increased $5.7 million, or 41%, due to:
          o    A $1.5 million  increase in geological and  geophysical  activity
               including seismic data purchases and consulting fees.
          o    A $2.3  million  increase  in dry hole cost,  resulting  from our
               expanded  drilling  efforts in the Gulf Coast  region where wells
               are generally drilled at higher costs.
          o    A $1.4 million increase in exploration personnel-related expenses
               such as salaries, benefits and relocation charges associated with
               the increase in the exploration program.
          o    $0.3  million  for  the  exploration  expense  component  of  the
               reorganization that was expensed in December 1998.
     -    Depreciation, depletion, amortization and impairment expense increased
          $2.1  million,  or 5%,  primarily due to the  amortization  of a lease
          option  purchased  in the second  quarter  of 1998  related to a joint
          venture  with  Union  Pacific  Resources  in the  Gulf  Coast  region.
          Additionally,  this  expense  increased in part due to higher units of
          production expense in connection with increased production.




     -    General and  administrative  expense  increased $2.2 million primarily
          due to:
          o    $0.5  million  for  staffing  increases  in the third and  fourth
               quarters of 1997.
          o    $0.7 million for non-cash stock compensation for stock awards.
          o    $0.5  million  accrued  for  certain  executive   retirement  and
               severance packages.
          o    $0.3 million due to higher relocation and travel expenses.
          o    $0.2  million   recorded  for  the  general  and   administrative
               component of the reorganization in December 1998.

     Interest  expense  increased  $0.6 million,  or 4%, due to higher levels of
debt outstanding on our revolving credit facility.

     Income tax expense was down $14.1 million due to the comparable decrease in
earnings  before  income tax.  Included  in income tax expense was the  interest
charged by the  Internal  Revenue  Service on a deferred tax gain related to the
monetization of the Section 29 credits. This interest amount was $0.3 million in
1998 and $0.5 million in 1997.


ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     Oil and gas prices fluctuate widely,  and low prices for an extended period
of time are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business.

     Our revenues,  operating results, financial condition and ability to borrow
funds or obtain additional capital depend substantially on prevailing prices for
natural gas and,  to a lesser  extent,  oil.  Declines in oil and gas prices may
materially  adversely  affect our  financial  condition,  liquidity,  ability to
obtain financing and operating results. Lower oil and gas prices also may reduce
the amount of oil and gas that we can produce  economically.  Historically,  oil
and gas prices and markets have been volatile,  with prices fluctuating  widely,
and they are likely to  continue  to be  volatile.  Oil and gas prices  declined
substantially  in 1998 and,  despite  recent  improvement,  could decline again.
Because our  reserves  are  predominantly  natural  gas,  changes in natural gas
prices may have a particularly significant impact on our financial results.

     Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuations in response
to relatively  minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market
uncertainty  and a variety of  additional  factors  that are beyond our control.
These factors include:

     -    The domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas.
     -    The level of consumer product demand.
     -    Weather conditions.
     -    Political  conditions in oil producing  regions,  including the Middle
          East.
     -    The ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum  Exporting
          Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls.
     -    The price of foreign imports.
     -    Actions of governmental authorities.
     -    Domestic and foreign governmental regulations.
     -    The price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels.
     -    Overall economic conditions.

These factors and the volatile  nature of the energy  markets make it impossible
to predict with any certainty the future prices of oil and gas.

     In order to reduce our exposure to short-term  fluctuations in the price of
oil and natural gas, we sometimes enter into hedging  arrangements.  Our hedging
arrangements  apply to only a portion of our production and provide only partial
price  protection  against  declines  in  oil  and  gas  prices.  These  hedging
arrangements may expose us to risk of financial loss and limit the benefit to us
of increases in prices.  Please read the  discussion  below related to commodity
price swaps and Note 11 of the Notes to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
for a more detailed discussion of our hedging arrangements.




COMMODITY PRICE SWAPS

     From time to time, we enter into natural gas and crude oil swap  agreements
with  counterparties  to hedge  price  risk  associated  with a  portion  of our
production.  These  derivatives are not held for trading  purposes.  Under these
price swaps, we receive a fixed price on a notional  quantity of natural gas and
crude oil in exchange for paying a variable price based on a market-based index,
such as the NYMEX gas and crude oil futures.  During 1999, we fixed the price at
an  average  of  $2.64  per  Mmbtu  on  quantities   totaling  3,530,000  Mmbtu,
representing  5% of the natural gas  production  for the  period.  The  notional
volume of the crude oil swap  transactions was 306,000 Bbls at a price of $20.65
per Bbl, which  represents  approximately  one-third of our total oil production
for 1999.  During  1998 and 1997 we did not enter into any fixed  price swaps to
hedge oil or natural gas production.

     We use  price  swaps  to hedge  the  natural  gas  price  risk on  brokered
transactions.  Typically,  we enter into  contracts  to broker  natural gas at a
variable price based on the market index price.  However, in some circumstances,
some of our  customers or suppliers  request that a fixed price be stated in the
contract.  After entering into these fixed price  contracts to meet the needs of
our customers or suppliers,  we may use price swaps to effectively convert these
fixed price contracts to market-sensitive price contracts. These price swaps are
held by us to their maturity and are not held for trading purposes.

     During 1999, 1998 and 1997, we entered into price swaps with total notional
quantities of 4,040,800, 2,226,000 and 1,416,000 Mmbtu, respectively, related to
our brokered activities,  representing 7%, 5% and 4%, respectively, of our total
volume of brokered natural gas sold.

     As of the years ending December 31, 1999, and 1998, we had open natural gas
and oil price swap contracts as follows:



     Financial  derivatives  related to natural  gas  reduced  revenues  by $0.1
million in 1999 and $0.3 million in 1998.  These revenue  reductions were offset
by higher realized revenue on the underlying physical gas sales.




     We had open oil price swap contracts as follows:


     Financial  derivatives related to crude oil reduced revenue by $0.8 million
during 1999. This revenue reduction was offset by higher realized revenue on the
underlying  physical oil sales.  There were no crude oil price swaps outstanding
at December 31, 1998, or 1997.

     We are  exposed to market  risk on these open  contracts,  to the extent of
changes  in market  prices of natural  gas and oil.  However,  the  market  risk
exposure  on these  hedged  contracts  is  generally  offset by the gain or loss
recognized upon the ultimate sale of the commodity that is hedged.

     In June 1998, the Financial  Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting  Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative  Instruments
and Hedging  Activities"  (SFAS 133).  SFAS 133 requires all  derivatives  to be
recognized  in  the  statement  of  financial   position  as  either  assets  or
liabilities and measured at fair value. In addition,  all hedging  relationships
must be designated,  documented and  continually  reassessed.  This statement is
effective for financial  statements  for fiscal years  beginning  after June 15,
2000.  The Company has not yet  completed  its  evaluation  of the impact of the
provisions from SFAS 133 on its financial position or results of operations.

FAIR MARKET VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The estimated  fair value of financial  instruments  is the amount at which
the  instrument  could be  exchanged  currently  between  willing  parties.  The
carrying amounts  reported in the  consolidated  balance sheet for cash and cash
equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate fair value. We
use available marketing data and valuation  methodologies to estimate fair value
of debt.





ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

     The  management  of Cabot  Oil & Gas  Corporation  is  responsible  for the
preparation and integrity of all information contained in the annual report. The
consolidated  financial  statements  are prepared in conformity  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles  and,  accordingly,  include  certain  informed
judgments and estimates of management.

     Management  maintains  a  system  of  internal  accounting  and  managerial
controls and engages  internal  audit  representatives  who monitor and test the
operation of these  controls.  Although no system can ensure the  elimination of
all errors and  irregularities,  the system is  designed  to provide  reasonable
assurance that assets are  safeguarded,  transactions are executed in accordance
with  management's  authorization,  and  accounting  records  are  reliable  for
financial statement preparation.

     An Audit  Committee of the Board of Directors,  consisting of directors who
are not  employees of the  Company,  meets  periodically  with  management,  the
independent  accountants and internal audit representatives to obtain assurances
to the integrity of the  Company's  accounting  and  financial  reporting and to
affirm the  adequacy  of the system of  accounting  and  managerial  controls in
place. The independent  accountants and internal audit representatives have full
and free access to the Audit Committee to discuss all appropriate matters.

     We  believe  that the  Company's  policies  and  system of  accounting  and
managerial  controls  reasonably  assure the integrity of the information in the
consolidated  financial  statements  and in the  other  sections  of the  annual
report.



                                           Ray R. Seegmiller
                                           Chairman of the Board,
                                           Chief Executive Officer and President


March 10, 2000




REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

TO THE STOCKHOLDERS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION:

     In  our  opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  listed  in the
accompanying  index  present  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the financial
position of Cabot Oil & Gas  Corporation  and its  subsidiaries  at December 31,
1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended  December 31, 1999,  in  conformity  with
accounting  principles  generally accepted in the United States. These financial
statements   are  the   responsibility   of  the   Company's   management;   our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits.  We conducted  our audits of these  statements  in  accordance  with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States which require that we
plan and  perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether the
financial  statements  are free of  material  misstatement.  An  audit  includes
examining,  on a test basis,  evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the  financial   statements,   assessing  the  accounting  principles  used  and
significant  estimates made by management,  and evaluating the overall financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for the opinion expressed above.



                                               PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Houston, Texas
February 11, 2000


CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.


CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.


CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.


CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

- ----------
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.


CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

     Cabot  Oil & Gas  Corporation  and  its  subsidiaries  are  engaged  in the
exploration,  development,  production  and  marketing  of natural gas and, to a
lesser extent,  crude oil and natural gas liquids.  The Company also transports,
stores,  gathers and purchases  natural gas for resale.  The Company operates in
one  segment,  natural  gas and oil  exploration  and  exploitation  within  the
continental United States.

     Comprehensive  income for all  periods  presented  is equal to net  income,
since the Company has no other comprehensive income items.

     The consolidated  financial  statements contain the accounts of the Company
after eliminating all significant intercompany balances and transactions.

PIPELINE EXCHANGES

     Natural gas gathering and pipeline  operations  normally  include  exchange
arrangements with customers and suppliers.  The volumes of natural gas due to or
from the Company under exchange  agreements  are recorded at average  selling or
purchase prices,  as the case may be, and are adjusted monthly to reflect market
changes.  The net value of exchanged  natural gas is included in  inventories in
the consolidated balance sheet.

PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

     The Company uses the  successful  efforts  method of accounting for oil and
gas producing  activities.  Under this method,  acquisition costs for proved and
unproved properties are capitalized when incurred.  Exploration costs, including
geological and geophysical  costs, the costs of carrying and retaining  unproved
properties and exploratory dry hole drilling  costs,  are expensed.  Development
costs,  including the costs to drill and equip development wells, and successful
exploratory drilling costs to locate proved reserves are capitalized.

     The  impairment of  unamortized  capital costs is measured at a lease level
and is reduced to fair value if it is determined that the sum of expected future
net cash flows is less than the net book  value.  The Company  determines  if an
impairment has occurred  through  either  adverse  changes or as a result of the
annual  review of all  fields.  During the fourth  quarter of 1999,  the Company
experienced  a  significant  production  decline  from the  Chimney  Bayou field
located  in the Texas  Gulf  Coast.  This  decline  along  with an  unsuccessful
workover in the Lawson field in Louisiana resulted in a $7 million impairment of
long-lived  assets.  The impairment was measured based on discounted  cash flows
utilizing a discount  rate  appropriate  for risks  associated  with the related
properties.

     Capitalized  costs of  proved  oil and gas  properties,  after  considering
estimated  dismantlement,  restoration and abandonment  costs,  net of estimated
salvage  values,   are  depreciated  and  depleted  on  a  field  basis  by  the
units-of-production  method  using  proved  developed  reserves.  The  costs  of
unproved oil and gas  properties  are generally  combined and  amortized  over a
period that is based on the average  holding period for such  properties and the
Company's experience of successful drilling. Properties related to gathering and
pipeline systems and equipment are depreciated  using the  straight-line  method
based on estimated  useful  lives  ranging  from 10 to 25 years.  Certain  other
assets are also depreciated on a straight-line basis.




     Future estimated plug and abandonment costs are accrued over the productive
life of the oil and gas properties on a  units-of-production  basis. The accrued
liability  for  plug  and   abandonment   costs  are  included  in   accumulated
depreciation, depletion and amortization.

     Costs of retired,  sold or abandoned  properties  that make up a part of an
amortization  base  (partial  field) are  charged to  accumulated  depreciation,
depletion and amortization if the units-of-production rate is not  significantly
affected.  Accordingly,  a gain or loss, if any, is recognized only when a group
of proved properties  (entire field) that make up the amortization base has been
retired, abandoned or sold.

REVENUE RECOGNITION AND GAS IMBALANCES

     The Company applies the sales method of accounting for natural gas revenue.
Under this method, revenues are recognized based on the actual volume of natural
gas sold to  purchasers.  Natural gas  production  operations  may include joint
owners who take more or less than the  production  volumes  entitled  to them on
certain properties. Production volume is monitored to minimize these natural gas
imbalances.  A natural gas imbalance  liability is recorded in other liabilities
in the  consolidated  balance sheet if the Company's excess takes of natural gas
exceed its estimated remaining recoverable reserves for these properties.

INCOME TAXES

     The Company follows the asset and liability method of accounting for income
taxes.  Under this method,  deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for
the estimated  future tax consequences  attributable to the differences  between
the financial  carrying  amounts of existing  assets and  liabilities  and their
respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the
tax rate in  effect  for the  year in  which  those  temporary  differences  are
expected to turn  around.  The effect of a change in tax rates on  deferred  tax
assets and liabilities is recognized in the year of the enacted rate change.

NATURAL GAS MEASUREMENT

     The Company records  estimated amounts for natural gas revenues and natural
gas purchase costs based on volumetric  calculations under its natural gas sales
and purchase contracts. Variances or imbalances resulting from such calculations
are  inherent  in natural gas sales,  production,  operation,  measurement,  and
administration.  Management does not believe that differences between actual and
estimated natural gas revenues or purchase costs  attributable to the unresolved
variances or imbalances are material.

ACCOUNTS PAYABLE

     This account includes credit balances to the extent that checks issued have
not been  presented to the  Company's  bank for payment.  These credit  balances
included in accounts  payable were $5.9  million at December 31, 1999,  and $9.1
million at December 31, 1998.

RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES

     From time to time, the Company enters into  derivative  contracts,  such as
natural gas price swaps,  as a hedging  strategy to manage  commodity price risk
associated with its inventories,  production or other  contractual  commitments.
These transactions are executed for purposes other than trading. Gains or losses
on these hedging  activities are generally  recognized  over the period that the
inventory,  production or other underlying  commitment is hedged as an offset to
the specific hedged item.  Cash flows related to any recognized  gains or losses
associated  with these hedges are reported as cash flows from  operations.  If a
hedge is terminated prior to expected maturity, gains or losses are deferred and
included in income in the same period that the  underlying  production  or other
contractual commitment is delivered.  Unrealized gains or losses associated with
any derivative contracts not considered a hedge would be recognized currently in
the results of operations.




     A derivative instrument qualifies as a hedge if:

     -    The item to be hedged exposes the Company to price risk.
     -    The derivative  reduces the risk exposure and is designated as a hedge
          at the time the Company enters into the contract.
     -    At the inception of the hedge and throughout the hedge period there is
          a  high  correlation  between  changes  in  the  market  value  of the
          derivative  instrument and the fair value of the underlying item being
          hedged.

     When the designated item associated with a derivative  instrument  matures,
is sold,  extinguished or terminated,  derivative gains or losses are recognized
as part of the gain or loss on the sale or  settlement of the  underlying  item.
When a derivative instrument is associated with an anticipated  transaction that
is no longer  expected to occur or if correlation no longer exists,  the gain or
loss on the  derivative is recognized  currently in the results of operations to
the extent the market value  changes in the  derivative  have not been offset by
the effects of the price  changes on the hedged item since the  inception of the
hedge. See Note 11 Financial Instruments for further discussion.

     In June 1998, the Financial  Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting  Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative  Instruments
and Hedging  Activities"  (SFAS 133).  SFAS 133 requires all  derivatives  to be
recognized  in  the  statement  of  financial   position  as  either  assets  or
liabilities and measured at fair value. In addition,  all hedging  relationships
must be designated,  documented and  continually  reassessed.  This statement is
effective for financial  statements  for fiscal years  beginning  after June 15,
2000.  The Company has not yet  completed  its  evaluation  of the impact of the
provisions from SFAS 133 on its financial position or results of operations.

CASH EQUIVALENTS

     The  Company  considers  all  highly  liquid  short-term  investments  with
original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.  At December
31, 1999, and 1998, the majority of cash and cash equivalents is concentrated in
one  financial  institution.  The Company  periodically  assesses the  financial
condition  of the  institution  and believes  that any  possible  credit risk is
minimal.

USE OF ESTIMATES

     The  preparation  of  financial  statements  that  conform  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions  that affect the  reported  amounts of assets and  liabilities,  the
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements,  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during the
reporting period. The Company's most significant  financial  estimates are based
on the  remaining  proved oil and gas  reserves  (see  Supplemental  Oil and Gas
Information). Actual results could differ from those estimates.

2.  PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

     Properties and equipment are comprised of the following:




     As a component of  accumulated  depreciation,  depletion and  amortization,
total future plug and abandonment costs, accrued on a units-of-production basis,
were $11.5 million at December 31, 1999, and $11.6 million at December 31, 1998.
The Company  believes  that this  accrual  method  adequately  provides  for its
estimated future plug and abandonment costs over the reserve life of the oil and
gas properties.

3.  ADDITIONAL BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION

     Certain balance sheet amounts are comprised of the following:



4.  INVENTORIES

     Inventories are comprised of the following:


5.  DEBT AND CREDIT AGREEMENTS

10.18% NOTES

     In May 1990,  the  Company  issued  an  aggregate  principal  amount of $80
million  of  its  12-year  10.18%  Notes  (10.18%  Notes)  to a  group  of  nine
institutional  investors  in a private  placement  offering.  The  10.18%  Notes
require five annual $16 million  principal  payments  each May starting in 1998.
The payment due in May 2000,  classified as "Current Portion of Long-Term Debt,"
is a current liability on the Company's  Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company
may prepay all or any portion of the debt at any time with a prepayment penalty.
The  10.18%  Notes  contain  restrictions  on the  merger of the  Company or any
subsidiary with a third party except under certain limited conditions. There are
also  various  other  restrictive  covenants  customarily  found  in  such  debt
instruments,  including a restriction on the payment of dividends and a required
asset  coverage  ratio  (present  value of  proved  reserves  to debt and  other
liabilities) that must be at least 1.5 to 1.0.

7.19% NOTES

     In November 1997, the Company issued an aggregate  principal amount of $100
million of its 12-year 7.19% Notes (7.19% Notes) to a group of six institutional
investors in a private placement  offering.  The 7.19% Notes require five annual
$20 million principal payments starting in November 2005. The Company may prepay
all or any portion of the  indebtedness  on any date with a prepayment  penalty.
The  7.19%  Notes  contain  restrictions  on the  merger of the  Company  or any
subsidiary with a third party other than under certain limited conditions. There
are also various  other  restrictive  covenants  customarily  found in such debt
instruments,  including a required asset coverage ratio (present value of proved
reserves to debt and other  liabilities) that must be at least 1.5 to 1.0, and a
minimum annual coverage ratio of operating cash flow to interest expense for the
trailing four quarters of 2.8 to 1.0.

REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT

     In November 1998, the Company  replaced its $135 million  Revolving  Credit
Agreement  that  utilized  five banks with a new $250 million  Revolving  Credit
Agreement  (Credit  Facility) with 10 banks.  The term of the Credit Facility is
five years and  expires on  December  17,  2003.  The  available  credit line is
subject to adjustment from  time-to-time  on the basis of the projected  present
value (as determined by the banks'  petroleum  engineer) of estimated future net
cash flows from  certain  proved oil and gas  reserves  and other  assets of the
Company.  While the  Company  does not expect a change in the  available  credit
line,  in  the  event  that  it is  adjusted  below  the  outstanding  level  of
borrowings,  the Company has a period of 180 days to reduce its outstanding debt
to the adjusted  credit line. The Credit Facility also includes a requirement to
pay down half of the debt in excess of the adjusted credit line within the first
90 days of such  an  adjustment.  Interest  rates  are  principally  based  on a
reference  rate of either  the rate for  certificates  of  deposit  (CD rate) or
LIBOR,  plus a margin,  or the  prime  rate.  For CD rate and LIBOR  borrowings,
interest  rates are  subject to increase  if the  indebtedness  under the Credit




Facility is either  greater than 60% or 80% of the Company's  debt limit of $400
million, as shown below.



     The Credit Facility  provides for a commitment fee on the unused  available
balance at an annual rate one-fourth of 1% or  three-eighths  of 1% depending on
the level of indebtedness as indicated above. The Company's  effective  interest
rates for the Credit  Facility in the years ended  December 31,  1999,  1998 and
1997 were  6.7%,  6.8% and 6.6%,  respectively.  The  Credit  Facility  contains
various customary  restrictions,  which are the following:

     (a)  Prohibiting  the merger of the Company or any subsidiary  with a third
          party except under certain limited conditions
     (b)  Prohibiting the sale of all or  substantially  all of the Company's or
          any subsidiary's assets to a third party
     (c)  Requiring a minimum  annual  coverage  ratio of operating cash flow to
          interest expense for the trailing four quarters of 2.8 to 1.0

6.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

PENSION PLAN

     The Company has a  non-contributory,  defined  benefit pension plan for all
full-time  employees.  Plan benefits are based primarily on years of service and
salary level near  retirement.  Plan assets are mainly fixed income  investments
and equity securities.  The Company complies with the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 and  Internal  Revenue  Code  limitations  when funding the
plan.

     The Company has a  non-qualified  equalization  plan to ensure  payments to
certain  executive  officers of amounts to which they are already entitled under
the provisions of the pension plan, but which are subject to limitations imposed
by federal tax laws. This plan is unfunded.

     Net periodic  pension cost of the Company for the years ended  December 31,
1999, 1998 and 1997 are comprised of the following:





     The following table  illustrates the funded status of the Company's pension
plans at December 31, 1999, and 1998, respectively:



     The change in the combined  projected  benefit  obligation of the Company's
qualified  and  non-qualified  pension  plans  during  the last  three  years is
explained as follows:



     The  change in the  combined  plan  assets at fair  value of the  Company's
qualified  and  non-qualified  pension  plans  during  the last  three  years is
explained as follows:






     The reconciliation of the combined funded status of the Company's qualified
and non-qualified  pension plans at the end of the last three years is explained
as follows:


     Assumptions  used to  determine  post-retirement  benefit  obligations  and
pension costs are as follows:


- ----------
(1)  Represents  the rate  used to  determine  the  benefit  obligation.  A 7.0%
     discount rate was used to compute pension costs in 1999, and a rate of 7.5%
     was used in 1998 and 1997.

SAVINGS INVESTMENT PLAN

     The  Company  has a  Savings  Investment  Plan  (SIP)  which  is a  defined
contribution  plan. The Company  matches a portion of employees'  contributions.
Participation  in the SIP is voluntary and all regular  employees of the Company
are eligible to participate.  The Company charged to expense plan  contributions
of $0.7  million,  $0.8  million  and  $0.6  million  in 1999,  1998  and  1997,
respectively. The Company's Common Stock is an investment option within the SIP.

DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

     In 1998, the Company established a Deferred Compensation Plan. This plan is
available  to officers of the  Company and acts as a  supplement  to the Savings
Investment  Plan. The Company  matches a portion of the employee's  contribution
and those assets are invested in  instruments  selected by the employee.  Unlike
the SIP,  the  Deferred  Compensation  Plan does not have  dollar  limits on tax
deferred  contributions.  However,  the  assets of this plan are held in a rabbi
trust and are subject to  additional  risk of loss in the event of bankruptcy or
insolvency  of the Company.  At December  31, 1999,  the balance in the Deferred
Compensation Plan's rabbi trust was $1.15 million.

POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS

     In addition to providing  pension  benefits,  the Company  provides certain
health care and life insurance benefits for retired  employees,  including their
spouses,  eligible dependents and surviving spouses  (retirees).  These benefits
are commonly called postretirement  benefits. Most employees become eligible for
these benefits if they meet certain age and service  requirements at retirement.
The Company was providing  postretirement benefits to 250 retirees at the end of
1999 and 251 retirees at the end of 1998.




     When  the   Company   adopted   SFAS  106,   "Employers'   Accounting   for
Postretirement  Benefits Other Than Pensions," in 1992, it began  amortizing the
$16.9  million  accumulated  postretirement  benefit,  known  as the  Transition
Obligation, over a period of 20 years.

     The amortization benefit of the unrecognized  Transition Obligation in 1998
and 1997,  presented in the table below,  is due to a cost-cutting  amendment to
the postretirement medical benefits in 1993. The amendment prospectively reduced
the unrecognized  Transition Obligation by $9.8 million and was amortized over a
5.75 year period beginning in 1993 and ending in 1998.

     Postretirement  benefit costs recognized during the last three years are as
follows:



     The health care cost trend rate used to measure the  expected  cost in 1999
for medical benefits to retirees over age 65 was 8%, graded down to a trend rate
of 0% in 2001. The health care cost trend rate used to measure the expected cost
in 1999 for retirees under age 65 was also 8%, graded down to a trend rate of 0%
in 2001.  Provisions of the plan should  prevent  further  increases in employer
cost after 2001.

     A one-percentage-point increase or decrease in health care cost trend rates
for future  periods would  similarly  increase or decrease the  accumulated  net
postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $61,000 and, accordingly, the
total  postretirement  benefit cost recognized in 1999 would have also increased
or decreased by approximately $13,000.

     The funded status of the  Company's  postretirement  benefit  obligation at
December 31, 1999, and 1998 is comprised of the following:





     The change in the accumulated  postretirement benefit obligation during the
last three years is explained as follows:



7.  INCOME TAXES

     Income tax expense is summarized as follows:



     In the table above,  the $4.5 million refund  received in 1999 that applied
to a net operating  loss  carryback to 1997 is reflected in "Current - Federal".
The 1998 "Current - Federal" amount includes the effect of a $2.0 million income
tax refund  received in 1998 that applied to a net operating  loss  carryback to
1992.

     Total income taxes were different than the amounts computed by applying the
statutory federal income tax rate as follows:




     The tax effects of  temporary  differences  that  resulted  in  significant
portions of the deferred tax  liabilities and deferred tax assets as of December
31, 1999, and 1998 were as follows:


- ----------
(1)  As a result of the monetization of Section 29 tax credits in 1996 and 1995,
     the  Company  recorded an asset sale for tax  purposes  in  exchange  for a
     long-term  note  receivable  which will be repaid  through 100% working and
     royalty interest in the production from the sold properties.

     At December 31, 1999, the Company has a net operating loss carryforward for
regular income tax reporting  purposes of $51.2 million that will begin expiring
in 2011.  In  addition,  the  Company  has an  alternative  minimum  tax  credit
carryforward  of $3.0  million  which  does not expire and can be used to offset
regular  income taxes in future  years to the extent that  regular  income taxes
exceed the alternative minimum tax in any year.

8.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

LEASE COMMITMENTS

     The Company leases certain transportation  vehicles,  warehouse facilities,
office space,  and machinery and equipment under  cancelable and  non-cancelable
leases.  Most of the leases  expire  within five years and may be renewed.  Rent
expense  under such  arrangements  totaled $5.0  million,  $4.3 million and $4.1
million for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  In
1998,  the Company  entered into a 10-year  lease  agreement for office space in
Houston,  Texas,  to house the  corporate  offices  and the Gulf Coast  regional
offices.  The lease term  commenced  in August 1999 for annual  rent  expense of
approximately  $2.6 million when the Company  occupied the new office space,  at
which time the lease on the former office space ended.

     Future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable  leases in effect at
December 31, 1999 are as follows:

             

Minimum rental  commitments are not reduced by minimum sublease rental income of
$0.9 million due in the future under non-cancelable subleases.




CONTINGENCIES

     The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits and is involved in other gas
contract issues. In the Company's  opinion,  final judgments or settlements,  if
any, which may be awarded in connection  with any one or more of these suits and
claims could have a  significant  impact on the results of  operations  and cash
flows of any period.  However,  there would not be a material  adverse effect on
the Company's financial position.

9.  CASH FLOW INFORMATION

     Cash paid for interest and income taxes is as follows:



     At  December  31,  1999,  and 1998,  the  Accounts  Payable  balance on the
Consolidated  Balance Sheet included payables for capital  expenditures of $10.1
million and $20.2 million, respectively.

10.  CAPITAL STOCK

INCENTIVE PLANS

     On May 12, 1998, the Amended and Restated 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan and
the Amended and  Restated  1994  Non-Employee  Director  Stock  Option Plan were
approved by the shareholders.  The Company has two other stock option plans: the
1990 Incentive Stock Option Plan and the 1990 Non-Employee Director Stock Option
Plan.  Under these four plans  (Incentive  Plans),  incentive and  non-statutory
stock options,  stock appreciation rights (SARs) and stock awards may be granted
to key employees and officers of the Company,  and  non-statutory  stock options
may be granted to non-employee  directors of the Company. A maximum of 3,860,000
shares of Common  Stock,  par value  $0.10 per  share,  may be issued  under the
Incentive  Plans. All stock options have a maximum term of five or 10 years from
the date of grant, with most vesting over time. The options are issued at market
value on the date of grant. The minimum exercise period for stock options is six
months from the date of grant.  No SARs have been  granted  under the  Incentive
Plans.

     Information regarding the Company's Incentive Plans is summarized below:




     For each of the three most recent  years,  the price range for  outstanding
options  was $13.25 to $26.00 per  share.  The  following  tables  provide  more
information about the options by exercise price and year.

Options with exercise prices between $13.25 and $20.00 per share:



Options with exercise prices between $20.01 and $26.00 per share:



     Under  the  Amended  and  Restated  1994  Long-Term   Incentive  Plan,  the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors may grant awards of performance
shares of stock to  members of the  executive  management  group.  Each grant of
performance shares has a three-year  performance period,  measured as the change
from  July 1 of the  initial  year of the  performance  period to June 30 of the
third  year.  The number of shares of Common  Stock  received  at the end of the
performance  period is based mainly on the relative  stock price growth  between
the two  measurement  dates of Common Stock  compared to that of a group of peer
companies.  The performance shares that were granted on July 1, 1994, expired on
June 30, 1997, without issuing any Common Stock of the Company.  The performance
shares  granted in July 1995 were  converted to 21,692  shares of the  Company's
Common  Stock in 1998,  and the  performance  shares  granted  in July 1996 were
converted to 19,090 shares of the Company's  Common Stock in 1999.  The Board of
Directors  has not issued  performance  shares  since July 1996 and,  currently,
there are no performance shares outstanding.

     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based  Compensation," outlines a fair value based method of accounting for
stock options or similar equity  instruments.  The Company has opted to continue
using the intrinsic value based method, as recommended by Accounting  Principles
Board (APB)  Opinion No. 25, to measure  compensation  cost for its stock option
plans.




     If the Company had adopted  SFAS 123, the pro forma  results of  operations
would be as follows:


- ----------
(1)  Calculated using the fair value based method.

     The fair value of stock options  included in the pro forma results for each
of the three years is not necessarily indicative of future effects on net income
and earnings per share.

DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

     The Board of Directors of the Company  determines the amount of future cash
dividends,  if any, to be declared  and paid on the Common Stock  depending  on,
among other things, the Company's  financial  condition,  funds from operations,
the level of its capital and exploration  expenditures,  and its future business
prospects.  The  Company's  10.18% Note  Agreement  restricts  certain  payments
associated with the following:

     (a)  Purchasing,  redeeming,  retiring or otherwise  acquiring  any capital
          stock of the Company or any option,  warrant or other right to acquire
          such capital stock.
     (b)  Declaring  any  dividend,  if  immediately  prior to or  after  making
          payments, the dividend exceeds consolidated net cash flow (as defined)
          and the  ratio of  proved  reserves  to debt is less than 1.7 to 1, or
          there has been an event of default under the Note Agreement.

As of December 31, 1999, these restrictions did not impact the Company's ability
to pay regular dividends.  The 7.19% Note Agreement issued in 1997 does not have
a restricted payment provision.

TREASURY STOCK

     In August 1998, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase
up to two million  shares of  outstanding  Common  Stock at market  prices.  The
timing and amount of these stock  purchases are  determined at the discretion of
management.   The  Company  may  use  the  repurchased   shares  to  fund  stock
compensation  programs presently in existence,  or for other corporate purposes.
As of December 31, 1998, the Company had repurchased  302,600 shares,  or 15% of
the total authorized  number of shares,  for a total cost of approximately  $4.4
million. No additional shares were repurchased during 1999. The stock repurchase
plan was funded from increased  borrowings on the revolving credit facility.  No
treasury shares were delivered or sold by the Company during the year.



PURCHASE RIGHTS

     On January 21, 1991,  the Board of Directors  adopted the  Preferred  Stock
Purchase Rights Plan and declared a dividend  distribution of one right for each
outstanding share of Common Stock. Each right becomes exercisable, at a price of
$55,  when any person or group has  acquired,  obtained  the right to acquire or
made a tender or exchange offer for  beneficial  ownership of 15 percent or more
of the  Company's  outstanding  Common  Stock.  An exception to the right occurs
following a tender or exchange offer for all outstanding  shares of Common Stock
determined  to be  fair  and in  the  best  interests  of the  Company  and  its
stockholders by a majority of the independent  Continuing  Directors (as defined
in the plan). Each right entitles the holder, other than the acquiring person or
group, to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred  Stock  (Junior  Preferred  Stock),  or  to  receive,   after  certain
triggering  events,  Common  Stock or other  property  having a market value (as
defined  in the plan) of twice the  exercise  price of each  right.  The  rights
become  exercisable  if the Company is  acquired  in a merger or other  business
combination  in  which  it is not the  survivor,  or 50  percent  or more of the
Company's  assets or  earning  power are sold or  transferred.  Once it  becomes
exercisable,  each right  entitles  the holder to purchase  common  stock of the
acquiring  company  with a market  value (as defined in the plan) equal to twice
the exercise price of each right. At December 31, 1999, and 1998,  there were no
shares of Junior Preferred Stock issued or outstanding.

     The rights,  which expire on January 21, 2001,  and the exercise  price are
subject to adjustment  and may be redeemed by the Company for $0.01 per right at
any time  before they  become  exercisable.  Under  certain  circumstances,  the
Continuing  Directors  may opt to  exchange  one share of Common  Stock for each
exercisable right.

PREFERRED STOCK

     At  December  31,  1999,  and  1998,  1,134,000  shares  of 6%  convertible
redeemable  preferred  stock (6% preferred  stock) were issued and  outstanding.
Each share has voting rights equal to  approximately  1.7 shares of Common Stock
and a stated value of $50. At any time,  the stock is  convertible by the holder
into  Common  Stock at a  conversion  price of $28.75  per  share.  While the 6%
preferred  stock  does  not  have  a  mandatory  redemption  requirement,  it is
redeemable  for cash at $50 per share plus accrued  dividends  due on the shares
redeemed.

     The Company has entered into a letter  agreement  with the holder of the 6%
preferred stock to repurchase  these shares before November 1, 2000, for a total
price of $51.6  million.  Cash flow from  operations,  additional  borrowings or
proceeds from the sale of equity may be used to fund this transaction. The value
of these shares on the Company's balance sheet is $56.7 million. This repurchase
will  retire  all of the  preferred  stock  outstanding  and will  simplify  the
Company's capital structure.

     The Company had 692,439 shares of $3.125 cumulative  convertible  preferred
stock ($3.125  preferred  stock) issued and outstanding  until October 1997 when
these shares were converted into  1,648,664  shares of Common Stock.  Each share
had a stated  value of $50 and could be  converted  any time by the holder  into
Common  Stock  at a  conversion  price  of $21 per  share.  While  there  was no
mandatory  requirement,  these  shares  could  also be  redeemed  under  certain
provisions and fixed  redemption  prices.  The Company had the option to convert
the $3.125  preferred stock into shares of Common Stock valued at the conversion
price  if the  closing  price of the  Common  Stock  was at  least  equal to the
conversion price for 20 consecutive trading days.



11.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The estimated  fair value of financial  instruments  is the amount at which
the  instrument  could be  exchanged  currently  between  willing  parties.  The
carrying amounts  reported in the  consolidated  balance sheet for cash and cash
equivalents,  accounts receivable,  and accounts payable approximate fair value.
The  Company  uses  available  marketing  data and  valuation  methodologies  to
estimate fair value of debt.


LONG-TERM DEBT

     The fair value of long-term debt is the estimated cost to acquire the debt,
including a premium or discount  for the  difference  between the issue rate and
the year-end market rate. The fair value of the 10.18% Notes and the 7.19% Notes
is based on  interest  rates  currently  available  to the  Company.  The Credit
Facility approximates fair value because this instrument bears interest at rates
based on current market rates.

COMMODITY PRICE SWAPS

     From time to time,  the Company  enters into natural gas and crude oil swap
agreements with  counterparties to hedge price risk associated with a portion of
its production. These derivatives are not held for trading purposes. Under these
price  swaps,  the  Company  receives a fixed  price on a notional  quantity  of
natural  gas and crude oil in  exchange  for paying a variable  price based on a
market-based index, such as the NYMEX gas and crude oil futures.

     The  Company  uses  price  swaps to hedge the  natural  gas  price  risk on
brokered  transactions.  Typically,  the Company enters into contracts to broker
natural gas at a variable  price based on the market  index price.  However,  in
some  circumstances,  some customers or suppliers  request that a fixed price be
stated in the contract.  After entering into these fixed price contracts to meet
the  needs of  customers  or  suppliers,  the  Company  may use  price  swaps to
effectively  convert  these  fixed price  contracts  to  market-sensitive  price
contracts.  These  price swaps are held to their  maturity  and are not held for
trading purposes.


     As of the years ending  December 31, 1999,  and 1998,  the Company had open
natural gas and oil price swap contracts as follows:



     Financial  derivatives  related to natural  gas  reduced  revenues  by $0.1
million  in 1999 and by $0.3  million in 1998.  These  revenue  reductions  were
offset by higher realized revenue on the underlying physical gas sales.

     We had open oil price swap contracts as follows:



     Financial  derivatives related to crude oil reduced revenue by $0.8 million
during 1999. This revenue reduction was offset by higher realized revenue on the
underlying  physical oil sales.  There were no crude oil price swaps outstanding
at December 31, 1998 or 1997.

     For a detailed  discussion about derivative  instruments,  please read Item
7A,  "Quantitative  and  Qualitative  Disclosures  about  Market  Risk"  in  the
Company's Form 10-K.

CREDIT RISK

     Although  notional  contract  amounts  are used to  express  the  volume of
natural gas price agreements,  the amounts that can be subject to credit risk in
the event of  non-performance  by third parties are substantially  smaller.  The
Company does not anticipate any material impact on its financial  results due to
non-performance  by the third parties.  The Company had no sales to any customer
that exceeded 10% of total gross revenues in 1999 or 1998.


12.  OIL AND GAS PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS

     In September and December 1999, the Company purchased oil and gas producing
properties  in the Moxa Arch of the Green River Basin in  southwest  Wyoming for
$8.9 and $8.5 million,  respectively.  The assets included approximately 16 Bcfe
of proved  reserves,  approximately  43,000  undeveloped net acres, and 27 wells
producing a net 3.8 Mmcfe per day at the time of the acquisition.

     Also  in  September  1999,  the  Company  sold  non-strategic  oil  and gas
properties  located in  Pennsylvania  and West Virginia to EnerVest  Appalachia,
L.P. for approximately $46 million.  These properties  represented 716 wells and
62.2  Bcfe  of  proved  reserves.  A  portion  of this  transaction  and the two
previously  mentioned  were  completed as a  tax-deferred  exchange  deferring a
taxable gain of $8.9 million.

     In the second  quarter of 1999,  the  Company  sold  certain  non-strategic
properties in the Gulf Coast  region's  Provident City field.  These  properties
were  producing  3.5  Mmcfe per day from  eight  wells.  The sales  price was $9
million, and the transaction contributed to a gain of approximately $1.0 million
on the Company's second quarter income statement.

     Effective   December  1,  1998,  the  Company  purchased  onshore  southern
Louisiana  properties  and 3-D seismic  inventory  from Oryx Energy  Company for
approximately  $70.1 million.  The purchased  assets included 10 fields covering
over  34,000  net acres with 68  producing  wells.  Total  proved  reserves  are
approximately  72 Bcfe.  This  transaction  was  funded by the  Company's  newly
expanded  revolving  line of credit.  See  discussion  in Note 5 Debt and Credit
Agreements.

     In the fourth quarter of 1998, the Company  purchased oil and gas producing
properties  in the  Lookout  Wash Unit of Wyoming  from Oxy USA,  Inc.  for $5.2
million.  The properties acquired included 11.2 Bcfe of proved reserves and more
than 10 potential drilling locations. Additionally in 1998, the Company acquired
oil and gas producing  properties in Oklahoma during the second quarter for $6.6
million. Included in the purchase were 9.3 Bcfe of proved reserves, 10 wells and
undeveloped acreage.

     In the fourth  quarter  of 1997,  the  Company  closed  two  notable  asset
transactions.  Properties in Northwest  Pennsylvania (the Meadville properties),
including  912  wells  and 15 Mmcfe  per day of  production,  were sold to Lomak
Petroleum  Incorporated  (now known as Range  Resources  Corporation)  for $92.9
million. In a like-kind exchange  transaction,  the Company matched a portion of
the  Meadville  properties  sold with  approximately  $45 million in oil and gas
producing properties acquired from Equitable Resources Energy Company, including
63 wells and 10 Mmcfe per day of production.

13.  OTHER REVENUE

     The Company had a 15-year  cogeneration  contract under which approximately
20% of the Western region natural gas was sold per year. The contract was due to
expire in 2008,  but  during  1999 the  Company  reached an  agreement  with the
counterparty  under  which the  counterparty  bought  out the  remainder  of the
contract for $12  million.  This  transaction  was  completed in December  1999,
adding $12 million of pre-tax  other  revenue.  Simultaneously,  Cabot Oil & Gas
sold forward a similar  quantity of Western region gas for the next 16 months at
prices similar to those in the monetized contract.

     Since 1995,  other revenue has included an income source generated from two
transactions  in September and November 1995 and a third  transaction  in August
1996 to monetize the value of Section 29 tax credits  (monetized  credits)  from
most  of  our  qualifying  Appalachian  and  Rocky  Mountains  properties.   The
transactions  provided up-front cash of $2.8 million in 1995 and $0.6 million in
1996,  which was  recorded as a  reduction  to the net book value of natural gas
properties.  Revenue from these monetized credits was $1.3 million in 1999, $2.7
million in 1998 and $3.6  million in 1997.  These  transactions  are expected to
generate  future  revenues  through  2002 of $5.4  million.  Using a  volumetric
production  payment  structure,  the production,  revenues,  expenses and proved
reserves  for these  properties  will  continue to be reported by the Company as
Other Revenue until the production payment is satisfied.




     During 1999,  an industry tax court  ruling  concluded  that the Section 29
tight sands tax credits  would not be  available  on wells not  certified by the
FERC.  Because the FERC  discontinued the  certification  process for qualifying
wells in 1992,  there is currently no avenue to obtain the well  certifications.
Accordingly,  the Company stopped recording  revenue on non-certified  wells and
established  a reserve  related to previously  recorded  amounts on these wells.
This resulted in a $1.2 million reduction to other revenue in 1999.

14.  SUPPLEMENTAL FULL COST ACCOUNTING INFORMATION

     U.S.  oil and gas  producing  entities  may  utilize  one of two methods of
financial  accounting:  successful  efforts  or full  cost.  Given  the  current
composition  of the Company's  properties,  management  considers the successful
efforts  method  to be more  appropriate  than the full  cost  method  primarily
because the successful  efforts method results in moderately  better matching of
costs and revenues. It has come to management's  attention that certain users of
the Company's  financial  statements  believe that information about the Company
prepared  under the full cost  method  would  also be useful.  As a result,  the
following supplemental full cost information is also included.

     Successful   efforts   methodology  is  explained  in  Note  1  Summary  of
Significant Accounting Policies.

     Under  the full cost  method  of  accounting,  all  costs  incurred  in the
acquisition,   exploration  and  development  of  oil  and  gas  properties  are
capitalized.  These  capitalized  costs and  estimated  future  development  and
dismantlement  costs are  amortized  on a  units-of-production  method  based on
proved reserves.  Net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties are limited to
the  lower  of  unamortized  cost or the cost  center  ceiling,  defined  as the
following:

     -    The present value (10% discount rate) of estimated  unescalated future
          net revenues from proved reserves, plus
     -    The cost of properties not being amortized, plus
     -    The  lower of cost or  estimated  fair  value of  unproved  properties
          included in the costs being amortized, minus
     -    The deferred tax liabilities for the temporary differences between the
          book and tax basis of oil and gas properties

Proceeds from the sale of oil and gas properties are applied to reduce the costs
in the cost center unless the sale  involves a significant  quantity of reserves
in  relation to the cost  center.  In this case,  a gain or loss is  recognized.
Unevaluated  properties and associated  costs not currently  being amortized and
included in oil and gas  properties  totaled  $32.3  million,  $42.4 million and
$24.6 million at December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     Because of the capital cost limitations described above, full cost entities
are not subject to the impairment test prescribed by SFAS 121.

     The full cost method of accounting allows for the capitalization of general
and administrative,  region office and interest expense.  Pre-tax  capitalizable
administrative expenses were $4.6 million in 1999, $4.6 million in 1998 and $4.2
million in 1997.  Pre-tax  capitalizable  interest  expense was $2.7  million in
1999, $2.0 million in 1998 and $1.4 million in 1997.





15.  EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

     Full year basic  earnings per share for the Company  were $0.21,  $0.08 and
$1.00 in 1999,  1998 and  1997,  respectively,  and were  based on the  weighted
average  shares  outstanding  of  24,726,030 in 1999,  24,733,465  in 1998,  and
23,272,432 in 1997. Diluted earnings per share for the Company were $0.21, $0.08
and $0.97 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  The diluted earnings per share
amounts are based on  weighted  average  shares  outstanding  plus common  stock
equivalents.  Common stock  equivalents  include stock awards and stock options,
and totaled 225,177 in 1999, 372,937 in 1998 and 649,632 in 1997.

     Both  the  $3.125  cumulative   convertible  preferred  stock  and  the  6%
convertible   redeemable   preferred   stock  issued  May  1993  and  May  1994,
respectively,  had an  antidilutive  effect on earnings  per common  share.  The
preferred  stock was determined not to be a common stock  equivalent when it was
issued.  As such,  no  adjustments  were  made to  reported  net  income  in the
computation  of earnings per share.  The Company,  under the  provisions  of the
stock,  converted the $3.125  cumulative  convertible  preferred stock to Common
Stock in October 1997. See Note 10 Capital Stock for further discussion.

16.  SUBSEQUENT EVENT

     The  Company  was  notified  by the EPA in  February  2000 that it may have
potential  liability for waste  material  disposed of at the Casmalia  Superfund
Site ("Site), located on a 252-acre parcel in Santa Barbara County,  California.
Over  10,000  separate  parties  disposed  of  waste  at the  Site  while it was
operational  from 1973 to 1989.  The EPA stated  that  federal,  state and local
governmental  agencies  along with the numerous  private  entities that used the
Site for waste  disposal  will be expected to pay for the  clean-up  costs which
could total as much as several hundred million dollars. The EPA is also pursuing
the owner(s)/operator(s) of the Site to pay for remediation.

     The total amount of environmental  investigation and cleanup costs that the
Company may incur with  respect to the  foregoing is not known at this time and,
accordingly,  we have not recorded a reserve related to this possible liability.
While the potential impact to the Company may materially affect the quarterly or
annual financial results, management does not believe it would materially impact
the Company's financial position.




SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

OIL AND GAS RESERVES

     Users of this  information  should be aware that the process of  estimating
quantities of "proved" and "proved developed" natural gas and crude oil reserves
is very complex, requiring significant subjective decisions in the evaluation of
all available geological,  engineering and economic data for each reservoir. The
data for a given reservoir may also change  substantially  over time as a result
of  numerous  factors  including,  but not limited  to,  additional  development
activity,   evolving  production  history  and  continual  reassessment  of  the
viability of production under varying economic conditions. As a result, material
revisions to existing  reserve  estimates may occur from time to time.  Although
every  reasonable  effort  is made to ensure  that  reserve  estimates  reported
represent the most accurate assessments  possible,  the subjective decisions and
variances  in  available  data  for  various  reservoirs  make  these  estimates
generally less precise than other estimates included in the financial  statement
disclosures.

     Proved reserves  represent  estimated  quantities of natural gas, crude oil
and condensate that geological and engineering data demonstrate, with reasonable
certainty,  to be  recoverable  in future  years  from  known  reservoirs  under
economic and operating conditions in effect when the estimates were made.

     Proved  developed  reserves  are proved  reserves  expected to be recovered
through wells and equipment in place and under  operating  methods used when the
estimates were made.

     Estimates  of proved and proved  developed  reserves at December  31, 1999,
1998 and 1997  were  based  on  studies  performed  by the  Company's  petroleum
engineering  staff.  The estimates were reviewed by Miller and Lents,  Ltd., who
indicated  in  their  letter  dated  February  4,  2000,  that  based  on  their
investigation  and subject to the  limitations  described in their letter,  they
believe the results of those  estimates and  projections  were reasonable in the
aggregate.

     No major discovery or other  favorable or unfavorable  event after December
31,  1999,  is  believed to have caused a material  change in the  estimates  of
proved or proved developed reserves as of that date.

     The  following  table   illustrates  the  Company's  net  proved  reserves,
including changes,  and proved developed reserves for the periods indicated,  as
estimated by the Company's  engineering  staff.  All reserves are located in the
United States.






CAPITALIZED COSTS RELATING TO OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES

     The  following  table  illustrates  the total amount of  capitalized  costs
relating to natural gas and crude oil producing  activities and the total amount
of related accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization.



COSTS INCURRED IN OIL AND GAS PROPERTY ACQUISITION, EXPLORATION AND
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES

     Costs  incurred  in  property  acquisition,   exploration  and  development
activities were as follows:



HISTORICAL RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FROM OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES

     The  results  of  operations  for  the  Company's  oil  and  gas  producing
activities were as follows:



STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS RELATING TO
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES

     The following  information has been developed  utilizing SFAS 69 procedures
and based on natural gas and crude oil reserve and production  volumes estimated
by the Company's  engineering  staff. It can be used for some  comparisons,  but
should not be the only method used to evaluate  the Company or its  performance.
Further,  the  information  in the following  table may not represent  realistic
assessments  of future  cash  flows,  nor  should  the  Standardized  Measure of
Discounted  Future Net Cash  Flows be viewed as  representative  of the  current
value of the Company.

     The  Company  believes  that the  following  factors  should be taken  into
account when reviewing the following information:

     -    Future  costs and  selling  prices  will  probably  differ  from those
          required to be used in these calculations.
     -    Due to future market conditions and governmental  regulations,  actual
          rates of  production in future years may vary  significantly  from the
          rate of production assumed in the calculations.
     -    Selection  of a 10%  discount  rate  is  arbitrary  and  may  not be a
          reasonable  measure  of the  relative  risk that is part of  realizing
          future net oil and gas revenues.
     -    Future  net  revenues  may be  subject  to  different  rates of income
          taxation.

     Under the  Standardized  Measure,  future cash  inflows  were  estimated by
applying  year-end  oil and gas  prices  adjusted  for  fixed  and  determinable
escalations to the estimated future production of year-end proved reserves.

     The average  prices related to proved  reserves at December 31, 1999,  1998
and 1997 were for natural gas ($ per Mcf) $2.36, $2.26 and $2.62,  respectively,
and for oil ($ per Bbl)  $24.15,  $10.23 and $19.02,  respectively.  Future cash
inflows were reduced by estimated future  development and production costs based
on  year-end  costs to arrive at net cash flow  before  tax.  Future  income tax
expense was computed by applying  year-end  statutory tax rates to future pretax
net cash flows, less the tax basis of the properties involved.  SFAS 69 requires
the use of a 10% discount rate.



     Management  does  not  use  only  the  following  information  when  making
investment  and operating  decisions.  These  decisions are based on a number of
factors, including estimates of probable as well as proved reserves, and varying
price  and  cost  assumptions  considered  more  representative  of a  range  of
anticipated economic conditions.

Standardized Measure is as follows:


- ----------
     (1)  Includes the future cash  inflows,  production  costs and  development
          costs, as well as the tax basis,  relating to the properties  included
          in the  transactions  to monetize the value of Section 29 tax credits.
          See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
     (2)  Future  income  taxes  before  discount  were  $457,256,  $446,980 and
          $582,639  for the  years  ended  December  31,  1999,  1998 and  1997,
          respectively.
     (3)  Future  income  tax  expense  decreased  as a result  of tax  benefits
          realized on property  acquisitions and drilling activity late in 1998.



CHANGES IN STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS
RELATING TO PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES

     The following is an analysis of the changes in the Standardized Measure:



CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

SELECTED DATA (UNAUDITED)

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)




ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
         AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.



PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information  under the caption "Election of Directors" in the Company's
definitive  Proxy  Statement in  connection  with the 2000 annual  stockholders'
meeting is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The  information  under  the  caption   "Executive   Compensation"  in  the
definitive Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The  information  under the  captions  "Beneficial  Ownership  of Over Five
Percent of Common  Stock" and  "Beneficial  Ownership of Directors and Executive
Officers" in the definitive Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

        None.

PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

A.   INDEX

     1.   Consolidated Financial Statements

               See  Index on page 34.

     2.   Financial Statement Schedules

               None.

     3.   Exhibits

     The following  instruments  are included as exhibits to this report.  Those
exhibits  below  incorporated  by reference  herein are indicated as such by the
information  supplied  in  the  parenthetical  thereafter.  If no  parenthetical
appears after an exhibit, copies of the instrument have been included herewith.






B.   REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     None



SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant  has duly  caused  this  report  to be  signed  on its  behalf by the
undersigned,  thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Houston, State of Texas,
on the 18th of March 2000.

                                      CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

                                      By:  /s/ Ray Seegmiller
                                           -------------------------------------
                                           Ray Seegmiller
                                           Chairman of the Board,
                                           Chief Executive Officer and President

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following  persons in the  capacities and on
the dates indicated.




