10-K


d33441e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2005

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number 1-10485

TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE

75-2303920

(State or other jurisdiction

(I.R.S. employer

of incorporation or

identification no.)

organization)

5949 Sherry Lane, Suite 1400


Dallas, Texas

(Zip code)

(Address of principal

executive offices)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(972) 713-3700

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Name of each exchange

Title of each class

on which registered

COMMON STOCK, $0.01 PAR VALUE

NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

NONE

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES

þ

NO

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or 15(d) of the Act. YES

o

NO

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES

þ

NO

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filer pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporate by reference in Part III of the Form 10-K
or any amendment to the Form 10-K. YES

þ

NO

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

o

Accelerated filer

þ

Non-accelerated filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act.) YES

o

NO

þ

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
$274,178,000 based on the reported last sale price of common stock on June 30, 2005, which is the
last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter.

The number of shares of common stock of the registrant outstanding on February 27, 2006 was
39,176,437

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain information required by Part III of this annual report is incorporated by
reference from the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of stockholders
to be held on May 18, 2006.

TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

FORM 10-K




PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Tyler Technologies, Inc. (“Tyler”) is a major provider of integrated information management
solutions and services for local governments. We partner with clients to make local government
more accessible to the public, more responsive to the needs of citizens and more efficient in its
operations. We have a broad line of software products and services to address the information
technology (“IT”) needs of virtually every major area of operation for cities, counties, schools
and other local government entities. Most of our customers have our software installed in-house.
For customers who prefer not to physically acquire the software and hardware, we provide outsourced
hosting for some of our applications at one of our data centers through an applications service
provider (“ASP”) arrangement. We provide professional IT services to our customers, including
software and hardware installation, data conversion, training and, at times, product modifications.
In addition, we are the nation’s largest provider of outsourced property appraisal services for
taxing jurisdictions. We also provide continuing customer support services to ensure proper
product performance and reliability, which provides us with long-term customer relationships and a
significant base of recurring maintenance revenue.

Tyler was founded in 1966. Prior to 1998, we operated as a diversified industrial conglomerate,
with operations in various industrial, retail and distribution businesses, all of which have been
sold or otherwise disposed. In 1997, we embarked on a multi-phase growth plan focused on serving
the specialized information management needs of local governments nationwide. In 1998 and 1999, we
made a series of strategic acquisitions of companies in the local government IT market.

In addition to our continuing operations in the software and services business described above, we
also operated from 1998 through 2000 a business segment focused on providing outsourced property
records management for local governments and reselling related data. In late 2000, we decided to
dispose of the information and property records services segment in order to strengthen our balance
sheet and allow us to focus our resources on the segment of business that we believe offers the
greatest growth and profit opportunities. We expect to continue to capitalize on these
opportunities by leveraging our large national client base, our long-term relationships with local
government customers, and our deep domain expertise in local government operations through the
development of state-of-the-art technologies and new nationally branded applications solutions. We
have developed new generation software products, some of which are based on n-tier architecture,
SQL-compliant databases, browser compatibility and component-based technology.

MARKET OVERVIEW

The state and local government market is one of the largest and most decentralized IT markets in
the country, consisting of all 50 states, approximately 3,100 counties, 36,000 cities and towns and
14,500 school districts. This market is also comprised of approximately 35,000 special districts
and other agencies, each with specialized delegated responsibilities and unique information
management requirements.

Traditionally, local government bodies and agencies performed state-mandated duties, including
property assessment, record keeping, road maintenance, law enforcement, administration of election
and judicial functions, and the provision of welfare assistance. Today, a host of emerging and
urgent issues are confronting local governments, each of which demands a service response. These
areas include criminal justice and corrections, administration and finance, public safety, health
and human services, and public works. Transfers of responsibility from the federal and state
governments to county and municipal governments and agencies in these and other areas also place
additional service and financial requirements on these local government units. In addition,
constituents of local governments are increasingly demanding improved service and better access to
information from public entities. As a result, local governments recognize the increasing value of
information management systems and services to, among other things, improve revenue collection,
provide increased access to information, and streamline delivery of services to their constituents.
Local government bodies are now recognizing that “e-government” is an additional responsibility
for community development. From integrated tax systems to integrated civil and criminal justice
information systems, many counties and cities have benefited significantly from the implementation
of jurisdiction-wide systems that allow different agencies or government offices to share data and
provide a more comprehensive approach to information management. Many city and county governmental
agencies also have unique individual information management requirements, which must be tailored to
the specific functions of each particular office.



Many local governments also have difficulties attracting and retaining the staff necessary to
support their IT functions. As a result, they seek to establish long-term relationships with
reliable providers of high quality IT products and services such as Tyler.

Although local governments generally face budgetary constraints in their operations, their primary
revenue sources are usually property taxes, and to a lesser extent, utility fees, which tend to be
relatively stable. In addition, the acquisition of new technology typically enables local
governments to operate more efficiently, and often provides a measurable return on investment that
justifies the purchase of software and related services.

Gartner estimates that state and local government spending for software and IT services will grow
from $44.2 billion in 2005 to $55.0 billion in 2008, with local government accounting for $21.7
billion of IT spending in 2005 and $26.9 billion in 2008. The external services and software
segments of the market, where our business is primarily focused, are expected to be the most
rapidly growing areas of the local government IT market, expanding from $10.9 billion in 2005 to
$13.5 billion in 2008.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

We provide a comprehensive and flexible suite of products and services that address the information
technology needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. We derive our
revenues from four primary sources:

•

sales of software licenses;

•

software services;

•

maintenance and support; and

•

appraisal services.

We design, develop and market a broad range of software products to serve mission-critical
“back-office” functions of local governments. Our software applications are designed primarily for
use on hardware supporting UNIX/NT operating systems. Many of our software applications include
Internet-accessible solutions that allow for real-time public access to a variety of information or
that allow the public to transact business with local governments via the Internet. Our software
products and services are generally grouped in four major product areas:

•

Financials;

•

Courts and Justice;

•

Property Appraisal and Tax; and

•

Document Management.

Each of our core software systems consists of several fully integrated application modules. For
customers who acquire the software for use in-house, we generally license our systems under
standard license agreements that provide the customer with a fully paid, nonexclusive,
nontransferable right to use the software. In some of the product areas, such as financials and
property appraisal, we offer multiple solutions designed to meet the needs of different sized
governments.

We also offer certain software products on an outsourced basis for customers who do not wish to
maintain, update and operate these systems or to make large up-front capital expenditures to
implement these advanced technologies. For these customers, we either host the applications and
data at one of our data centers, or maintain the hardware and software at the client’s site.
Customers typically pay monthly fees under multi-year contracts for these services.

Historically, we have had a greater proportion of our annual revenues in the second half of our
fiscal year due to governmental budget and spending cycles and the timing of system implementations
for customers desiring to “go live” at the beginning of the calendar year.



A description of our suite of products and services follows:

Software Licensing

Financials

Our financials products are ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) systems for local governments, which
integrate information across all facets of a client organization. Our financial products include
modular fund accounting systems that can be tailored to meet the needs of virtually any government
agency or not-for-profit entity. Our financial systems include modules for general ledger, budget
preparation, fixed assets, requisitions, purchase orders, bid management, accounts payable,
contract management, accounts receivable, investment management, inventory control, project and
grant accounting, work orders, job costing, GASB 34 reporting, payroll and human resources. All of
our financial systems are intended to conform to government auditing and financial reporting
requirements and generally accepted accounting principles.

We sell utility billing systems that support the billing and collection of metered and non-metered
services, along with multiple billing cycles. Our Web-enabled utility billing solutions allow
customers to access information online such as average consumption and transaction history. In
addition, our systems can accept secured Internet payments via credit cards and checks.

We also offer specialized products that automate numerous city functions, including municipal
courts, parking tickets, equipment and project costing, animal licenses, business licenses, permits
and inspections, code enforcement, citizen complaint tracking, ambulance billing, fleet
maintenance, and cemetery records management.

In January, 2006, we acquired two companies whose products will be included within our Financials
division. MazikUSA, Inc. offers a Student Information System for K-12 schools, which manages such
applications as scheduling, grades and attendance. TACS, Inc. offers software products to manage
public sector pension funds. These acquisitions added products that were not previously a part of
Tyler’s portfolio.

Tyler’s financial products include Web components that enhance local governments’ service
capabilities by facilitating online access to information for both employees and citizens and
enabling online transactions.

Courts and Justice

We offer a complete, integrated suite of products designed to automate, track and manage the law
enforcement and judicial process, from the initiation of incidents in computer-aided
dispatch/emergency 911 systems through the process of arrest, court appearances and final
disposition to probation. These applications may be installed on a stand-alone basis or integrated
with our other products to eliminate duplicate entries and improve efficiency.

Our Web-enabled court systems are designed to automate the tracking and management of information
involved in criminal and civil court cases, including municipal, family and probate courts. These
applications track the status of criminal and civil cases, process fines and fees and generate the
specialized judgment and sentencing documents, citations, notices and forms required in court
proceedings. Additional judicial applications automate the management of court calendars,
coordinate judge’s schedules, generate court dockets, manage justice of the peace processes and
automate district attorney and prosecutor functions. Related products include jury selection,
“hot” check processing, and adult and juvenile probation management applications. Our courtroom
technologies allow judges to review cases, calendars, and to scan documents and mug shots using a
Web browser. Additionally, document-imaging options include the ability to scan, store, retrieve
and archive a variety of criminal and civil case-related documents.

Our law enforcement systems automate police and sheriff functions from dispatch and records
management through booking and jail management. Searching, reporting and tracking features are
integrated, allowing reliable, up-to-date access to current arrest and incarceration data. The
systems also provide warrant checks for visitors or book-ins, inmate classification and risk
assessment, commissary, property and medical processing, and automation of statistics and state and
federal reporting. Our computer-aided dispatch/emergency 911 system tracks calls and the
availability of emergency response vehicles, interfaces with local and state searches, and
generally assists dispatchers in processing emergency situations. The law enforcement and jail
management systems are fully integrated with the suite of court products that manages the judicial
process.

Our court and law enforcement systems allow the public to access, via the Internet, a variety of
information, including criminal and civil court records, jail booking and release information, bond
and bondsmen information, and court calendars and dockets. In



addition, our systems allow cities and counties to accept payments for traffic and parking tickets
over the Internet, with a seamless and automatic interface to back-office justice and financial
systems.

In 2002 we introduced Odyssey, an all-new unified court case management system that became
available for general release in the third quarter of 2003. Odyssey uses enhanced Web-browser
concepts to render a unique user interface. It incorporates current technology — XML, n-tier
architecture, component-based design, and an ultra-thin client footprint — to maximize the value of
a court’s investment in new software. We believe that some of Odyssey’s design concepts, including
embedded imaging functionality, COM+ objects to enable local customization, and an architecture
that enables multiple deployment options, are unique in the court automation marketplace. Odyssey
was the first of our new generation of n-tier, browser-based products and our initial marketing
efforts for Odyssey were focused on states and large cities and counties.

Property Appraisal and Tax

We provide systems and software that automate the appraisal and assessment of real and personal
property, including record keeping, mass appraisal, inquiry and protest tracking, appraisal and tax
roll generation, tax statement processing, and electronic state-level reporting. These systems are
image- and video-enabled to facilitate the storage of and access to the many property-related
documents and for the online storage of digital photographs of properties for use in defending
values in protest situations. Other related tax applications are available for agencies that bill
and collect taxes, including cities, counties, school tax offices, and special taxing and
collection agencies. These systems support billing, collections, lock box operations, mortgage
company electronic payments, and various reporting requirements.

We have also developed a new appraisal system, Orion, based on the same technology platform that we
used for Odyssey. Orion, which became available for general release during 2004, will ultimately
replace several UNIX based products. Orion provides an intuitive, browser-based interface,
integration for Geographic Information System applications, valuation, assessment administration
and tax billing and collection.

Document Management

We offer a number of specialized applications designed to help county governments enhance and
automate courthouse operations. These systems record and index information for the many documents
maintained at the courthouse, such as deeds, mortgages, liens, UCC financing statements and vital
records (birth, death and marriage certificates).

Software Services

We provide a variety of professional IT services to customers who utilize our software products.
Virtually all of our customers contract with us for installation, training, and data conversion
services in connection with their purchase of Tyler’s software products. The complete
implementation process for a typical system includes planning, design, data conversion, set-up and
testing. At the culmination of the implementation process, an installation team travels to the
customer’s facility to ensure the smooth transfer of data to the new system. Installation fees are
charged separately to customers on either a fixed-fee or hourly charge basis, depending on the
contract, with full pass-through to customers of travel and other out-of-pocket expenses.

Both in connection with the installation of new systems and on an ongoing basis, we provide
extensive training services and programs related to our products and services. Training can be
provided in our training centers, onsite at customers’ locations, or at meetings and conferences,
and can be customized to meet customers’ requirements. The vast majority of our customers contract
with us for training services, both to improve their employees’ proficiency and productivity and to
fully utilize the functionality of our systems. Training services are generally billed on an
hourly basis, along with travel and other expenses.

Maintenance and Support

Following the implementation of our software systems, we provide ongoing software support services
to assist our customers in operating the systems and to periodically update the software. Support
is provided over the phone to customers through help desks staffed by our customer support
representatives. For more complicated issues, our staff, with the
customers’ permission, can log
on to customers’ systems remotely. We maintain our customers’ software largely through releases
that contain improvements and incremental additions, along with updates necessary because of
legislative or regulatory changes.



Virtually all of our software customers contract with us for maintenance and support, which
provides us with a significant source of recurring revenue. We generally provide maintenance and
support under annual contracts, with a typical fee based on a percentage of the software product’s
license fee. These fees can be increased annually and may also increase as new license fees
increase. Maintenance and support fees are generally paid in advance for the entire maintenance
contract period. Most maintenance contracts automatically renew
unless the customer or Tyler gives
notice of termination prior to expiration. Similar support is provided to our ASP customers, and
is included in their overall monthly fees.

Appraisal Services

We are the nation’s largest provider of property appraisal outsourcing services for local
government taxing authorities. These services include:

Local government taxing entities normally reappraise properties from time to time to update values
for tax assessment purposes and to maintain equity in the taxing process. In some jurisdictions,
reassessment cycles are mandated by law; in others, they are discretionary. While some taxing
jurisdictions perform reappraisals in-house, many local governments outsource this function because
of its cyclical nature and because of the specialized knowledge and expertise requirements
associated with it. Our business unit that provides appraisal outsourcing services to local
governments has been in this business since 1938.

In some instances, we also sell property tax and/or appraisal software products in connection with
appraisal outsourcing projects, while other customers may only engage us to provide appraisal
services. Appraisal outsourcing services are somewhat seasonal in nature to the extent that winter
weather conditions reduce the productivity of data collection activities in connection with those
projects.

In the second quarter of 2005, we reorganized our appraisal services business to better align the
organization and cost structure with the expected revenue levels. As part of the reorganization,
we eliminated approximately 120 positions and recorded a pretax charge of $1.3 million for related
employee severance costs.

STRATEGY

Our objective is to grow our revenue and earnings internally, supplemented by focused strategic
acquisitions. The key components of our business strategy are to:

•

Provide high quality, value–added products and services to our clients.

We
compete on the basis of, among other things, delivering to customers our deep domain
expertise in local government operations through the highest value products and services in
the market. We believe we have achieved a reputation as a premium product and service
provider to the local government market.

•

Continue to expand our product and service offerings.

While we already have what
we believe to be the broadest line of software products for local governments, we
continually upgrade our core software applications and expand our complementary product and
service offerings to respond to technological advancements and the changing needs of our
clients. For example, we offer solutions that allow the public to access data and conduct
transactions with local governments, such as paying traffic tickets, property taxes and
utility bills, via the Internet. We believe that the addition of such features enhance the
market appeal of our core products. Since 2001, we have also offered certain of our
software products in an ASP environment, a delivery model that we believe will, over time,
have increasing appeal to local governments and will be expanded to include more
applications. We have also increased our offerings of consulting and business process
reengineering services.



q

products and services to complement our existing offerings;

q

entry into new markets related to local governments; and

q

new customers and/or geographic expansion.

When considering acquisition opportunities, we generally focus on companies with strong management
teams and employee bases and excellent customer relationships. In January, 2006, we acquired two
companies whose products will be included within our Financials division. MazikUSA, Inc. offers a
Student Information System for K-12 schools, which manages such applications as scheduling, grades
and attendance. TACS, Inc. offers software products to manage public sector pension funds. These
acquisitions added products that were not previously a part of Tyler’s portfolio. In December
2003, we acquired Eden Systems, Inc. (“Eden”), a provider of financial, personnel and citizen
services systems for local governments. In December 2003, we also acquired certain assets of a
business that provides forms software to users of some of our software products. Prior to these
acquisitions, our most recent acquisition included in our continuing operations was completed in
November 1999.



SALES, MARKETING, AND CUSTOMERS

We market our products and services through direct sales and marketing personnel located throughout
the United States. Other in-house marketing staff focuses on add-on sales, professional services
and support.

Sales of new systems are typically generated from referrals from other government offices or
departments within a county or municipality, referrals from other local governments, relationships
established between sales representatives and county or local officials, contacts at trade shows,
direct mailings, and direct contact from prospects already familiar with us. We are active in
numerous national, state, county, and local government associations, and participate in annual
meetings, trade shows, and educational events.

Customers consist primarily of county and municipal agencies, school districts and other local
government offices. In counties, customers include the auditor, treasurer, tax assessor/collector,
county clerk, district clerk, county and district court judges, probation officers, sheriff, and
county appraiser. At municipal government sites, customers include directors from various
departments, including administration, finance, utilities, public works, code enforcement,
personnel, purchasing, taxation, municipal court, and police. Contracts for software products and
services are generally implemented over periods of three months to one year, with annually renewing
maintenance and support update agreements thereafter. Although either the customer or we can
terminate these agreements, historically almost all support and maintenance agreements are
automatically renewed annually. Contracts for appraisal outsourcing services are generally one to
three years in duration. During 2005, approximately 38% of our revenue was attributable to ongoing
support and maintenance agreements.

COMPETITION

We compete with numerous local, regional, and national firms that provide or offer some or many of
the same products and services that we provide. Most of these competitors are smaller companies
that may be able to offer less expensive solutions than ours. Many of these firms operate within a
specific geographic area and/or in a narrow product or service niche. We also compete with
national firms, some of which have greater financial and technical
resources than we do, including
Oracle Corporation, Lawson Software, Inc., SAP AG, MAXIMUS, Inc., Affiliated Computer Services,
Inc., SunGard Data Systems, Inc., New World Systems and Manatron, Inc. In addition, we sometimes
compete with consulting and systems integration firms, such as BearingPoint, Inc. and Accenture
Ltd., which develop custom systems, primarily for larger governments. We also occasionally
compete with central internal information service departments of local governments, which require
us to persuade the end-user department to discontinue service by its own personnel and outsource
the service to us. We compete on a variety of factors, including price, service, name recognition,
reputation, technological capabilities, and the ability to modify existing products and services to
accommodate the individual requirements of the customer. Our ability to offer an integrated system
of applications for several offices or departments is often a competitive strength. Local
governmental units often are required to seek competitive proposals through a request for proposal
process.

SUPPLIERS

All computers, peripherals, printers, scanners, operating system software, office automation
software, and other equipment necessary for the implementation and provision of our software
systems and services are presently available from several third-party sources. Hardware is
purchased on original equipment manufacturer or distributor terms at discounts from retail. We have
not experienced any significant supply problems.

BACKLOG

At December 31, 2005, our estimated sales backlog was approximately $165.4 million, compared to
$142.2 million at December 31, 2004. The backlog represents signed contracts under which the
products have not been delivered or the services have not been performed as of year-end. Approximately $130.5
million of the backlog is expected to be installed or services are expected to be performed during
2006.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, AND LICENSES

We regard certain features of our internal operations, software, and documentation as confidential
and proprietary and rely on a combination of contractual restrictions, trade secret laws and other
measures to protect our proprietary intellectual property. We generally do not rely on patents. We
believe that, due to the rapid rate of technological change in the computer software industry,
trade secrets and copyright protection are less significant than factors such as knowledge, ability
and experience of our employees, frequent product enhancements, and timeliness and quality of
support services. We typically license our software products under non-exclusive license agreements
which are generally non-transferable and have a perpetual term.



EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2005, we had approximately 1,360 employees. Appraisal outsourcing projects are
cyclical in nature and can be widely dispersed geographically. We often hire temporary employees
to assist in these projects whose term of employment generally ends with the project’s completion.
None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to collective bargaining
agreements. We consider our relations with our employees to be positive.

INTERNET WEBSITE AND AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC FILINGS

We file annual, quarterly, current and other reports, proxy statements and other information with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act. You may
read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room by calling the
SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and other
information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file
electronically with the SEC. The address of site is

http://www.sec.gov.

We also maintain an Internet site at

www.tylerworks.com.

We make available free of charge through
this site our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Forms 4 and 5, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our “Code of Business Conduct and Ethics” is also
available on our Web site. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements regarding amendments
to, or waivers from, a provision of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics by posting such
information on our Web site.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors evaluating our company
should carefully consider the factors described below and all other information contained in this
Annual Report. Any of the following factors could materially harm our business, operating results,
and financial condition. Additional factors and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we
currently consider immaterial could also harm our business, operating results, and financial
condition. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements
and related Notes and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations included in this Annual Report. We may make forward-looking statements from time to
time, both written and oral. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results
of any revisions to these forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially
from those projected in any such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including
those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report.

A decline in information technology spending may result in a decrease in our revenues or lower our
growth rate.

A decline in the demand for information technology among our current and prospective customers may
result in decreased revenues or a lower growth rate for us because our sales depend, in part, on
our customers’ level of funding for new or additional information technology systems and services.
Moreover, demand for our solutions may be reduced by a decline in overall demand for computer
software and services. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or
maintain our revenues.

We may experience fluctuations in quarterly revenue that could adversely impact our stock price and
our operating results.

Our actual revenues in a quarter could fall below expectations, which could lead to a decline in
our stock price. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate
substantially from quarter to quarter. Revenues from license fees in any quarter depend
substantially upon our contracting activity and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter
in accordance with our revenue recognition policies. Our quarterly revenue may fluctuate and may
be difficult to forecast for a variety of reasons, including the following:

•

a significant number of our prospective customers’ decisions regarding whether to enter
into license agreements with us are made within the last few weeks of each quarter;

•

the size of license transactions can vary significantly;

•

customers may unexpectedly postpone or cancel orders due to changes in their strategic
priorities, project objectives, budget or personnel;

•

customer purchasing processes vary significantly and a customer’s internal approval,
expenditure authorization and contract negotiation processes can be difficult and time
consuming to complete, even after selection of a vendor;



•

the number, timing, and significance of software product enhancements and new software
product announcements by us and our competitors may affect purchase decisions; and

•

we may have to defer revenues under our revenue recognition policies.

Fluctuation in our quarterly revenues may adversely affect our operating results. In each fiscal
quarter our expense levels, operating costs, and hiring plans are based on projections of future
revenues and are relatively fixed. If our actual revenues fall below expectations, we could
experience a reduction in operating results.

As with other software vendors, we may be required to delay revenue recognition into future
periods, which could adversely impact our operating results.

We have in the past had to, and in the future may have to, defer revenue recognition for license
fees due to several factors, including whether:

Because of the factors listed above and other specific requirements under generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States for software revenue recognition, we must have very
precise terms in our license agreements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver and
install software or perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can
extend the sales cycle, and sometimes we do not obtain terms and conditions that permit revenue
recognition at the time of delivery or even as work on the project is completed.

Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in
additional expenses.

Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure,
including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and
New York Stock Exchange rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. The costs
required to comply with such evolving laws are difficult to predict. To maintain high standards of
corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources
to comply with evolving standards. This investment may result in an unforeseen increase in general
and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from
revenue-generating activities, which may harm our business, financial condition, or results of
operations.

Increases in service revenue as a percentage of total revenues could decrease overall margins and
adversely affect our operating results.

We realize lower margins on software and appraisal service revenues than on license revenue. The
majority of our contracts include both software licenses and professional services. Therefore, an
increase in the percentage of software service and appraisal service revenue compared to license
revenue could have a detrimental impact on our overall gross margins and could adversely affect
operating results.



Selling products and services into the public sector poses unique challenges.

We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of software and services to state, county
and city governments, other municipal agencies, and other public entities. We expect that sales to
public sector customers will continue to account for substantially all of our revenues in the
future. We face many risks and challenges associated with contracting with governmental entities,
including:

Each of these risks is outside our control. If we fail to adequately adapt to these risks and
uncertainties, our financial performance could be adversely affected.

The open bidding process for governmental contracts creates uncertainty in predicting future
contract awards.

Many governmental agencies purchase products and services through an open bidding process.
Generally, a governmental entity will publish an established list of requirements requesting
potential vendors to propose solutions for the established requirements. To respond successfully to
these requests for proposals, we must accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a
proposed contract, the time required to establish operations for the proposed client, and the
likely terms of any other third party proposals submitted. We cannot guarantee that we will win
any bids in the future through the request for proposal process, or that any winning bids will
ultimately result in contracts on favorable terms. Our failure to secure contracts through the
open bidding process, or to secure such contracts on favorable terms, may adversely affect our
business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Fixed-price contracts may affect our profits.

Some of our present contracts are on a fixed-priced basis, which can lead to various risks,
including:

•

the failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for an engagement;

•

the failure to effectively manage governmental agencies’ and other customers’
expectations regarding the scope of services to be delivered for an estimated price; and

•

the failure to timely complete fixed-price engagements within budget to the customers’
satisfaction.

If we do not adequately assess these and other risks, we may be subject to cost overruns and
penalties, which may harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations.

We face significant competition from other vendors and potential new entrants into our markets.

We believe we are a leading provider of integrated solutions for the public sector. However, we
face competition from a variety of software vendors that offer products and services similar to
those offered by us, as well as from companies offering to develop custom software. We compete on
the basis of a number of factors, including:

•

the attractiveness of the business strategy and services we offer;

•

the breadth of products and services we offer;

•

price;

•

quality of products and service;



•

technological innovation;

•

name recognition; and

•

our ability to modify existing products and services to accommodate the particular needs of our customers.

We believe the market is highly fragmented with a large number of competitors that vary in size,
primary computer platforms, and overall product scope. Our competitors include the consulting
divisions of national and regional accounting firms, publicly held companies that focus on selected
segments of the public sector market, and a significant number of smaller, privately held
companies. Certain competitors have greater technical, marketing, and
financial resources than we do.
We cannot assure you that such competitors will not develop products or offer services that are
superior to our products or services or that achieve greater market acceptance.

We also compete with internal, centralized information service departments of governmental
entities, which requires us to persuade the end-user to stop the internal service and outsource to
us. In addition, our customers may elect in the future to provide information management services
internally through new or existing departments, which could reduce the market for our services.

We could face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the public
sector software application market and new products and technologies are introduced. Increased
competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, and
loss of market share. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic
acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third-parties, thereby
increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. It is
possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly
gain significant market share. Further, competitive pressures could require us to reduce the price
of our software licenses and related services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to
compete successfully against current and future competitors, and the failure to do so would have
material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition.

We must respond to rapid technological changes to be competitive.

The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry
standards in computer hardware and software technology, changes in customer requirements, and
frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products embodying new
technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and
unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue
to enhance existing products and develop and introduce in a timely manner or acquire new products
that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer
requirements, and achieve market acceptance. We cannot assure you that we will successfully
identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and
cost-effective manner. Further, we cannot assure you that the products, capabilities, or
technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or
noncompetitive. If we are unable to develop or acquire on a timely and cost-effective basis new
software products or enhancements to existing products, or if such new products or enhancements do
not achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be
materially adversely affected.

Our failure to properly manage growth could adversely affect our business.

We have expanded our operations since February 1998, when we entered the business of providing
software solutions and services to the public sector. We intend to continue expansion in the
foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth places a
significant demand on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively,
we must implement and improve our operational systems, procedures, and controls on a timely basis.
We must also identify, hire, train, and manage key managerial and technical personnel. If we fail
to implement these systems or employ and retain such qualified personnel, our business, financial
condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.

We may be unable to hire, integrate, and retain qualified personnel.

Our continued success will depend upon the availability and performance of our key management,
sales, marketing, customer support, and product development personnel. The loss of key management
or technical personnel could adversely affect us. We believe that our continued success will
depend in large part upon our ability to attract, integrate, and retain such personnel. We have at
times experienced and continue to experience difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel.
Competition for qualified software development, sales, and other personnel is intense, and we
cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel.



We may experience difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy.

In addition, a significant portion of our growth has resulted from strategic acquisitions in new
product and geographic markets. Although our future focus will be on internal growth, we will
continue to identify and pursue strategic acquisitions and alliances with suitable candidates. Our
future success will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate future acquisitions
and other strategic alliances into our operations. Acquisitions may involve a number of special
risks, including diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel,
unanticipated events or circumstances, legal liabilities, and amortization of certain acquired
intangible assets. Some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although we conduct due diligence
reviews of potential acquisition candidates, we may not identify all material liabilities or risks
related to acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that any such strategic acquisitions
or alliances will be accomplished on favorable terms or will result in profitable operations.

We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights.

Many of our product and service offerings incorporate proprietary information, trade secrets,
know-how, and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of contracts,
copyrights, and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our
technology. We cannot be certain that we have taken all appropriate steps to deter
misappropriation of our intellectual property. In addition, there has been significant litigation
in the United States in recent years involving intellectual property rights. We are not currently
involved in any material intellectual property litigation. We may, however, be a party to
intellectual property litigation in the future to protect our proprietary information, trade
secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. Further, we cannot assure you that
third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us in the future with
respect to current or future products. Any claims or litigation, with or without merit, could be
time-consuming and result in costly litigation and diversion of management’s attention. Further,
any claims and litigation could cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty
or licensing arrangements. Such royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be
available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Thus, litigation to defend and enforce our
intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, and results of operations, regardless of the final outcome of such litigation.

Our products are complex and we run the risk of errors or defects with new product introductions
or enhancements.

Software products as complex as those developed by us may contain errors or defects, especially
when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Although we have not
experienced material adverse effects resulting from any such defects or errors to date, we cannot
assure you that material defects and errors will not be found after commencement of product
shipments. Any such defects could result in loss of revenues or delay market acceptance.

Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our
exposure to potential liability claims. It is possible, however, that we may not always be able to
negotiate such provisions in our contracts with customers or that the limitation of liability
provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective as a result of existing or
future federal, state or local laws, ordinances, or judicial decisions. Although we maintain
errors and omissions and general liability insurance, and we try to structure our contracts to
include limitations on liability, we cannot assure you that a successful claim could not be made or
would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of
operations.

Our Application Service Provider strategy has yet to gain widespread acceptance.

Some businesses choose to access enterprise software applications through application service
providers, or ASPs, which are businesses that host applications and provide access to software on a
subscription basis. The public sector market for ASP solutions is new and unproven. Acceptance of
our ASP model depends upon the ability and willingness of different governmental entities to accept
and implement ASP solutions. Some prospective clients have expressed security and privacy concerns
with the ASP model, including a concern regarding the confidential nature of the information and
transactions available from and conducted with governments and concerns regarding off-site storage
of such information. We have limited experience selling our solutions through ASPs and may not be
successful in generating revenue from this distribution channel.



Changes in the insurance markets may affect our ability to win some contract awards and may
lead to increased expenses.

Some of our customers, primarily those for our property appraisal services, require that we secure
performance bonds before they will select us as their vendor. The number of qualified, high-rated
insurance companies that offer performance bonds has decreased in recent years, while the costs
associated with securing these bonds has increased dramatically. In addition, we are generally
required to issue a letter of credit as security for the issuance of a performance bond. Each
letter of credit we issue without corresponding cash collateral reduces our borrowing capacity
under our senior secured credit agreement. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure such
performance bonds in the future on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our inability to
obtain performance bonds on favorable terms or at all could impact our future ability to win some
contract awards, particularly large property appraisal services contracts, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Recent volatility in the stock markets, increasing shareholder litigation, the adoption of
expansive legislation that redefines corporate controls (in particular, legislation adopted to
prevent future corporate and accounting scandals), as well as other factors have recently led to
significant increases in premiums for directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. The number of
insurers offering directors and officers insurance at competitive rates has also decreased in
recent years. We cannot predict when the insurance market for such coverage will stabilize, if at
all. The continued volatility of the insurance market may result in future increases in our
general and administrative expenses, which may adversely affect future operating results.

Our stock price may be volatile.

The market price of our common stock may be volatile and may be significantly affected by many
different factors. Some examples of factors that can have a significant impact on our stock price
include:

In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume
fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for the common stock of technology
companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common
stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s
securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We
cannot assure you that similar litigation will not occur in the future with respect to us. Such
litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and
resources, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and
financial condition.

Historically, we have not paid dividends on our common stock.

We have not declared or paid a cash dividend since we entered the business of providing software
solutions and services to the public sector in February 1998. Our credit agreement restricts our
ability to pay cash dividends. We intend to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion
of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the
foreseeable future.

Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could deter takeover
attempts.

Our board of directors may issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and may determine the
price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights,
of these shares of preferred stock. These determinations may be made without any further vote or
action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and
may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued
in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to
acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, some provisions of our
Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, and of the Delaware General Corporation Law could also delay,
prevent, or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us.



Financial Outlook

From time to time in press releases and otherwise, we may publish forecasts or other
forward-looking statements regarding our results, including estimated revenues or net earnings.
Any forecast of our future performance reflects various assumptions. These assumptions are subject
to significant uncertainties, and as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be
incorrect. Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors
(including those described in this discussion), many of which are beyond our control. As a result,
we cannot be certain that our performance will be consistent with any management forecasts or that
the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. Current and potential
stockholders are cautioned not to base their entire analysis of our business and prospects upon
isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize our entire publicly available mix of
historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information regarding us,
our products and services, and the software industry when evaluating our prospective results of
operations.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

Not applicable.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

We occupy a total of approximately 280,000 square feet of office and warehouse space, 30,000 of
which we own. We lease our principal executive office located in Dallas, Texas, as well as other
offices for our divisions in Colorado, Iowa, Maine, Ohio, Texas and Washington.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

On September 9, 2005, Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (“ACS”) filed litigation in Dallas County,
Texas against thirty-three defendants, including Tyler and John M. Yeaman, our Chairman of the
Board (“Yeaman”). The other named defendants include entities affiliated with William D. Oates
(“Oates”), a former director of ours, and certain individuals employed by such entities. The
lawsuit alleges, among other things, that we breached the non-competition and non-solicitation
covenants set forth in the Stock Purchase Agreement dated December 29, 2000 (the “SPA”) between ACS
and us pursuant to which we sold to ACS for cash all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of
Business Resources Corporation (“BRC”), which comprised a significant portion of our then existing
property records business. In the SPA, we agreed to certain five-year non-competition and
non-solicitation covenants, which expired on December 29, 2005. In addition, the SPA contained a
closing condition pursuant to which Oates agreed to amend his then existing three-year
non-competition and non-solicitation covenants so that the restricted activities would conform to
the language of our restricted activities, which covenants expired on December 29, 2003. The
lawsuit alleges that Oates (or entities owned by Oates) solicited ACS employees and re-entered the
land records business after the expiration of his three-year covenants, but prior to the expiration
of our five-year covenants, and further alleges that we, through our non-compete, are legally
responsible for Oates’ actions. The lawsuit further alleges that Oates “controlled Tyler,”
“manipulated Tyler,” and was a “legal representative” of ours for a significant, but unspecified,
period of time following the sale of BRC, even though Oates has not been a member of our board
since 2001, has not been employed by us since the sale of BRC, has had limited contact with our
management since the sale of BRC, and to our knowledge, has not owned any stock in us since May
2003. The lawsuit further alleges that we fraudulently induced ACS to enter into the SPA because
we allegedly knew that Oates (or entities owned by Oates) would re-enter the land records business
after three years, even though the SPA specifically contained different covenants with respect to
Oates and us. ACS entered into a settlement agreement with all of the defendants other than
Yeaman and us, the terms of which are currently confidential; however, management believes that the
settlement agreement extends the non-compete for Oates and his related entities for some period of
time.

We vehemently deny all allegations contained in the lawsuit. Management believes that we have not
breached any non-competition covenants, have not solicited ACS employees, and have not
misappropriated ACS confidential information. Management further believes that the “factual”
allegations made against us are false and inaccurate and that the legal theories asserted by ACS
are without merit. Management further believes based on discovery that has taken place to date
that even if the allegations as currently set forth in the petition were true, that ACS has
suffered no or nominal damage, particularly in light of the settlement agreement with Oates and his
related entities.

We have filed counterclaims against ACS, including claims for business disparagement and
defamation, alleging that ACS has published factually inaccurate and defamatory statements about us
to third parties, including our customers and prospective customers, with malice and/or negligence
regarding the truth of those statements. We intend to defend the lawsuit and pursue our
counterclaims vigorously. The future costs associated with such defense and in pursuit of the
counterclaims are uncertain and difficult to predict and may be material.



Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to our business and except as described
in this Annual Report, there are no material legal proceedings pending to which we are party or to
which any of our properties are subject.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

Not applicable.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES
OF EQUITY SECURITIES.

Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “TYL.” At December 31,
2005, we had approximately 2,300 stockholders of record. A number of our stockholders hold their
shares in street name; therefore, there are substantially more than 2,300 beneficial owners of our
common stock.

The following table sets forth for the calendar periods indicated the high and low sales price per
share of our common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.

High

Low

2004:

First Quarter

$

11.05

$

8.75

Second Quarter

10.10

8.17

Third Quarter

9.47

7.97

Fourth Quarter

9.99

7.60

2005:

First Quarter

$

8.45

$

6.29

Second Quarter

7.90

5.25

Third Quarter

8.69

7.25

Fourth Quarter

9.15

7.88

2006:

First Quarter (through February 27, 2006)

$

10.00

$

8.40

We did not pay any cash dividends in 2005 or 2004. Our bank credit agreement contains
restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. Also, we intend to retain earnings for use in the
operation and expansion of our business, and, therefore, we do not anticipate declaring a cash
dividend in the foreseeable future.

The following table summarizes certain information related to our stock option plan and our
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). There are no warrants or rights related to our equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2005.

Number of securities remaining

Number of securities to be issued upon

available for future issuance under

exercise of outstanding options,

Weighted average exercise

equity compensation plans (excluding

warrants and rights as of

price of outstanding options,

securities reflected in initial column as

Plan Category

December 31, 2005

warrants and rights

of December 31, 2005)

Equity compensation
plans approved by
security
shareholders:

Stock options

4,607,590

$

4.99

73,461

ESPP

29,658

7.46

755,477

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security
shareholders

—

—

—

4,637,248

$

5.01

828,938



During 2005, we purchased approximately 2.5 million shares of our common stock for an
aggregate cash purchase price of $17.7 million. A summary of the repurchase activity during 2005
is as follows:

Additional

Maximum number

Total number

number of shares

Average

of shares that may

of shares

authorized that

price paid

be repurchased under

Period

repurchased

may be repurchased

per share

current authorization

Three months ended March 31

1,169,000

—

$

6.93

1,352,000

Three months ended June 30

411,000

—

6.47

941,000

Three months ended September 30

601,000

—

7.76

340,000

Additional authorization by the board of directors

—

2,000,000

—

2,340,000

October 1 through October 31

198,000

—

8.02

2,142,000

November 1 through November 30

37,000

—

8.10

2,105,000

December 1 through December 31

41,000

—

8.82

2,064,000

Total year ended December 31, 2005

2,457,000

2,000,000

$

7.20

2,064,000

The repurchase program, which was approved by our board of directors, was announced in October
2002, and was amended in April and July 2003, October 2004 and October 2005. On October 25,
2005, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 2.0 million shares for
a total authorization to repurchase 2.3 million shares of our common stock. As of December
31, 2005, we had remaining authorization to repurchase up to 2.1 million additional shares of
our common stock. There is no expiration date specified for the authorization and we intend
to repurchase stock under the plan from time to time in the future.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

(In thousands, except per share data)

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,






STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA

(1)

:

Revenues

$

170,457

$

172,270

$

145,454

$

133,897

$

118,816

Costs and expenses:

Cost of revenues

108,970

108,432

90,627

88,347

81,229

Selling, general and administrative expenses

46,242

45,451

38,390

33,914

30,830

Restructuring charge

1,260

—

—

—

—

Amortization of customer and trade name
intangibles

(2)

1,266

1,267



4,466

Operating income

12,719

17,120

15,512

10,739

2,291

Realized gain on sale of investment in
H.T.E., Inc.

(3)

—

—

23,233

—

—

Other income (expense), net




(698

)

(479

)

Income from continuing operations before
income taxes

13,625

17,437

39,084

10,041

1,812

Income tax provision

5,432

7,309

13,106

3,869

1,540

Income from continuing operations

$

8,193

$

10,128

$

25,978

$

6,172

$


Income from continuing operations per diluted
share

$

0.19

$

0.23

$

0.58

$

0.12

$

0.01

Weighted average diluted shares

42,075

44,566

45,035

49,493

47,984

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS DATA:

Cash flows provided by operating activities

$

21,187

$

22,159

$

22,535

$

19,845

$

12,744

Cash flows provided by (used in) investing
activities

1,820

(9,914

)

(590

)

(7,974

)

(9,706

)

Cash flows used by financing activities

(14,847

)

(9,940

)

(25,421

)

(3,398

)

(5,984

)

BALANCE SHEET DATA:

Total assets

$

194,437

$

190,487

$

186,396

$

169,845

$

146,975

Long-term obligations, less current portion

—

—

—

2,550

2,910

Shareholders’ equity

112,197

118,400

117,907

118,656

100,884

(1)

In December 2003, we acquired Eden Systems, Inc. (“Eden”), a provider of
financial, personnel and citizen services software for local governments. These results
include the results of the operations of Eden from the date of its acquisition.

(2)

Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. Under the standard,
goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are no longer amortized but are
instead tested for impairment at least annually. In accordance with the standard, results of
operations for years prior to 2002 are reported under the previous accounting standards for
goodwill and intangible assets. Amortization expense net of income taxes, related to goodwill
(including assembled workforce subsumed into goodwill) no longer expensed under the standard
was $2,960 in 2001.

(3)

On March 25, 2003, we received cash proceeds of $39.3 million in connection with
a transaction to sell all of our 5.6 million shares of H.T.E., Inc. (“HTE”) common stock to
SunGard Data Systems Inc. for $7.00 cash per share. Our original cost basis in the HTE shares
was $15.8 million. After transaction and other costs, we recorded a gross realized gain of
$23.2 million ($16.2 million or $0.36 per diluted share after income taxes of $7.0 million)
for the year ended December 31, 2003.



ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking
statements. The forward-looking statements are made in reliance upon safe harbor provisions of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements are subject to
certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include,
but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Readers are cautioned not to
place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only
as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any
revision to these forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review the risk factors
described in this Annual Report and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC.

When used in this Annual Report, the words “believes,” “plans,” “estimates,” “expects,”
“anticipates,” “intends,” “continue,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “projects,” “forecasts,” “might,”
“could” or the negative of such terms and similar expressions are intended to identify
forward-looking statements.

OVERVIEW

We provide integrated information management solutions and services for local governments. We
develop and market a broad line of software products and services to address the information
technology (“IT”) needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. In
addition, we provide professional IT services to our customers, including software and hardware
installation, data conversion, training and for certain customers, product modifications, along
with continuing maintenance and support for customers using our systems. We also provide property
appraisal outsourcing services for taxing jurisdictions.

Our products are generally grouped into four major areas:

•

Financials;

•

Courts and Justice;

•

Property Appraisal and Tax; and

•

Document Management.

We monitor and analyze several key performance indicators in order to manage our business and
evaluate our financial and operating performance. These indicators include the following:

•

Revenues — We derive our revenues from four primary sources: sale of software licenses;
software services; appraisal services; and maintenance and support. Because we sell
primarily “off-the-shelf” software, increased sales of software products generally result
in incrementally higher gross margins. Thus, the most significant driver to our business
is the number and size of software license sales. In addition, new software license sales
generally generate implementation services revenues as well as future maintenance and
support revenues, which we view as a recurring revenue source. We also monitor our
customer base and churn since our maintenance and support revenue should increase due to
our historically low customer turnover.

•

Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins — Our primary cost component is personnel expenses in
connection with providing software implementation and appraisal services to our customers.
We can improve gross margins by controlling headcount and related costs and by expanding
our revenue base, especially from those products and services that produce incremental
revenue with minimal incremental cost, such as software licenses and maintenance and
support. Our appraisal projects are seasonal in nature, and we often employ appraisal
personnel on a short-term basis to coincide with the life of a project.

•

Selling, General and Administrative (“SG&A”) Expenses — The primary components of SG&A
expense are administrative and sales personnel salaries and commissions, marketing expense,
research and development costs, rent and professional fees. Sales commissions generally
fluctuate with revenues but other administrative expenses tend to grow at a slower rate
than revenues; however, these costs have recently grown disproportionately because of the
requirements of corporate governance legislation. Research and development costs fluctuate
from year-to-year depending on product development activity.



•

Liquidity and Cash Flows — The primary driver of our cash flows is net income. In
addition, 2003 cash flow was positively impacted when we sold our investment in H.T.E.,
Inc. and received $39.3 million in cash proceeds. Uses of cash include capital investments
in software development and property and equipment and the discretionary purchases of
treasury stock. In 2005, we purchased 2.5 million shares of our
common stock at an aggregate cash purchase price of $17.7 million. Our working capital needs are fairly
stable throughout the year with the significant components of cash outflows being payment
of personnel expenses offset by cash inflows representing collection of accounts receivable
and cash receipts from customers in advance of revenue being earned.

•

Balance Sheet — Cash, accounts receivable and days sales outstanding and deferred
revenue balances are important indicators of our business.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our
consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). The preparation of these financial
statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues, cost of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period, and related disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities. The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included as part of this Annual
Report describe our significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated
financial statements. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including, but not limited
to, those related to intangible assets, bad debts and our service contracts. We base our estimates
on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under
the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying
values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results
may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

We believe the following critical accounting policies affect significant judgments and estimates
used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue Recognition

. We recognize revenues in accordance with the provisions of Statement of
Position (“SOP”) 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition,” as amended by SOP 98-4 and SOP 98-9, as well
as Technical Practice Aids issued from time to time by the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants, and in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 104 “Revenue Recognition.” We recognize revenue on our appraisal services contracts
using the proportionate performance method of accounting, with considerations for the provisions of
Emerging Issue Task Force No. 00-21, “Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.” Our
revenues are derived from sale of software licenses, appraisal services, maintenance and support,
and services that typically range from installation, training and basic consulting to software
modification and customization to meet specific customer needs. For multiple element software
arrangements, which do not entail the performance of services that are considered essential to the
functionality of the software, we generally record revenue when the delivered products or performed
services result in a legally enforceable and non-refundable claim. We maintain allowances for
doubtful accounts and sales adjustments, which are provided at the time the revenue is recognized.
Because most of our customers are governmental entities, we rarely incur a loss resulting from the
inability of a customer to make required payments. In a limited number of cases, we encounter a
customer who is dissatisfied with some aspect of the software product or our service, and we may
offer a “concession” to such customer. In those limited situations where we grant a concession, we
rarely reduce the contract arrangement fee, but alternatively may perform additional services, such
as additional training or programming a minor feature the customer had in their prior software
solution. These amounts have historically been considered nominal. In connection with our
customer contracts and the adequacy of related allowances and measures of progress towards contract
completion, our project managers are charged with the responsibility to continually review the
status of each customer on a specific contract basis. Also, management at our corporate offices as
well as at our operating companies review, on at least a quarterly basis, significant past due
accounts receivable and the adequacy of related reserves. Events or changes in circumstances that
indicate that the carrying amount for the allowances for doubtful accounts and sales adjustments
may require revision, include, but are not limited to, deterioration of a customer’s financial
condition, failure to manage our customer’s expectations regarding the scope of the services to be
delivered, and defects or errors in new versions or enhancements of our software products.

For those software arrangements that include customization of the software, which is considered
essential to its functionality, and for substantially all real estate appraisal outsourcing
projects, we recognize revenue and profit as the work progresses using the percentage-of-completion
method and the proportionate performance method of revenue recognition. These methods rely on
estimates of total expected contract revenue, billings and collections and expected contract costs,
as well as measures of progress toward completion. We believe reasonably dependable estimates of
revenue and costs and progress applicable to various stages of a contract can be made. At times,
we perform additional and/or non-contractual services for little to no incremental fee to satisfy



customer expectations. If changes occur in delivery, productivity or other factors used in
developing our estimates of expected costs or revenues, we revise our cost and revenue estimates,
and any revisions are charged to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to that
revision first become known.

We use contract accounting, primarily the percentage-of-completion method, for those software
arrangements that include customization or modification of the software, or where our software
services are otherwise considered essential to the functionality of the software. In addition, we
recognize revenue using the proportionate performance method of revenue recognition for our
property appraisal projects, some of which can range up to three years. In connection with these
and certain other contracts, we may perform the work prior to when the services are billable and/or
payable pursuant to the contract. The termination clauses in most of our contracts provide for the
payment for the fair value of products delivered and services performed in the event of an early
termination. In connection with certain of our contracts, we have recorded retentions receivable
or unbilled receivables consisting of costs and estimated profit in excess of billings as of the
balance sheet date. Many of the contracts which give rise to unbilled receivables at a given
balance sheet date are subject to billings in the subsequent accounting period. Management reviews
unbilled receivables and related contract provisions to ensure we are justified in recognizing
revenue prior to billing the customer and that we have objective evidence which allows us to
recognize such revenue. In addition, we have a sizable amount of deferred revenue which represents
billings in excess of revenue earned. This liability primarily consists of maintenance billings in
which payments are made in advance and the revenue is ratably earned over the maintenance period,
generally one year. We also have deferred revenue for those contracts in which we receive a
deposit and the conditions in which to record revenue for the service or product has not been met.
On a periodic basis, we review by customer the detail components of our deferred revenue to ensure
our accounting remains appropriate.

Intangible Assets and Goodwill

. Our business acquisitions typically result in the creation of
goodwill and other intangible asset balances, and these balances affect the amount and timing of
future period amortization expense, as well as expense we could possibly incur as a result of an
impairment charge. The cost of acquired companies is allocated to identifiable tangible and
intangible assets based on estimated fair value, with the excess allocated to goodwill.
Accordingly, we have a significant balance of acquisition date intangible assets, including
software, customer related intangibles, trade name and goodwill. In addition, we capitalize
software development costs incurred subsequent to the establishment of technological feasibility.
Certain of these intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. All intangible
assets with definite and indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment annually or whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Recoverability of goodwill is generally measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset
to its fair value, generally determined by estimated future net cash flows expected to be generated
by the asset. Recoverability of other intangible assets is generally measured by comparison of the
carrying amount to estimated undiscounted future cash flows. The assessment of recoverability or of
the estimated useful life for amortization purposes will be affected if the timing or the amount of
estimated future operating cash flows is not achieved. Events or changes in circumstances that
indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to, a significant
decrease in the market value of the business or asset acquired, a significant adverse change in the
extent or manner in which the business or asset acquired is used, or a significant adverse change
in the business climate. In addition, products, capabilities, or technologies developed by others
may render our software products obsolete or non-competitive.



ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND OTHER

The following discussion compares the historical results of operations on a basis consistent with
GAAP for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. These results include the results of
the operations of Eden from the date of its acquisition on December 2, 2003. See Note 2 in the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

2005 Compared to 2004

Revenues

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our revenues for the following
years ended December 31:

% of

% of

2005 vs. 2004

($ in thousands)


Total


Total

$

%

Software licenses

$

29,552


%

$

30,258


%

$

(706

)

(2

)%

Software services

51,532


49,786


1,746


Maintenance

64,728


57,760


6,968


Appraisal services

18,374


27,394


(9,020

)

(33

)

Hardware and other

6,271


7,072


(801

)

(11

)

Total revenues

$

170,457


%

$

172,270


%

$

(1,813

)

(1

)%

Software licenses

. Changes in software license revenues consist of the following
components:

•

Software license revenue related to financial products, which comprise approximately 80%
of our software license revenues in the years presented, increased slightly compared to the
prior year primarily due to third party software products which enhance the functionality of
our proprietary software. Our financial software products automate accounting systems for
cities, counties, school districts, public utilities and not-for-profit organizations.

•

Software license revenue related to our Odyssey courts and justice product declined in
2005 compared to 2004. The prior year was unusually high because it included approximately
$900,000 of license fees earned upon final acceptance for two original Odyssey installation
sites. In 2005 we had fifteen Odyssey contracts in process compared to seven Odyssey
contracts in 2004. The implementation cycle for Odyssey products ranges from nine to
thirty-six months depending on the scope of the contract and modification complexity. We
have recognized revenue on these contracts using contract accounting.

Software services

. Changes in software services revenues consist of the following components:

•

Software services revenue related to financial products, which comprise more than half of
our software service revenue in the years presented, increased moderately in 2005 compared
to the prior year. Typically, software contracts include services such as installing the
software, converting the customers’ data to be compatible with the software and training
customer personnel to use the software. Approximately one-half of our financial software
services revenue increase related to training and the remaining increases were due to new
customers for our application service provider hosting and disaster recovery services and
other miscellaneous services. We increased our training staff in 2005 which enabled us to
deliver our backlog at a faster rate.

•

Software services revenue related to our Odyssey courts and justice product increased
significantly in 2005 compared to the prior year mainly due to a new $1.4 million contract
for follow-on services to an existing customer that had previously implemented and accepted
the software.

•

Software services revenue related to appraisal and tax products declined substantially in
2005. This decline was mainly associated with the completion of several legacy appraisal
and tax contracts in 2004 and early 2005.



Maintenance

. We provide maintenance and support services for our software products and third party
software. Maintenance revenues increased due to growth in our installed customer base as evidenced
by our software license revenue and slightly higher maintenance rates on certain product lines.

Appraisal services.

The decrease in appraisal services revenues is due to the completion in 2004
of certain significant appraisal contracts. These larger projects are often relatively
discretionary in nature compared to smaller projects which tend to occur on a more consistent
basis, and the larger projects we recently completed have not been replaced by similar projects.
The appraisal services business is driven in part by revaluation cycles in various states and based
on our new business pipeline, we expect that appraisal services revenues in the foreseeable future
will remain at historically low levels consistent with 2005.

Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues and
associated gross margins, and those components stated as a percentage of related revenues for the
following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

related

related

2005 vs. 2004

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Software licenses

$

9,101


%

$

8,819


%

$



%

Acquired software



1,447


(653

)

(45

)

Software services & maintenance

80,347


72,609


7,738


Appraisal services

14,188


20,132


(5,944

)

(30

)

Hardware and other

4,540


5,425


(885

)

(16

)

Total cost of revenues

$

108,970


%

$

108,432


%

$



%

Overall gross margin


%


%

Cost of software license revenues.

The main component of our cost of software license
revenues is amortization expense for capitalized development costs on certain software products,
with third party software costs making up the balance. Once a new product is released, we begin to
amortize the costs associated with its development. Amortization expense is determined on a
product-by-product basis at an annual rate not less than straight-line basis over the product’s
estimated life, but not to exceed five years. Development costs consist mainly of personnel costs,
such as salary and benefits paid to our developers. Amortization expense for capitalized software
products declined from $6.1 million in 2004 to $5.9 million in 2005, because certain software
products became fully amortized during 2005, which offset new amortization expense from software
products released in 2004.

Cost of acquired software.

When we complete an acquisition we allocate the excess purchase price
over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired to amortizable software, customer and trade
name intangibles, with the remainder allocated to goodwill that is not subject to amortization.
Amortization expense of acquired software is recorded as cost of revenues while amortization
expense of other acquisition intangibles is recorded as amortization of customer and trademark
intangibles. In 2005 cost of acquired software declined compared to the prior year because certain
acquired software assets recorded for previous acquisitions became fully amortized. The estimated
useful life of acquired software ranges from 3 to 5 years. Estimated annual amortization expense
relating to acquired software, excluding acquisitions completed in 2006, for the next five years is
as follows (in thousands):


$










We have not finalized the allocation of the excess purchase price over the fair value of the
net identifiable assets for the companies acquired in January 2006, but expect this allocation
will significantly increase related amortization expense over the next five years.

Cost of software services and maintenance revenues.

Cost of software services and maintenance
revenues primarily consists of expenses such as personnel costs related to installation of our
software products, conversion of customer data, training customer personnel, support activities and
various other services such as application service provider (“ASP”) and disaster recovery. In 2005



cost of software services and maintenance grew 11% while the related software services and
maintenance revenues increased 8%
compared to the prior year period. During 2005, costs increased at a faster rate than related
software services and maintenance revenues, which reflects lower utilization of personnel in our
appraisal and tax software division, costs to support our recently released Orion products, a shift
in the roles of certain of our development personnel whose costs were capitalized in 2004 to
projects that were expensed in 2005, and higher health care costs.

Cost of appraisal services revenues.

The decline in the cost of appraisal services revenues is the
result of lower appraisal services revenues. We often hire temporary employees to assist in
appraisal projects whose term of employment generally ends with the projects’ completion. In
addition, in the second quarter of 2005 we made significant organizational changes to our appraisal
services division because of the declining gross margins. See “Restructuring Charge.”

Gross margin.

The overall gross margin for 2005 was 36% compared to 37% in 2004. The margin
decline was due to cost inefficiencies associated with lower appraisal services revenues and
efforts and costs to support our recently released Orion products, as well as a shift in the roles
of certain of our development personnel whose costs were capitalized in 2004 to projects that are
being expensed in 2005 and higher health care costs.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

The following table sets forth a comparison of our selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”)
expenses for the following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

2005 vs. 2004

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Selling, general and
administrative expenses

$

46,242


%

$

45,451


%

$



%

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased mainly due to higher health care costs
and an increase in the number of marketing personnel. These increases were offset somewhat by
lower consulting fees associated with documenting our internal control processes.

Restructuring Charge

Because of unsatisfactory financial performance early in 2005, we made significant organizational
changes to those areas of our business that were not performing to our expectations. Our goal was
to bring costs in line with expected levels of revenue while improving the efficiency of our
organizational structure to ensure that clients continue to receive superior service.

We currently anticipate that revenues in our appraisal services business are likely to remain at
historically low levels in the foreseeable future, consistent with 2005 and have reorganized that
division to eliminate levels of management and reduce overhead expense. We have also taken action
to reduce headcount and costs in our appraisal and tax software division. These cost reductions
were made in the second quarter of 2005. As a result, we reduced headcount in the appraisal
services and appraisal and tax software businesses, as well as in the corporate office, by
eliminating approximately 120 positions, including management, staff and project-related personnel.
Additionally we have made changes in both management personnel and organizational structures at
those business units and have reorganized our corporate structure to consolidate certain senior
management positions.

In connection with the reorganization, we incurred certain charges in the second quarter of 2005.
Those charges, which were primarily comprised of employee severance costs and related fringe
benefits, totaled approximately $1.3 million before income taxes. The related payments were made
during the second and third quarter in 2005.



Amortization of Customer and Trade Name Intangibles

Acquisition intangibles are composed of the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net
tangible assets acquired that is allocated to acquired and amortizable software, customer and trade
name intangibles with the remainder allocated to goodwill that is not subject to amortization.
However, amortization expense related to acquired software is included with cost of revenues while
amortization expense of customer and trade name intangibles is recorded as a non-operating expense.
The estimated useful lives of customer and trade name intangibles are 20 to 25 years and 5 to 25
years, respectively. The following table sets forth a comparison of amortization of customer and
trade name intangibles for the following years ended December 31:

2005 vs. 2004

($ in thousands)



$

%

Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles

$

1,266

$

1,267

$

(1

)

—

%

Estimated annual amortization expense relating to customer and trade name acquisition
intangibles, excluding acquired software for which the amortization expense is recorded as cost of
revenues and excluding acquisitions completed in 2006, for the next five years is as follows (in
thousands):


$

1,266


1,266


1,241


1,155


1,155

Other

Interest income is the main component of other income, which also includes non-usage and other fees
associated with our credit agreement, gain on sale of certain assets, gain on risk management
assets associated with a foreign exchange contract and miscellaneous other items. Other income
increased compared to 2004 mainly due to higher interest rates and a small gain on sale of certain
assets.

Income
Tax Provision

The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the following years
ended December 31:

2005 vs. 2004

($ in thousands)



$

%

Income tax provision

$

5,432

$

7,309

$

(1,877

)

(26

)%

Effective income tax rate


%


%

The effective income tax rate declined 2% from 2004 due to the qualified manufacturing activities
deduction enacted in 2005 and a corporate reorganization in 2005 which favorably impacted our state
income tax provision.



2004 Compared to 2003

Revenues

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our revenues for the following
years ended December 31:

% of

% of

2004 vs. 2003

($ in thousands)


Total


Total

$

%

Software licenses

$

30,258


%

$

25,914


%

$

4,344


%

Software services

49,786


37,128


12,658


Maintenance

57,760


47,157


10,603


Appraisal services

27,394


30,011


(2,617

)

(9

)

Hardware and other

7,072


5,244


1,828


Total revenues

$

172,270


%

$

145,454


%

$

26,816


%

Software licenses

. For the year ended December 31, 2004, software license revenues included
$3.5 million related to Eden Systems, compared to $100,000 for the same prior year period.
Excluding the software license revenue related to Eden, the increase in software license revenues
from 2003 to 2004 was approximately $900,000 or 3%. The change was the result of the following
factors:

•

Financials software license revenues, which comprise
approximately two-thirds of our software license revenues in the
years presented (excluding Eden), increased $4.9 million due to a combination of geographic expansion on the west coast and in the southwest United States,
and an increase in our implementation staff, which has allowed us to install software
products more quickly. In addition, the completion in March 2004 of software enhancements
to one of our financial software products has enabled us to expand into larger cities and
counties, resulting in larger contracts.

•

Courts and justice software license revenues decreased $3.5 million compared to the
prior year with approximately $1.4 million of the decline due to lower revenues from
Odyssey courts and justice product. In September 2003, we successfully installed the
first phase of Odyssey in the State of Minnesota and Lee County, Florida. The contract
with the State of Minnesota was the largest software contract in our history, and we
recorded $3.4 million of software license revenue in 2003 for both Minnesota and Lee
County. In 2004, we had seven Odyssey contracts in process, several of which began late
in the year. We recognized revenue on these contracts using contract accounting and
recorded approximately $2.0 million of revenue for Odyssey contracts in 2004. The
remaining decline reflects lower sales of our legacy courts and justice products.

Software services

. Software services revenues increased $4.9 million, or 13%, compared to the
prior year period after excluding the increase in software services revenues generated by Eden of
$7.7 million. Higher software services revenues were attributable to the following factors:

•

Excluding Eden, software services revenues from our financials products comprised almost
half of our software service revenue in the years presented and were $2.5 million, or 14%,
higher in 2004, primarily as a result of the increase in related software licenses sales
over the prior year. Increased staffing levels also allowed for faster implementation of
our backlog. In addition, we expanded our ASP and disaster recovery markets, which
contributed approximately $750,000 to the increase in 2004.

•

Software services revenues related to appraisal and tax software products for the year ended
December 31, 2004 were $1.6 million higher than the prior year. Sales of Orion, our new
appraisal and tax product generated approximately $1.4 million of the increase.

•

In 2004, our document management division entered into a $1.9 million contract to
convert data into a microfilm format, which generated a $675,000 increase in software
services revenue over the prior year.

Maintenance

. Maintenance revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004 included $4.1 million from
Eden, compared to $300,000 for the same prior year period. Excluding the impact of Eden,
maintenance revenues during the year ended December 31, 2004



increased approximately 15% compared
to 2003 due to growth in our installed customer base and slightly higher maintenance rates on
certain product lines.

Appraisal services

. The decrease in appraisal services revenues is due to the completion of
certain significant appraisal contracts, particularly the completion of our contract with Lake
County, Indiana in the fourth quarter of 2003.

Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues and
associated gross margins, and those components stated as a percentage of related revenues for the
following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

related

related

2004 vs. 2003

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Software licenses

$

8,819


%

$

6,610


%

$

2,209


%

Acquired software

1,447


2,006


(559

)

(28

)

Software services & maintenance

72,609


56,892


15,717


Appraisal services

20,132


21,275


(1,143

)

(5

)

Hardware and other

5,425


3,844


1,581


Total cost of revenues

$

108,432


%

$

90,627


%

$

17,805


%

Overall gross margin


%


%

Cost of software license revenues

. The increase is related to the general release of several
software development products and the commencement of the related amortization expense. Product
releases in 2004 include Orion appraisal and tax products and an enhancement to one of our
financial products. Amortization expense for 2004 also includes a full year of expense related to
the Odyssey courts and justice product versus only four months in 2003.

Cost of acquired software.

In 2004 cost of acquired software declined compared to 2003 because
certain acquired software assets recorded for previous acquisitions became fully amortized
beginning mid 2003 and throughout 2004. This decline was offset somewhat by the amortization
expense for acquisition software recorded for the acquisition of Eden in December 2003.

Cost of software services and maintenance revenues

. During the year ended December 31, 2004, Eden
contributed cost of software services and maintenance revenues of $7.9 million, compared to
$500,000 in the prior year. Excluding Eden, cost of software services and maintenance revenues
increased $8.3 million, or 15%, during 2004. In 2004 we added additional staff to provide faster
implementation of our backlog. Excluding Eden, software services and maintenance revenues
increased 14% for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to 2003. Cost of software services and
maintenance revenues increased more than the associated revenues due to the time required to train
and orient additional personnel hired during 2004 before they can effectively perform
revenue-generating tasks, such as training and implementations. In addition, expenses increased as
the costs related to certain employees who previously worked on new software development products
ceased to be capitalized as those projects were completed and these employees moved into
implementation and support functions.

Cost of appraisal services revenues

. The decline in the cost of appraisal services revenues is
consistent with lower appraisal services revenues. In 2004, appraisal revenues declined at a
faster rate than cost of appraisal revenues due to the use of subcontractors to supplement our
appraisal staff on some of our larger contracts during 2004, resulting in lower margins. The
nature and timing of these contracts required us to retain staff on either short notice or with
specific qualifications, thus increasing the associated costs as a percentage of appraisal
revenues.

Gross margin.

Excluding the results of Eden, our gross margin for 2004 was 37% compared to 38% in
the prior year. The decline in gross margin from the prior year period was due to the following
factors:

•

Higher amortization costs of our software development products released from mid-year 2003 through 2004; and

•

The utilization of sub-contractors by our property appraisal and tax and document management divisions during 2004.



Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

The following table sets forth a comparison of our selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”)
expenses for the following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

2004 vs. 2003

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Selling, general and
administrative expenses

$

45,451


%

$

38,390


%

$

7,061


%

SG&A associated with Eden amounted to $4.4 million in 2004 compared to $350,000 in 2003.
Excluding Eden, SG&A increased 8% year-over-year. The increase in SG&A is a result of the
following factors:

•

Costs to comply with corporate governance and public disclosure requirements of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and New York Stock Exchange rules, including those associated
with documenting and testing internal controls. Compliance costs were very high and
significantly exceeded our original estimates. These costs consisted of the engagement of
a third party firm to consult with us on the development and testing of our controls, as
well as the incremental costs associated with the independent auditors attesting to the
effectiveness of these controls. While some of the expenses we incurred in 2004 may be
considered “one-time” costs, it is clear that the new regulatory environment places an
expensive burden on companies that will continue into the future;

•

Increased headcount in our sales and marketing areas to support geographic expansion;

•

Higher commissions related to higher revenue levels; and

•

Higher research and development costs.

Amortization of Customer and Trade Name Intangibles

Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles increased in 2004 because it included a full
year of amortization expense related to the December 2003 acquisition of Eden.

Realized Gain on Sale of Investment in H.T.E., Inc

.

On March 25, 2003, we received cash proceeds of $39.3 million in connection with a transaction to
sell all of our 5.6 million shares of H.T.E., Inc. (“HTE”) common stock to SunGard Data Systems
Inc. for $7.00 cash per share. Our original cost basis in the HTE shares was $15.8 million. After
transaction and other costs, we recorded a gross realized gain of $23.2 million ($16.2 million or
$0.36 per diluted share after income taxes of $7.0 million) for the year ended December 31, 2003.

Income Tax Provision

The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the following years
ended December 31:

2004 vs. 2003

($ in thousands)



$

%

Income tax provision

$

7,309

$

13,106

$

(5,797

)

(44

)%

Effective income tax rate


%


%

The effective income tax rates for the periods presented were different from the statutory United
States federal income tax rate of 35% primarily due to the utilization of the capital loss
carryforward in 2003, increased state income taxes and non-deductible meals and entertainment
costs.

The income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2003 includes income tax expense of $7.0
million relating to the realized gain from the sale of our investment in HTE (after reduction in
valuation allowance related to the utilization of a capital loss carryforward amounting to $1.1
million on a tax-effected basis). For 2003, we had an effective income tax rate of 38% (excluding
the effect of the HTE gain) compared to 42% in 2004. The majority of the increase was due to
higher state income taxes because in 2004 we had more sales and profitability in highly taxed
states than in the prior year.



Discontinued Operations

One of our non-operating subsidiaries, Swan Transportation Company (“Swan”), had been involved in
various claims raised by former employees of a foundry that was owned by an affiliate of Swan and
Tyler prior to December 1995. These claims were for alleged work-related injuries and physical
conditions resulting from alleged exposure to silica, asbestos, and/or related industrial dusts.
After
a series of bankruptcy court filings involving Swan, on December 23, 2003, Tyler in accordance with
the terms of the plan of reorganization, transferred the stock of Swan to the Swan Asbestos and
Silica Trust (the “Trust”), an unaffiliated entity that will oversee the processing and payment of
all present and future claims related to the foundry. On December 23, 2003, we paid $1.48 million
to the Trust in full and final release from all liability for claims associated with the once-owned
foundry (the “Swan Matter”). As a result of the release, any claimant is barred from asserting any
such claim, either now or in the future, against Tyler or its affected affiliates. During the year
ended December 31, 2003, the gain on disposal of discontinued operations of $424,000 primarily
resulted because we fully settled the Swan Matter at an amount less than initially recorded and
certain aspects of the settlement were structured in a beneficial tax manner. Accordingly, we
recognized for the first time certain tax benefits associated with payments on behalf of the Swan
Matter.

Net Income

The following table sets forth a comparison of our net income, earnings per diluted share, income
from continuing operations per diluted share and diluted weighted average shares outstanding for
the following years ended December 31:

2004 vs. 2003

($ in thousands, except per share data)



$

%

Net income

$

10,128

$

26,402

$

(16,274

)

(62

)%

Earnings per diluted share

0.23

0.59

(0.36

)

(61

)

Income from continuing operations per
diluted share

0.23

0.58

(0.35

)

(60

)

Diluted weighted average shares outstanding

44,566

45,035

(469

)

(1

)

Net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003 included a $16.2 million realized
gain after income taxes relating to the sale of our investment in HTE, which had a diluted earnings
per share effect of $0.36 per diluted share.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY

Historically, we have funded our operations and cash expenditures primarily with cash generated
from operating activities. As of December 31, 2005, our balance in cash and cash equivalents was
$20.7 million and we had short-term investments of $11.7 million, compared to cash and cash
equivalents of $12.6 million and short-term investments of $13.8 million at December 31, 2004.
Cash provided by operating activities was $21.2 million compared to cash provided by operating
activities of $22.2 million in 2004 and $22.5 million in 2003. Cash and short-term investments
increased primarily due to continued strong operating performance and higher deferred revenue due
to additional maintenance customers and new contract signings.

At December 31, 2005, our days sales outstanding (“DSOs”) were 101 days compared to DSOs of 89 days
at December 31, 2004. The increase in DSOs is due primarily to timing of billings. DSOs are
calculated based on accounts receivable (excluding long-term receivables) divided by the quotient
of annualized quarterly revenues divided by 360 days.

Investing activities provided cash of $1.8 million in 2005 compared to a use of cash of $9.9
million in 2004 and $590,000 in 2003. In 2005 we significantly reduced our capitalized investments
in software development and property and equipment and liquidated some short term investments and
reinvested the proceeds in cash equivalents. The cash used in investing activities in 2004 was
comprised of investments in software development costs and property and equipment, short-term bond
funds and additional purchase price payments related to the Eden acquisition. Investing activities
in 2003 included $39.3 million of gross proceeds on the sale of our investment in H.T.E., Inc.
which was offset by the investment of such proceeds in short-term bond funds, software development
costs, property and equipment and the acquisition of Eden.

During 2005, we made capital expenditures of $2.7 million, including $1.7 million for computer
equipment, furniture and fixtures and



expansions related to internal growth. The other
expenditures related to software development costs. Capital expenditures were funded from cash
generated from operations.

Proceeds from sales of short-term investments were $19.0 million during 2005. During 2005, the
short-term investments earned interest income of $290,000 which was reinvested. We also
earned interest income of $450,000 from money market investments and interest income of
$170,000 from an investment in a restricted certificate of deposit.

Pursuant to our purchase agreement with Eden, two of the shareholders of Eden were granted the
right to “put” their remaining shares to Tyler and we were also granted the right to “call”
the remaining shares. In 2004, we purchased the remaining 2,500 shares for $725,000 in cash.

Financing activities used cash of $14.8 million in 2005 compared to $9.9 million in 2004 and $25.4
million in 2003. Cash used in financing activities was primarily comprised of purchases of
treasury shares, net of proceeds from stock option exercises. Financing activities in 2003
included the purchase of approximately 6.0 million shares of our common stock through our modified
Dutch Auction tender offer and purchases on the open market for $24.1 million.

During 2005, we purchased approximately 2.5 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate
cash purchase price of $17.7 million.

In 2005, we received $1.8 million from the exercise of options to purchase approximately 436,000
shares of our common stock under our employee stock option plan. During 2004 we issued 680,000
shares of common stock and received $1.9 million in aggregate proceeds, upon exercise of stock
options and during 2003 we issued 554,000 shares of common stock and received $1.7 million in
aggregate proceeds upon exercise of stock options.

During 2005, we received $1.0 million for contributions to the Tyler Technologies, Inc. Employee
Stock Purchase Plan (“the ESPP”), which was adopted by our shareholders in May 2004.

Subsequent to December 31, 2005 and through February 27, 2006 we purchased approximately 250,000
shares of our common stock for an aggregate cash purchase price of $2.2 million.

On February 11, 2005, we entered into a revolving bank credit agreement (the “Credit Facility”).
The Credit Facility matures February 11, 2008 and provides for total borrowings of up to $30.0
million and a $10.0 million Letter of Credit facility under which the banks will issue cash
collateralized letters of credit. As of December 31, 2005, our effective interest rate was 5.9%
under the Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2005 we had no debt and outstanding letters of
credit totaling $4.1 million to secure surety bonds required by some of our customer contracts. As
of February 27, 2006, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility.

In January 2006, we acquired two companies, MazikUSA, Inc. and TACS, Inc. The combined
purchase price for the two companies was approximately $14.2 million, comprised of
approximately $11.3 million cash and 325,000 shares of Tyler common stock. We have not
finalized the allocation of the excess purchase price over the fair value of the net
identifiable assets of the acquired companies but expect this allocation will result in
non-cash charges that will have a small dilutive effect on earnings per share in 2006.

Excluding acquisitions, we anticipate that 2006 capital spending will be between $3.5 million and
$4.0 million, the majority of which will be related to computer equipment and software for
infrastructure expansions. Capital spending in 2006 is expected to be funded from existing
cash balances and cash flows from operations.

From time to time we will engage in discussions with potential acquisition candidates. In order to
pursue such opportunities, which could require significant commitments of capital, we may be
required to incur debt or to issue additional potentially dilutive securities in the future. No
assurance can be given as to our future acquisition opportunities and how such opportunities will
be financed. In the absence of future acquisitions of other businesses, we believe our current
cash balances and expected future cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our
anticipated cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures and other activities through the
next twelve months. If operating cash flows are not sufficient to meet our needs, we may borrow
under our credit agreement.

We lease office facilities, as well as transportation, computer and other equipment used in our
operations under non-cancelable operating lease agreements expiring at various dates through 2013.
Most leases contain renewal options and some contain purchase options. Following are the future
obligations under non-cancelable leases at December 31, 2005 (in thousands):








Thereafter

Total

Future rental
payments under
operating leases

$

4,400

$

4,251

$

4,113

$

3,905

$

2,696

$

3,358

$

22,723

It is not our usual business practice to enter into off-balance sheet arrangements. Moreover,
it is not our normal policy to issue guarantees to third parties. As of December 31, 2005 we have
no material purchase commitments, except for the operating lease commitments listed above.

CAPITALIZATION

At December 31, 2005, our capitalization consisted of $112.2 million of shareholders’ equity.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

Effective January 1, 2006, we will be required to adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment” which, among other things, will require the recording in
the financial statements of non-cash compensation expense related to stock options and employee
stock purchase plan transactions. Prior to 2006, we have only disclosed, as permitted by SFAS No.
123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation”, pro forma financial results including the effects of
share-based compensation expense in the footnotes to the financial statements. We have chosen the
“modified prospective” method of implementing SFAS No. 123R. Under the “modified prospective”
method, new awards will be valued and accounted for prospectively upon adoption. Outstanding prior
awards that are unvested as of December 31, 2005 will be recognized as compensation cost over the
remaining requisite service period. Prior periods will not be restated. Based on stock options
granted to employees through December 31, 2005, we expect the adoption of SFAS No. 123R on January
1, 2006, will reduce first quarter net earnings by approximately $320,000 ($0.01 per share,
diluted) and reduce full year 2006 net earnings by approximately $1.3 million ($0.03 per share,
diluted).

SFAS No. 123R also requires employee stock purchase plans (ESPP) with purchase price discounts
greater than 5% to be compensatory. Our ESPP has a 15% purchase price discount, but the plan can
be modified at any time. We expect the related compensatory charge would reduce first quarter 2006
net earnings by approximately $50,000 ($0.00 per share, diluted) and reduce full year 2006 net
earnings by approximately $200,000 ($0.01 per share, diluted).

SFAS No. 123R includes several modifications to the way that income taxes are recorded in the
financial statements. The expense for certain types of option grants is only deductible for tax
purposes at the time that the taxable event takes place, which could cause variability in our
effective tax rates recorded throughout the year. SFAS No. 123R does not allow companies to
“predict” when these taxable events will take place. Furthermore, it requires that the benefits
associated with the tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost be reported as a
financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature.
This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in
periods after the effective date. These future amounts cannot be estimated, because they depend
on, among other things, when employees exercise stock options. However, the amount of operating
cash flows recognized in prior periods for such excess tax deductions, as shown in our consolidated
statement of cash flows, were $313,000, $582,000, and $292,000, respectively, for 2005, 2004, and
2003. See Notes 1 and 12 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information on our stock-based compensation plans.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

Market risk represents the risk of loss that may affect us due to adverse changes in financial
market prices and interest rates. As of December 31, 2005, we had funds invested in auction rate
municipal bonds, which we accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.” These investments were treated as available-for-sale
under SFAS No. 115. The carrying value of these investments approximates fair market value. Due
to the nature of this investment, we are not subject to significant market rate risk.

We have no outstanding debt at December 31, 2005, and we therefore are not subject to any interest
rate risk.

In order to enhance our ability to manage foreign currency risk associated with one contract, in
December 2005, we contracted with a commercial bank to enter into a series of forward contracts, at
no material cost to us, to acquire Canadian dollars through 2009 at fixed prices. These forward
contracts have been entered into for periods consistent with the related underlying exposure in
this contract and do not constitute positions independent of this exposure. We had approximately
$100,000 of current risk management assets associated with these foreign exchange contracts at
December 31, 2005. If the applicable exchange rate was to increase or decrease



10% from the rate
at December 31, 2005, our current risk management assets would increase or decrease approximately
$300,000. We do not enter into derivative contracts for speculative purposes, nor are we a party to any
leveraged derivative instrument. At December 31, 2004 we did not have any forward contracts in
place.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

The reports of our independent registered public accounting firm and our consolidated financial
statements, related notes, and supplementary data are included as part of this Annual Report
beginning on page F-1.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

— Our chief executive officer and our chief
financial officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)) as of December 31,
2005. Based on such evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have
concluded that as of December 31, 2005 such disclosure controls and procedures were effective and
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file or submit
under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time
periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and include controls and procedures designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in such reports is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer,
as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

— During the quarter ended December 31, 2005, there were
no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting, as defined in Securities Exchange Act
Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f), that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

— Tyler’s management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting as
defined in Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Tyler’s internal control over financial
reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance to Tyler’s management and board of directors
regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only
reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.

Management assessed the effectiveness of Tyler’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in

Internal Control —
Integrated Framework

. Based on our assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2005, Tyler’s
internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.

Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005 has been audited by Ernst & Young, LLP, the independent registered public
accounting firm who also audited Tyler’s consolidated financial statements. Ernst & Young’s
attestation report on management’s assessment of Tyler’s internal control over financial reporting
appears on page F-2 hereof.



ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

None.

PART III

See the information under the following captions in Tyler’s definitive Proxy Statement, which is
incorporated herein by reference. Only those sections of the Proxy Statement that specifically
address the items set forth herein are incorporated by reference. Such incorporation by reference
does not include the Compensation Committee Report, the Audit Committee Report or the Stock
Performance Graphs, which are included in the Proxy Statement.

Headings in Proxy Statement

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

“Tyler Management”

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

“Executive Compensation”

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

“Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management”

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS.

“Executive Compensation — Employment
Contracts”

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.

The information required under this item may be found under the section captioned “Proposals For
Consideration — Proposal Three — Ratification of Ernst & Young LLP as Our Independent Auditors for
Fiscal Year 2006” in our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE.

The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report:

(a)

(1)

The  consolidated  financial  statements are filed as part of this Annual Report.

Page

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-1

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003

F-3

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-7

(2)

The  following  financial  statement  schedule  is  filed as part of this Report.

Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

F-23

All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and, therefore, have been omitted.

(3)

Exhibits

Certain of the exhibits to this Annual Report are hereby  incorporated by reference, as specified:

Exhibit

Number

Description

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Tyler Three, as
amended through May 14, 1990, and Certificate of
Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 1990, and incorporated by reference
herein).

3.2

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our Form 8-K, dated
February 19, 1998, and incorporated by reference herein).

3.3

Amended and Restated By-Laws of Tyler Corporation, dated
November 4, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 3.3 to our Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 1997, and incorporated by
reference herein).



Exhibit

Number

Description

3.4

Certificate of Amendment dated May 19, 1999 to the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation (filed as Exhibit 3.4 to our
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, and
incorporated by reference herein).

4.1

Specimen of Common Stock Certificate (filed as Exhibit 4.1
to our registration statement no. 33-33505 and incorporated
by reference herein).

10.1

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement by and between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and Bank of Texas, N.A. as
Administrative Agent, Letter of Credit Issuer and Lender,
and Texas Capital Bank, as Lender. (filed as Exhibit 99.2
to our Form 8-K, dated effective February 15, 2005 and
incorporated by reference herein).

10.2

Form of Indemnification Agreement for directors and
officers (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2002 and incorporated by reference
herein).

10.3

Stock Option Plan amended and restated as of May 12, 2000
(filed as Exhibit 4.1 to our registration statement no.
333-98929 and incorporated by reference herein and amended
by Exhibit 4.2).

10.4

Purchase Agreement between Tyler Corporation, Richmond
Partners, Ltd. and Louis A. Waters, dated August 20, 1997
(filed as Exhibit 10.24 to our Form 8-K, dated September 2,
1997, and incorporated by reference herein).

10.5

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and John S. Marr Jr. dated July 1, 2003
(filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2003 and incorporated by reference herein).

10.6

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and John M. Yeaman dated July 1, 2003
(filed as Exhibit 10.2 to our Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2003 and incorporated by reference herein).

10.7

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and Dustin R. Womble dated July 1, 2003
(filed as Exhibit 10.8 to our Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2003 and incorporated by reference herein).

10.8

Employment Agreement between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and
Brian K. Miller, dated December 1, 1997. (Filed as Exhibit
10.16 to our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997
and incorporated by reference herein.)

10.9

Employee Stock Purchase Plan (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to our
registration statement 333-116406 dated June 10, 2004 and
incorporated by reference herein).



Exhibit

Number

Description

*23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

*31.1

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Principal Executive Officer
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*31.2

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Principal Financial
Officer, pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002.

*32.1

Certification by Principal Executive Officer pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1330, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*32.2

Certification by Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1330, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*

— Filed herewith.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

Date: February 28, 2006

By:

/s/ John S. Marr

John S. Marr

Chief Executive Officer and President

(principal executive officer)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

Date: February 28, 2006

By:

/s/ John S. Marr

John S. Marr

Chief Executive Officer and President

Director

(principal executive officer)

Date: February 28, 2006

By:

/s/ John M. Yeaman

John M. Yeaman

Chairman of the Board

Date: February 28, 2006

By:

/s/ Brian K. Miller

Brian K. Miller

Senior Vice President and Chief

Financial Officer

(principal financial officer)

Date: February 28, 2006

By:

/s/ Terri L. Alford

Terri L. Alford

Controller

(principal accounting officer)



Date: February 28, 2006

By:

/s/ Donald R. Brattain

Donald R. Brattain

Director

Date: February 28, 2006

By:

/s/ J. Luther King

J. Luther King

Director

Date: February 28, 2006

By:

/s/ G. Stuart Reeves

G. Stuart Reeves

Director

Date: February 28, 2006

By:

/s/ Michael D. Richards

Michael D. Richards

Director

Date: February 28, 2006

By:

/s/ Dustin R. Womble

Dustin R. Womble

Director



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Tyler Technologies, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Tyler Technologies, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2005. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule
based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Tyler Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of Tyler Technologies, Inc.’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission and our report dated February 23, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas

February 23, 2006

F-1


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Tyler Technologies, Inc.

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
Internal Controls over Financial Reporting, that Tyler Technologies, Inc. maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Tyler Technologies, Inc.’s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that Tyler Technologies, Inc. maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material
respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, Tyler Technologies, Inc. maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2005, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Tyler Technologies, Inc. as of December
31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’ equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 and our report dated
February 23, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas

February 23, 2006

F-2


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Operations

For the years ended December 31

In thousands, except per share amounts




Revenues:

Software licenses

$

29,552

$

30,258

$

25,914

Software services

51,532

49,786

37,128

Maintenance

64,728

57,760

47,157

Appraisal services

18,374

27,394

30,011

Hardware and other

6,271

7,072

5,244

Total revenues

170,457

172,270

145,454

Cost of revenues:

Software licenses

9,101

8,819

6,610

Acquired software


1,447

2,006

Software services and maintenance

80,347

72,609

56,892

Appraisal services

14,188

20,132

21,275

Hardware and other

4,540

5,425

3,844

Total cost of revenues

108,970

108,432

90,627

Gross profit

61,487

63,838

54,827

Selling, general and administrative expenses

46,242

45,451

38,390

Restructuring charge

1,260

—

—

Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles

1,266

1,267


Operating income

12,719

17,120

15,512

Realized gain on sale of investment in H.T.E., Inc.

—

—

23,233

Other income, net




Income from continuing operations before
income taxes

13,625

17,437

39,084

Income tax provision

5,432

7,309

13,106

Income from continuing operations

8,193

10,128

25,978

Gain on disposal of discontinued operations, after income taxes

—

—


Net income

$

8,193

$

10,128

$

26,402

Basic income per common share:

Continuing operations

$

0.21

$

0.25

$

0.61

Discontinued operations

—

—

0.01

Net income per common share

$

0.21

$

0.25

$

0.62

Diluted income per common share:

Continuing operations

$

0.19

$

0.23

$

0.58

Discontinued operations

—

—

0.01

Net income per common share

$

0.19

$

0.23

$

0.59

Basic weighted average common shares outstanding

39,439

41,288

42,547

Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding

42,075

44,566

45,035

See accompanying notes.

F-3


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

December 31

In thousands, except share and per share amounts



ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

20,733

$

12,573

Short-term investments available-for-sale

11,750

13,832

Restricted certificate of deposit

4,750

—

Accounts receivable (less allowance for losses of $1,991 in 2005
and $986 in 2004)

49,644

44,180

Prepaid expenses

5,158

3,574

Other current assets

2,201

1,468

Deferred income taxes

2,128

1,611

Total current assets

96,364

77,238

Accounts receivable, long-term portion

1,547

1,621

Property and equipment, net

5,759

6,624

Other assets:

Restricted certificate of deposit


7,500

Goodwill

53,709

53,709

Customer related intangibles, net

17,696

18,855

Software, net

17,645

23,385

Trade name, net

1,262

1,369

Sundry



$

194,437

$

190,487

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

3,330

$

2,890

Accrued liabilities

16,027

13,660

Deferred revenue

51,304

41,541

Income taxes payable


1,023

Total current liabilities

70,950

59,114

Deferred income taxes

11,290

12,973

Commitments and contingencies

Shareholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, $10.00 par value; 1,000,000 shares authorized,
none issued

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; 100,000,000 shares authorized;
48,147,969 shares issued in 2005 and 2004



Additional paid-in capital

151,515

152,870

Retained earnings (deficit)

3,769

(4,424

)

Treasury stock, at cost; 9,273,342 and 7,423,361 shares in 2005
and 2004, respectively

(43,568

)

(30,527

)

Total shareholders’ equity

112,197

118,400

$

194,437

$

190,487

See accompanying notes.

F-4


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity

For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

In thousands

Accumulated

Additional

Other

Retained

Total

Common Stock

Paid-in

Comprehensive

Earnings

Treasury Stock

Shareholders’

Shares

Amount

Capital

Income (Loss)

(Deficit)

Shares

Amount

Equity

Balance at December 31, 2002

48,148

$


$

156,898

$

7,418

$

(40,954

)

(1,929

)

$

(5,187

)

$

118,656

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

26,402

—

—

26,402

Unrealized loss on investment
securities, net of tax

—

—

—

(32

)

—

—

—

(32

)

Reclassification adjustment, net of
income taxes of $3,995

—

—

—

(7,418

)

—

—

—

(7,418

)

Total comprehensive income

18,952

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plan

—

—

(645

)

—

—


2,318

1,673

Treasury stock purchases

—

—

—

—

—

(6,019

)

(24,104

)

(24,104

)

Stock warrant exercises

—

—

(1,584

)

—

—


1,584

—

Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—


—

—

—

—


Shares issued for acquisitions

—

—

1,240

—

—


1,198

2,438

Balance at December 31, 2003

48,148


156,201

(32

)

(14,552

)

(6,704

)

(24,191

)

117,907

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

10,128

—

—

10,128

Unrealized loss on investment
securities, net of tax

—

—

—

(37

)

—

—

—

(37

)

Reclassification adjustment,
net of income taxes of $37

—

—

—


—

—

—


Total comprehensive income

10,160

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plan

—

—

(3,704

)

—

—


5,644

1,940

Treasury stock purchases

—

—

—

—

—

(1,459

)

(12,518

)

(12,518

)

Stock warrant exercises

—

—

(143

)

—

—



—

Issuance of shares pursuant to
Employee Stock Purchase Plan

—

—

(66

)

—

—




Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—


—

—

—

—


Balance at December 31, 2004

48,148


152,870

—

(4,424

)

(7,423

)

(30,527

)

118,400

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

8,193

—

—

8,193

Unrealized loss on investment
securities, net of tax

—

—

—

(8

)

—

—

—

(8

)

Reclassification adjustment,
net of income taxes of $5

—

—

—


—

—

—


Total comprehensive income

8,193

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plan

—

—

(1,570

)

—

—


3,370

1,800

Stock compensation

—

—


—

—

—

—


Treasury stock purchases

—

—

—

—

—

(2,457

)

(17,683

)

(17,683

)

Issuance of shares pursuant to
Employee Stock Purchase Plan

—

—

(116

)

—

—


1,272

1,156

Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—


—

—

—

—


Balance at December 31, 2005

48,148

$


$

151,515

$

—

$

3,769

(9,273

)

$

(43,568

)

$

112,197

See accompanying notes.

F-5


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

For the years ended December 31

In thousands




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

8,193

$

10,128

$

26,402

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
provided by operations:

Depreciation and amortization

10,443

11,386

9,396

Realized gain on sale of investment in H.T.E., Inc.

—

—

(23,233

)

Realized net losses on sales of investment securities

—



Non-cash interest and other charges

(73

)



Provision for losses — accounts receivable

1,641


1,104

Deferred income tax (benefit) provision

(2,200

)

(300

)

4,628

Discontinued operations — noncash charges and
changes in operating assets and liabilities

—

—

(843

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, exclusive of
effects of acquired companies and discontinued operations:

Accounts receivable

(7,031

)

(3,760

)

(7,354

)

Income tax payable

(421

)

1,063


Prepaid expenses and other current assets

(2,117

)

(1,084

)

(77

)

Accounts payable



(238

)

Accrued liabilities

2,428

(961

)

2,603

Deferred revenue

9,763

4,186

9,161

Net cash provided by operating activities

21,187

22,159

22,535

Cash flows from investing activities:

Purchases of short-term investments

(16,882

)

(12,277

)

(27,758

)

Proceeds from sales of short-term investments

18,964

10,055

16,000

Proceeds from sale of investment in H.T.E., Inc.

—

—

39,333

Cost of acquisitions, net of cash acquired

—

(946

)

(12,109

)

Decrease (increase) in restricted certificate of deposit

2,500

—

(7,500

)

Investment in software development costs

(1,002

)

(4,575

)

(6,761

)

Additions to property and equipment

(1,734

)

(2,267

)

(1,796

)

Other

(26

)



Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

1,820

(9,914

)

(590

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Payments on notes payable

—

(35

)

(2,990

)

Purchase of treasury shares

(17,683

)

(12,518

)

(24,104

)

Contributions from employee stock purchase plan

1,036


—

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

1,800

1,940

1,673

Net cash used by financing activities

(14,847

)

(9,940

)

(25,421

)

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

8,160

2,305

(3,476

)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

12,573

10,268

13,744

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

20,733

$

12,573

$

10,268

See accompanying notes.

F-6


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Tables in thousands, except per share data)

December 31, 2005 and 2004

(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

We provide integrated software systems and related services for local governments. We develop and
market a broad line of software products and services to address the information technology (“IT”)
needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. In addition, we provide
professional IT services to our customers, including software and hardware installation, data
conversion, training, and for certain customers, product modifications, along with continuing
maintenance and support for customers using our systems. We also provide property appraisal
outsourcing services for taxing jurisdictions.

Tyler’s business is subject to risks and uncertainties including dependence on information
technology spending by customers, fluctuations of quarterly results, a lengthy and variable sales
cycle, dependence on key personnel, dependence on principal products and third-party technology and
rapid technological change.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

In 2005, we merged all of our subsidiaries into the parent company. The consolidated financial
statements as of December 31, 2004 include our parent company and our subsidiaries, all of which
were wholly-owned.

CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS AND OTHER

Cash equivalents include items almost as liquid as cash, such as money market investments with
insignificant interest rate risk and original maturities of three months or less at the time of
purchase. For purposes of the statements of cash flows, we consider all investments with original
maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 115, “Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” we determine the appropriate classification of
debt and equity securities at the time of purchase and re-evaluate the classification as of each
balance sheet date. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, we classified our short-term investments as
available-for-sale securities pursuant to SFAS No. 115. Investments which are classified as
available-for-sale are recorded at fair value as determined by quoted market price and unrealized
holding gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, if any, are not reflected in earnings but
are reported as a separate component of other comprehensive income until realized. Interest and
dividends earned on these securities are reinvested in the securities. The cost basis of
securities sold is determined using the average cost method. Following is a summary of short-term
investments:

Unrealized

Unrealized

Estimated

December 31, 2005

Cost

Gains

Losses

Fair Value

Auction rate municipal bonds

$

11,750

$

—

$

—

$

11,750

Unrealized

Unrealized

Estimated

December 31, 2004

Cost

Gains

Losses

Fair Value

Auction rate municipal bonds

$

8,925

$

—

$

—

$

8,925

State and municipal bond mutual fund

4,907

—

—

4,907

$

13,832

$

—

$

—

$

13,832

We have a $5.0 million restricted certificate of deposit which collateralizes letters of
credit required under our surety bond program. These letters of credit expire during 2006 and
early 2007.

F-7


REVENUE RECOGNITION

We recognize revenue related to our software arrangements pursuant to the provisions of Statement
of Position (“SOP”) 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition,” as amended by SOP 98-4 and SOP 98-9, and
related interpretations, as well as the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 104, “Revenue Recognition.” We recognize revenue on our appraisal services contracts
using the proportionate performance method of accounting, with considerations for the provisions of
Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) No. 00-21, “Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.”

Software Arrangements:

We earn revenue from software licenses, post-contract customer support (“PCS” or “maintenance”),
software related services and hardware. PCS includes telephone support, bug fixes, and rights to
upgrades on a when-and-if available basis. We provide services that range from installation,
training, and basic consulting to software modification and customization to meet specific customer
needs. In software arrangements that include rights to multiple software products, specified
upgrades, PCS, and/or other services, we allocate the total arrangement fee among each deliverable
based on the relative fair value of each.

We typically enter into multiple element arrangements, which include software licenses, software
services, PCS and occasionally hardware. The majority of our software arrangements are multiple
element arrangements, but for those arrangements that include customization or significant
modification of the software, or where software services are otherwise considered essential to the
functionality of the software in the customer’s environment, we use contract accounting and apply
the provisions of SOP 81-1 “Accounting for Performance of Construction — Type and Certain
Production — Type Contracts.”

If the arrangement does not require significant modification or customization, revenue is
recognized when all of the following conditions are met:

i.

persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists;

ii.

delivery has occurred;

iii.

our fee is fixed or determinable; and

iv.

collectibility is probable.

For multiple element arrangements, each element of the arrangement is analyzed and we allocate a
portion of the total arrangement fee to the elements based on the fair value of the element using
vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (“VSOE”), regardless of any separate prices stated
within the contract for each element. Fair value is considered the price a customer would be
required to pay if the element was sold separately based on our historical experience of
stand-alone sales of these elements to third parties. For PCS, we use renewal rates for continued
support arrangements to determine fair value. For software services, we use the fair value we
charge our customers when those services are sold separately. In software arrangements in which we
have the fair value of all undelivered elements but not of a delivered element, we apply the
“residual method” as allowed under SOP 98-9 in accounting for any element of a multiple element
arrangement involving software that remains undelivered such that any discount inherent in a
contract is allocated to the delivered element. Under the residual method, if the fair value of
all undelivered elements is determinable, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred
and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered element(s) and is
recognized as revenue assuming the other revenue recognition criteria are met. In software
arrangements in which we do not have VSOE for all undelivered elements, revenue is deferred until
fair value is determined or all elements for which we do not have VSOE have been delivered.
Alternatively, if sufficient VSOE does not exist and the only undelivered element is services that
do not involve significant modification or customization of the software, the entire fee is
recognized over the period during which the services are expected to be performed.

Software Licenses

We recognize the revenue allocable to software licenses and specified upgrades upon delivery of the
software product or upgrade to the customer, unless the fee is not fixed or determinable or
collectibility is not probable. If the fee is not fixed or determinable, including new customers
whose payment terms are three months or more from shipment, revenue is generally recognized as
payments become due from the customer. If collectibility is not considered probable, revenue is
recognized when the fee is collected. Arrangements that include software services, such as
training or installation, are evaluated to determine whether those services are essential to the
product’s functionality.

F-8


A majority of our software arrangements involve “off-the-shelf” software. We consider software to
be off-the-shelf software if it can be added to an arrangement with minor changes in the underlying
code and it can be used by the customer for the customer’s purpose upon installation. For
off-the-shelf software arrangements, we recognize the software license fee as revenue after
delivery has occurred, customer acceptance is reasonably assured, that portion of the fee
represents a non-refundable enforceable claim and is probable of collection, and the remaining
services such as training are not considered essential to the product’s functionality.

For arrangements that include customization or modification of the software, or where software
services are otherwise considered essential, we recognize revenue using contract accounting. We
generally use the percentage-of-completion method to recognize revenue from these arrangements. We
measure progress-to-completion primarily using labor hours incurred, or value added. The
percentage-of-completion methodology generally results in the recognition of reasonably consistent
profit margins over the life of a contract since we have the ability to produce reasonably
dependable estimates of contract billings and contract costs. We use the level of profit margin
that is most likely to occur on a contract. If the most likely profit margin cannot be precisely
determined, the lowest probable level of profit in the range of estimates is used until the results
can be estimated more precisely. These arrangements are often implemented over an extended time
period and occasionally require us to revise total cost estimates. Amounts recognized in revenue
are calculated using the progress-to-completion measurement after giving effect to any changes in
our cost estimates. Changes to total estimated contract costs, if any, are recorded in the period
they are determined. Estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period in which
we first determine that a loss is apparent.

For arrangements that include new product releases for which it is difficult to estimate final
profitability except to assume that no loss will ultimately be incurred, we recognize revenue under
the completed contract method. Under the completed contract method, revenue is recognized only
when a contract is completed or substantially complete. Historically these amounts have been
immaterial.

Software Services

Some of our software arrangements include services considered essential for the customer to use the
software for the customer’s purposes. For these software arrangements, both the software license
revenue and the services revenue are recognized as the services are performed using the
percentage-of-completion contract accounting method. When software services are not considered
essential, the fee allocable to the service element is recognized as revenue as we perform the
services.

Computer Hardware Equipment

Revenue allocable to computer hardware equipment, which is based on VSOE, is recognized when we
deliver the equipment and collection is probable.

Postcontract Customer Support

Our customers generally enter into PCS agreements when they purchase our software licenses. Our
PCS agreements are typically renewable annually. Revenue allocated to PCS is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the period the PCS is provided. All significant costs and expenses
associated with PCS are expensed as incurred. Fair value for the maintenance and support
obligations for software licenses is based upon the specific sale renewals to customers or upon
renewal rates quoted in the contracts.

Appraisal Services:

For our property appraisal projects, we recognize revenue using the proportionate performance
method of revenue recognition since many of these projects are implemented over one to three year
periods and consist of various unique activities. Under this method of revenue recognition, we
identify each activity for the appraisal project, with a typical project generally calling for
bonding, office set up, training, routing of map information, data entry, data collection, data
verification, informal hearings, appeals and project management. Each activity or act is
specifically identified and assigned an estimated cost. Costs which are considered to be
associated with indirect activities, such as bonding costs and office set up, are expensed as
incurred. These costs are typically billed as incurred and are recognized as revenue equal to
cost. Direct contract fulfillment activities and related supervisory costs such as data
collection, data entry and verification are expensed as incurred. The direct costs for these
activities are determined and the total contract value is then allocated to each activity based on
a consistent profit margin. Each activity is assigned a consistent unit of measure to determine
progress towards completion and revenue is recognized for each activity based upon the percentage
complete as applied to the estimated revenue for that activity. Progress for the fulfillment
activities is typically based on labor hours or an output measure such as the number of parcel
counts completed for that activity. Estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the
period in which we first determine that a loss is apparent.

F-9


Other:

Deferred revenue consists primarily of unearned support and maintenance revenue that has been
billed based on contractual terms in the underlying arrangement with the remaining balance
consisting of payments received in advance of revenue being earned under software licensing,
software services and hardware installation. Unbilled revenue is not billable at the balance sheet
date but is recoverable over the remaining life of the contract through billings made in accordance
with contractual agreements. The termination clauses in most of our contracts provide for the
payment for the fair value of products delivered and services performed in the event of an early
termination.

Prepaid expenses and other current assets include direct and incremental costs, consisting
primarily of third party sub-contractor payments and commissions associated with arrangements for
which revenue recognition has been deferred. Such costs are expensed at the time the related
revenue is recognized.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions
include the application of the percentage-of-completion and proportionate performance methods of
revenue recognition, the carrying amount and estimated useful lives of intangible assets and
valuation allowance for receivables. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET

Property, equipment and purchased software are recorded at original cost and increased by the cost
of any significant improvements after purchase. We expense maintenance and repairs when incurred.
Depreciation and amortization is calculated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the
asset’s estimated useful life or the term of the lease in the case of leasehold improvements. For
income tax purposes, we use accelerated depreciation methods as allowed by tax laws.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS

Research and development costs are included with selling, general and administrative expenses and
are expensed when incurred. We expensed research and development costs of $2.4 million during 2005,
$2.5 million during 2004, and $1.1 million during 2003.

INCOME TAXES

Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred taxes arise because
of different treatment between financial statement accounting and tax accounting, known as
“temporary differences.” We record the tax effect of these temporary differences as “deferred tax
assets” (generally items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the future periods) and
“deferred tax liabilities” (generally items that we received a tax deduction for, which have not
yet been recorded in the income statement). The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured
using enacted tax rules and laws that are expected to be in effect when the temporary differences
are expected to be recovered or settled. A valuation allowance would be established to reduce
deferred tax assets if it is likely that a deferred tax asset will not be realized.

STOCK COMPENSATION

In accordance with SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” we elected to account
for our stock-based compensation under Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” as amended, and related interpretations. Under APB No.
25’s intrinsic value method, compensation expense is determined on the measurement date; that is,
the first date on which both the number of shares the option holder is entitled to receive, and the
exercise price, if any, are known. Compensation expense, if any, is measured based on the award’s
intrinsic value — the excess of the market price of the stock over the exercise price on the
measurement date. The exercise price of all of our stock options granted equals the market price
on the measurement date. Therefore, we have not recorded any compensation expense related to
grants of stock options.

F-10


The
weighted-average fair value per stock option granted was $3.47 for 2005, $6.03 for 2004, and
$3.41 for 2003. We estimated the fair values using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and the
following assumptions for the periods presented:

Years ended December 31,




Expected dividend yield


%


%


%

Risk-free interest rate

4.1

%

3.7

%

3.3

%

Expected stock price volatility

48.4

%

79.1

%

86.5

%

Expected term until exercise (years)




Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by SFAS No. 123
for awards granted after December 31, 1994, as if we had accounted for our stock-based awards to
employees under the fair value method of SFAS No. 123. The pro forma impact of applying SFAS No.
123 in 2005, 2004 and 2003 will not necessarily be representative of the pro forma impact in future
years. Our pro forma information is as follows:

Years ended December 31,




Net income as reported

$

8,193

$

10,128

$

26,402

Add stock-based employee compensation cost included in net income,
net of related tax benefit

—

—

—

Deduct total stock-based employee compensation expense determined
under fair-value-based method for all awards, net of related tax benefit

(831

)

(1,086

)

(1,915

)

Pro forma net income

$

7,362

$

9,042

$

24,487

Basic earnings per share:

As reported

$

0.21

$

0.25

$

0.62

Pro forma

$

0.19

$

0.22

$

0.58

Diluted earnings per share:

As reported

$

0.19

$

0.23

$

0.59

Pro forma

$

0.17

$

0.20

$

0.54

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment.” SFAS No. 123R is a
revision of SFAS No. 123 and supersedes APB No. 25. Among other items, SFAS No. 123R eliminates
the use of APB No. 25 and the intrinsic value method of accounting, and requires companies to
recognize the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments,
based on the grant date fair value of those awards, in the financial statements. Pro forma
disclosure is no longer an alternative under the new standard. Although early adoption is allowed,
we will adopt SFAS No. 123R as of the required effective date for calendar year companies, which is
January 1, 2006.

We currently utilize a standard option pricing model (i.e., Black-Scholes) to measure the fair
value of stock options granted to employees. While SFAS No. 123R permits entities to continue to
use such a model, the standard also permits the use of a more complex binomial, or “lattice” model.
Based upon our research on the alternative models available to value option grants, and in
conjunction with the type and number of stock options expected to be issued in the future, we have
determined that we will continue to use the Black-Scholes model for option valuation as of the
current time.

SFAS No. 123R includes several modifications to the way that income taxes are recorded in the
financial statements. The expense for certain types of option grants is only deductible for tax
purposes at the time that the taxable event takes place, which could cause variability in our
effective tax rates recorded throughout the year. SFAS No. 123R does not allow companies to
“predict” when these taxable events will take place. Furthermore, it requires that the benefits
associated with the tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost be reported as a
financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature.
This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in
periods after the effective date. These future amounts cannot be estimated, because they depend
on, among other things, when employees exercise stock options. However, the amounts of operating
cash flows recognized in prior periods for such excess tax deductions, as shown in our consolidated
statements of cash flows, were $313,000, $582,000, and $292,000, respectively, for 2005, 2004, and
2003.

We have chosen the “modified prospective” method of implementing SFAS No. 123R. Under the
“modified prospective” method, new awards will be valued and accounted for prospectively upon
adoption. Outstanding prior awards that are unvested as of December 31, 2005 will be recognized as
compensation cost over the remaining requisite service period. Prior periods will not be restated.
Based on stock options granted to employees through December 31, 2005, we expect the adoption of
SFAS No. 123R on

F-11


January 1, 2006, will reduce first quarter net earnings by approximately $320,000 ($0.01 per share,
diluted) and reduce full year 2006 net earnings by approximately $1.3 million ($0.03 per share,
diluted).

SFAS No. 123R also requires employee stock purchase plans (“ESPP”) with purchase price discounts
greater than 5% to be compensatory. Our ESPP currently has a 15% purchase price discount, but the
plan can be modified at any time. We expect the related compensatory charge would reduce first
quarter 2006 net earnings approximately $50,000 ($0.00 per share, diluted) and reduce full year
2006 net earnings approximately $200,000 ($0.01 per share, diluted).

See Note 12 for further information on our stock-based compensation plans.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows:

Years ended December 31,




Net income

$

8,193

$

10,128

$

26,402

Other comprehensive income (loss):

Change in fair value of short-term investments available-for-sale
(net of deferred tax benefit of $4 in 2005 and $20 in 2004)

(8

)

(37

)

(32

)

Reclassification adjustment for unrealized gain related to investment in
H.T.E., Inc. (net of deferred tax expense of $3,995)

—

—

(7,418

)

Reclassification adjustment for unrealized gain related to investments
available-for-sale (net of deferred tax expense of $5 in 2005 and $37 in 2004)



—

Total comprehensive income

$

8,193

$

10,160

$

18,952

SEGMENT AND RELATED INFORMATION

Although we have a number of operating divisions, separate segment data has not been presented as
they meet the criteria for aggregation as permitted by SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures About Segments of
an Enterprise and Related Information.”

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

We have used the purchase method of accounting for all of our business combinations. Our business
acquisitions result in the allocation of the purchase price to goodwill and other intangible
assets. We allocate the cost of acquired companies first to identifiable assets based on estimated
fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired,
net of liabilities assumed, is recorded as goodwill.

Under SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” we will evaluate goodwill for impairment
annually as of April 1st, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. An impairment loss is
recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the asset’s fair value. In the
implementation of SFAS No. 142, we identified two reporting units for impairment testing. The
appraisal services and appraisal software stand-alone business unit qualified as a reporting unit
since it is one level below an operating segment, discrete financial information exists for the
business unit and the executive management group directly reviews this business unit. The other
software business units were aggregated into the other single reporting unit. The appraisal
services and appraisal software stand-alone business unit is organized in such a manner that both
of its revenue sources are tightly integrated with each other and discrete financial information at
the operating profit level does not exist for this business unit’s respective revenue sources.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

We periodically evaluate whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of
our property and equipment or other long-lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable.
If such circumstances are determined to exist, we measure the recoverability of assets to be held
and used by a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset or appropriate grouping of assets and
the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. If the
carrying amount of the assets exceeds their estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is
recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the
assets. Assets to be disposed of would be separately presented in the balance sheet and reported at
the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated.
The assets and liabilities of a disposed group classified as held for sale would be presented
separately in the appropriate asset and liability sections of the balance sheet.

F-12


COSTS OF COMPUTER SOFTWARE

Software development costs have been accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 86, “Accounting for
the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed.” Under SFAS No. 86,
capitalization of software development costs begins upon the establishment of technological
feasibility and prior to the availability of the product for general release to customers. We
capitalized software development costs of approximately $1.0 million during 2005, $4.6 million
during 2004 and $6.8 million during 2003. Software development costs primarily consist of
personnel costs and rent for related office space. We begin to amortize capitalized costs when a
product is available for general release to customers. Amortization expense is determined on a
product-by-product basis at a rate not less than straight-line basis over the product’s remaining
estimated economic life but not to exceed five years. Amortization of software development costs
was approximately $5.9 million in 2005, $6.1 million during 2004, and $4.1 million during 2003 and
is included in cost of software license revenue in the accompanying consolidated statements of
operations.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivables, accounts payables, deferred revenues and certain
other assets at cost approximate fair value because of the short maturity of these instruments. Our
available-for-sale investments are recorded at fair value based on quoted market prices.

In order to enhance our ability to manage foreign currency risk associated with one contract, in
December 2005, we contracted with a commercial bank to enter into a series of forward contracts, at
no material cost to us, to acquire Canadian dollars through 2009 at fixed prices. These forward
contracts have been entered into for periods consistent with the related underlying exposure in
this contract and do not constitute positions independent of this exposure. These forward
contracts are recorded in our consolidated balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured
at fair value, with changes in the fair value recorded in earnings. We had approximately $100,000
of current risk management assets associated with these foreign exchange contracts at December 31,
2005 and we recorded related gains in other income of approximately $100,000. We do not enter into
derivative contracts for speculative purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative
instrument. At December 31, 2004 we did not have any forward contracts in place.

CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK AND UNBILLED RECEIVABLES

Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the size and
geographical diversity of our customer base. Historically, our credit losses have not been
significant. As a result, we do not believe we have any significant concentrations of credit risk
as of December 31, 2005.

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts and sales adjustments, which are provided at the time
the revenue is recognized. Since most of our customers are domestic governmental entities, we
rarely incur a loss resulting from the inability of a customer to make required payments. Events
or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount for the allowances for doubtful
accounts and sales adjustments may require revision, include, but are not limited to, deterioration
of a customer’s financial condition, failure to manage our customer’s expectations regarding the
scope of the services to be delivered, and defects or errors in new versions or enhancements of our
software products.

The termination clauses in most of our contracts provide for the payment for the fair value of
products delivered or services performed in the event of early termination. Our property appraisal
outsourcing service contracts can range up to three years and, in one case, as long as six years in
duration. In connection with these contracts, as well as certain software service contracts, we
may perform work prior to when the software and services are billable and/or payable pursuant to
the contract. We have historically recorded such unbilled receivables (costs and estimated profit
in excess of billings) in connection with (1) property appraisal services contracts accounted for
using proportionate performance accounting in which the revenue is earned based upon activities
performed in one accounting period but the billing normally occurs shortly thereafter and may span
another accounting period; (2) software services contracts accounted for using the
percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition using labor hours as a measure of progress
towards completion in which the services are performed in one accounting period but the billing for
the software element of the arrangement may be based upon the specific phase of the implementation;
(3) software revenue for which we have objective evidence that the customer-specified objective
criteria has been met but the billing has not yet been submitted to the customer; and (4) in a
limited number of cases, we may grant extended payment terms generally to existing customers with
whom we have a long-term relationship and favorable collection history. In addition, certain of
our property appraisal outsourcing contracts are required by law to have an amount withheld from a
progress billing (generally a 10% retention) until final and satisfactory project completion is
achieved, typically upon the completion of fieldwork or formal hearings.

F-13


In connection with this activity, we have recorded unbilled receivables of $7.1 million and $10.0
million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, with billing primarily dependent on a fixed
payment schedule based on specific calendar dates. We also have recorded retention receivable of
$1.7 million at both December 31, 2005 and 2004, and these retentions become payable upon the
completion of our field work and formal hearings. Unbilled receivables and retention receivables
expected to be collected in excess of one year have been classified as non-current receivables in
the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

INDEMNIFICATION

Most of our software license agreements indemnify our customers in the event that the software sold
infringes upon the intellectual property rights of a third party. These agreements typically
provide that in such event we will either modify or replace the software so that it becomes
non-infringing or procure for the customer the right to use the software. We have recorded no
liability associated with these indemnifications, as we are not aware of any pending or threatened
infringement actions that are possible losses. We believe the estimated fair value of these
intellectual property indemnification clauses is minimal.

We have also agreed to indemnify our officers and board members if they are named or threatened to
be named as a party to any proceeding by reason of the fact that they acted in such capacity. A
form of the indemnification agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002. We maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance coverage to protect against any
such losses. We have recorded no liability associated with these indemnifications. Because of our
insurance coverage, we believe the estimated fair value of these indemnification agreements is
minimal.

RECLASSIFICATIONS

Certain amounts for previous years have been reclassified to conform to the current year
presentation.

(2) ACQUISITIONS

During December 2003, we acquired 95% of one company, Eden Systems, Inc. (“Eden”), and certain
assets of another business that provides forms software to users of some of our software products,
for an aggregate purchase price of $15.5 million, consisting of $13.1 million cash and $2.4 million
of Tyler common stock. In 2004 we paid $725,000 cash for the remaining 5% of Eden. The results of
these acquisitions have been included in our consolidated financial statements since their
respective dates of acquisition. Eden provides financial, personnel and citizen services
applications software for local governments.

The following unaudited pro forma information presents the consolidated results of operations for
2003 as if our acquisition of Eden occurred as of the beginning of 2003, after giving effect to
certain adjustments, including amortization of intangibles, interest and income tax effects. Pro
forma information does not include acquisitions that are not considered material to our results of
operations. The pro forma information does not purport to represent what our results of operations
actually would have been had such transaction or event occurred on the dates specified, or to
project our results of operations for any future period.

Revenues

$

157,248

Income from continuing operations

26,295

Net income

26,719

Net income per diluted share

$

0.59

(3) DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

One of our non-operating subsidiaries, Swan Transportation Company (“Swan”), had been involved in
various claims raised by former employees of a foundry that was owned by an affiliate of Swan and
Tyler prior to December 1995. These claims were for alleged work related injuries and physical
conditions resulting from alleged exposure to silica, asbestos, and/or related industrial dusts.
After a series of bankruptcy court filings involving Swan, on December 23, 2003, Tyler, in
accordance with the terms of the plan of reorganization, transferred the stock of Swan to the Swan
Asbestos and Silica Trust (the “Trust”), an unaffiliated entity that will oversee the processing
and payment of all present and future claims related to the foundry. On December 23, 2003, we paid
$1.48 million to the Trust in full and final release from all liability for claims associated with
the once-owned foundry (the “Swan Matter”). As a result of the release, any claimant is barred
from asserting any such claim, either now or in the future, against Tyler or its affected
affiliates. We recorded a gain on disposal of discontinued operations of $424,000 because we fully
settled the Swan Matter at an amount less than initially recorded and certain aspects of the
settlement were structured in a beneficial tax manner. Accordingly, we recognized for the first
time certain tax benefits associated with payments on behalf of the Swan Matter.

F-14


(4) RESTRUCTURING CHARGE

Because of unsatisfactory financial performance early in 2005, we made significant organizational
changes in the second quarter of 2005 to those areas of our business that were not performing to
our expectations. Our goal was to bring costs in line with expected levels of revenue while
improving the efficiency of our organizational structure to ensure that clients continue to receive
superior service.

We currently anticipate that revenues in our appraisal services business are likely to remain at
historically low levels in the foreseeable future and we reorganized that division to eliminate
levels of management and reduce overhead expense. We also took actions to reduce headcount and
costs in our appraisal and tax software division, and we consolidated certain senior management
positions at the corporate office. These cost reductions were made in the second quarter of 2005.
As a result, we reduced headcount in the appraisal services and appraisal and tax software
businesses, as well as in the corporate office, by eliminating approximately 120 positions,
including management, staff and project-related personnel.

In connection with the reorganization, we incurred certain charges which were primarily comprised
of employee severance costs and related fringe benefits, and totaled approximately $1.3 million
before income taxes. The related payments were paid in 2005.

The following is a summary of the restructuring liability:

Charged to expense

in the quarter ended

Cash

Liability as of

June 30, 2005

Payments

December 31, 2005

Severance and related fringe benefits

$

1,237

$

1,237

$

—

Other



—

Total

$

1,260

$

1,260

$

—

(5) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET

Property and equipment, net consists of the following at December 31:

Useful

Lives

(years)



Land

—

$


$


Transportation equipment




Computer equipment and purchased software

3—7

11,722

11,259

Furniture and fixtures

3—7

4,347

4,038

Building and leasehold improvements

5—25

2,376

2,332

18,949

18,142

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(13,190

)

(11,518

)

Property and equipment, net

$

5,759

$

6,624

Depreciation expense was $2.5 million during 2005, $2.5 million during 2004, and $2.4 million
during 2003.

(6) GAIN ON SALE OF INVESTMENT

On March 25, 2003, we received cash proceeds of $39.3 million in connection with a transaction to
sell all of our 5.6 million shares of H.T.E., Inc. (“HTE”) common stock to SunGard Data Systems
Inc. for $7.00 cash per share, pursuant to a Tender and Voting Agreement dated February 4, 2003.
Our original cost basis in the HTE shares was $15.8 million. After transaction and other costs, we
recorded a realized gross gain of $23.2 million ($16.2 million after income taxes of $7.0 million,
including the utilization for tax purposes and reduction in valuation allowance for accounting
purposes related to a capital loss carryforward amounting to $1.1 million on a tax effected basis).

F-15


(7) GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets and related accumulated amortization consists of the following at December 31:



Gross carrying amount of acquisition intangibles:

Goodwill

$

53,709

$

53,709

Customer related intangibles

24,278

24,278

Software acquired

16,023

16,023

Trade name

1,643

1,643

95,653

95,653

Accumulated amortization

(20,771

)

(18,711

)

Acquisition intangibles, net

$

74,882

$

76,942

Post acquisition software development costs

$

36,756

$

35,783

Accumulated amortization

(21,326

)

(15,407

)

Post acquisition software costs, net

$

15,430

$

20,376

Total amortization expense for acquisition related intangibles and post acquisition software
development costs was $8.0 million during 2005, $8.8 million during 2004, and $7.0 million during
2003.

The allocation of acquisition intangible assets is summarized in the following table:

December 31, 2005

December 31, 2004

Weighted

Weighted

Gross

Average

Gross

Average

Carrying

Amortization

Accumulated

Carrying

Amortization

Accumulated

Amount

Period

Amortization

Amount

Period

Amortization

Intangibles no longer amortized:

Goodwill

$

53,709

—

$

—

$

53,709

—

$

—

Amortizable intangibles:

Customer related intangibles

24,278

22 years

6,582

24,278

22 years

5,423

Software acquired

16,023

5 years

13,808

16,023

5 years

13,014

Trade name

1,643

21 years


1,643

21 years


The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the two years ended December 31, 2005 are
as follows:

Balance as of December 31, 2003

$

53,932

Goodwill acquired during the year related to the purchase of minority interest in Eden


Adjustments to finalize purchase price allocations for 2003 acquisitions

(910

)

Balance as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005

$

53,709

Estimated annual amortization expense relating to acquisition intangibles, including acquired
software for which the amortization expense is recorded as cost of revenues and excluding
acquisitions completed in 2006, is as follows:

Year ending December 31,


$

2,060


2,008


1,921


1,155


1,155

(8) ACCRUED LIABILITIES

Accrued liabilities consist of the following at December 31:



Accrued wages, bonuses and commissions

$

9,381

$

8,926

Other accrued liabilities

3,907

2,776

Accrued health claims

1,379

1,110

Accrued third party contract costs

1,360


$

16,027

$

13,660

F-16


(9) LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

On February 11, 2005, we entered into a revolving bank credit agreement (the “Credit Facility”).
The Credit Facility matures February 11, 2008 and provides for total borrowings of up to $30.0
million. Borrowings bear interest at either prime rate or at London Interbank Offered Rate
(“LIBOR”) plus a margin of 1.5%. As of December 31, 2005, the effective interest rate was 5.9%.
The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our personal property. The Credit Facility
requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial conditions and prohibits us
from making certain investments, advances, cash dividends or loans. As of December 31, 2005, we
were in compliance with those covenants. The credit agreement also includes a $10.0 million Letter
of Credit facility under which the banks will issue cash collateralized letters of credit.

At December 31, 2005, we had no debt outstanding under the Credit Facility and our bank had issued
outstanding letters of credit totaling $4.1 million to secure surety bonds required by some of our
customer contracts. These letters of credit have been collateralized by restricted cash balances
invested in a certificate of deposit.

We paid interest of $184,000 in 2005, $105,000 in 2004, and $238,000 in 2003, which includes
non-usage and other fees associated with the credit agreement.

(10) INCOME TAX

The income tax provision on income from continuing operations consisted of the following:

Years ended December 31,




Current:

Federal

$

6,340

$

5,978

$

7,710

State

1,292

1,631


7,632

7,609

8,478

Deferred

(2,200

)

(300

)

4,628

$

5,432

$

7,309

$

13,106

Reconciliation of the U.S. statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax expense rate
for continuing operations follows:

Years ended December 31,




Income tax expense at statutory rate

$

4,769

$

6,103

$

13,679

State income tax, net of federal income tax
benefit


1,060


Non-deductible business expenses




Qualified manufacturing activities

(149

)

—

—

Utilization of capital loss carryforward

—

—

(1,114

)

Other, net

(148

)

(49

)

(87

)

$

5,432

$

7,309

$

13,106

The tax effects of the major items recorded as deferred tax assets and liabilities as of
December 31 are:



Deferred income tax assets:

Operating expenses not currently deductible

$

1,530

$

1,093

Employee benefit plans



Total deferred income tax assets

2,349

1,856

Deferred income tax liabilities:

Property and equipment

(94

)

(356

)

Intangible assets

(11,202

)

(12,617

)

Other

(215

)

(245

)

Total deferred income tax liabilities

(11,511

)

(13,218

)

Net deferred income tax liabilities

$

(9,162

)

$

(11,362

)

In 2003, we utilized our capital loss carryforward of $1.1 million on a tax-effected basis in
connection with a realized gain from the sale of our investment in HTE. See Note 6 – Gain on Sale
of Investment.

F-17


Although realization is not assured, we believe it is more likely than not that all the deferred
tax assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004 will be realized. Accordingly, we believe no valuation
allowance is required for the deferred tax assets. However, the amount of the deferred tax asset
considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if estimates of reversing taxable temporary
differences are revised.

We paid
income taxes, net of refunds received, of $8.1 million in 2005, $6.5 million in 2004, and
$6.5 million in 2003.

(11) SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

The following table details activity in our common stock:

Years ended December 31,




Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

Purchases of common stock

2,457

$

17,683

1,459

$

12,518

6,019

$

24,104

Stock option exercises


1,800


1,940


1,673

Employee stock plan purchases


1,156



—

—

Subsequent to December 31, 2005 and through February 27, 2006, we have repurchased 250,000
shares for an aggregate purchase price of $2.2 million. As of February 27, 2006 we have
authorization from our board of directors to repurchase up to 1.8 million additional shares of our
common stock.

In 2003, through a modified Dutch Auction tender offer, we purchased 5.1 million shares of our
common stock at a cash purchase price of $4.00 per share and incurred transaction costs of
approximately $150,000, for a total cost of $20.6 million. In addition, during 2003 we also
repurchased 912,800 shares of common stock on the open market for an aggregate purchase price of
$3.5 million.

In November 2003, we exchanged a warrant issued in July 1997 to purchase 2.0 million shares of our
common stock at $2.50 per share into six separate warrants to purchase a total of 2.0 million
shares of our common stock at $2.50 per share. Subsequent to the exchange in 2003, several parties
exercised their warrants to purchase 375,000 shares of our common stock by way of cashless exercise
and were issued, on a net basis, 247,620 shares of our common stock from our treasury. In March
2004, another warrant holder exercised his warrant to purchase 21,234 shares of our common stock by
way of cashless exercise and was issued on a net basis, 15,780 shares of our common stock from our
treasury shares. As of December 31, 2005, we have warrants outstanding to purchase 1.6 million
shares of common stock at $2.50 per share. These warrants expire in September 2007.

In August 2003, Sanders Morris Harris Inc. (“SMH”) exercised its warrant issued in May 2000 to
purchase 333,380 shares of our common stock. The exercise price per share was $3.60 payable either
in cash or by the surrender of shares subject to the warrant with a value equal to the aggregate
exercise price as determined by the market price of our stock on the date of exercise. On August
27, 2003, SMH exercised the full amount of the warrant by way of cashless exercise and was issued,
on a net basis, 145,413 shares of our common stock from our treasury shares.

F-18


(12) STOCK PLANS

We have a stock option plan that provides for the grant of stock options to key employees and
directors. Options become fully exercisable after three to five years of continuous employment and
expire ten years after the grant date. Once exercisable, the employee can purchase shares of our
common stock at the market price on the date we granted the option. In 2005 we also issued 65,000
non-qualified stock options to a non-employee who provides consulting services. These options were
granted at their fair market value on the date of the grant, vest over a period of three years and
expire ten years from the date of grant. As of December 31, 2005, there were 73,000 shares
available for future grants under the plan from the 7.5 million shares previously approved by the
stockholders.

The following table summarizes our stock option plan’s transactions for the three-year period ended
December 31, 2005:

Number of

Weighted-Average

Shares

Exercise Prices

Options outstanding at December 31, 2002

4,105

$

3.49

Granted

1,184

4.92

Forfeited

(105

)

2.49

Exercised

(554

)

3.01

Options outstanding at December 31, 2003

4,630

3.94

Granted


9.18

Forfeited

(48

)

3.18

Exercised

(680

)

2.85

Options outstanding at December 31, 2004

3,964

4.21

Granted

1,135

7.49

Forfeited

(55

)

7.49

Exercised

(436

)

4.12

Options outstanding at December 31, 2005

4,608

$

4.99

Exercisable options:

December 31, 2003

2,408

$

4.02

December 31, 2004

2,925

3.92

December 31, 2005

2,891

3.99

The following table summarizes information concerning outstanding and exercisable options at
December 31, 2005:

Weighted Average

Weighted Average

Number of

Price of

Number of

Weighted Average

Range of Exercise

Remaining

Outstanding

Outstanding

Exercisable

Price of Exercisable

Prices

Contractual Life

Options

Options

Options

Options

$

1.09

—

$

2.19

5.3


$

1.63


$

1.63

2.19

—

3.28

5.4


2.62


2.62

3.28

—

4.38

4.6


3.93


3.95

4.38

—

5.47

5.9

1,658

4.86

1,168

4.96

5.47

—

6.56

4.4


6.07


6.11

6.56

—

7.66

9.0

1,107

7.53


7.63

7.66

—

8.75

9.0


8.04


7.80

8.75

—

9.84

8.1


9.15


9.09

9.84

—

10.19

2.3


10.19


10.19

In May 2004, our shareholders voted to adopt the Tyler Technologies, Inc. Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) and to reserve 1.0 million shares of our common stock for issuance under the
ESPP. Under the ESPP, participants may contribute up to 15% of their annual compensation to
purchase common shares of Tyler. The purchase price of the shares is equal to 85% of the closing
price of Tyler shares on the last day of each quarterly offering period. During 2005, employees
contributed $1.0 million to the ESPP and we issued approximately 171,000 shares of common stock in
2005. As of December 31, 2005, there were 785,000 shares available for future grants under the
plan from the 1.0 million shares reserved for issuance under the ESPP.

F-19


(13) EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings and diluted earnings per share data was computed as follows:

Years Ended December 31,




Numerator:

Income from continuing operations for basic and diluted earnings per share

$

8,193

$

10,128

$

25,978

Denominator:

Denominator for basic earnings per share –

Weighted-average shares

39,439

41,288

42,547

Effect of dilutive securities:

Employee stock options

1,561

2,114

1,496

Warrants

1,075

1,164


Potentially dilutive shares

2,636

3,278

2,488

Denominator for diluted earnings per share — Adjusted weighted-average shares

42,075

44,566

45,035

Basic earnings per share from continuing operations

$

0.21

$

0.25

$

0.61

Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations

$

0.19

$

0.23

$

0.58

Stock options representing the right to purchase common stock of 229,000 shares in 2005,
110,000 shares in 2004, and 1.1 million shares in 2003, had exercise prices greater than the
average quoted market price of our common stock. These options were outstanding during 2005, 2004
and 2003, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because their
inclusion would have had an antidilutive effect.

(14) LEASES

We lease office facilities for use in our operations as well as transportation, computer and other
equipment. We also have two office facility lease agreements with a shareholder and certain
division managers. Most of these leases are noncancelable operating lease agreements and they
expire at various dates through 2013. In addition to rent, the leases generally require us to pay
taxes, maintenance, insurance and certain other operating expenses.

Rent expense was approximately $4.6 million in 2005, $4.6 million in 2004, and $4.3 million in
2003, which included rent expense associated with related party lease agreements of $1.5 million in
2005, $1.4 million in 2004, and $1.5 million in 2003.

Future minimum lease payments under all noncancelable leases at December 31, 2005 are as follows:

Years ending December 31,


$

4,400


4,251


4,113


3,905


2,696

Thereafter

3,358

$

22,723

Included in future minimum lease payments are noncancelable payments due to related parties of
$1.7 million each in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009; $552,000 in 2010 and none thereafter.

(15) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

We provide a defined contribution plan for the majority of our employees meeting minimum service
requirements. The employees can contribute up to 30% of their current compensation to the plan
subject to certain statutory limitations. We contribute up to a maximum of 2.5% of an employee’s
compensation to the plan. We made contributions to the plan and charged operations $1.0 million
during 2005, $801,000 during 2004, and $931,000 during 2003.

F-20


(16) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

On September 9, 2005, Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (“ACS”) filed litigation in Dallas County,
Texas against thirty-three defendants, including Tyler and John M. Yeaman, our Chairman of the
Board (“Yeaman”). The other named defendants include entities affiliated with William D. Oates
(“Oates”), a former director of ours, and certain individuals employed by such entities. The
lawsuit alleges, among other things, that we breached the non-competition and non-solicitation
covenants set forth in the Stock Purchase Agreement dated December 29, 2000 (the “SPA”) between ACS
and us pursuant to which we sold to ACS for cash all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of
Business Resources Corporation (“BRC”), which comprised a significant portion of our then existing
property records business. In the SPA, we agreed to certain five-year non-competition and
non-solicitation covenants, which expired on December 29, 2005. In addition, the SPA contained a
closing condition pursuant to which Oates agreed to amend his then existing three-year
non-competition and non-solicitation covenants so that the restricted activities would conform to
the language of our restricted activities, which covenants expired on December 29, 2003. The
lawsuit alleges that Oates (or entities owned by Oates) solicited ACS employees and re-entered the
land records business after the expiration of his three-year covenants, but prior to the expiration
of our five-year covenants, and further alleges that we, through our non-compete, are legally
responsible for Oates’ actions. The lawsuit further alleges that Oates “controlled Tyler”,
“manipulated Tyler”, and was a “legal representative” of ours for a significant, but unspecified,
period of time following the sale of BRC, even though Oates has not been a member of our board
since 2001, has not been employed by us since the sale of BRC, has had limited contact with our
management since the sale of BRC, and to our knowledge, has not owned any stock in us since May
2003. The lawsuit further alleges that we fraudulently induced ACS to enter into the SPA because
we allegedly knew that Oates (or entities owned by Oates) would re-enter the land records business
after three years, even though the SPA specifically contained different covenants with respect to
Oates and us. ACS entered into a settlement agreement with all of the defendants other than
Yeaman and us, the terms of which are currently confidential; however, management believes that the
settlement agreement extends the non-compete for Oates and his related entities for some period of
time.

We vehemently deny all allegations contained in the lawsuit. Management believes that we have not
breached any non-competition covenants, have not solicited ACS employees, and have not
misappropriated ACS confidential information. Management further believes that the “factual”
allegations made against us are false and inaccurate and that the legal theories asserted by ACS
are without merit. Management further believes based on discovery that has taken place to date
that even if the allegations as currently set forth in the petition were true, that ACS has
suffered no or nominal damage, particularly in light of the settlement agreement with Oates and his
related entities.

We have filed counterclaims against ACS, including claims for business disparagement and
defamation, alleging that ACS has published factually inaccurate and defamatory statements about us
to third parties, including our customers and prospective customers, with malice and/or negligence
regarding the truth of those statements. We intend to defend the lawsuit and pursue our
counterclaims vigorously. The future costs associated with such defense and in pursuit of the
counterclaims are uncertain and difficult to predict and may be material.

Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to our business and except as described
herein, there are no material legal proceedings pending to which we are party or to which any of
our properties are subject.

(17) SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

In January 2006, we acquired two companies whose products will be included within our
Financials division. MazikUSA, Inc. offers a Student Information System for K-12 schools, which
manages such applications as scheduling, grades and attendance. TACS, Inc. offers software
products to manage public sector pension funds. These acquisitions added products that were not
previously a part of Tyler’s portfolio. The combined purchase price for the two companies was
approximately $14.2 million, comprised of approximately $11.3 million cash and 325,000 shares of
Tyler common stock. We have not finalized the allocation of the excess purchase price over the
fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired companies.

F-21


(18) QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (unaudited)

The following tables contain selected financial information from unaudited consolidated statements
of operations for each quarter of 2005 and 2004.

Quarter Ended



Dec. 31

Sept. 30

June 30

(B)

Mar. 31

Dec. 31

Sept. 30

June 30

Mar. 31

Revenues

$

44,307

$

42,306

$

43,185

$

40,659

$

44,734

$

41,811

$

44,263

$

41,462

Gross profit

(A)

16,700

15,822

16,050

12,915

17,843

15,029

16,747

14,219

Income before income taxes

5,097

4,284

3,444


5,361

3,539

5,059

3,478

Net income

3,121

2,581

2,021


3,030

2,032

2,975

2,091

Earnings per diluted share

0.07

0.06

0.05

0.01

0.07

0.05

0.07

0.05

Shares used in computing
diluted earnings per share

41,869

41,771

41,943

42,735

44,056

44,350

44,803

45,062

(A)

In the fourth quarter of 2005 we reclassified amortization cost of acquired software from
amortization of acquisition intangibles to cost of revenues. The reconciliation of gross
profit to the 2004 Form 10-K and 2005 Form 10-Qs is as follows:



Dec. 31

Sept. 30

June 30

Mar. 31

Dec. 31

Sept. 30

June 30

Mar. 31

Gross profit per Form 10-K or Form 10-Q

$

16,700

$

16,020

$

16,249

$

13,113

$

18,064

$

15,296

$

17,100

$

14,825

Reclass acquired software amortization expense

—

(198

)

(199

)

(198

)

(221

)

(267

)

(353

)

(606

)

Adjusted gross profit

$

16,700

$

15,822

$

16,050

$

12,915

$

17,843

$

15,029

$

16,747

$

14,219

(B)

We made significant organizational changes in the second quarter of 2005 to areas of our
business that were not performing to our expectations. In connection with the reorganization
we recorded a restructuring charge of $1.3 million.

F-22


TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(IN THOUSANDS)

Years ended December 31,




Allowance For Losses — Accounts Receivable

Balance at beginning of year

$


$

1,094

$


Additions charged to costs and expenses

1,641


1,104

Collection of accounts previously written off

—

(271

)

—

Deductions for accounts charged off or credits issued

(636

)

(633

)

(700

)

Balance at end of year

$

1,991

$


$

1,094

Years ended December 31,




Valuation Allowance — Deferred Tax Assets

Balance at beginning of year

$

—

$

—

$

1,114

Utilization of capital loss carryforward

—

—

(1,114

)

Balance at end of year

$

—

$

—

$

—

F-23