10-K


d12912e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2003

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number 1-10485

TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE

75-2303920

(State or other jurisdiction

(I.R.S. employer

of incorporation or

identification no.)

organization)

5949 Sherry Lane, Suite 1400


Dallas, Texas

(Zip code)

(Address of principal

executive offices)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(972) 713-3700

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Name of each exchange

Title of each class

on which registered

COMMON STOCK, $0.01 PAR VALUE

NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

NONE

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS. YES

þ

NO

o

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM
405 OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO
THE BEST OF REGISTRANT’S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION
STATEMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THE FORM 10-K OR ANY
AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K. YES

þ

NO

o

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT IS AN ACCELERATED FILER (AS
DEFINED IN RULE 12b-2 OF THE ACT).
YES

þ

NO

o

THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE VOTING STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF
THE REGISTRANT WAS $358,119,000 BASED ON THE REPORTED LAST SALE PRICE OF
COMMON STOCK ON JUNE 30, 2003, WHICH IS THE LAST BUSINESS DAY OF THE
REGISTRANT’S MOST RECENTLY COMPLETED SECOND FISCAL QUARTER.

THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF COMMON STOCK OF THE REGISTRANT OUTSTANDING ON
FEBRUARY 20, 2004 WAS 41,469,706.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

CERTAIN INFORMATION REQUIRED BY PART III OF THIS ANNUAL REPORT IS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE FROM THE REGISTRANT’S DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT FOR
ITS ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS TO BE HELD ON MAY 6, 2004.

TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

FORM 10-K




PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Tyler Technologies, Inc. (“Tyler”) is a major provider of integrated
information management solutions and services for local governments. We
partner with clients to make local government more accessible to the public,
more responsive to the needs of citizens and more efficient in its operations.
We have a broad line of software products and services to address the
information technology (“IT”) needs of virtually every major area of operation
for cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. Most of our
customers have our software installed in-house. For customers who prefer not to
physically acquire the software and hardware, we provide outsourced hosting for
some of our applications at one of our data centers through an applications
service provider (“ASP”) arrangement. We provide professional IT services to
our customers, including software and hardware installation, data conversion,
training and, at times, product modifications. In addition, we are the
nation’s largest provider of outsourced property appraisal services for taxing
jurisdictions. We also provide continuing customer support services to ensure
proper product performance and reliability, which provides us with long-term
customer relationships and a significant base of recurring maintenance revenue.

Tyler was founded in 1966. Prior to early 1998, we operated as a diversified
industrial conglomerate, with diversified operations in various industrial,
retail and distribution businesses, all of which have been sold. In 1997, we
embarked on a multi-phase growth plan focused on serving the specialized
information management needs of local governments nationwide. In 1998 and
1999, we made a series of strategic acquisitions of companies in the local
government IT market.

In addition to our continuing operations in the software and services business
described above, we also operated from 1998 through 2000 a business segment
focused on providing outsourced property records management for local
governments and reselling related data. In late 2000, we decided to dispose of
the information and property records services segment in order to strengthen
our balance sheet and allow us to focus our resources on the segment of
business that we believe offers the greatest growth and profit opportunities.
We expect to continue to capitalize on these opportunities by leveraging our
large national client base, our long-term relationships with local government
customers, and our deep domain expertise in local government operations through
the development of state-of-the-art technologies and new nationally branded
applications solutions. We began in 2000 and are continuing to develop a new
generation of software products some of which are based on n-tier architecture,
SQL-compliant databases, browser compatibility and component-based technology.

MARKET OVERVIEW

The state, local and municipal government market is one of the largest and most
decentralized IT markets in the country, consisting of all 50 states,
approximately 3,200 counties, and over 40,000 municipalities and other
agencies. This market is also comprised of hundreds of various government
agencies, each with specialized delegated responsibilities and unique
information management requirements.

Traditionally, local government bodies and agencies performed state-mandated
duties, including property assessment, record keeping, road maintenance, law
enforcement, administration of election and judicial functions, and the
provision of welfare assistance. Today, a host of emerging and urgent issues
are confronting local governments, each of which demands a service response.
These areas include criminal justice and corrections, administration and
finance, public safety, health and human services, and public works. Transfers
of responsibility from the federal and state governments to county and
municipal governments and agencies in these and other areas also place
additional service and financial requirements on these local government units.
In addition, constituents of local governments are increasingly demanding
improved service and better access to information from public entities. As a
result, local governments recognize the increasing value of information
management systems and services to, among other things, improve revenue
collection, provide increased access to information, and streamline delivery of
services to their constituents. Local government bodies are now recognizing
that “e-government” is an additional responsibility for community development.
From integrated tax systems to integrated civil and criminal justice
information systems, many counties and cities have benefited significantly from
the implementation of jurisdiction-wide systems that allow different agencies
or government offices to share data and provide a more comprehensive approach
to information management. Many city and county governmental agencies also
have unique individual information management requirements, which must be
tailored to the specific functions of each particular office.



Many local governments also have difficulties attracting and retaining the
staff necessary to support their IT functions. As a result, they seek to
establish long-term relationships with reliable providers of high quality IT
products and services such as Tyler.

Although local governments generally face budgetary constraints in their
operations, their primary revenue source is property tax, which tends to be a
relatively stable source of revenue. In addition, the acquisition of new
technology typically enables local government to operate more efficiently, and
often provides a measurable return on investment that justifies the purchase of
software and related services.

Gartner Dataquest currently estimates that state and local government spending
for information technology products and services will grow from $41.4 billion
in 2003 to $47.5 billion in 2006. The external services and software segments
of the market, in which we are primarily focused, are expected to be the most
rapidly growing areas of the local government IT market.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

We provide a comprehensive and flexible suite of products and services that
address the information technology needs of cities, counties, schools and other
local government entities. We derive our revenues from four primary sources:

•

software licensing;

•

software services;

•

appraisal services; and

•

maintenance and support.

We design, develop and market a broad range of software products to serve
mission-critical “back-office” functions of local governments. Our software
applications are designed primarily for use on hardware supporting UNIX/NT
operating systems. Many of our software applications include
Internet-accessible solutions that allow for real-time public access to a
variety of information or that allow the public to transact business with local
governments via the Internet. Our software products and services are generally
grouped in four major areas:

•

financial and city solutions;

•

justice and courts;

•

property appraisal and tax; and

•

document management.

Each of our core software systems consists of several fully integrated
application modules. For customers who acquire the software for use in-house,
we generally license our systems under standard license agreements which
provide the customer with a fully-paid, nonexclusive, nontransferable right to
use the software. In some of the product areas, such as financials and
property appraisal, we offer multiple solutions designed to meet the needs of
different sized governments.

We also offer certain software products on an outsourced basis for customers
who do not wish to maintain, update and operate these systems or to make large
up-front capital expenditures to implement these advanced technologies. For
these customers, we either host the applications and data at one of our data
centers, or maintain the hardware and software at the client’s site. Customers
typically pay monthly fees under multi-year contracts for these services.

Historically we have had a higher concentration of sales and revenues in the
second half of our fiscal year due to governmental budget and spending
tendencies.

A description of our suite of products and services follows:

Software Licensing

Financial and City Solutions

Our Financial and City Solutions products include modular fund accounting
systems that can be tailored to meet the needs of virtually any government
agency or not-for-profit entity. Our financial systems include modules for
general ledger, budget preparation, fixed



assets, purchasing, accounts payable, investment management, payroll and human
resources. All of our financial systems are intended to conform to government
auditing and financial reporting requirements and generally accepted accounting
principles.

We sell utility billing systems that support the billing and collection of
metered and non-metered services, along with multiple billing cycles. Our
Web-enabled utility billing solutions allow customers to access information
online such as average consumption and transaction history. In addition, our
systems can accept secured Internet payments via credit cards and checks.

We also offer specialized products that automate numerous city functions,
including equipment and project costing, inventory, business licenses, permits
and inspections, citizen complaint tracking, ambulance billing, fleet
maintenance, and cemetery records management.

Justice and Courts

We offer a complete, integrated suite of products designed to automate, track
and manage the law enforcement and judicial process, from the initiation of
incidents in computer-aided dispatch/emergency 911 systems through the process
of arrest, court appearances and final disposition to probation. These
applications may be installed on a stand-alone basis or integrated with our
other products to eliminate duplicate entries and improve efficiency.

Our Web-enabled court systems are designed to automate the tracking and
management of information involved in criminal and civil court cases, including
municipal, family and probate courts. These applications track the status of
criminal and civil cases, process fines and fees and generate the specialized
judgment and sentencing documents, citations, notices and forms required in
court proceedings. Additional judicial applications automate the management of
court calendars, coordinate judge’s schedules, generate court dockets, manage
justice of the peace processes and automate district attorney and prosecutor
functions. Related products include jury selection, “hot” check processing,
and adult and juvenile probation management applications. Our courtroom
technologies allow judges to review cases, calendars, and to scan documents and
mug shots using a Web browser. Additionally, document-imaging options include
the ability to scan, store, retrieve and archive a variety of criminal and
civil case-related documents.

Our law enforcement systems automate police and sheriff functions from dispatch
and records management through booking and jail management. Searching,
reporting and tracking features are integrated, allowing reliable, up-to-date
access to current arrest and incarceration data. The systems also provide
warrant checks for visitors or book-ins, inmate classification and risk
assessment, commissary, property and medical processing, and automation of
statistics and state and federal reporting. Our computer-aided
dispatch/emergency E-911 system tracks calls and the availability of emergency
response vehicles, interfaces with local and state searches, and generally
assists dispatchers in processing emergency situations. The law enforcement
and jail management systems are fully integrated with the suite of court
products that manages the judicial process.

Our court and law enforcement systems allow the public to access, via the
Internet, a variety of information, including criminal and civil court records,
jail booking and release information, bond and bondsmen information, and court
calendars and dockets. In addition, our systems allow cities and counties to
accept payments for traffic and parking tickets over the Internet, with a
seamless and automatic interface to back-office justice and financial systems.

In 2002 we introduced Odyssey, an all-new unified court case management system
which became available for general release in the third quarter of 2003.
Odyssey uses enhanced Web-browser concepts to render a unique user interface.
It incorporates the latest technology — XML, n-tier architecture,
component-based design, and an ultra-thin client footprint — to maximize the
value of a court’s investment in new software. We believe that some of
Odyssey’s design concepts, including embedded imaging functionality, COM+
objects to enable local customization, and an architecture that enables
multiple deployment options, are unique in the court automation marketplace.
Odyssey is the first of our new generation of n-tier, browser-based products
and our initial marketing efforts for the new court case management system have
been focused on states, large cities and counties.

Property Appraisal and Tax

We provide systems and software that automate the appraisal and assessment of
real and personal property, including record keeping, mass appraisal, inquiry
and protest tracking, appraisal and tax roll generation, tax statement
processing, and electronic state-level reporting. These systems are image- and
video-enabled to facilitate the storage of and access to the many
property-related documents and for the online storage of digital photographs of
properties for use in defending values in protest situations. Other related
tax applications are available for agencies that bill and collect taxes,
including cities, counties, school tax offices, and special taxing and



collection agencies. These systems support billing, collections, lock box
operations, mortgage company electronic payments, and various reporting
requirements.

We have also developed a new appraisal system, Orion, based on the same
technology platform that we used for Odyssey. We expect that Orion, which will
replace several UNIX based products, will be available for general release in
early 2004.

Document Management

We offer a number of specialized applications designed to help county
governments enhance and automate courthouse operations. These systems record
and index information for the many documents maintained at the courthouse, such
as deeds, mortgages, liens, UCC financing statements and vital records (birth,
death and marriage certificates).

Software Services

We provide a variety of professional IT services to customers who utilize our
software products. Many of our customers contract with us for installation,
training, and data conversion services in connection with their purchase of
software products. The complete implementation process for a typical system
includes planning, design, data conversion, set-up and testing. At the
culmination of the implementation process, an installation team travels to the
customer’s facility to ensure the smooth transfer of data to the new system.
Installation fees are charged separately to customers on either a fixed-fee or
hourly charge basis, depending on the contract, with full pass-through to
customers of travel and other out-of-pocket expenses.

Both in connection with the installation of new systems and on an ongoing
basis, we provide extensive training services and programs related to our
products and services. Training can be provided in our training centers,
onsite at customers’ locations, or at meetings and conferences, and can be
customized to meet customers’ requirements. The vast majority of our customers
contract with us for training services, both to improve their employees’
proficiency and productivity and to fully utilize the functionality of our
systems. Training services are generally billed on an hourly basis, along with
travel and other expenses.

Appraisal Services

We are the nation’s largest provider of real property appraisal outsourcing
services for local government taxing authorities. These services include:

Local government taxing entities normally reappraise real properties from time
to time to update values for tax assessment purposes and to maintain equity in
the taxing process. In some jurisdictions, reassessment cycles are mandated by
law; in others, they are discretionary. While some taxing jurisdictions
perform reappraisals in-house, many local governments outsource this function
because of its cyclical nature and because of the specialized knowledge and
expertise requirements associated with it. Our business unit that provides
appraisal outsourcing services to local governments has been in this business
since 1938.

In some instances, we also sell property tax and/or appraisal software products
in connection with appraisal outsourcing contracts, while other customers may
only engage us to provide appraisal services. Appraisal outsourcing services
are somewhat seasonal in nature to the extent that winter weather conditions
reduce the productivity of data collection activities in connection with those
projects.

Maintenance and Support

Following the implementation of our software systems, we provide ongoing
software support services to assist our customers in operating the systems and
to periodically update the software. Support is provided over the phone to
customers through help desks staffed by our customer support representatives.
For more complicated issues, our staff, with the customer’s permission, can log
on to



customers’ systems remotely. We maintain our customers’ software largely
through releases that contain improvements and incremental additions, along
with updates necessary because of legislative or regulatory changes.

Virtually all of our software customers contract for maintenance and support
from us, which provides a significant source of recurring revenue. We
generally provide maintenance and support under annual contracts, with a
typical fee based on the software product’s license fee. These fees can be
increased annually and may also increase as new license fees increase.
Maintenance and support fees are generally paid in advance for the entire
maintenance contract period. Most maintenance contracts automatically renew
unless we or the customer gives notice of termination prior to expiration.
Similar support is provided to our ASP customers, and is included in their
monthly overall fees.

STRATEGY

Our objective is to grow our revenue and earnings internally, supplemented by
focused strategic acquisitions. The key components of our business strategy
are to:



•

Maximize economies of scale and take advantage of financial leverage
in our business. We seek to develop and maintain a large client base to
create economies of scale, enabling us to provide value-added products
and services to our customers while expanding our operating margins.
Because we sell primarily “off-the-shelf” software, increased sales of
the same products result in incrementally higher gross margins. In
addition, we believe that we have a marketing and administrative
infrastructure in place that we can leverage to accommodate significant
growth without proportionately increasing selling, general and
administrative expenses.

•

Attract and retain highly qualified employees. We believe that the
depth and quality of our operating management and staff is one of our
significant strengths, and that the ability to retain such employees is
crucial to our continued growth and success. We believe that our stable
management team, financial strength and growth opportunities, as well as
our leadership position in the local government market, enhance our
attractiveness as an employer for highly skilled employees.

•

Pursue selected strategic acquisitions. While we expect to grow
primarily internally, we may from time to time selectively pursue
strategic acquisitions that provide us with one or more of the
following:

o

products and services to complement our existing offerings;

o

entry into new markets related to local governments; and

o

new customers and/or geographic expansion.

When considering acquisition opportunities, we generally focus on companies
with strong management teams and employee bases and excellent customer
relationships. In December 2003 we acquired Eden Systems, Inc. (“Eden”), a
provider of financial, personnel and citizen services systems for local
governments. Eden had 2003 revenues of approximately $11.8 million. In
December 2003, we also acquired certain assets of a business that provides
forms software to users of some of our software products. Prior to these
acquisitions, our most recent acquisition included in our continuing operations
was completed in November 1999.

SALES, MARKETING, AND CUSTOMERS

We market our products and services through direct sales and marketing
personnel located throughout the United States. Other in-house marketing staff
focuses on add-on sales, professional services and support.

Sales of new systems are typically generated from referrals from other
governmental offices or departments within a county or municipality, referrals
from other local governments, relationships established between sales
representatives and county or local officials, contacts at trade shows, direct
mailings, and direct contact from prospects already familiar with us. We are
active in numerous national, state, county, and local government associations,
and participate in annual meetings, trade shows, and educational events.

Customers consist primarily of county and municipal agencies, school districts
and other local government offices. In counties, customers include the auditor,
treasurer, tax assessor/collector, county clerk, district clerk, county and
district court judges, probation officers, sheriff, and county appraiser. At
municipal government sites, customers include directors from various
departments, including administration, finance, utilities, public works, code
enforcement, personnel, purchasing, taxation, municipal court, and police.
Contracts for software products and services are generally implemented over
periods of three months to one year, with annually renewing maintenance and
support update agreements thereafter. Although these agreements can be
terminated by either us or the customer, historically almost all support and
maintenance agreements are automatically renewed annually. Contracts for
appraisal outsourcing services are generally one to three years in duration.
During 2003, approximately 32% of our revenue was attributable to ongoing
support and maintenance agreements.

COMPETITION

We compete with numerous local, regional, and national firms that provide or
offer some or many of the products and services provided by us. Most of these
competitors are smaller companies that may be able to offer less expensive
solutions than ours. We also compete with national firms, some of which have
greater financial and technical resources than us, including PeopleSoft, Inc.,
Oracle Corporation, Lawson Software, Inc., MAXIMUS, Inc., Affiliated Computer
Services, Inc., Tier Technologies, Inc., SunGard Data Systems, Inc. and
Manatron, Inc. We also occasionally compete with central internal information
service departments of county or local governments, which require us to
persuade the end-user department to discontinue service by its own personnel
and outsource



the service to us. We compete on a variety of factors, including price,
service, name recognition, reputation, technological capabilities, and the
ability to modify existing products and services to accommodate the individual
requirements of the customer. Our ability to offer an integrated system of
applications for several offices or departments is often a competitive
strength. Local governmental units often are required to seek competitive
proposals.

SUPPLIERS

All computers, peripherals, printers, scanners, operating system software,
office automation software, and other equipment necessary for the
implementation and provision of our software systems and services are presently
available from several third-party sources. Hardware is purchased on original
equipment manufacturer or distributor terms at discounts from retail. We have
not experienced any significant supply problems.

BACKLOG

At December 31, 2003, we estimated our sales backlog was approximately $139.3
million, compared to $89.1 million at December 31, 2002. Our sales backlog at
December 31, 2003 included approximately $11.9 million from our acquisition of Eden in
December 2003. The backlog represents contracts that have been signed but the
products have not been delivered or the services performed as of year-end.
Approximately $94.8 million of the backlog is expected to be installed or
services are expected to be performed during 2004.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, AND LICENSES

We regard certain features of our internal operations, software, and
documentation as confidential and proprietary and rely on a combination of
contractual restrictions, trade secret laws and other measures to protect our
proprietary intellectual property. We generally do not rely on patents. We
believe that, due to the rapid rate of technological change in the computer
software industry, trade secrets and copyright protection are less significant
than factors such as knowledge, ability and experience of our employees,
frequent product enhancements, and timeliness and quality of support services.
We typically license our software products under exclusive license agreements
which are generally non-transferable and have a perpetual term.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2003, we had approximately 1,200 employees. Appraisal
outsourcing projects are periodic in nature and can be widely dispersed
geographically. We often hire temporary employees to assist in these projects
whose term of employment generally ends with the project’s completion. None of
our employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to collective
bargaining agreements. We consider our relations with our employees to be
positive.

INTERNET WEBSITE AND AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC FILINGS

We file annual, quarterly, current and other reports, proxy statements and
other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, pursuant
to the Securities Exchange Act. You may read and copy any materials we file
with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports,
proxy and other information statements, and other information regarding
issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of
site is

http://www.sec.gov

.

We also maintain an Internet site, the address of which is

www.tylerworks.com

.
We make available free of charge through this site our Annual Report on Form
10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our “Code
of Business Conduct and Ethics” is also available on our web site. We intend
to satisfy the disclosure requirements regarding amendments to, or waiver from,
a provision of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics by posting such
information on our web site.



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

We occupy approximately 320,000 square feet of office and warehouse space,
30,000 of which we own. We lease our principal executive office located in
Dallas, Texas, as well as other offices, facilities and project offices for our
operating companies in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia,
Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, New York, North Carolina,
Ohio, South Dakota, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

One of our non-operating subsidiaries, Swan Transportation Company (“Swan”),
has been involved in various claims raised by former employees of a foundry
that was owned by an affiliate of Swan and Tyler prior to December 1995. These
claims are for alleged work related injuries and physical conditions resulting
from alleged exposure to silica, asbestos, and/or related industrial dusts. On
December 20, 2001, Swan filed a petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and on July 22, 2003, the United States Bankruptcy Court
for the District of Delaware entered a confirmation order approving a plan of
reorganization for Swan. On December 23, 2003, Tyler, in accordance with the
terms of the plan of reorganization, transferred the stock of Swan to the Swan
Asbestos and Silica Trust (“Trust”), an unaffiliated entity that will oversee
the processing and payment of all present and future claims related to the
foundry. The Trust is to be principally funded by the insurance carriers of
Swan and/or Tyler. Also on December 23, 2003, Tyler paid $1.48 million to the
Trust in full and final satisfaction of its obligations under the plan of
reorganization. Under the terms of the plan of reorganization, Tyler was
released from all liability for claims associated with the once-owned foundry
and any claimant is barred from asserting any such claim, either now or in the
future, against Tyler and its affected affiliates.

Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to our business and
except as described in this Annual Report, there are no material legal
proceedings pending to which we or our subsidiaries are parties or to which any
of our properties are subject.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

Not applicable.



PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
“TYL.” At December 31, 2003, we had approximately 2,500 stockholders of record.
A number of our stockholders hold their shares in street name; therefore, there
are substantially more than 2,500 beneficial owners of our common stock.

The following table sets forth for the calendar periods indicated the high and
low sales price per share of our common stock as reported on the New York Stock
Exchange.

High

Low

2002:

First Quarter

$

5.95

$

3.75

Second Quarter

6.01

3.85

Third Quarter

5.25

3.05

Fourth Quarter

4.85

3.80

2003:

First Quarter

$

4.40

$

3.36

Second Quarter

4.79

3.46

Third Quarter

7.45

4.30

Fourth Quarter

10.15

7.04

2004:

First Quarter (through February 20, 2004)

$

11.05

$

8.75

We did not pay any cash dividends in 2003 or 2002. Our bank credit agreement
contains restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. Also, we intend to
retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business, and,
therefore, we do not anticipate declaring a cash dividend in the foreseeable
future.

The following table summarizes certain information related to our stock option
plan. There are no warrants or rights related to our equity compensation plans
as of December 31, 2003.

Number of securities remaining

Number of securities to be issued upon

available for future issuance under

exercise of outstanding options,

Weighted average exercise

equity compensation plans (excluding

warrants and rights as of

price of outstanding options,

securities reflected in initial column as

Plan Category

December 31, 2003

warrants and rights

of December 31, 2003)

Equity compensation
plans approved by
security
shareholders:

Stock options

4,629,498

$

3.94

168,000

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security
shareholders

—

—

—

4,629,498

$

3.94

168,000



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

(In thousands, except per share data)

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,






STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA:

(1)

Revenues

$

145,454

$

133,897

$

118,816

$

93,933

$

71,416

Costs and expenses:

Cost of revenues

88,621

85,915

78,797

59,658

37,027

Selling, general and
administrative expenses

38,390

33,914

30,830

32,805

29,404

Amortization of acquisition intangibles

(2)

2,931

3,329

6,898

6,903

4,966

Operating income (loss)

15,512

10,739

2,291

(5,433

)


Realized gain on sale of investment
in H.T.E., Inc.

23,233

—

—

—

—

Other income (expense), net


(698

)

(479

)

(4,884

)

(1,797

)

Income (loss) from continuing operations
before income taxes

39,084

10,041

1,812

(10,317

)

(1,778

)

Income tax provision (benefit)

13,106

3,869

1,540

(2,810

)


Income (loss) from continuing operations

$

25,978

$

6,172

$


$

(7,507

)

$

(1,966

)

Income (loss) from continuing operations
per diluted share

$

0.58

$

0.12

$

0.01

$

(0.17

)

$

(0.05

)

Weighted average diluted shares

45,035

49,493

47,984

45,380

39,105

OTHER DATA:

EBITDA

(3)

$

48,104

$

18,557

$

13,203

$

4,253

$

6,130

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS DATA:

Cash flows provided (used) by operating
activities

$

22,535

$

19,845

$

12,744

$

(7,126

)

$


Cash flows (used) provided by investing
activities

(590

)

(7,974

)

(9,706

)

65,401

(24,743

)

Cash flows (used) provided by financing
activities

(25,421

)

(3,398

)

(5,984

)

(52,022

)

24,955

AS OF DECEMBER 31,






BALANCE SHEET DATA:

(1)

Total assets

$

182,252

$

169,845

$

146,975

$

150,712

$

243,260

Long-term obligations, less
current portion

—

2,550

2,910

7,747

61,530

Shareholders’ equity

117,907

118,656

100,884

96,122

138,904

(1)

For the years 1999 through 2003, results of operations include the
results of the continuing companies, from the respective dates we acquired
the companies. Selected financial data for 1999 and 2000 has been
restated to reflect discontinuation of the information and property
records services segment in 2000. See Note 3 in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2)

Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets”. Under the new standard, goodwill and intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives are no longer amortized but instead tested for
impairment at least annually. In accordance with the new standard,
results of operations for years prior to 2002 are reported under the
previous accounting standards for goodwill and intangible assets.
Amortization expense net of income taxes, related to goodwill (including
assembled workforce subsumed into goodwill) no longer expensed under the
new standard was $2,960 in 2001, $2,934 in 2000 and $2,199 in 1999.



(3)

EBITDA consists of income from continuing operations before interest, income
taxes, depreciation and amortization. Although EBITDA is not calculated in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
(“GAAP”), we believe that EBITDA is widely used as a measure of operating
performance. Nevertheless, the measure should not be considered in isolation
or as a substitute for operating income, cash flows from operating
activities, or any other measure for determining operating performance or
liquidity that is calculated in accordance with GAAP. EBITDA is not
necessarily an indication of amounts that may be available for us to reinvest
or for any other discretionary uses and does not take into account our debt
service requirements and other commitments. In addition, since all companies
do not calculate EBITDA in the same manner, this measure may not be
comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The
following reconciles EBITDA to income (loss) from continuing operations for
the periods presented:

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,






Income (loss) from continuing operations

$

25,978

$

6,172

$


$

(7,507

)

$

(1,966

)

Amortization of acquisition intangibles

2,931

3,329

6,898

6,903

4,966

Depreciation and amortization
(included in cost of revenues and
selling, general and administrative
expenses)

6,465

5,193

4,014

2,783

1,145

Interest (income) expense, net
(included in other income (expense),
net)

(376

)

(6

)


4,884

1,797

Income tax provision (benefit)

13,106

3,869

1,540

(2,810

)


EBITDA (2003 includes $23,233 gross
realized gain on sale of investment in
H.T.E., Inc.)

$

48,104

$

18,557

$

13,203

$

4,253

$

6,130



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

FORWARD — LOOKING STATEMENTS

In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains
forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are made in
reliance upon safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements are subject to certain
risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially
from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might
cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the
section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations entitled — “Factors That May Affect Our Future Results
and Market Price of Our Stock.” Readers are cautioned not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s
opinions only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to revise or
publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking
statements. Readers should carefully review the risk factors described in this
Annual Report and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC.

When used in this Annual Report, the words “believes,” “plans,” “estimates,”
“expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “continue,” “may,” “will,” “should,”
“projects,” “forecasts,” “might,” “could” or the negative of such terms and
similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

OVERVIEW

We provide integrated software systems and related services for local
governments. We develop and market a broad line of software products and
services to address the information technology (“IT”) needs of cities,
counties, schools and other local government entities. In addition, we provide
professional IT services to our customers, including software and hardware
installation, data conversion, training and for certain customers, product
modifications, along with continuing maintenance and support for customers
using our systems. We also provide property appraisal outsourcing services for
taxing jurisdictions.

Our products are generally grouped into four major areas:

•

financial and city solutions;

•

justice and courts;

•

property appraisal and tax; and

•

document management.

We monitor and analyze several key performance indicators in order to manage
our business and evaluate our financial and operating performance. These
indicators include:

•

Revenues — We derive our revenues from four primary sources:
software licenses; software services; appraisal services; and
maintenance and support. Because we sell primarily “off-the-shelf”
software, increased sales of software products result in incrementally
higher gross margins. Thus, the most significant driver to our business
is the number and size of our software license business. In addition,
new software license sales generally generate future maintenance and
support revenues, which we view as a recurring revenue source. We also
monitor our customer base and churn since our maintenance and support
should increase due to our historically low customer turnover.

•

Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins — Our primary cost component is
personnel expenses. We try to improve gross margins by controlling
headcount and related costs and to expand our revenue base, especially
those products and services that produce incremental revenue with
minimal incremental cost, such as software licenses and maintenance and
support. Our appraisal projects are seasonal in nature, and we often
employ appraisal personnel on a short-term basis to coincide with the
life of a project.

•

Selling, General and Administrative (“SG&A”) Expenses — The primary
components of SG&A are administrative and sales personnel salaries and
commissions, marketing expense, research and development costs, rent and
professional fees. Sales commissions will generally fluctuate with
revenues but other administrative expenses tend to grow at a slower rate
than revenues. Research and development costs will fluctuate from
year-to-year depending on product development activity.

•

Liquidity and Cash Flows — The primary driver of our cash flows is
net income. In addition, 2003 cash flow was positively impacted when we
sold our investment in H.T.E. Inc., and received $39.3 million in cash
proceeds. Uses of non-operating cash include capital investments in
software development and property and equipment and the discretionary
purchases of



treasury stock. In 2003, we purchased 6.0 million shares of our common
stock at our aggregate cash purchase price of $24.1 million. Our working
capital needs are fairly stable throughout the year with the significant
components of cash outflows being payment of personnel expenses offset by
cash inflows representing collection of accounts receivable and cash
receipts from customers in advance of revenue being earned.

•

Balance Sheet — Cash, accounts receivable and days sales outstanding
and deferred revenue balances are important indicators of our business.

•

When considering acquisition opportunities, we generally focus on
companies with strong management teams and employee bases and excellent
customer relationships. In December 2003 we acquired Eden Systems, Inc.
(“Eden”), a provider of financial, personnel and citizen services
systems for local governments. Eden had 2003 revenues of approximately
$11.8 million. In December 2003, we also acquired certain assets of a
business that provides forms software to users of some of our software
products. Prior to these acquisitions, our most recent acquisition was
completed in November 1999.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is
based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
(“GAAP”). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make
estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period, and related disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities. The Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included as part of this Annual Report describe our significant
accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial
statements. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including, but
not limited to, those related to intangible assets, bad debts and our service
contracts. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other
assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the
results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values
of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
conditions.

We believe the following critical accounting policies affect significant
judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial
statements.

Revenue Recognition

. We recognize revenues in accordance with the provisions
of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position
(“SOP”) 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition,” as amended by SOP 98-4 and SOP
98-9, as well as Technical Practice Aids issued from time to time by the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and in accordance with the
SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104 “Revenue Recognition.” Our revenues are
derived from software licenses, appraisal services and postcontract customer
support/maintenance, services that typically range from installation,
training and basic consulting to software modification and customization to
meet specific customer needs. For multiple element software arrangements,
which do not entail the performance of services that are considered essential
to the functionality of the software, we generally record revenue when the
delivered products or performed services result in a legally enforceable claim.
We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts, sales adjustments and estimated
cost of product warranties, which are provided at the time the revenue is
recognized. Since most of our customers are governmental entities, we rarely
incur a loss resulting from the inability of a customer to make required
payments. Occasionally, customers may become dissatisfied with the
functionality of the software products and/or the quality of the services and
request a reduction of the total contract price or similar concession. While
we engage in extensive product and service quality assurance programs and
processes, our allowances for these contract price reductions may need to be
revised in the future. In connection with our customer contracts and the
adequacy of related allowances and measures of progress towards contract
completion, our project managers are charged with the responsibility to
continually review the status of each customer on a specific contract basis.
Also, management at our corporate offices as well as at our operating companies
review on at least a quarterly basis, significant past due accounts receivable
and the adequacy of related reserves. Events or changes in circumstances that
indicate that the carrying amount for the allowances for doubtful accounts,
sales adjustments and estimated cost of product warranties may require
revision, include, but are not limited to, deterioration of a customer’s
financial condition, failure to manage our customer’s expectations regarding
the scope of the services to be delivered, and defects or errors in new
versions or enhancements of our software products.

For those minimal number of our software arrangements that include
customization of the software, which is considered essential to its
functionality, and for substantially all of our real estate appraisal
outsourcing projects, we recognize revenue and profit as the work progresses
using the percentage-of-completion method and the proportionate performance
method of revenue recognition. These methods rely on estimates of total
expected contract revenue, billings and collections and expected contract
costs, as well as measures of progress toward completion. We believe
reasonably dependable estimates of revenue and costs and progress applicable to
various stages of a contract can be made. At times, we perform additional
and/or non-contractual services for little to no incremental fee, to satisfy
customer expectations. If changes occur in delivery, productivity or other
factors used in developing our estimates of expected



costs or revenues, we revise our cost and revenue estimates, and any revisions
are charged to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to that
revision first become known.

Intangible Assets and Goodwill

. Our business acquisitions typically result in
the creation of goodwill and other intangible asset balances, and these
balances affect the amount and timing of future period amortization expense, as
well as expense we could possibly incur as a result of an impairment charge.
The cost of acquired companies is allocated to identifiable tangible and
intangible assets based on estimated fair value, with the excess allocated to
goodwill. Accordingly, we have a significant balance of acquisition date
intangible assets, including software, customer base, trade name and goodwill.
In addition, we capitalize software development costs incurred subsequent to
the establishment of technological feasibility on a specific software project.
Certain of these intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful
lives. All intangible assets with definite and indefinite lives are reviewed
for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of
goodwill is generally measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an
asset to its fair value, generally determined by estimated future net cash
flows expected to be generated by the asset. Recoverability of other intangible
assets is generally measured by comparison of the carrying amount to estimated
undiscounted future cash flows. The assessment of recoverability or of the
estimated useful life for amortization purposes will be affected if the timing
or the amount of estimated future operating cash flows is not achieved. Events
or changes in circumstances that indicate the carrying amount may not be
recoverable include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in the
market value of the business or asset acquired, a significant adverse change in
the extent or manner in which the business or asset acquired is used, or a
significant adverse change in the business climate. In addition, products,
capabilities, or technologies developed by others may render our software
products obsolete or non-competitive.

ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND OTHER

The following discussion compares the historical results of operations on a
basis consistent with GAAP for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and
2001. These results include the results of operations of our acquisition of
Eden from the date of its acquisition on December 2, 2003. See Note 2 in the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

2003 Compared to 2002

Revenues

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a year-over-year
comparison of the key components of our revenues:

2003 vs. 2002

% of

% of

($ in thousands)


Total


Total

$

%

Software licenses

$

25,914


%

$

24,278


%

$

1,636


%

Software services

37,128


25,703


11,425


Maintenance

47,157


40,667


6,490


Appraisal services

30,011


37,319


(7,308

)

(20

)

Hardware and other

5,244


5,930


(686

)

(12

)

Total revenues

$

145,454


%

$

133,897


%

$

11,557


%

Software licenses

. Software license revenues for 2003 benefited from the
successful first phase installation of our new Odyssey Case Management system
(“Odyssey Courts”) in the State of Minnesota and Lee County, Florida. Software
license revenues from these two contracts totaled $3.4 million for the year
ended December 31, 2003 compared to none in the prior year. In addition, we
increased sales of our financial and city solutions proprietary software
products by approximately $200,000 primarily by increasing sales and
implementation staff and releasing a new version of one of our county tax
products for our customers in the Midwest. Our financial and city solutions
software products automate accounting systems for cities, counties, school
districts, public utilities and not-for-profit organizations. However, sales
of third-party software licenses relating to our financial and city solutions
products declined by approximately $700,000 due to the sales of a one-time
upgrade of the graphical user interface on some of our proprietary products in
2002 and decreased emphasis on sale of third-party licenses in 2003. In late
2003, we opened a new financial and city solutions sales office in California
in an effort to further penetrate the West Coast market.

We also experienced a decline in our property appraisal and tax software
license revenues of approximately $750,000. Most of this decline related to
one large property appraisal and tax software installation in the third quarter
of 2002. Our property appraisal and tax software license volume varies from
period to period depending on the special needs and timing of our customers.
Local government



taxing entities normally reappraise real properties from time to time to update
values for tax assessment purposes and to maintain equity in the taxing
process. While some of these taxing jurisdictions contract with our property
appraisal and tax division to perform these reappraisals, it is not always
necessary for the customer to purchase new software in order to process the
appraisals. In some cases, a customer may simply add smaller appraisal
software modules to enhance the functionality of its existing software.

Software services

. Higher software services revenues were attributable to the
following factors:

•

Services related to implementation of Odyssey Courts. Our new
courts and justice product accounted for approximately 13% of the
software services increase. The following table contains a summary of
revenue recognized from our Odyssey Courts contracts:

Year ended

December 31,

Total

software

Software

services

services revenues

($ in thousands)



per contracts

recognized to date

Odyssey Courts

$

3,400

$

1,900

$

7,400

$

5,300

The $7.4 million total contract amounts for Odyssey Courts include
approximately $1.1 million of software services that are at the option of
the customer, which we expect to be exercised.

•

Software services related to the increase in software license
contracts signed in late 2002 and in the first half of 2003.
Typically, contracts for software license include services such as
installation of the software, converting the customers’ data to be
compatible with the software and training customer personnel to use
the software. Increased training staff has also allowed for faster
implementation of our backlog. Services related to property appraisal
and tax software and financial and city solutions software each
contributed approximately $4.7 million and $3.5 million respectively,
of the increase in 2003 over 2002.

Maintenance

. We provide maintenance and support services for our software
products and third party software. The maintenance revenue increase was due to
growth in our installed customer base and slightly higher rates on certain
product lines.

Appraisal services

. The decrease is related to the completion and progression
of several major appraisal contracts. During 2003, we signed a new six-year
contract to provide Nassau County, New York Board of Assessors (“Nassau County
Extension”) with updated property assessments and additional property appraisal
and tax software. The following table contains the appraisal services revenues
for significant contracts for the periods presented:

Appraisal revenue recorded

Year ended December 31,

Total appraisal

Appraisal

revenues

revenues

recognized

Anticipated Contract

($ in thousands)



per contract

to date

completion date

Nassau County, New York Board of Assessors

$


$

12,100

$

29,500

$

29,500

First quarter 2003

Lake County, Indiana

6,300

8,200

15,300

15,300

Third quarter 2003

Indiana Revaluations

1,000

4,900

10,700

10,500

Estimated mid-2004

Nassau County Extension

5,300

—

25,300

5,300

Estimated fiscal 2009

Franklin County, Ohio

2,700

—

9,100

2,700

Estimated mid-2005



Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a year-over-year
comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues and gross margins, and
those components stated as a percentage of related revenues:

% of

% of

2003 vs. 2002

related

related

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Software licenses

$

6,610


%

$

5,482


%

$

1,128


%

Software services
and maintenance

56,892


50,175


6,717


Appraisal services

21,275


25,512


(4,237

)

(17

)

Hardware and other

3,844


4,746


(902

)

(19

)

Total cost of revenues

$

88,621


%

$

85,915


%

$

2,706


%

Overall gross margin


%


%

Cost of software license revenues

. In September 2003, we began amortizing the
software development costs of our Odyssey Courts product, as it was complete
and ready for general release to the public. Once a product is released, we
begin to expense the costs associated with its development over the estimated
useful life of the product. Amortization expense is determined on a
product-by-product basis at an annual rate not less than straight-line basis
over the product’s estimated life. Development costs consist mainly of
personnel costs, such as salary and benefits paid to our developers, rent for
related office space and capitalized interest costs. The amortization for
Odyssey Courts is calculated using the straight-line method of amortization
over an estimated five-year useful life. In 2003, we recorded amortization
expense of approximately $559,000 related to Odyssey Courts for the period
September 1, 2003 (general release date) through December 31, 2003. In
addition, during 2002, we had several smaller products in the development stage
released in late 2002 and early 2003 that contributed to the increase in
amortization expense.

Cost of software services and maintenance revenues

. Cost of software services
and maintenance primarily consists of expenses, such as personnel costs related
to installation of our software licenses, conversion of customer data, training
customer personnel and support activities. The increase in costs is consistent
with higher software services and maintenance revenues for the same periods,
although software services and maintenance revenues grew at a more rapid rate
than the cost of those revenues, which is reflective of more efficient
utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale.

Cost of appraisal services revenues

. The decrease in the cost of appraisal
services revenues is consistent with the decrease in appraisal services
revenues. We often hire temporary employees to assist in appraisal projects
whose term of employment generally ends with the projects’ completion.
However, key appraisal personnel and management were retained in anticipation
of new appraisal contracts, which contributed to a 3% decline in appraisal
gross margins compared to 2002.

Gross margin.

Our overall gross margin improved over the prior year due to
higher software services and maintenance revenues without a corresponding
increase in related personnel costs reflecting a more efficient utilization of
our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale. Improvements in
software services and maintenance gross margin were slightly offset by declines
in software license gross margin due to amortization of new product releases
and declines in the appraisal services gross margin.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a year-over-year
comparison of our selling, general and administrative expenses:

2003 vs. 2002

% of

% of

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Selling, general and
administrative expenses

$

38,390


%

$

33,914


%

$

4,476


%



The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2003 compared
to 2002 is a result of the following factors:

Amortization of Acquisition Intangibles

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a year-over-year
comparison of amortization of acquisition intangibles:

2003 vs. 2002

($ in thousands)



$

%

Amortization of acquisition intangibles

$

2,931

$

3,329

$

(398

)

(12

)%

The decrease in amortization from 2002 is related to certain of our acquisition
intangibles becoming fully amortized during 2003. Acquisition intangibles are
composed of the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net
tangible assets acquired that is allocated to acquired and amortizable
software, customer base and trade name with the remainder allocated to goodwill
that is not subject to amortization. The estimated useful lives of acquired
software, customer base and trade name are 3 to 5 years, 20 to 25 years and 5
to 25 years, respectively. Estimated annual amortization expense relating to
acquisition intangibles for the next five years is as follows (in thousands):


$

2,714


2,060


2,060


2,008


1,982

Realized Gain on Sale of Investment in H.T.E., Inc.

On March 25, 2003, we received cash proceeds of $39.3 million in connection
with a transaction to sell all of our 5.6 million shares of H.T.E., Inc.
(“HTE”) common stock to SunGard Data Systems Inc. for $7.00 cash per share.
Our original cost basis in the HTE shares was $15.8 million. After transaction
and other costs, we recorded a gross realized gain of $23.2 million ($16.2
million or $0.36 per diluted share after income taxes of $7.0 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003). See Note 6 in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Other Income (Expense), Net

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a year-over-year
comparison of the key components of other income (expense), net:

2003 vs. 2002

($ in thousands)



$

%

Legal fees associated with investment in HTE

$

—

$

(704

)

$


(100

)%

Interest income





Interest expense

(257

)

(187

)

(70

)


Realized net loss on sale of short-term
investments available-for-sale

(39

)

—

(39

)


Minority interest


—



$


$

(698

)

During the year ended December 31, 2002, we incurred approximately $704,000 of
legal and other costs associated with legal matters concerning various tort
claims HTE alleged against us and HTE’s attempted redemption of our 5.6 million
shares for $1.30 per share.



In September 2002, HTE released us from all tort claims and a court declared
HTE’s reported redemption of our shares was invalid. In March 2003, we sold
for cash our entire investment in HTE for $7.00 per share.

The increase in interest income is related to higher invested cash balances,
including $39.3 million in cash received upon the sale of our investment in HTE
in late March 2003, proceeds from the exercise of stock options, as well as
cash generated from operations. The cash received from the sale of HTE was
offset by payments totaling $24.1 million for repurchase of a total of
approximately 6.0 million shares of our common stock in a modified Dutch
Auction tender offer in May 2003 and on the open market throughout 2003. In
addition, we made a cash payment of approximately $12.1 million, net of cash
acquired, for two acquisitions made in December 2003, the most significant of
which is Eden.

The increase in interest expense is related to letter of credit fees. Our
bank has issued outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2003, totaling
$7.5 million under our credit agreement to secure surety bonds, which are
required by some of our customer contracts. During November 2003, we purchased
a certificate of deposit in the amount of $7.5 million to collateralize the
outstanding letters of credit. Interest expense is net of capitalized interest
costs related to capitalized software development costs of $63,000 and $269,000
for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Income Tax Provision

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a year-over-year
comparison of our income tax provision:

2003 vs. 2002

($ in thousands)



$

%

Income tax provision

$

13,106

$

3,869

$

9,237


%

Effective income tax rate


%


%

The 2003 income tax provision includes income tax expense of approximately $7.0
million relating to the realized gain from the sale of our investment in HTE
(after reduction in valuation allowance related to the utilization of a capital
loss carryforward amounting to $1.1 million on a tax-effected basis). For the
year ended December 31, 2003, we had an effective income tax rate of 38%
(excluding the effect of the HTE gain). The effective income tax rates for
2003 compared to 2002 were different from the statutory United States federal
income tax rate of 35% primarily due to the utilization of the capital loss
carryforward in 2003, state income taxes and non-deductible meals and
entertainment costs.

Discontinued Operations

One of our non-operating subsidiaries was involved in various claims for
work-related injuries and physical conditions relating to a formerly-owned
subsidiary that we sold in 1995. On December 23, 2003, we paid $1.48 million
to the Swan Asbestos and Silica Trust in full and final release from all
liability for claims associated with the once-owned foundry (“Swan Matter”).
As a result of the release any claimant is barred from asserting any such
claim, either now or in the future against Tyler or its affected affiliates.
See Note 16 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During the
year ended December 31, 2003, the gain on disposal of discontinued operations of $424,000 primarily
resulted because we fully settled the Swan Matter at an amount less than
initially recorded and certain aspects of the settlement were conducted in a
beneficial tax manner. Accordingly, we recognized for the first time certain
tax benefits associated with payments on behalf of the Swan Matter.

Net Income

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a year-over-year
comparison of our net income, earnings per diluted share, income from
continuing operations per diluted share and diluted weighted average shares
outstanding:

2003 vs. 2002

($ in thousands, except per share data)



$

%

Net income

$

26,402

$

7,989

$

18,413


%

Earnings per diluted share

0.59

0.16

Income from continuing operations per
diluted share

0.58

0.12

Diluted weighted average shares outstanding

45,035

49,493

(4,458

)

(9

)%



Net income for the year ended December 31, 2003 included a $16.2 million
realized gain after income taxes relating to the sale of our investment in HTE,
which has a diluted earnings per share effect of $0.36 per share. During 2003,
we repurchased approximately 6.0 million shares of our common stock through our
modified Dutch Auction tender offer and purchases on the open market. Had we
not executed those repurchases, our net income per share including the gain on
the sale of our investment in HTE, for the year ended December 31, 2003 would
have been reduced by $0.07 per diluted share.

2002 Compared to 2001

Revenues

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a year-over-year
comparison of the key components of our revenues:

2002 vs. 2001

% of

% of

($ in thousands)


Total


Total

$

%

Software licenses

$

24,278


%

$

19,491


%

$

4,787


%

Software services

25,703


21,538


4,165


Maintenance

40,667


36,587


4,080


Appraisal services

37,319


34,727


2,592


Hardware and other

5,930


6,473


(543

)

(8

)

Total revenues

$

133,897


%

$

118,816


%

$

15,081


%

Software licenses.

During 2002, we recognized approximately $2.4 million in
license revenues from four customers for property appraisal and tax appraisal
software, while we recorded minimal license revenues from appraisal software in
2001. The remainder of the increase in software license revenues was related
to expansion of our financial and city solutions software products into the
Midwest and the western United States, and was aided by the release of several
new financial and city solutions products and enhancements.

Software services.

The increase in software services is primarily related to
higher software license sales. In addition, software services revenues for
2002 included approximately $1.9 million for services performed under an $11.0
million contract signed with the State of Minnesota in July 2002 to install our
new Odyssey Court Case Management system. The Minnesota contract includes both
software license and software services but no license revenues were recognized
under the contract in 2002.

Maintenance

. The maintenance revenue increase was due to growth in our
installed customer base and slightly higher rates. During 2001, we received
and recorded as revenue a one-time settlement of approximately $650,000 from a
third party provider of maintenance services relating to past services.
Excluding this settlement, maintenance revenue increased approximately 13% for
the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to the prior year.

Appraisal services.

The increase in appraisal services revenues compared to
the prior year was primarily related to our contract with Lake County, Indiana
to provide professional services and technology to reassess real property,
which was first awarded in December 2001. During 2002, appraisal services
revenue also included $12.1 million of appraisal revenue related to our
contract with the Nassau County, New York Board of Assessors (“Nassau County”),
which was comparable to the amount recognized in 2001. Substantially all of
the work related to Nassau County contract had been completed as of December
31, 2002.



Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a year-over-year
comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues and gross margins, and
those components stated as a percentage of related revenues:

% of

% of

2002 vs. 2001

related

related

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Software licenses

$

5,482


%

$

4,130


%

$

1,352


%

Software services
and maintenance

50,175


46,024


4,151


Appraisal services

25,512


23,894


1,618


Hardware and other

4,746


4,749


(3

)

(0

)

Total cost of revenues

$

85,915


%

$

78,797


%

$

7,118


%

Overall gross margin


%


%

Cost of software license revenues

. The increase in cost of software licenses
is primarily due to higher amortization expense of software development costs.
In 2001, we had several products in the development stage, which were released
beginning in the third quarter of 2001 and we began to expense the related
development costs at that time.

Cost of software service and maintenance revenues

. The increase in cost of
software services and maintenance revenues is consistent with the higher
software services and maintenance revenues for the same period, although
software services and maintenance revenues grew at a higher rate than the cost
of those revenues, which is reflective of more efficient utilization of our
support and maintenance staff and economies of scale.

Cost of appraisal services revenues.

The increase in cost of appraisal services
revenues is consistent with the increase in appraisal services revenues, which
also rose 7% compared to the prior year.

Gross margin.

Our 2002 gross margin benefited from a product mix that included
more software license revenues and higher maintenance revenues than the prior
year. Software license revenues have lower associated costs than other
revenues such as software and appraisal services, third party software and
hardware. In addition, utilization of our personnel that provide services and
support has improved, which has increased our overall gross profit. The
increase in our gross profit was offset slightly by higher software development
amortization during 2002.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a year-over-year
comparison of selling, general and administrative expenses:

2002 vs. 2001

% of

% of

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Selling, general and
administrative expenses

$

33,914


%

$

30,830


%

$

3,084


%

The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was related
primarily to higher costs with respect to sales commissions, and increases in
health and other insurance expenses.

Amortization of Acquisition Intangibles

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a year-over-year
comparison of amortization of acquisition intangibles:

2002 vs. 2001

($ in thousands)



$

%

Amortization of acquisition intangibles

$

3,329

$

6,898

$

(3,569

)

(52

)%



Our amortization of acquisition intangibles for the year ended December 31,
2001 included $3.6 million for amortization of goodwill and workforce costs.
Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” As a
result of adopting SFAS No. 142, we ceased amortizing goodwill and workforce
after December 31, 2001. The remaining amortization consisted of those costs
allocated to our customer base and acquisition date software.

Other Income (Expense), Net

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a year-over-year
comparison of the key components of other income (expense), net:

2002 vs. 2001

($ in thousands)



$

%

Legal fees associated with investment in HTE

$

(704

)

$

—

$

(704

)


%

Interest income





Interest expense

(187

)

(630

)


(70

)

$

(698

)

$

(479

)

Our cash balances increased significantly during 2002 due to cash generated
from operations, the receipt of proceeds from the sale of certain discontinued
businesses and the exercise of stock options. In 2002 we invested excess cash
in money market investments. Interest expense for both years includes $255,000
for an outstanding $2.5 million note payable. In addition, during the years
ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, we capitalized $269,000 and $578,000,
respectively, of interest costs related to capitalized software development
costs.

During 2002, we incurred approximately $704,000 of legal and other costs
associated with legal matters concerning various tort claims HTE alleged
against us and HTE’s attempted redemption of our 5.6 million shares for $1.30
per share.

Income Tax Provision

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a year-over-year
comparison of our income tax provision:

2002 vs. 2001

($ in thousands)



$

%

Income tax provision

$

3,869

$

1,540

$

2,329


%

Effective income tax rate


%


%

Our effective income tax rate in 2002 and 2001 exceeded the federal statutory
rate of 35% due primarily to the net effect of state income taxes and items
that are non-deductible for federal income tax purposes, including certain non
tax-deductible goodwill amortization in periods prior to 2002.

Discontinued Operations

For the year ended December 31, 2002 we recorded a gain on disposal of
discontinued operations, after income taxes, of $1.8 million and for the year
ended December 31, 2001 we recorded a loss on disposal of discontinued operations, after
income taxes, of $3,000.

During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Internal Revenue Service issued
temporary regulations that in effect allowed us to deduct for tax purposes
losses attributable to the March 1999 sale of our automotive parts subsidiary
that were previously not allowed. The tax benefit of allowing the deduction of
this loss amounted to approximately $970,000. In addition, we renegotiated a
note receivable and certain contingent consideration in connection with a
subsidiary sold in 2001 and received proceeds of approximately $846,000 in
2002. We initially assigned no value for accounting purposes to the note
receivable and contingent consideration when the loss on the disposal of the
discontinued operation was first established in 2000 and when the note was
first received in 2001. In addition, we entered into an agreement in the
fourth quarter of 2002 to settle the Swan Matter for an amount that was
approximately $200,000 less than the liability initially established for this
matter. The aggregate effects of these events, net of the related tax effects,
and other minor adjustments to the reserve for discontinued operations resulted
in a credit to discontinued operations of $1.8 million in 2002.



Net Income

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a year-over-year
comparison of our net income, earnings per diluted share, income from
continuing operations per diluted share and diluted weighted average shares
outstanding:

2002 vs. 2001

($ in thousands, except per share data)



$

%

Net income

$

7,989

$


$

7,720


%

Earnings per diluted share

0.16

0.01

Income from continuing operations per
diluted share

0.12

0.01

Diluted weighted average shares outstanding

49,493

47,984

1,509


%

OTHER ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued
Interpretation No. 46 (“FIN 46”), “Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities.” An entity is subject to the consolidation rules of FIN 46 and is
referred to as a variable interest entity (“VIE”) if the entity’s equity
investors lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do
not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its operations
without additional subordinated financial support. FIN 46 has different
application dates depending on when the VIE was created. We do not currently
have any VIEs that need to be consolidated or disclosed. However, if we enter
into any such arrangements with a VIE in the future, our financial position,
results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY

As of December 31, 2003, our balance in cash and cash equivalents was $10.3
million and we had short-term investments of $11.7 million, compared to a cash
balance of $13.7 million at December 31, 2002. In addition, we had restricted
cash of $7.5 million invested in a certificate of deposit at December 31, 2003.
Cash and short-term investments increased primarily due to the $39.3 million
cash received in March 2003 as consideration in connection with the transaction
to sell our 5.6 million shares of HTE common stock to SunGard Data Systems Inc.
At December 31, 2003, our days sales outstanding (“DSOs”) were 88 compared to
DSOs of 85 at December 31, 2002. The increase in DSOs is due primarily to
increased receivables at December 31, 2003, resulting from the inclusion of
receivable balances in connection with an acquisition in December 2003 and the
timing of billings. DSOs are determined based on accounts receivable divided
by the quotient of annualized quarterly revenues divided by 360 days.

On March 5, 2002, we entered into a $10.0 million revolving credit agreement
with a bank, which matures January 1, 2005. Our borrowings are limited to 80%
of eligible accounts receivable and interest is charged at either the prime
rate or at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a margin of 3%. The credit
agreement is secured by our personal property and the common stock of our
operating subsidiaries. The credit agreement is also guaranteed by our
operating subsidiaries. In addition, the credit agreement contains covenants
that require us to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial
conditions and prohibits us from making certain investments, advances, cash
dividends or loans. As of December 31, 2003, we were in compliance with those
covenants.

As of December 31, 2003, our bank has issued outstanding letters of credit
totaling $7.5 million under our credit agreement to secure surety bonds
required by some of our customer contracts. During November 2003, we purchased
a certificate of deposit in the amount of $7.5 million to collateralize the
outstanding letters of credit. Our borrowing base under the credit agreement
is limited by the amount of eligible receivables. At December 31, 2003, we had
no outstanding bank borrowings under the credit agreement and all outstanding
letters of credit were collateralized with a certificate of deposit; thus, we
had an available borrowing base of $9.8 million.

In May 2003, we completed a modified Dutch Auction tender offer whereby we
purchased 5.1 million shares of our common stock at a cash purchase price of
$4.00 per share and incurred transaction costs of approximately
$150,000, for a total cost of $20.6 million. In addition, during 2003, we
repurchased in the open market 912,800 shares for an aggregate purchase price
of $3.5 million. Subsequent to December 31, 2003 and through February 20,
2004, we have repurchased another 80,600 shares for an aggregate purchase price
of $784,000. As of February 20, 2004, we have a remaining authorization from
our Board of Directors to repurchase up to 1.9 million shares of our common
stock.



In December 2003, we acquired 95% of the outstanding stock of Eden for
approximately $14.0 million, comprised of $12.1 million of cash (including cash
acquired of $2.1 million) and $1.9 million of our common stock. Cash paid also
includes a payment in cash of $210,000 made after December 31, 2003. In
addition, in December 2003 we acquired certain assets of a company that
provides forms software to users of some of our software products for $2.4
million of cash and approximately $500,000 of our common stock.

In August 2003, we received $127,000 to fully settle a promissory note. The
promissory note was received as consideration for the disposition of a
subsidiary in May 2001 that was included in our discontinued information and
property records services segment.

On March 28, 2003, we retired an outstanding $2.5 million, 10% promissory note
payable. The note was originally due in January 2005 and required quarterly
interest payments.

We made estimated federal income tax payments in the amount of $5.0 million in
June 2003 and $750,000 in December 2003. The June 2003 payment was made
primarily due to the $23.2 million realized gain on the sale of our investment
in HTE common stock, and also because of the increase in our estimated taxable
income for the tax year ended December 31, 2003.

During 2003, we received $1.7 million from the exercise of options to purchase
554,000 shares of our common stock under our employee stock option plan.

During 2003, we made capital expenditures of $8.6 million, including $6.8
million for software development costs. The other expenditures related to
computer equipment and expansions related to internal growth. Capital
expenditures were funded from cash generated from operations.

Excluding acquisitions, we anticipate that 2004 capital spending will be
approximately $8.3 million, $5.7 million of which will be related to software
development. Capital spending in 2004 is expected to be funded from existing
cash balances and cash flows from operations.

As part of the plan of reorganization of Swan Transportation Company, one of
our non-operating subsidiaries, we had agreed to contribute approximately $1.5
million over the next three years to a trust that was set up as a part of the
reorganization. In the third quarter of 2003, we reached an agreement to
revise the funding arrangement to fully satisfy our funding obligations with a
lump sum payment of $1.48 million in cash, which was made on December 23, 2003.
See Note 16 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

From time to time we will engage in discussions with potential acquisition
candidates. In order to pursue such opportunities, which could require
significant commitments of capital, we may be required to incur debt or to
issue additional potentially dilutive securities in the future. No assurance
can be given as to our future acquisition opportunities and how such
opportunities will be financed. In the absence of future acquisitions of other
businesses, we believe our current cash balances and expected future cash flows
from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for
working capital, capital expenditures and other activities through the next
twelve months. If operating cash flows are not sufficient to meet our needs,
we may borrow under our credit agreement.

We primarily lease offices, as well as transportation, computer and other
equipment used in our continuing operations under noncancelable operating lease
agreements expiring at various dates through 2013. Most leases contain renewal
options and some contain purchase options. Following are the future
obligations under noncancelable leases at December 31, 2003 (in thousands):






Thereafter

Total

Future rental payments under
operating leases

$

4,407

$

4,061

$

3,454

$

3,289

$

3,149

$

8,534

$

26,894

It is not our usual business practice to enter into off-balance sheet
arrangements. Moreover, it is not our normal policy to issue guarantees to
third parties. As of December 31, 2003, we have no material purchase
commitments, except for the operating lease commitments listed above.



CAPITALIZATION

At December 31, 2003, our capitalization consisted of $117.9 million of
shareholders’ equity.

FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND MARKET PRICE OF OUR STOCK

An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors
evaluating our company should carefully consider the factors described below
and all other information contained in this Annual Report. Any of the
following factors could materially harm our business, operating results, and
financial condition. Additional factors and uncertainties not currently known
to us or that we currently consider immaterial could also harm our business,
operating results, and financial condition. This section should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes and
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations included in this Annual Report. We may make forward-looking
statements from time to time, both written and oral. We undertake no
obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these
forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from
those projected in any such forward-looking statements due to a number of
factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report.

A decline in information technology spending may result in a decrease in our
revenues or lower our growth rate.

A decline in the demand for information technology among our current and
prospective customers may result in decreased revenues or a lower growth rate
for us because our sales depend, in part, on our customers’ level of funding
for new or additional information technology systems and services. Moreover,
demand for our solutions may be reduced by a decline in overall demand for
computer software and services. The current technology recession and decline
in overall technology spending, terrorist activity, and threats of hostilities
in the Middle East and Asia may cause our customers to reduce or eliminate
information technology spending and cause price erosion for our solutions,
which would substantially reduce the number of new software licenses we sell
and the average sales price for these licenses. Because of these market and
economic conditions, we believe there will continue to be uncertainty in the
level of demand for our products and services. Accordingly, we cannot assure
you that we will be able to increase or maintain our revenues.

We may experience fluctuations in quarterly revenue that could adversely impact
our stock price and our operating results.

Our actual revenues in a quarter could fall below expectations, which could
lead to a decline in our stock price. Our revenues and operating results are
difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter.
Revenues from license fees in any quarter depend substantially upon our
contracting activity and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter in
accordance with our revenue recognition policies. Our quarterly revenue may
fluctuate and may be difficult to forecast for a variety of reasons, including
the following:

Fluctuation in our quarterly revenues may adversely affect our operating
results. In each fiscal quarter our expense levels, operating costs, and
hiring plans are based on projections of future revenues and are relatively
fixed. If our actual revenues fall below expectations, we could experience a
reduction in operating results.



As with other software vendors, we may be required to delay revenue recognition
into future periods, which could adversely impact our operating results.

We have in the past had to, and in the future may have to, defer revenue
recognition for license fees due to several factors, including whether:

Because of the factors listed above and other specific requirements under
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States for software
revenue recognition, we must have very precise terms in our license agreements
in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver and install software or
perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can
extend the sales cycle, and sometimes we do not obtain terms and conditions
that permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery or even as work on the
project is completed.

Increases in service revenue as a percentage of total revenues could decrease
overall margins and adversely affect our operating results.

We realize lower margins on software and appraisal service revenues than on
license revenue. The majority of our contracts involve both the license of
software and the provision of professional services. Therefore, an increase in
the percentage of software service and appraisal service revenue compared to
license revenue could have a detrimental impact on our overall gross margins
and could adversely affect operating results.

Selling products and services into the public sector poses unique challenges.

We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of software and services
to state, county and city governments, other municipal agencies, and other
public entities. We expect that sales to public sector customers will continue
to account for substantially all of our revenues in the future. We face many
risks and challenges associated with contracting with governmental entities,
including:

Each of these risks is outside our control. If we fail to adequately adapt to
these risks and uncertainties, our financial performance could be adversely
affected.



The open bidding process for governmental contracts creates uncertainty in
predicting future contract awards.

Many governmental agencies purchase products and services through an open
bidding process. Generally, a governmental entity will publish an established
list of requirements requesting potential vendors to propose solutions for the
established requirements. To respond successfully to these requests for
proposals, we must accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a
proposed contract, the time required to establish operations for the proposed
client, and the likely terms of any other third party proposals submitted. We
cannot guarantee that we will win any bids in the future through the request
for proposal process, or that any winning bids will ultimately result in
contracts on favorable terms. Our failure to secure contracts through the open
bidding process, or to secure such contracts on favorable terms, may adversely
affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Fixed price contracts may affect our profits.

Some of our present contracts are on a fixed-priced basis, which can lead to
various risks, including:

•

the failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required
for an engagement;

•

the failure to effectively manage governmental agencies’ and other
customers’ expectations regarding the scope of services to be delivered
for an estimated price; and

•

the failure to timely complete fixed-price engagements within budget
to the customers’ satisfaction.

If we do not adequately assess these and other risks, we may be subject to cost
overruns and penalties, which may harm our business, financial condition, or
results of operations.

We face significant competition from other vendors and potential new entrants
into our markets.

We believe we are a leading provider of integrated solutions for the public
sector. However, we face competition from a variety of software vendors that
offer products and services similar to those offered by us, as well as from
companies offering to develop custom software. We compete on the basis of a
number of factors, including:

We believe the market is highly fragmented with a large number of competitors
that vary in size, primary computer platforms, and overall product scope. Our
competitors include the consulting divisions of national and regional
accounting firms, publicly held companies that focus on selected segments of
the public sector market, and a significant number of smaller, privately held
companies. Certain competitors have greater technical, marketing, and
financial resources than us. We cannot assure you that such competitors will
not develop products or offer services that are superior to our products or
services or that achieve greater market acceptance.

We also compete with internal, centralized information service departments of
governmental entities, which require us to persuade the end-user to stop the
internal service and outsource to us. In addition, our customers may elect in
the future to provide information management services internally through new or
existing departments, which will reduce the market for our services.

We could face additional competition as other established and emerging
companies enter the public sector software application market and new products
and technologies are introduced. Increased competition could result in price
reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, and loss of market
share. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic
acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with
third-parties, thereby increasing the ability of their products to address the
needs of our prospective customers. It is possible that new competitors or
alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain
significant market share. Further, competitive pressures could require us to
reduce the price of our software licenses and related services. We cannot
assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and
future competitors, and the failure to do so would have material adverse effect
upon our business, operating results, and financial condition.



We must respond to rapid technological changes to be competitive.

The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change,
evolving industry standards in computer hardware and software technology,
changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and
enhancements. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the
emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and
unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our
ability to continue to enhance existing products and develop and introduce in a
timely manner or acquire new products that keep pace with technological
developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, and
achieve market acceptance. We cannot assure you that we will successfully
identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market
in a timely and cost-effective manner. Further, we cannot assure you that the
products, capabilities, or technologies developed by others will not render our
products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. If we are unable to
develop or acquire on a timely and cost-effective basis new software products
or enhancements to existing products, or if such new products or enhancements
do not achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results, and
financial condition may be materially adversely affected.

Our failure to properly manage growth could adversely affect our business.

We have expanded our operations rapidly since February 1998, when we entered
the business of providing software solutions and services to the public sector.
We intend to continue expansion in the foreseeable future to pursue existing
and potential market opportunities. This rapid growth places a significant
demand on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth
effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems, procedures,
and controls on a timely basis. We must also identify, hire, train, and manage
key managerial and technical personnel. If we fail to implement these systems
or employ and retain such qualified personnel, our business, financial
condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.

In addition, a significant portion of our growth has resulted from strategic
acquisitions in new product and geographic markets. Although our future focus
will be on internal growth, we will continue to identify and pursue strategic
acquisitions and alliances with suitable candidates. Our future success will
depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate past and future
acquisitions and other strategic alliances into our operations. Acquisitions
may involve a number of special risks, including diversion of management’s
attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel, unanticipated events or
circumstances, legal liabilities, and amortization of certain acquired
intangible assets. Some or all of these risks could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Although we conduct due diligence reviews of potential acquisition candidates,
we may not identify all material liabilities or risks related to acquisition
candidates. There can be no assurance that any such strategic acquisitions or
alliances will be accomplished on favorable terms or will result in profitable
operations.

We may be unable to hire, integrate, and retain qualified personnel.

Our continued success will depend upon the availability and performance of our
key management, sales, marketing, customer support, and product development
personnel. The loss of key management or technical personnel could adversely
affect us. We believe that our continued success will depend in large part
upon our ability to attract, integrate, and retain such personnel. We have at
times experienced and continue to experience difficulty in recruiting qualified
personnel. Competition for qualified software development, sales, and other
personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in
attracting and retaining such personnel.

We may experience difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy.

We occasionally expand our business through the acquisition of complementary
companies. We cannot, however, make any assurances that we will be able to
identify any potential acquisition candidates or complete any additional
acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, we cannot assure
you that any future acquisitions will be successfully integrated or will be
advantageous to us.

We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights.

Many of our product and service offerings incorporate proprietary information,
trade secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a
combination of contracts, copyrights, and trade secret laws to establish and
protect our proprietary rights in our technology. We cannot be certain that we
have taken all appropriate steps to deter misappropriation of our intellectual
property. In addition, there has been significant litigation in the United
States in recent years involving intellectual property rights. We are not
currently involved in any material intellectual property litigation. We may,
however, be a party to intellectual property litigation in the future to
protect our proprietary information, trade secrets, know-how, and other
intellectual property rights. Further, we cannot



assure you that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation
claims against us in the future with respect to current or future products.
Any claims or litigation, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and
result in costly litigation and diversion of management’s attention. Further,
any claims and litigation could cause product shipment delays or require us to
enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such royalty or licensing
arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if
at all. Thus, litigation to defend and enforce our intellectual property
rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, and results of operations, regardless of the final outcome of such
litigation.

Our products are complex and, as such, we run the risk of errors or defects
with new product introductions or enhancements.

Software products as complex as those developed by us may contain errors or
defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements
are released. Although we have not experienced material adverse effects
resulting from any such defects or errors to date, we cannot assure you that
material defects and errors will not be found after commencement of product
shipments. Any such defects could result in loss of revenues or delay market
acceptance.

Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed
to limit our exposure to potential liability claims. It is possible, however,
that the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements
may not be effective as a result of existing or future federal, state or local
laws, ordinances, or judicial decisions. Although we maintain errors and
omissions and general liability insurance, and we try to structure our
contracts to include limitations on liability, we cannot assure you that a
successful claim could not be made or would not have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Our Application Service Provider strategy has yet to gain widespread
acceptance.

Some businesses choose to access enterprise software applications through
application service providers, or ASPs, which are businesses that host
applications and provide access to software on a subscription basis. The
public sector market for ASP solutions is new and unproven. Acceptance of our
ASP model depends upon the ability and willingness of different governmental
entities to accept and implement ASP solutions. Our clients have expressed
security and privacy concerns with the ASP model, including a concern regarding
the confidential nature of the information and transactions available from and
conducted with governments and concerns regarding off-site storage of such
information. We have limited experience selling our solutions through ASPs and
may not be successful in generating revenue from this distribution channel.

Changes in the insurance markets may affect our ability to win some contract
awards and may lead to increased expenses.

Some of our customers, primarily those for our property appraisal services,
require that we secure performance bonds before they will select us as their
vendor. The number of qualified, high-rated insurance companies that offer
performance bonds has decreased in recent years, while the costs associated
with securing these bonds has increased dramatically. In addition, we are
generally required to issue a letter of credit as security for the issuance of
a performance bond. Each letter of credit we issue without corresponding cash
collateral reduces our borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit
agreement. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure such performance
bonds in the future on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our
inability to obtain performance bonds on favorable terms or at all could impact
our future ability to win some contract awards, particularly large property
appraisal services contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Recent volatility in the stock markets, increasing shareholder litigation, the
adoption of expansive legislation that redefines corporate controls (in
particular, legislation adopted to prevent future corporate and accounting
scandals), as well as other factors have recently led to significant increases
in premiums for directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. The number of
insurers offering directors and officers insurance at competitive rates has
also decreased in recent years. We cannot predict when the insurance market
for such coverage will stabilize, if at all. The continued volatility of the
insurance market may result in future increases in our general and
administrative expenses, which may adversely affect future operating results.

Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public
disclosure may result in additional expenses.

Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and
public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and
Exchange Commission regulations and New York Stock Exchange rules, are creating
uncertainty for companies such as ours. To maintain high standards of
corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably
necessary resources to comply with evolving standards. This investment may
result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of
management time and attention from revenue-generating activities.



Our stock price may be volatile.

The market price of our common stock may be volatile and may be significantly
affected by many different factors. Some examples of factors that can have a
significant impact on our stock price include:

In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant
price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices
for the common stock of technology companies. These broad market fluctuations
may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past,
following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s
securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against
that company. We cannot assure you that similar litigation will not occur in
the future with respect to us. Such litigation could result in substantial
costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have
a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial
condition.

Historically, we have not paid dividends on our common stock.

We have not declared or paid a cash dividend since we entered the business of
providing software solutions and services to the public sector in February
1998. Our credit agreement restricts our ability to pay cash dividends. We
intend to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our
business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock
in the foreseeable future.

Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could
deter takeover attempts.

Our Board of Directors may issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and
may determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions,
including voting and conversion rights, of these shares of preferred stock.
These determinations may be made without any further vote or action by our
stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject
to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any
preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of Preferred
Stock may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our
outstanding voting stock. In addition, some provisions of our Certificate of
Incorporation, Bylaws, and of the Delaware General Corporation Law could also
delay, prevent, or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest
involving us.

Financial Outlook.

From time to time in press releases and otherwise, we may publish forecasts or
other forward-looking statements regarding our results, including estimated
revenues or net earnings. Any forecast of our future performance reflects
various assumptions. These assumptions are subject to significant
uncertainties, and as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be
incorrect. Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks
and other factors (including those described in this discussion), many of which
are beyond our control. As a result, we cannot be certain that our performance
will be consistent with any management forecasts or that the variation from
such forecasts will not be material and adverse. Current and potential
stockholders are cautioned not to base their entire analysis of our business
and prospects upon isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize
our entire publicly available mix of historical and forward-looking
information, as well as other available information regarding us, our products
and services, and the software industry when evaluating our prospective results
of operations.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

We are not exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. Currently,
we have funds invested in a state and municipal bond mutual fund and a fixed
income securities mutual fund. We account for these investments in accordance
with SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities.” These investments are treated as available-for-sale under



SFAS No. 115. The carrying value of these investments approximates fair market
value. Our investments are subject to market risk, which is the risk that our
financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due
to movements in market rates and prices. Assuming current levels of
investments, based on a hypothetical ten-percent decrease in the market value
of the aforementioned funds, the total fair value of the funds would decrease
approximately $1.2 million.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

The report of our independent auditors’ and our consolidated financial
statements, related notes, and supplementary data are included as part of this
Annual Report beginning on page F1.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures

. — Our chief executive officer
and our chief financial officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the design
and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)) as of December 31, 2003. Based on
such evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have
concluded that as of December 31, 2003 such disclosure controls and procedures
were effective and designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed
by us in the reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified
in the SEC’s rules and forms, and include controls and procedures designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in such reports is
accumulated and communicated to our management, including the chief executive
officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure.

Internal control over
financial reporting

— During the quarter ended December
31, 2003, there were no changes in our internal controls over financial
reporting, as defined in Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f), that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal
control over financial reporting.

PART III

See the information under the following captions in Tyler’s definitive Proxy
Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference. Only those sections of
the Proxy Statement that specifically address the items set forth herein are
incorporated by reference. Such incorporation by reference does not include the
Compensation Committee Report, the Audit Committee Report or the Stock
Performance Graphs, which are included in the Proxy Statement.

Headings in Proxy Statement

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
REGISTRANT.

"Tyler Management"

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

"Executive Compensation"

ITEM 12.

SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL

OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
RELATED

STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

"Security Ownership of Certain

Beneficial Owners and Management"

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS

AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

"Executive
Compensation—Employment

Contracts"



ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information required under this item may be found under the section
captioned “Proposals For Consideration — Proposal Four — Ratification of
Ernst & Young LLP as Our Independent Auditors for Fiscal Year 2004” in our
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report:

(a)          (1) The consolidated financial statements are filed as part of this Annual
Report.

Page

Report of Ernst & Young, LLP, Independent Auditors

F-1

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001

F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

F-5

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-6

(2)

The following financial statement schedule is filed as part of this report.

Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

F-22

All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable
accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not
required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and,
therefore, have been omitted.

(3)

Exhibits

Certain of the exhibits to this Annual Report are hereby incorporated by
reference, as specified:

Certain of the exhibits to this Annual Report are hereby incorporated by
reference, as specified:

Exhibit Number

Description

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Tyler Three, as
amended through May 14, 1990, and Certificate of
Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 1990, and incorporated by reference
herein).

3.2

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our Form 8-K, dated
February 19, 1998, and incorporated by reference herein).



Exhibit Number

Description

3.3

Amended and Restated By-Laws of Tyler Corporation, dated
November 4, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 3.3 to our Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 1997, and incorporated by
reference herein).

3.4

Certificate of Amendment dated May 19, 1999 to the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation (filed as Exhibit 3.4 to our
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, and
incorporated by reference herein).

4.1

Specimen of Common Stock Certificate (filed as Exhibit 4.1
to our registration statement no. 33-33505 and incorporated
by reference herein).

4.2

Credit Agreement dated as of February 27, 2002, by and
between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Bank of Texas, N.A.
(filed as Exhibit 4.6 to our Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001 and incorporated by reference herein).

4.3

First Amendment to Credit Agreement by and between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and Bank of Texas, N.A. dated March 5,
2002. (filed as Exhibit 4.7 to our Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2001 and incorporated by reference
herein).

4.4

Second Amendment to Credit Agreement, First Amendment to
Pledge and Security Agreement, and Lenders Consent and
Waiver by and Among Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Bank of
Texas N.A. (filed as Exhibit 4.5 to our Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2002 and incorporated by reference
herein).

4.5

Third Amendment to Credit Agreement, Second Amendment to
Pledge and Security Agreement, Lender’s Consent and Waiver,
and Borrower’s Acknowledgement, by and between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and Bank of Texas, N.A. dated effective
January 10, 2003 (filed as Exhibit 4.9 to our Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and incorporated by
reference herein).

4.6

Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement, and Lender’s Consent,
by and between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Bank of Texas,
N.A. dated effective March 27, 2003 (filed as Exhibit 4.10
to our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and
incorporated by reference herein).

4.7

Fifth Amendment to Credit Agreement and Lender’s Consent
and Waiver, by and between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and
Bank of Texas, N.A. dated effective March 31, 2003 and
incorporated by reference herein).

*4.8

Sixth Amendment to Credit Agreement, Third Amendment to
Pledge and Security Agreement and Lender’s Consent and
Agreement, by and between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Bank
of Texas, N.A. dated effective December 2, 2003.



Exhibit Number

Description

10.1

Form of Indemnification Agreement for directors and
officers (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2002 and incorporated by reference
herein).

10.2

Stock Option Plan amended and restated as of May 12, 2000
(filed as Exhibit 4.1 to our registration statement no.
333-98929 and incorporated by reference herein and amended
by Exhibit 4.2).

10.3

Acquisition Agreement dated as of November 20, 1995, by and
among the Registrants, Tyler Pipe Industries, Inc. and
Ransom Industries, Inc., formerly known as Union
Acquisition Corporation (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to our Form
8-K, dated December 14, 1995, and incorporated by reference
herein).

10.4

Purchase Agreement between Tyler Corporation, Richmond
Partners, Ltd. and Louis A. Waters, dated August 20, 1997
(filed as Exhibit 10.24 to our Form 8-K, dated September 2,
1997, and incorporated by reference herein).

10.5

Employment agreement between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and
Theodore L. Bathurst, dated October 7, 1998, (filed as
Exhibit 10.18 to our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 1998, and incorporated by reference herein).

10.6

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and John S. Marr Jr. dated July 1, 2003
(filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2003 and incorporated by reference herein).

10.7

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and John M. Yeaman dated July 1, 2003
(filed as Exhibit 10.2 to our Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2003 and incorporated by reference herein).

*10.8

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and Dustin R. Womble dated July 1, 2003.

*21

Subsidiaries of Tyler

*23

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

*31.

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*32.

Certifications pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1330, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002.

* — Filed herewith.



(b) Reports on Form 8-K

Form 8-K

Item

Reported Date

Reported

Exhibits Filed

October 31, 2003


News release issued by Tyler
Technologies, Inc. dated October
30, 2003 announcing our operating
results for the three and nine
months ended September 30, 2003.

December 5, 2003


News release announcing the
acquisition of Eden Systems Inc.
and the Company’s preliminary
outlook for 2004.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Tyler Technologies, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Tyler
Technologies, Inc. as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a).
These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Tyler
Technologies, Inc. at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the consolidated results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 7 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
the Company changed its method of accounting for goodwill effective January 1,
2002.

ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas

February 20, 2004

F-1


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Operations

For the years ended December 31

In thousands, except per share amounts




Revenues:

Software licenses

$

25,914

$

24,278

$

19,491

Software services

37,128

25,703

21,538

Maintenance

47,157

40,667

36,587

Appraisal services

30,011

37,319

34,727

Hardware and other

5,244

5,930

6,473

Total revenues

145,454

133,897

118,816

Cost of revenues:

Software licenses

6,610

5,482

4,130

Software services and maintenance

56,892

50,175

46,024

Appraisal services

21,275

25,512

23,894

Hardware and other

3,844

4,746

4,749

Total cost of revenues

88,621

85,915

78,797

Gross profit

56,833

47,982

40,019

Selling, general and administrative expenses

38,390

33,914

30,830

Amortization of acquisition intangibles

2,931

3,329

6,898

Operating income

15,512

10,739

2,291

Realized gain on sale of investment in H.T.E., Inc.

23,233

—

—

Other income (expense), net


(698

)

(479

)

Income from continuing operations before
income taxes

39,084

10,041

1,812

Income tax provision

13,106

3,869

1,540

Income from continuing operations

25,978

6,172


Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations,
after income taxes


1,817

(3

)

Net income

$

26,402

$

7,989

$


Basic income per common share:

Continuing operations

$

0.61

$

0.13

$

0.01

Discontinued operations

0.01

0.04

(0.00

)

Net income per common share

$

0.62

$

0.17

$

0.01

Diluted income per common share:

Continuing operations

$

0.58

$

0.12

$

0.01

Discontinued operations

0.01

0.04

(0.00

)

Net income per common share

$

0.59

$

0.16

$

0.01

Basic weighted average common shares outstanding

42,547

47,136

47,181

Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding

45,035

49,493

47,984

See accompanying notes.

F-2


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

December 31

In thousands, except share and per share amounts



ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

10,268

$

13,744

Short-term investments available-for-sale

11,669

—

Accounts receivable (less allowance for losses of $1,094 in 2003
and $690 in 2002)

38,411

33,510

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

4,237

4,009

Deferred income taxes

1,536

1,197

Total current assets

66,121

52,460

Property and equipment, net

6,505

6,819

Other assets:

Restricted certificate of deposit

7,500

—

Investment in H.T.E., Inc.

—

27,196

Goodwill

53,932

46,298

Customer base, net

20,014

14,645

Software, net

26,390

21,933

Trade name and other acquisition intangibles, net

1,476


Sundry



$

182,252

$

169,845

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

2,378

$

2,390

Accrued liabilities

14,220

11,186

Net current liabilities of discontinued operations

—


Deferred revenue

34,020

26,208

Income taxes payable


—

Total current liabilities

51,148

40,226

Long-term obligations, less current portion

—

2,550

Deferred income taxes

13,182

8,413

Minority interest


—

Commitments and contingencies

Shareholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, $10.00 par value; 1,000,000 shares authorized,
none issued

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; 100,000,000 shares authorized;
48,147,969 shares issued in 2003 and 2002



Additional paid-in capital

156,201

156,898

Accumulated deficit

(14,552

)

(40,954

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax

(32

)

7,418

Treasury stock, at cost; 6,703,763 and 1,928,636 shares in 2003
and 2002, respectively

(24,191

)

(5,187

)

Total shareholders’ equity

117,907

118,656

$

182,252

$

169,845

See accompanying notes.

F-3


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity

For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

In thousands

Accumulated

Common Stock

Additional

Paid-in

Other

Comprehensive

Accumulated

Treasury Stock

Total

Shareholders'

Shares

Amount

Capital

Income (Loss)

Deficit

Shares

Amount

Equity

Balance at December 31, 2000

48,043

$


$

158,776

$

(10,691

)

$

(49,212

)

(863

)

$

(3,231

)

$

96,122

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—


—

—


Unrealized gain on investment
security

—

—

—

6,146

—

—

—

6,146

Total comprehensive income

6,415

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plans




—

—




Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—


—

—

—

—


Shares received from sale of
discontinued business

—

—

—

—

—

(60

)

(128

)

(128

)

Adjustment in connection with
previous acquisition

—

—

(1,788

)

—

—

—

—

(1,788

)

Balance at December 31, 2001

48,148


157,242

(4,545

)

(48,943

)

(920

)

(3,351

)

100,884

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

7,989

—

—

7,989

Unrealized gain on investment
security, net of tax

—

—

—

11,963

—

—

—

11,963

Total comprehensive income

19,952

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plans

—

—

(542

)

—

—


2,164

1,622

Treasury stock purchases

—

—

—

—

—

(1,500

)

(4,000

)

(4,000

)

Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—


—

—

—

—


Balance at December 31, 2002

48,148


156,898

7,418

(40,954

)

(1,929

)

(5,187

)

118,656

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

26,402

—

—

26,402

Unrealized loss on investment
securities, net of tax

—

—

—

(32

)

—

—

—

(32

)

Reclassification adjustment, net of
income taxes of $3,995

—

—

—

(7,418

)

—

—

—

(7,418

)

Total comprehensive income

18,952

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plans

—

—

(645

)

—

—


2,318

1,673

Treasury stock purchases

—

—

—

—

—

(6,019

)

(24,104

)

(24,104

)

Stock warrant exercises

—

—

(1,584

)

—

—


1,584

—

Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—


—

—

—

—


Shares issued for acquisitions

—

—

1,240

—

—


1,198

2,438

Balance at December 31, 2003

48,148

$


$

156,201

$

(32

)

$

(14,552

)

(6,704

)

$

(24,191

)

$

117,907

See accompanying notes.

F-4


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

For the years ended December 31

In thousands




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

26,402

$

7,989

$


Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
provided by operations:

Depreciation and amortization

9,396

8,522

10,910

Realized gain on sale of investment in H.T.E., Inc.

(23,233

)

—

—

Realized net losses on sales of investment securities


—

—

Non-cash interest and other charges




Provision for losses — accounts receivable

1,104


1,681

Deferred income tax provision

4,628

3,384

1,258

Discontinued operations — noncash charges and
changes in operating assets and liabilities

(843

)

(2,458

)

(2,590

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, exclusive of
effects of acquired companies and discontinued operations:

Accounts receivable

(3,549

)

1,019

(258

)

Income tax payable




Prepaid expenses and other current assets


(279

)

(853

)

Accounts payable

(238

)


(2,263

)

Accrued liabilities

2,283

1,095

(2,092

)

Deferred revenue

5,338

(1,007

)

6,149

Net cash provided by operating activities

22,535

19,845

12,744

Cash flows from investing activities:

Proceeds from sale of investment in H.T.E., Inc.

39,333

—

—

Purchases of short-term investments

(27,758

)

—

—

Proceeds from sales of short-term investments

16,000

—

—

Cost of acquisitions, net of cash acquired

(12,109

)

—

(2,750

)

Increase in restricted certificate of deposit

(7,500

)

—

—

Investment in software development costs

(6,761

)

(7,210

)

(6,225

)

Additions to property and equipment

(1,796

)

(2,508

)

(3,101

)

Capital expenditures of discontinued operations

—

—

(1,353

)

Proceeds from disposal of discontinued operations
and related assets


1,807

3,675

Other

(126

)

(63

)


Net cash used by investing activities

(590

)

(7,974

)

(9,706

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Net payments on revolving credit facility

—

—

(4,750

)

Payments on notes payable

(2,990

)

(456

)

(354

)

Payment of debt of discontinued operations

—

(324

)

(992

)

Purchase of treasury shares

(24,104

)

(4,000

)

—

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

1,673

1,622


Debt issuance costs

—

(240

)

(118

)

Net cash used by financing activities

(25,421

)

(3,398

)

(5,984

)

Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents

(3,476

)

8,473

(2,946

)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

13,744

5,271

8,217

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

10,268

$

13,744

$

5,271

See accompanying notes.

F-5


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Tables in thousands, except per share data)

December 31, 2003 and 2002

(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

We provide integrated software systems and related services for local
governments. We develop and market a broad line of software products and
services to address the information technology (“IT”) needs of cities,
counties, schools and other local government entities. In addition, we provide
professional IT services to our customers, including software and hardware
installation, data conversion, training, and for certain customers, product
modifications, along with continuing maintenance and support for customers
using our systems. We also provide property appraisal outsourcing services for
taxing jurisdictions.

Tyler’s business is subject to risks and uncertainties including dependence on
information technology spending by customers, fluctuations of quarterly
results, a lengthy and variable sales cycle, dependence on key personnel,
dependence on principal products and third-party technology and rapid
technological change.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

The consolidated financial statements include our parent company and our
subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned except for a majority-owned entity
whose interest we acquired in December 2003. All significant intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS AND OTHER

Cash equivalents include items almost as liquid as cash, such as money market
investments with insignificant interest rate risk and original maturities of
three months or less at the time of purchase. For purposes of the statements
of cash flows, we consider all investments with original maturities of three
months or less to be cash equivalents.

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No.
115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” we
determine the appropriate classification of debt and equity securities at the
time of purchase and re-evaluate the classification as of each balance sheet
date. At December 31, 2003, we classified our short-term investments as
available-for-sale securities pursuant to SFAS No. 115. Investments which are
classified as available-for-sale are recorded at fair value as determined by
quoted market price and unrealized holding gains and losses, net of the related
tax effect, if any, are not reflected in earnings but are reported as a
separate component of other comprehensive income (loss) until realized.
Interest and dividends earned on these securities are reinvested in the
securities. The cost basis of securities sold is determined using the average
cost method. Following is a summary of short-term investments at December 31,
2003:

Unrealized

Unrealized

Estimated

Cost

Gains

Losses

Fair Value

State and municipal bond mutual fund

$

5,843

$

—

$

(6

)

$

5,837

Fixed income securities mutual fund.

5,875

—

(43

)

5,832

$

11,718

$

—

$

(49

)

$

11,669

We did not have any short-term investments as of December 31, 2002.

We have $7.5 million invested in a restricted certificate of deposit with a
maturity in excess of one year included in other assets to collateralize
letters of credit required under our surety bond program. These letters of
credit expire in 2004.

F-6


REVENUE RECOGNITION

We earn revenue from software licenses, postcontract customer support (“PCS” or
“maintenance”), hardware, software related services and appraisal services. PCS
includes telephone support, bug fixes, and rights to upgrades on a when-and-if
available basis. We provide services that range from installation, training,
and basic consulting to software modification and customization to meet
specific customer needs. In software arrangements that include rights to
multiple software products, specified upgrades, PCS, and/or other services, we
allocate the total arrangement fee among each deliverable based on the relative
fair value of each. Fair values are estimated using vendor specific objective
evidence.

We recognize revenue from software transactions in accordance with Statement of
Position (“SOP”) 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition,” as amended by SOP 98-4
and SOP 98-9 and, in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission
Staff, Accounting Bulletin No. 104, “Revenue Recognition” as follows:

Software Licenses Services:

We recognize the revenue allocable to software licenses and specified upgrades
upon delivery of the software product or upgrade to the customer, unless the
fee is not fixed or determinable or collectibility is not probable. If the fee
is not fixed or determinable, including new customers whose payment terms are
three months or more from shipment, revenue is generally recognized as payments
become due from the customer. If collectibility is not considered probable,
revenue is recognized when the fee is collected. Arrangements that include
software services, such as training or installation, are evaluated to determine
whether those services are essential to the product’s functionality.

A majority of our software arrangements involve “off-the-shelf” software. We
consider software to be off-the-shelf software if it can be added to an
arrangement with minor changes in the underlying code and it can be used by the
customer for the customer’s purpose upon installation. For off-the-shelf
software arrangements, we recognize the software license fee as revenue after
delivery has occurred, customer acceptance is reasonably assured, that portion
of the fee represents a non-refundable enforceable claim and is probable of
collection, and the remaining services such as training are not considered
essential to the product’s functionality.

For arrangements that include customization or modification of the software, or
where software services are otherwise considered essential, we recognize
revenue using contract accounting. We use the percentage-of-completion method
to recognize revenue from these arrangements. We measure
progress-to-completion primarily using labor hours incurred, or value added.
The percentage-of-completion methodology generally results in the recognition
of reasonably consistent profit margins over the life of a contract since we
have the ability to produce reasonably dependable estimates of contract
billings and contract costs. We use the level of profit margins that is most
likely to occur on a contract. If the most likely
profit margins cannot be precisely determined, the lowest probable level of
profit in the range of estimates is used until the results can be estimated
more precisely. These arrangements are often implemented over an extended time
period and occasionally require us to revise total cost estimates. Amounts
recognized in revenue are calculated using the progress-to-completion
measurement after giving effect to any changes in our cost estimates. Changes
to total estimated contract costs, if any, are recorded in the period they are
determined. Estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the
period in which we first determine that a loss is apparent.

Software Services:

Some of our software arrangements include services considered essential for the
customer to use the software for the customer’s purposes. For these software
arrangements, both the software license revenue and the services revenue are
recognized as the services are performed using the percentage-of-completion
contract accounting method. When software services are not considered
essential, the fee allocable to the service element is recognized as revenue as
we perform the services.

Appraisal Services:

For our real estate appraisal projects, we recognize revenue using certain
contract accounting principles and using the proportionate performance method
of revenue recognition. We measure progress-to-completion primarily using
units completed and these arrangements are often implemented over a one to
three year time period.

Computer Hardware Equipment:

Revenue allocable to computer hardware equipment, which is based on vendor
specific objective evidence of fair value is recognized when we deliver the
equipment and collection is probable.

F-7


Postcontract Customer Support:

Our customers generally enter into PCS agreements when they purchase our
software license. Our PCS agreements are generally renewable every year.
Revenue allocated to PCS is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period
the PCS is provided. All significant costs and expenses associated with PCS are
expensed as incurred. Fair value for the maintenance and support obligations
for software licenses is based upon the specific sale renewals to customers or
upon renewal rates quoted in the contracts.

Deferred revenue consists primarily of payments received in advance of revenue
being earned under software licensing, software services, hardware installation
and support and maintenance contracts. Unbilled revenue is not billable at the
balance sheet date but is recoverable over the remaining life of the contract
through billings made in accordance with contractual agreements.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires
us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Significant items subject to such estimates and
assumptions include the application of the percentage-of-completion method, the
carrying amount and estimated useful lives of intangible assets and valuation
allowance for receivables. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET

Property, equipment and purchased software are recorded at original cost and
increased by the cost of any significant improvements after purchase. We
expense maintenance and repairs when incurred. Depreciation and amortization is
calculated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the asset’s
estimated useful life or the term of the lease in the case of leasehold
improvements. For income tax purposes, we use accelerated depreciation methods
as allowed by tax laws.

INTEREST COST

We capitalize interest cost as a component of capitalized software development
costs. We capitalized interest costs of $63,000 during 2003, $269,000 during
2002 and $578,000 during 2001.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS

Research and development costs are included with selling, general and
administrative expenses and are expensed when incurred. We expensed research
and development costs of $1.1 million during 2003, $611,000 during 2002 and
$412,000 during 2001.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET

Components of other income (expense), net are as follows:

Years ended December 31,




Legal fees associated with investment in H.T.E., Inc. (See Note 6)

$

—

$

(704

)

$

—

Interest income




Interest expense

(257

)

(187

)

(630

)

Realized net loss on sales of short-term investments available-for-sale

(39

)

—

—

Minority interest


—

—

$


$

(698

)

$

(479

)

INCOME TAXES

Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred
taxes arise because of different treatment between financial statement
accounting and tax accounting, known as “temporary differences.” We record the
tax effect of these temporary differences as “deferred tax assets” (generally
items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the future periods) and
“deferred tax liabilities” (generally items that we received a tax deduction
for, which have not yet been recorded in the income statement). The deferred
tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rules and laws that
are expected to be in effect when the temporary

F-8


differences are expected to be recovered or settled. A valuation allowance would be established to reduce
deferred tax assets if it is likely that a deferred tax asset will not be
realized.

STOCK COMPENSATION

In accordance with SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” we
elected to account for our stock-based compensation under Accounting Principles
Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” as
amended, and related interpretations, including Financial Accounting Standards
Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 44, “Accounting for Certain Transactions
involving Stock Compensation,” an interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25, issued
in March 2000. Under APB No. 25’s intrinsic value method, compensation expense
is determined on the measurement date; that is, the first date on which both
the number of shares the option holder is entitled to receive, and the exercise
price, if any, are known. Compensation expense, if any, is measured based on
the award’s intrinsic value — the excess of the market price of the stock over
the exercise price on the measurement date. The exercise price of all of our
stock options granted equals the market price on the measurement date.
Therefore, we have not recorded any compensation expense related to grants of
stock options.

The weighted-average fair value per stock option granted was $3.41 for 2003,
$3.61 for 2002 and $1.28 for 2001. We estimated the fair values using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model and the following assumptions for the
periods presented:

Years ended December 31,




Expected dividend yield


%


%


%

Risk-free interest rate

3.3

%

4.9

%

5.1

%

Expected stock price volatility

86.5

%

77.0

%

78.0

%

Expected term until exercise (years).




Pro forma information regarding net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share
is required by SFAS No. 123 for awards granted after December 31, 1994, as if
we had accounted for our stock-based awards to employees under the fair value
method of SFAS No. 123. The pro forma impact of applying SFAS No. 123 in 2003,
2002 and 2001 will not necessarily be representative of the pro forma impact in
future years. Our pro forma information is as follows:

Years ended December 31,




Net income as reported

$

26,402

$

7,989

$


Add stock-based employee compensation cost included in net income,
net of related tax benefit

—

—

—

Deduct total stock-based employee compensation expense determined
under fair-value-based method for all awards, net of related tax benefit

(1,915

)

(2,110

)

(2,428

)

Pro forma net income (loss)

$

24,487

$

5,879

$

(2,159

)

Basic earnings (loss) per share:

As reported

$

0.62

$

0.17

$

0.01

Pro forma

$

0.58

$

0.12

$

(0.05

)

Diluted earnings (loss) per share:

As reported

$

0.59

$

0.16

$

0.01

Pro forma

$

0.54

$

0.12

$

(0.05

)

F-9


COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows:

Years ended December 31,




Net income

$

26,402

$

7,989

$


Other comprehensive income (loss):

Change in fair value of short-term investments available-for-sale
(net of deferred tax benefit of $17)

(32

)

—

—

Reclassification adjustment for unrealized gain related to investment in
H.T.E., Inc. (net of deferred tax expense of $3,995)

(7,418

)

—

—

Change in fair value of investment in H.T.E., Inc. (net of deferred tax expense
of $3,995 for 2002)

—

11,963

6,146

Total comprehensive income

$

18,952

$

19,952

$

6,415

We did not record a tax benefit in connection with the change in the unrealized
gain for 2001 since we could not conclude it was more likely than not that the
tax benefit would be realized on the cumulative unrealized holding loss.

SEGMENT AND RELATED INFORMATION

Although we have a number of operating subsidiaries, separate segment data has
not been presented as they meet the criteria for aggregation as permitted by
SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information.”

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

We have used the purchase method of accounting for all of our business
combinations. Our business acquisitions result in the allocation of the
purchase price to goodwill and other intangible assets. We allocate the cost
of acquired companies first to identifiable assets based on estimated fair
values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable
assets acquired, net of liabilities assumed, is recorded as goodwill.

Under SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, we will evaluate
goodwill for impairment annually during the first quarter of the year, or more
frequently if impairment indicators arise. An impairment loss is recognized to
the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the asset’s fair value. In the
implementation of SFAS No. 142, we identified two reporting units for
impairment testing. The appraisal services and appraisal software stand-alone
business unit qualified as a reporting unit since it is one level below an
operating segment, discrete financial information exists for the business unit
and the executive management group directly reviews this business unit. The
other software business units were aggregated into the other single reporting
unit.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 142, goodwill was amortized on a
straight-line basis over the expected periods to be benefited and assessed for
recoverability by determining whether the amortization of the goodwill balance
over its remaining life could be recovered through undiscounted future
operating cash flows of the acquired operation. All other intangible assets
were amortized on a straight-line basis. The amount of goodwill and other
intangible asset impairment, if any, was measured by the amount by which the
carrying amount of the assets exceeded the fair value of the assets. Fair
value was determined based on projected discounted future operating cash flows
using a discount rate reflecting our average cost of funds.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the
carrying amount of an asset and the estimated undiscounted future cash flows
expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset
exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by
the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of
the asset. Assets to be disposed of would be separately presented in the
balance sheet and reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value
less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated. The assets and liabilities
of a disposed group classified as held for sale would be presented separately
in the appropriate asset and liability sections of the balance sheet.

COSTS OF COMPUTER SOFTWARE

Software development costs have been accounted for in accordance with SFAS No.
86, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or
Otherwise Marketed.” Under SFAS No. 86, capitalization of software development
costs begins upon the establishment of technological feasibility and prior to
the availability of the product for general release to customers. We

F-10


capitalized software development costs of approximately $6.8 million during
2003, $7.2 million during 2002 and $6.2 million during 2001. Software
development costs primarily consist of personnel costs, rent for related office
space and capitalized interest cost. We begin to amortize capitalized costs
when a product is available for general release to customers. Amortization
expense is determined on a product-by-product basis at a rate not less than
straight-line basis over the product’s remaining estimated economic life.
Amortization of software development costs was approximately $4.1 million
during 2003, $2.8 million during 2002 and $1.7 million during 2001 and is
included in cost of software license revenue in the accompanying statements of
operations.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

We use the following methods and assumptions to estimate the fair value of each
class of financial instruments at the balance sheet date:

•

Cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivables, accounts payables,
deferred revenues and certain other assets: Costs approximate fair value
because of the short maturity of these instruments. Our
available-for-sale investments are recorded at fair value based on
quoted market prices.

•

Long-term obligations: In years prior to 2003, cost/carrying values
approximated fair value either due to the variable nature of their
stated interest rates or because the stated interest rates approximated
market rates. These estimated fair value amounts were determined using
available market information or other appropriate valuation
methodologies.

•

We do not have any derivative financial instruments, including those
for speculative or trading purposes.

CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK AND UNBILLED RECEIVABLES

Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to
the large number of customers to which our products and services are provided,
as well as their dispersion across many different geographic areas.
Historically, our credit losses have not been significant. As a result, we do
not believe we have any significant concentrations of credit risk as of
December 31, 2003.

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts, sales adjustments and estimated
cost of product warranties, which are provided at the time the revenue is
recognized. Since most of our customers are governmental entities, we rarely
incur a loss resulting from the inability of a customer to make required
payments. Events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying
amount for the allowances for doubtful accounts, sales adjustments and
estimated cost of product warranties may require revision, include, but are not
limited to, deterioration of a customer’s financial condition, failure to
manage our customer’s expectations regarding the scope of the services to be
delivered, and defects or errors in new versions or enhancements of our
software products.

Our property appraisal outsourcing service contracts can range up to three
years and, in one case, as long as six years in duration. In connection with
these contracts and for certain software service contracts, we may perform the
work prior to when the services are billable and/or payable pursuant to the
contract. We have recorded retentions and unbilled receivables (costs and
estimated profit in excess of billings) of $7.6 million and $6.2 million at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, in connection with such contracts.
Retentions are included in accounts receivable and amounted to $1.8 million at
December 31, 2003, of which $616,000 is expected to be collected in excess of
one year.

One customer accounted for approximately 10% during 2002, and 13% during 2001,
of our total consolidated revenues.

RECLASSIFICATIONS

Certain amounts for previous years have been reclassified to conform to the
current year presentation.

F-11


(2) ACQUISITIONS

During December 2003 we acquired one company, Eden Systems, Inc. (“Eden”) and
certain assets of a business that provides forms software to users of some of
our software products. The results of these acquisitions have been included in
our consolidated financial statements since their respective dates of
acquisition. We acquired 95% of the outstanding common stock of Eden on
December 2, 2003. Eden provides financial, personnel and citizen services
applications software for local governments. We believe Eden’s products and
expertise will complement our business model and give us additional
opportunities to provide our customers with solutions tailored specifically for
local governments. In particular, the addition of Eden considerably increases
our presence in the western part of the United States.

Following is a summary of our 2003 acquisitions:

Shares of

Value of

Customer Related

Company

Cash

Common Stock

Common Stock

Goodwill

Software

Trade Name

Intangibles

Eden

$

9,919


$

1,938

$

5,667

$

3,710

$

1,180

$

6,281

Other

2,400



1,967



—

Total

$

12,319


$

2,438

$

7,634

$

3,865

$

1,480

$

6,281

Cash paid for acquisitions excludes acquired cash balances of approximately
$2.1 million and includes a payment in cash of $210,000 paid subsequent to
December 31, 2003. The value of the Tyler common stock was determined based on
the average market price of Tyler’s common shares over the ten-day period
before the terms of the acquisition were agreed to and announced.
Approximately $2.0 million of goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax
purposes. The software, trade name and customer related intangibles have
useful lives of 3-5 years, 5-25 years and 25 years, respectively.

Pursuant to the agreement with Eden, two of the shareholders of Eden were
granted the right to “put” their remaining shares to Tyler and Tyler was also
granted the right to “call” the remaining shares. Subsequent to December 31,
2003, Tyler purchased 500 shares for $145,000 and the remaining option becomes
effective for thirty days beginning July 1, 2004 to purchase the remaining
2,000 shares at a purchase price of $580,000.

The following unaudited pro forma information presents the consolidated results
of operations as if our acquisition of Eden occurred as of the beginning of
2002, after giving effect to certain adjustments, including amortization of
intangibles, interest and income tax effects. Pro forma information does not
include acquisitions that are not considered material to our results of
operations. The pro forma information does not purport to represent what our
results of operations actually would have been had such transaction or event
occurred on the dates specified, or to project our results of operations for
any future period.

Years ended

December 31,

(Unaudited)



Revenues

$

157,248

$

143,228

Income from continuing operations

26,295

5,853

Net income

26,719

7,670

Net income per diluted share

$

0.59

$

0.15

F-12


The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired
and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition for Eden, excluding the
impact of minority interest. We are in the process of obtaining independent
third party valuations of certain intangible assets; thus, the allocation of
the purchase price is subject to change.

Current assets (including cash acquired of $2,139)

$

4,343

Property and equipment


Intangible assets subject to amortization (11 year weighted-average useful life):

Computer software (5 year useful life)

3,710

Customer base (25 year useful life)

6,281

Trade name (25 year useful life)

1,180

Goodwill

5,667

Other assets


Total assets acquired

21,470

Deferred revenues

2,281

Other current liabilities

1,304

Non-current liabilities — deferred taxes

3,870

Total liabilities assumed

7,455

Net assets acquired

$

14,015

In connection with a 1999 acquisition, Tyler issued certain consideration to
the seller including a price protection on the sale of Tyler stock which was
issued in connection with the acquisition. The price protection was equal to
the difference between the actual sale proceeds of their Tyler common
stock and $6.25 on a per share basis. During the year ended December 31, 2001, Tyler
received the claim and settled the price protection obligation with the seller
for $2.75 million, and $1.8 million was charged to paid in capital after
consideration of the income tax benefit of $963,000.

(3) DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

Discontinued operations include our former information and property records
services segment for which our Board of Directors approved a formal plan of
disposal in December 2000, two non-operating subsidiaries related to a formerly
owned subsidiary that we sold in December 1995 and an automotive parts
subsidiary sold in March 1999.

The business units within the discontinued information and property records
services segment were sold in 2000 and 2001. In May 2001, we sold all of the
common stock of one of the businesses in the discontinued information and
property records services segment. In connection with the sale, we received
cash proceeds of $575,000, approximately 60,000 shares of Tyler common stock, a
promissory note of $750,000 and other contingent consideration. On September
21, 2001, we sold all of the common stock of another business included in this
discontinued segment for $3.1 million in cash.

In June 2002, we renegotiated the proceeds from the May 2001 sale transaction
and received cash of approximately $800,000 and a renegotiated promissory note.
In August 2003, we received $127,000 to fully settle this promissory note. In
June 2002, we also sold the building of a business unit included in this
segment. Net proceeds from the sale totaled $961,000.

One of our non-operating subsidiaries was involved in various claims for
work-related injuries and physical conditions relating to a formerly-owned
subsidiary that we sold in 1995. On December 23, 2003, we paid $1.48 million
to the Swan Asbestos and Silica Trust in full and final release from all
liability for claims associated with the once-owned foundry (the “Swan
Matter”). As a result of the release, any claimant is barred from asserting
any such claim, either now or in the future, against Tyler or its affected
affiliates. See Note 16 — Commitments and Contingencies.

During the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, we recorded gains on
disposal of discontinued operations, after income taxes, of $424,000 and $1.8
million, respectively, and for the year ended December 31, 2001 we recorded a loss on
disposal of discontinued operations, after income taxes, of $3,000.

During the year ended December 31, 2003, the gain on disposal of discontinued
operations of $424,000 primarily resulted because we fully settled the Swan Matter at an amount less
than initially recorded and certain aspects of the settlement were conducted in
a beneficial tax manner. Accordingly, we recognized for the first time certain
tax benefits associated with payments on behalf of the Swan Matter.

F-13


During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Internal Revenue Service issued
temporary regulations that in effect allowed us to deduct for tax purposes
losses attributable to the March 1999 sale of our automotive parts subsidiary
that were previously not allowed. The tax benefit of allowing the deduction of
this loss amounted to approximately $970,000. In addition, we renegotiated a
note receivable and certain contingent consideration in connection with a
subsidiary sold in 2001 and received proceeds of $846,000 in 2002. We
initially assigned no value for accounting purposes to the note receivable and
contingent consideration when the loss on the disposal of the discontinued
operation was first established in 2000 and when the note was first received in
2001. In addition, we entered into an agreement in the fourth quarter of 2002
to settle the Swan Matter for an amount that was approximately $200,000 less
than the liability initially established for this matter. The aggregate
effects of these events, net of the related tax effects, and other minor
adjustments to the reserve for discontinued operations resulted in a credit to
discontinued operations of $1.8 million in 2002.

Net liabilities of two of our discontinued non-operating subsidiaries included
in accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2002 includes the
following:

Restricted asbestosis settlement cash with offsetting amount in
current liabilities

$

1,325

Deferred taxes

1,705

Other current liabilities primarily consisting of asbestosis
settlement obligations (see Note 16)

(3,472

)

Net current liabilities

$

(442

)

(4) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

From time to time, we charter aircraft from businesses in which a member of
management is an owner. We recorded rental expense related to such
arrangements, with a non-corporate officer, of $62,000 during
2003, $69,000 during 2002 and $83,000 during 2001.

As disclosed in Note 11 — Shareholders’ Equity, we purchased 1.5 million
shares of our common stock from a former director for cash of $4.0 million in
2002.

We have three office building lease agreements with various shareholders and
non-corporate officers. Total rental expense related to such
leases was $1.6 million in 2003, $1.2 million during 2002 and $1.1 million
during 2001.

Total future minimum rental under noncancelable related party operating leases
as of December 31, 2003, are as follows:


$

1,349


1,288


1,304


1,337


1,235

Thereafter

1,485

(5) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET

Property and equipment, net consists of the following at December 31:

Useful

Lives

(years)



Land

—

$


$


Transportation equipment




Computer equipment and purchased software

3-7

9,794

8,909

Furniture and fixtures

3-7

3,794

3,797

Building and leasehold improvements

3-35

2,026

1,751

16,151

14,957

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(9,646

)

(8,138

)

Property and equipment, net

$

6,505

$

6,819

Depreciation expense was $2.4 million during 2003, $2.4 million during 2002 and
$2.3 million during 2001.

F-14


(6) INVESTMENT SECURITY AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE

On March 25, 2003, we received cash proceeds of $39.3 million in connection
with a transaction to sell all of our 5.6 million shares of H.T.E., Inc.
(“HTE”) common stock to SunGard Data Systems Inc. for $7.00 cash per share,
pursuant to a Tender and Voting Agreement dated February 4, 2003. Our original
cost basis in the HTE shares was $15.8 million. After transaction and other
costs, we recorded a realized gross gain of $23.2 million ($16.2 million after
income taxes of $7.0 million, including the utilization for tax purposes and
reduction in valuation allowance for accounting purposes related to a capital
loss carryforward amounting to $1.1 million on a tax effected basis).

Our 5.6 million shares of HTE represented an ownership interest of
approximately 35%. Under GAAP a 20% or more investment in the voting stock of
another company creates the presumption that the investor has significant
influence over the operating and financial policies of that company, unless
there is evidence to the contrary. Tyler’s management previously concluded
that no such influence existed. Thus, we accounted for our investment in HTE
pursuant to the provisions of SFAS No. 115 and our investment in HTE was
previously classified as an available-for-sale security. As of December 31,
2002, we had an unrealized holding gain of $11.4 million ($7.4 million after
income tax of $4.0 million), which was included as a component of other
comprehensive income.

We originally acquired the approximately 5.6 million shares of HTE common stock
in 1999 in exchange for approximately 2.8 million shares of our common stock.
On October 29, 2001, HTE, pursuant to the Florida “control share” statute,
attempted to redeem all 5.6 million shares of HTE common stock owned by us for
a cash price of $1.30 per share. We notified HTE that its purported redemption
of our HTE shares was invalid and contrary to Florida law, and in any event,
the calculation by HTE of fair value for our shares was incorrect.
HTE then filed a complaint requesting the court to enter a declaratory judgment
declaring HTE’s purported redemption of all of our HTE shares at a redemption
price of $1.30 per share was lawful and to effect the redemption and cancel our HTE shares.

On September 18, 2002, the federal court issued an order declaring that HTE’s
purported redemption was invalid. On September 24, 2002, we entered into a
settlement agreement with HTE in which HTE agreed that it would not attempt any
other redemption of our shares. In addition, HTE agreed to dismiss and release
us from the tort claims it alleged against us. During 2002, we incurred
approximately $704,000 of legal and other related costs associated with these
matters, which are classified as other non-operating expenses in the
accompanying statements of operations.

(7) GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill, other intangible assets and related accumulated amortization consists
of the following at December 31:



Gross carrying amount of acquisition intangibles:

Goodwill

$

53,932

$

46,298

Customer base

24,278

17,997

Software acquired

16,023

12,158

Trade name and other acquisition intangibles

1,643


95,876

76,616

Accumulated amortization

(15,997

)

(13,066

)

Acquisition intangibles, net

$

79,879

$

63,550

Post acquisition software development costs

$

31,208

$

24,560

Accumulated amortization

(9,275

)

(5,224

)

Post acquisition software costs, net

$

21,933

$

19,336

Total amortization expense was $7.0 million during 2003, $6.1 million during
2002 and $8.6 million during 2001.

F-15


As discussed in Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, on
January 1, 2002, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets.” Under SFAS No. 142, assembled workforce, net of related
deferred taxes, is subsumed into goodwill upon the adoption of the Statement as
of January 1, 2002. If we had accounted for goodwill (including workforce)
under the non-amortization approach of SFAS No. 142, our net income and related
per share amounts would have been as follows for the year ended December 31,
2001:

Reported net income

$


Add back goodwill amortization, net of income taxes

2,960

Adjusted net income

$

3,229

Basic and diluted net income per share

$

0.01

Goodwill amortization, net of income taxes, per share

0.06

Basic and diluted net income per share

$

0.07

The allocation of acquisition intangible assets is summarized in the following
table:

December 31, 2003

December 31, 2002

Gross Carrying

Weighted Average

Accumulated

Gross Carrying

Weighted Average

Accumulated

Amount

Amortization Period

Amortization

Amount

Amortization Period

Amortization

Intangibles no longer amortized:

Goodwill

$

53,932

—

$

—

$

46,298

—

$

—

Amortizable intangibles:

Customer base

24,278

22 years

4,264

17,997

21 years

3,352

Software acquired

16,023

5 years

11,566

12,158

5 years

9,561

Trade name and other acquisition
intangibles

1,643

14 years



4 years


The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the two years ended December
31, 2003 are as follows:

Balance as of December 31, 2001

$

43,292

Goodwill adjustments during 2002 relating to workforce (cost of $6,191 and accumulated amortization of $2,808 at
January 1, 2002), net of deferred taxes of $377, being subsumed into goodwill upon the adoption of SFAS No. 142
on January 1, 2002

3,006

Balance as of December 31, 2002

46,298

Goodwill acquired during the year

7,634

Balance as of December 31, 2003

$

53,932

Estimated annual amortization expense relating to acquisition intangibles is as follows:

Year ending December 31,


$

2,714


2,060


2,060


2,008


1,982

(8) ACCRUED LIABILITIES

Accrued liabilities consist of the following at December 31:



Accrued wages, bonuses and commissions

$

9,863

$

7,667

Other accrued liabilities

2,558

2,044

Accrued health claims



Accrued third party contract costs



Accrued professional fees



Current portion of long-term obligations

—


$

14,220

$

11,186

F-16


(9) LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

Long-term obligations consist of the following at December 31:



10% promissory note payable originally due January 2005

$

—

$

2,520

Other

—


Total obligations

—

2,990

Less current portion

—


Total long-term obligations

$

—

$

2,550

We paid interest of $238,000 in 2003, $377,000 in 2002 and $814,000 in 2001.

On March 5, 2002, we entered into a revolving bank credit agreement. Our credit
agreement matures January 1, 2005 and provides for total availability of up to
$10.0 million. Borrowings bear interest at either prime rate or at the London
Interbank Offered Rate plus a margin of 3% and are limited to 80% of eligible
accounts receivable. The credit agreement is secured by substantially all of
our personal property, by a pledge of the common stock of our operating
subsidiaries, and is also guaranteed by our operating subsidiaries. The credit
agreement requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial
conditions and prohibits us from making certain investments, advances, cash
dividends or loans. As of December 31, 2003, we are in compliance with those
covenants.

At December 31, 2003, our bank had issued outstanding letters of credit
totaling $7.5 million under our credit agreement to secure surety bonds
required by some of our customer contracts. These letters of credit have been
collateralized by restricted cash balances invested in a certificate of
deposit. Our borrowing base under the credit agreement is limited by the
amount of eligible receivables and is reduced by any letters of credit at
December 31, 2003 not collateralized. At December 31, 2003, we had no
outstanding bank borrowings under the credit agreement and had an available
borrowing base of $9.8 million.

(10) INCOME TAX

The income tax provision on income from continuing operations consisted of the
following:

Years ended December 31,




Current:

Federal

$

7,710

$

—

$

—

State




8,478



Deferred.

4,628

3,384

1,258

$

13,106

$

3,869

$

1,540

Reconciliation of the U.S. statutory income tax rate to our effective income
tax expense rate for continuing operations follows:

Years ended December 31,




Income tax expense at statutory rate

$

13,679

$

3,514

$


State income tax, net of federal income tax
benefit




Non-deductible amortization

—

—


Non-deductible business expenses




Utilization of capital loss carryforward

(1,114

)

—

—

Other, net

(87

)

—


$

13,106

$

3,869

$

1,540

F-17


The tax effects of the major items recorded as deferred tax assets and
liabilities as of December 31 are:



Deferred income tax assets:

Net operating loss carryforward

$

—

$

3,734

Capital loss carryforward

—

1,114

Operating expenses not currently deductible



Employee benefit plans



Minimum tax credits

—


Research tax credits

—


Other


—

Net deferred income tax assets before valuation
allowance

1,654

6,404

Less valuation allowance

—

(1,114

)

Net deferred income tax assets

1,654

5,290

Deferred income tax liabilities:

Basis difference on investment security (HTE)

—

(3,995

)

Property and equipment

(111

)

(167

)

Intangible assets

(13,093

)

(8,344

)

Other

(96

)

—

Total deferred income tax liabilities

(13,300

)

(12,506

)

Net deferred income tax liabilities

$

(11,646

)

$

(7,216

)

In 2003, we utilized our capital loss carryforward of $1.1 million on a
tax-effected basis in connection with a realized gain from the sale of our
investment in HTE. See Note 6 — Investment Security Available-For-Sale.

Although realization is not assured, we believe it is more likely than not that
all the deferred tax assets at December 31, 2003 will be realized. Accordingly,
we believe no valuation allowance is required for the deferred tax assets.
However, the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be
adjusted in the future if estimates of reversing taxable temporary differences
are revised.

We paid income taxes, net of refunds received, of $6.5 million in 2003,
$455,000 in 2002 and $273,000 in 2001.

(11) SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

In April 2003, we commenced a modified Dutch Auction tender offer to purchase
up to 4.2 million shares of our common stock at a price not greater than $4.00
and not less than $3.60 per share. In accordance with the Securities and
Exchange Commission rules, we had the right to purchase an additional amount of
shares not to exceed 2% of our outstanding shares (approximately 907,000
shares) without amending or extending our offer. Approximately 6.0 million
shares of common stock were properly tendered and not withdrawn at prices at or
below $4.00 per share. We exercised our right to purchase an additional 2% of
our outstanding shares without amending or extending our offer. As a result, in
May 2003, we purchased 5.1 million shares of our common stock at a cash
purchase price of $4.00 per share and transaction costs of
approximately $150,000, for a total cost of $20.6 million. The final shares
purchased reflect a pro-ration factor equal to 85% of the shares tendered.

In 2003, we also repurchased in the open market 912,800 shares of our common
stock for an aggregate purchase price of $3.5 million. Subsequent to December
31, 2003 and through February 20, 2004, we have repurchased 80,600 shares for
an aggregate purchase price of $784,000. As of February 20, 2004 we have
authorization from our Board of Directors to repurchase up to 1.9 million
additional shares of Tyler common stock.

In August 2003, Sanders Morris Harris Inc. (“SMH”) exercised its warrant issued
in May 2000 to purchase 333,380 shares of our common stock. The exercise price
per share was $3.60 payable either in cash or by the surrender of shares
subject to the warrant with a value equal to the aggregate exercise price as
determined by the market price of our stock on the date of exercise. On August
27, 2003, SMH exercised the full amount of the warrant by way of cashless
exercise and was issued, on a net basis, 145,413 shares of our common stock
from our treasury.

In November 2003, we exchanged a warrant issued in July 1997 to purchase 2.0
million shares of our common stock at $2.50 per share into six separate
warrants to purchase a total of 2.0 million shares of our common stock at $2.50
per share. Subsequent to the exchange, several parties exercised their
warrants to purchase 375,000 shares of our common stock by way of cashless
exercise and were issued, on a net basis, 247,620 shares of our common stock
from our treasury. As of December 31, 2003, we have warrants outstanding to
purchase 1.6 million shares of our common stock at $2.50 per share. These
warrants expire in September 2007.

F-18


In August 2002, we consummated an agreement to purchase 1.1 million of our
common shares from William D. Oates, a former director of Tyler, for a cash
purchase price of $4.0 million. In October 2002, we repurchased an additional
400,000 of our shares as part of the initial agreement by assigning our rights
and obligations under a Data License and Update Agreement associated with our
discontinued information property records service business to eiStream.
eiStream is an affiliate of William D. Oates. The repurchase of all 1.5
million shares was charged to treasury stock to the extent cash was paid.

(12) STOCK OPTION PLAN

We have a stock option plan that provides for the grant of stock options to key
employees and directors. Options become fully exercisable after three to six
years of continuous employment and expire ten years after the grant date. Once
exercisable, the employee can purchase shares of our common stock at the market
price on the date we granted the option. As of December 31, 2003, there were
168,000 shares available for future grants under the plan from the original 6.5
million shares approved by the stockholders.

The following table summarizes our stock option plan’s transactions for the
three-year period ended December 31, 2003:

Number of

Weighted-Average

Shares

Exercise Prices

Options outstanding at December 31, 2000

3,494

$

5.08

Granted

2,185

1.70

Forfeited

(933

)

5.18

Exercised

(108

)

2.13

Options outstanding at December 31, 2001

4,638

3.54

Granted


4.86

Forfeited

(322

)

5.65

Exercised

(491

)

3.29

Options outstanding at December 31, 2002

4,105

3.49

Granted

1,184

4.92

Forfeited

(105

)

2.49

Exercised

(554

)

3.01

Options outstanding at December 31, 2003

4,630

$

3.94

Exercisable options:

December 31, 2001

1,504

$

5.20

December 31, 2002

1,910

4.26

December 31, 2003

2,408

4.02

The following table summarizes information concerning outstanding and
exercisable options at December 31, 2003:

Weighted Average

Weighted Average

Weighted Average

Number of

Price of

Number of

Price of

Range of Exercise

Remaining

Outstanding

Outstanding

Exercisable

Exercisable

Prices

Contractual Life

Options

Options

Options

Options

$0.00 - $2.19

7.3years

1,591

$

1.64


$

1.63

2.19 - 3.28

7.3


2.62


2.62

3.28 - 4.38

6.6


3.96


3.97

4.38 - 5.47

7.9

1,710

4.87


5.27

5.47 - 6.56

4.7


6.19


6.23

6.56 - 7.66

4.2


7.63


7.63

7.66 - 8.75

8.0


7.70


7.75

8.75 - 9.84

9.9


8.97

—

—

9.84 - 10.19

4.3


10.19


10.19

F-19


(13) EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings and diluted earnings per share data was computed as follows:

Years Ended December 31,




Numerator:

Income from continuing operations for basic and diluted earnings per share

$

25,978

$

6,172

$


Denominator:

Denominator for basic earnings per share —

Weighted-average shares

42,547

47,136

47,181

Effect of dilutive securities:

Employee stock options

1,496

1,386


Warrants




Potentially dilutive shares

2,488

2,357


Denominator for diluted earnings per share — Adjusted weighted-average shares

45,035

49,493

47,984

Basic earnings per share from continuing operations

$

0.61

$

0.13

$

0.01

Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations

$

0.58

$

0.12

$

0.01

Stock options representing the right to purchase common stock of
1.1 million shares during 2003, 1.3 million shares during 2002 and 2.3 million
shares during 2001 had exercise prices greater than the average quoted market
price of our common stock. These options were outstanding during 2003, 2002
and 2001, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per
share because their inclusion would have had an antidilutive effect.
Additionally, warrants to purchase 333,380 shares of our common stock were not
included in the computation of diluted earnings per share in 2001 because the
effect would have been antidilutive.

(14) LEASES

We primarily lease offices for use in our operations as well as transportation,
computer and other equipment. Most of these leases are noncancelable operating
lease agreements and expire at various dates through 2013. In addition to
rent, the leases generally require us to pay taxes, maintenance, insurance and
certain other operating expenses.

Rent expense was approximately $4.3 million in 2003, $3.4 million in 2002 and
$2.8 million in 2001.

Future minimum lease payments under all noncancelable leases at December 31,
2003 are as follows:

Operating

Fiscal Year

Leases


$

4,407


4,061


3,454


3,289


3,149

Thereafter

8,534

$

26,894

(15) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

We provide a defined contribution plan for the majority of our employees
meeting minimum service requirements. The employees can contribute up to 15%
of their current compensation to the plan subject to certain statutory
limitations. We contribute up to a maximum of 2% of an employee’s compensation
to the plan. We made contributions to the plan and charged continuing
operations $931,000 during 2003, $881,000 during 2002 and $868,000 during 2001.

(16) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

One of our non-operating subsidiaries, Swan Transportation Company (“Swan”),
has been involved in various claims raised by former employees of a foundry
that was owned by an affiliate of Swan and Tyler prior to December 1995. These
claims are for alleged work related injuries and physical conditions resulting
from alleged exposure to silica, asbestos, and/or related industrial dusts. On
December 20, 2001, Swan filed a petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and on July 22, 2003, the United

F-20


States Bankruptcy Court
for the District of Delaware entered a confirmation order approving a plan of
reorganization for Swan. On December 23, 2003, Tyler, in accordance with the
terms of the plan of reorganization, transferred the stock of Swan to the Swan
Asbestos and Silica Trust (“Trust”), an unaffiliated entity that will oversee
the processing and payment of all present and future claims related to the
foundry. The Trust is to be principally funded by the insurance carriers of
Swan and/or Tyler. Also on December 23, 2003, Tyler paid $1.48 million to the
Trust in full and final satisfaction of its obligations under the plan of
reorganization. Under the terms of the plan of reorganization, Tyler was
released from all liability for claims associated with the once-owned foundry
and any claimant is barred from asserting any such claim, either now or in the
future, against Tyler and its affected affiliates.

We initially provided for estimated claim settlement costs when minimum levels
could be reasonably estimated. If the best estimate of claim costs could only
be identified within a range and no specific amount within that range could be
determined more likely than any other amount within the range, the minimum of
the range was accrued. Legal and related professional services costs to defend
litigation of this nature have been expensed as incurred.

Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to our business,
there are no material legal proceedings pending to which we or our subsidiaries
are parties or to which any of our properties are subject.

(17) QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (unaudited)

The following tables contain selected financial information from unaudited
consolidated statements of operations for each quarter of 2003 and 2002.

Quarter Ended



Dec. 31

Sept. 30

June 30

Mar. 31

(A)

Dec. 31

Sept. 30

June 30

Mar. 31

Revenues

$

39,120

$

37,874

$

36,135

$

32,325

$

36,396

$

34,974

$

33,605

$

28,922

Gross profit

15,856

15,470

13,863

11,644

14,228

12,312

11,708

9,734

Income from continuing operations before
income taxes

5,617

5,253

3,214

25,000

4,086

2,922

2,116


Income from continuing operations

3,468

3,233

1,981

17,296

2,581

1,739

1,290


Income from discontinued operations


—

—

—

1,817

—

—

—

Net income

$

3,892

$

3,233

$

1,981

$

17,296

$

4,398

$

1,739

$

1,290

$


Diluted earnings from continuing operations

$

0.08

$

0.07

$

0.04

$

0.36

$

0.05

$

0.04

$

0.03

$

0.01

Diluted earnings from discontinued operations

0.01

—

—

—

0.04

—

—

—

Net earnings per diluted share

$

0.09

$

0.07

$

0.04

$

0.36

$

0.09

$

0.04

$

0.03

$

0.01

Shares used in computing diluted earnings
per share

44,502

43,181

44,796

47,738

48,482

49,372

50,405

49,725

(A)

On March 25, 2003, we received cash proceeds of $39.3 million in
connection with a transaction to sell all of our 5.6 million shares of HTE
common stock to SunGard Data Systems Inc. for $7.00 cash per share. Our
original cost basis in the HTE shares was $15.8 million. After
transaction and other costs, we recorded a gross realized gain of $23.2
million ($16.2 million or $0.36 per diluted share after income taxes of
$7.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003).

F-21


TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(IN THOUSANDS)

Years ended December 31,




Allowance For Losses — Accounts Receivable

Balance at beginning of year

$


$

1,275

$

1,505

Additions charged to costs and expenses

1,104


1,681

Deductions for accounts charged off or credits issued.

(700

)

(1,312

)

(1,911

)

Balance at end of year

$

1,094

$


$

1,275

Valuation Allowance — Deferred Tax Assets

Years ended December 31,




Balance at beginning of year

$

1,114

$

1,690

$

3,657

Utilization of capital loss carryforward

(1,114

)

(99

)

—

Adjustment to actual capital loss carryforwards arising
from a previous sale

—

1,114

—

Change in basis difference on investment security

—

(1,591

)

(1,967

)

Balance at end of year

$

—

$

1,114

$

1,690

F-22