10-K


d71188e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2009

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number 1-10485

TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE

75-2303920

(State or other jurisdiction

(I.R.S. employer

of incorporation or

identification no.)

organization)

5949 Sherry Lane, Suite 1400


Dallas, Texas

(Zip code)

(Address of principal

executive offices)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(972) 713-3700

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Name of each exchange

Title of each class

on which registered

COMMON STOCK, $0.01 PAR VALUE

NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

NONE

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES

o

NO

þ

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or 15(d) of the Act. YES

o

NO

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES

þ

NO

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of

Regulation S-T

during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
    that the registrant was required to submit and post such
    files).  Yes

o

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filer pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of the Form
10-K or any amendment to the Form 10-K. YES

o

NO

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
    “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated
    filer” and  “smaller reporting company” in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

o

Accelerated filer

þ

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act.) YES

o

NO

þ

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
$520,593,000 based on the reported last sale price of common stock on June 30, 2009, which is the
last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter.

The number of shares of common stock of the registrant outstanding on February 22, 2010 was
35,085,970.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain information required by Part III of this annual report is incorporated by
reference from the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of stockholders
to be held on May 13, 2010.

TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

FORM 10-K




PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Tyler Technologies, Inc. (“Tyler”) is a major provider of integrated information management
solutions and services for the public sector, with a focus on local governments. We partner with
clients to make local government more accessible to the public, more responsive to the needs of
citizens and more efficient in its operations. We have a broad line of software solutions and
services to address the information technology (“IT”) needs of virtually every major area of
operation for cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. Most of our customers
have our software installed in-house. For customers who prefer not to physically acquire the
software and hardware, we provide outsourced hosting for some of our applications at our data
centers through an applications service provider (“ASP”) arrangement through our subscription-based
services. We provide professional IT services to our customers, including software and hardware
installation, data conversion, training and, at times, product modifications. In addition, we are
the nation’s largest provider of outsourced property appraisal services for taxing jurisdictions.
We also provide continuing customer support services to ensure proper product performance and
reliability, which provides us with long-term customer relationships and a significant base of
recurring maintenance revenue.

Tyler was founded in 1966. Prior to 1998, we operated as a diversified industrial conglomerate,
with operations in various industrial, retail and distribution businesses, all of which have been
divested. In 1997, we embarked on a multi-phase growth plan focused on serving the specialized
information management needs of local governments nationwide. In 1998 and 1999, we entered the
local government IT market through a series of strategic acquisitions of companies in the local
government IT market.

MARKET OVERVIEW

The state and local government market is one of the largest and most decentralized IT markets in
the country, consisting of all 50 states, approximately 3,000 counties, 36,000 cities and towns and
13,900 school districts. This market is also comprised of approximately 35,000 special districts
and other agencies, each with specialized delegated responsibilities and unique information
management requirements.

Traditionally, local government bodies and agencies performed state-mandated duties, including
property assessment, record keeping, road maintenance, law enforcement, administration of election
and judicial functions, and the provision of welfare assistance. Today, a host of emerging and
urgent issues are confronting local governments, each of which demands a service response. These
areas include criminal justice and corrections, administration and finance, public safety, health
and human services, and public works. Transfers of responsibility from the federal and state
governments to county and municipal governments and agencies in these and other areas also place
additional service and financial requirements on these local government units. In addition,
constituents of local governments are increasingly demanding improved service and better access to
information from public entities. As a result, local governments recognize the increasing value of
information management systems and services to, among other things, improve revenue collection,
provide increased access to information, and streamline delivery of services to their constituents.
Local government bodies are now recognizing that “e-government” is an additional responsibility
for community development. From integrated tax systems to integrated civil and criminal justice
information systems, many counties and cities have benefited significantly from the implementation
of jurisdiction-wide systems that allow different agencies or government offices to share data and
provide a more comprehensive approach to information management. Many city and county governmental
agencies also have unique individual information management requirements, which must be tailored to
the specific functions of each particular office.

Many local governments also have difficulties attracting and retaining the staff necessary to
support their IT functions. As a result, they seek to establish long-term relationships with
reliable providers of high quality IT products and services such as Tyler.

Although local governments generally face budgetary constraints in their operations, their primary
revenue sources are usually property taxes, and to a lesser extent, utility billings, which tend to
be relatively stable. In addition, the acquisition of new technology typically enables local
governments to operate more efficiently, and often provides a measurable return on investment that
justifies the purchase of software and related services.



Gartner estimates that state and local government IT spending will grow from $54.1 billion in 2010
to $62.8 billion in 2013, with local government accounting for $28.1 billion of IT spending in 2010
and $31.8 billion in 2013. The external services and software segments of the market, where our
business is primarily focused, is expected to expand from $15.3 billion in 2010 to $18.5 billion in
2013.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

We provide a comprehensive and flexible suite of products and services that address the information
technology needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. We derive our
revenues from five primary sources:

We design, develop and market a broad range of software solutions to serve mission-critical
“back-office” functions of local governments. Many of our software applications include
Internet-accessible solutions that allow for real-time public access to a variety of information or
that allow the public to transact business with local governments via the Internet. Our software
solutions and services are generally grouped in three major areas:

•

Financial Management and Education;

•

Courts and Justice; and

•

Property Appraisal and Tax and Other.

Each of our core software systems consists of several fully integrated application modules. For
customers who acquire the software for use in-house, we generally license our systems under
standard perpetual license agreements that provide the customer with a fully paid, nonexclusive,
nontransferable right to use the software. In some of the product areas, such as financial
management and education and property appraisal and tax, we offer multiple solutions designed to
meet the needs of different sized governments.

We also offer certain software solutions on a “software as a service” basis for customers who do
not wish to maintain, update and operate these systems or to make large up-front capital
expenditures to implement these advanced technologies. For these customers, we host the
applications and data at our data centers. Customers typically pay monthly fees under multi-year
contracts for these subscription-based services.

Historically, we have had a greater proportion of our annual revenues in the second half of our
fiscal year due to governmental budget and spending cycles and the timing of system implementations
for customers desiring to “go live” at the beginning of the calendar year.

A description of our suites of products and services follows:

Software Licenses

Financial Management and Education

Our financial management and education solutions are Enterprise Resource Planning systems for local
governments, which integrate information across all facets of a client organization. Our financial
management solutions include modular fund accounting systems that can be tailored to meet the needs
of virtually any government agency or not-for-profit entity. Our financial management systems
include modules for general ledger, budget preparation, fixed assets, requisitions, purchase
orders, bid management, accounts payable, contract management, accounts receivable, investment
management, inventory control, project and grant accounting, work orders, job costing, GASB 34
reporting, payroll and human resources. All of our financial management systems are intended to
conform to government auditing and financial reporting requirements and generally accepted
accounting principles.



We sell utility billing systems that support the billing and collection of metered and non-metered
services, along with multiple billing cycles. Our Web-enabled utility billing solutions allow
customers to access information online such as average consumption and transaction history. In
addition, our systems can accept secured Internet payments via credit cards and checks.

We also offer specialized products that automate numerous city functions, including municipal
courts, parking tickets, equipment and project costing, animal licenses, business licenses, permits
and inspections, code enforcement, citizen complaint tracking, ambulance billing, fleet
maintenance, and cemetery records management.

In addition to providing financial management systems to K-12 schools, in 2006 we began offering a
student information system for K-12 schools, which manages such applications as scheduling, grades
and attendance. We also offer student transportation solutions to manage school bus routing
optimization, fleet management, field trips and other related functions. We also added software
applications to manage public sector pension funds.

Tyler’s financial management and education solutions include Web components that enhance local
governments’ service capabilities by facilitating online access to information for both employees
and citizens and enabling online transactions.

Courts and Justice

We offer a complete, fully integrated suite of judicial solutions designed to handle complex,
multi-jurisdictional county or statewide implementations as well as single county systems. Our
solutions help eliminate duplicate data entry, promote more effective business procedures and
improve efficiency across the entire justice process.

Our unified court case management system is designed to automate the tracking and management of
information involved in all case types, including criminal, traffic, civil, family, probate and
juvenile courts. It also tracks the status of cases, processes fines and fees and generates the
specialized judgment and sentencing documents, notices and forms required in the court process.
Documents received by the court can be scanned into the electronic case file and easily retrieved
for viewing. Documents generated by the court can be electronically signed and automatically
attached to the electronic case file. Additional modules automate the management of court
calendars, coordinate judge’s schedules and generate court dockets. Our targeted courtroom
technologies allow courts to rapidly review calendars, cases and view documents in the courtroom.
Courts may also take advantage of our related jury management system.

Our law enforcement systems automate police and sheriff functions from dispatch and records
management through booking and jail management. Searching, reporting and tracking features are
integrated, allowing reliable, up-to-date access to current arrest and incarceration data,
including digital mug shots. Our systems also provide warrant checks for visitors or book-ins,
inmate classification and risk assessment, commissary, property and medical processing, and
automation of statistics and state and federal reporting. Our computer-aided dispatch/emergency 911
system tracks calls and the availability of emergency response vehicles, interfaces with local and
state searches, and assists dispatchers with processing emergency situations. The law enforcement
and jail management systems are fully integrated with prosecution and other court products that
manage the entire judicial process.

Our court and law enforcement systems allow the public to access, via the Internet, a variety of
information, including non-confidential criminal and civil court records, jail booking and release
information, bond and bondsmen information, and court calendars and dockets. In addition, our
systems allow cities and counties to accept payments for traffic and parking tickets over the
Internet, with a seamless and automatic interface to back-office justice and financial systems.

Our prosecutor system enables state attorney offices to track and manage criminal cases, including
detailed victim information and private case notes. Investigative reports and charging instrument
documents can be generated and stored for later viewing. Prosecutors can schedule and record the
outcome of grand jury hearings. When integrated with the court system, prosecutors can view the
electronic case file and related documents, as well as manage witness lists and subpoenas needed
for court hearings.

Our supervision system allows pre-trial and probation offices to manage offender caseloads.
Supervision officers can track busy contact schedules, risk/needs assessments and reassessments,
detailed drug test results, employment histories, compliance with conditions and payments of fees
and restitution. Documents and forms, like pre-sentence investigations or revocation orders, can be
generated and stored for easy viewing. When integrated with the jail and court systems, supervision
officers can have easy access and quick notification of offenders that have court hearings
scheduled, are arrested locally and have new warrants issued.



We also offer a court case management solution that automates and tracks all aspects of municipal
courts and offices. It is a fully integrated, graphical application that provides effective case
management, document processing and cash/bond management. This system complies with all state
reporting and conviction reports and includes electronic reporting and also integrates with certain
of our financial management solutions and public safety solutions. Our public safety solution for
municipalities includes more than thirty essential law enforcement, criminal investigation, and
administration record management modules. The public safety solution manages information such as
arrests and field interviews, traffic reports and citations, and incident and offense reports. It
also supports multimedia files, photo lineups, multi-agency security and incident workflow and
streamlines mandatory reporting to local, state and federal offices.

Property Appraisal and Tax and Other

We provide systems and software that automate the appraisal and assessment of real and personal
property, including record keeping, mass appraisal, inquiry and protest tracking, appraisal and tax
roll generation, tax statement processing, and electronic state-level reporting. These systems are
image and video-enabled to facilitate the storage of and access to the many property-related
documents and for the online storage of digital photographs of properties for use in defending
values in protest situations. Other related tax applications are available for agencies that bill
and collect taxes, including cities, counties, school tax offices, and special taxing and
collection agencies. These systems support billing, collections, lock box operations, mortgage
company electronic payments, and various reporting requirements.

We also offer a number of specialized software applications designed to help county governments
enhance and automate courthouse operations. These systems record, scan and index information for
the many documents maintained at the courthouse, such as deeds, mortgages, liens, UCC financing
statements and vital records (birth, death and marriage certificates). These applications include
fully integrated imaging systems with batch and scan processing capabilities and fully integrated
receipting and cashiering systems as well as Web-enabled public access.

Subscription-Based Services

Subscription-based services revenue primarily consists of revenues derived from application service
provider (“ASP”) arrangements and other hosted service offerings, software subscriptions and
disaster recovery services. Our ASP arrangements and other hosted service offerings, provide
certain software solutions on a “software as a service” basis for customers who do not wish to
maintain, update and operate these systems or to make large up-front capital expenditures to
implement these advanced technologies.

ASP arrangements and other hosting services are typically for a period of three to six years and
automatically renew unless either party cancels the agreement. Other software subscriptions and
disaster recovery service arrangements are typically under annual contracts. The majority of the
ASP and other hosting services and software subscriptions also include professional services and
maintenance and support services. In certain ASP arrangements, the customer also acquires a
license to the software.

Software Services

We provide a variety of professional IT services to customers who utilize our software products.
Virtually all of our customers contract with us for installation, training, and data conversion
services in connection with their purchase of Tyler’s software solutions. The complete
implementation process for a typical system includes planning, design, data conversion, set-up and
testing. At the culmination of the implementation process, an installation team travels to the
customer’s facility to ensure the smooth transfer of data to the new system. Installation fees are
charged separately to customers on either a fixed-fee or hourly charge basis, depending on the
contract, with full pass-through to customers of travel and other out-of-pocket expenses.

Both in connections with the installation of new systems and on an ongoing basis, we provide
extensive training services and programs related to our products and services. Training can be
provided in our training centers, onsite at customers’ locations, or at meetings and conferences,
and can be customized to meet customers’ requirements. The vast majority of our customers contract
with us for training services, both to improve their employees’ proficiency and productivity and to
fully utilize the functionality of our systems. Training services are generally billed on an
hourly basis, along with travel and other expenses.

Maintenance and Support

Following the implementation of our software systems, we provide ongoing software support services
to assist our customers in operating the systems and to periodically update the software. Support
is provided over the phone to customers through help desks



staffed by our customer support representatives. For more complicated issues, our staff, with the
customers’ permission, can log on to customers’ systems remotely. We maintain our customers’
software largely through releases that contain improvements and incremental additions, along with
updates necessary because of legislative or regulatory changes.

Virtually all of our software customers contract with us for maintenance and support, which
provides us with a significant source of recurring revenue. We generally provide maintenance and
support under annual contracts, with a typical fee based on a percentage of the software product’s
license fee. These fees can be increased annually and may also increase as new license fees
increase. Maintenance and support fees are generally paid in advance for the entire maintenance
contract period. Most maintenance contracts automatically renew unless the customer or Tyler gives
notice of termination prior to expiration. Similar support is provided to our ASP customers, and
is included in their overall monthly fees which are classified as subscription-based revenues.

Appraisal Services

We are the nation’s largest provider of property appraisal outsourcing services for local
government taxing authorities. These services include:

Local government taxing authorities normally reappraise properties from time to time to update
values for tax assessment purposes and to maintain equity in the taxing process. In some
jurisdictions, reassessment cycles are mandated by law; in others, they are discretionary. While
some taxing jurisdictions perform reappraisals in-house, many local governments outsource this
function because of its cyclical nature and because of the specialized knowledge and expertise
requirements associated with it. Our appraisal services business unit has been in this business
since 1938.

In some instances, we also sell property tax and/or appraisal software products in connection with
appraisal outsourcing projects, while other customers may only engage us to provide appraisal
services. Appraisal outsourcing services are somewhat seasonal in nature to the extent that winter
weather conditions reduce the productivity of data collection activities in connection with those
projects.

STRATEGY

Our objective is to grow our revenue and earnings internally, supplemented by focused strategic
acquisitions. The key components of our business strategy are to:

•

Provide high quality, value-added products and services to our clients.

We
compete on the basis of, among other things, delivering to customers our deep domain
expertise in local government operations through the highest value products and services in
the market. We believe we have achieved a reputation as a premium product and service
provider to the local government market.

•

Continue to expand our product and service offerings.

While we already have what
we believe to be the broadest line of software products for local governments, we
continually upgrade our core software applications and expand our complementary product and
service offerings to respond to technological advancements and the changing needs of our
clients. For example, we offer solutions that allow the public to access data and conduct
transactions with local governments, such as paying traffic tickets, property taxes and
utility bills, and filing court documents via the Internet. We believe that the addition
of such features enhance the market appeal of our core products. Since 2001, we have also
offered many of our software products under an ASP or other software as a subscription-based
service model which we believe will, over time, have increasing appeal to local governments
and will be expanded to include more applications. We have also increased our offerings of
consulting and business process reengineering services.



o

products and services to complement our existing offerings;

o

entry into new markets related to local governments; and

o

new customers and/or geographic expansion.

•

Establish strategic alliances.

In January 2007 we announced a strategic
alliance with Microsoft Corporation to jointly develop core public sector functionality for
Microsoft Dynamics AX to address the unique accounting needs of public sector organizations
worldwide. As part of this alliance we are enhancing Microsoft Dynamics AX with public
sector-specific functionality. The co-development will broaden the functionality of
Microsoft Dynamics AX, providing both Tyler and Microsoft with a public sector accounting
platform to support their existing and prospective clients well into the future. In the
fourth quarter of 2009 we expanded our co-development effort with Microsoft to include
payroll, human resource and budget functionality. Microsoft Dynamics AX with public sector
functionality will be sold in the United States and internationally through Microsoft’s
distribution channels and is expected to be released in 2011. Tyler will also become an
authorized Microsoft reseller for the Microsoft Dynamics solutions developed under this
arrangement, and will sell the solutions directly into the government market. Tyler will
receive license and maintenance royalties on direct and indirect sales of the solutions
co-developed under this multi-year term relationship.

SALES, MARKETING, AND CUSTOMERS

We market our products and services through direct sales and marketing personnel located throughout
the United States. Other in-house sales staff focuses on add-on sales, professional services and
support.

Sales of new systems are typically generated from referrals from other government offices or
departments within a county or municipality, referrals from other local governments, relationships
established between sales representatives and county or local



officials, contacts at trade shows, direct mailings, and direct contact from prospects already
familiar with us. We are active in numerous national, state, county, and local government
associations, and participate in annual meetings, trade shows, and educational events.

Customers consist primarily of county and municipal agencies, school districts and other local
government offices. In counties, customers include the auditor, treasurer, tax assessor/collector,
county clerk, district clerk, county and district court judges, probation officers, sheriff, and
county appraiser. At municipal government sites, customers include directors from various
departments, including administration, finance, utilities, public works, code enforcement,
personnel, purchasing, taxation, municipal court, and police. Contracts for software products and
services are generally implemented over periods of three months to one year, with annually renewing
maintenance and support update agreements thereafter. Although either the customer or we can
terminate these agreements, historically almost all support and maintenance agreements are
automatically renewed annually. Contracts for appraisal outsourcing services are generally one to
three years in duration. During 2009, approximately 43% of our revenue was attributable to ongoing
support and maintenance agreements.

COMPETITION

We compete with numerous local, regional, and national firms that provide or offer some or many of
the same solutions and services that we provide. Most of these competitors are smaller companies
that may be able to offer less expensive solutions than ours. Many of these firms operate within a
specific geographic area and/or in a narrow product or service niche. We also compete with
national firms, some of which have greater financial and technical resources than we do, including
Oracle Corporation, Lawson Software, Inc., SAP AG, Affiliated Computer Services, Inc., SunGard Data
Systems, Inc., New World Systems, Constellation Software, Inc. and Manatron, Inc. In addition, we
sometimes compete with consulting and systems integration firms, such as BearingPoint, Inc., which
develop custom systems, primarily for larger governments. We also occasionally compete with
central internal information service departments of local governments, which require us to persuade
the end-user department to discontinue service by its own personnel and outsource the service to
us. We compete on a variety of factors, including price, service, name recognition, reputation,
technological capabilities, and the ability to modify existing products and services to accommodate
the individual requirements of the customer. Our ability to offer an integrated system of
applications for several offices or departments is often a competitive strength. Local
governmental units often are required to seek competitive proposals through a request for proposal
process.

SUPPLIERS

Substantially all of the computers, peripherals, printers, scanners, operating system software,
office automation software, and other equipment necessary for the implementation and provision of
our software systems and services are presently available from several third-party sources.
Hardware is purchased on original equipment manufacturer or distributor terms at discounts from
retail. We have not experienced any significant supply problems.

BACKLOG

At December 31, 2009, our estimated revenue backlog was approximately $233.1 million, compared to
$249.8 million at December 31, 2008. The backlog represents signed contracts under which the
products have not been delivered or the services have not been performed as of year-end.
Approximately $169.9 million of the backlog is expected to be recognized during 2010.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, AND LICENSES

We regard certain features of our internal operations, software, and documentation as confidential
and proprietary and rely on a combination of contractual restrictions, trade secret laws and other
measures to protect our proprietary intellectual property. We generally do not rely on patents. We
believe that, due to the rapid rate of technological change in the computer software industry,
trade secrets and copyright protection are less significant than factors such as knowledge, ability
and experience of our employees, frequent product enhancements, and timeliness and quality of
support services. We typically license our software products under non-exclusive license agreements
which are generally non-transferable and have a perpetual term.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2009, we had 2,018 employees. Appraisal outsourcing projects are cyclical in
nature and can be widely dispersed geographically. We often hire temporary employees to assist in
these projects whose term of employment generally ends with the



project’s completion. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to
collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relations with our employees to be positive.

INTERNET WEBSITE AND AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC FILINGS

We file annual, quarterly, current and other reports, proxy statements and other information with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act. You may
read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room by calling the
SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and other
information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file
electronically with the SEC. The address of this site is

http://www.sec.gov

.

We also maintain an Internet site at

www.tylertech.com

. We make available free of charge through
this site our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Forms 4 and 5, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, copies of our annual report will be made
available, free of charge upon written request.

Our “Code of Business Conduct and Ethics” is also available on our Web site. We intend to satisfy
the disclosure requirements regarding amendments to, or waivers from, a provision of our Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics by posting such information on our Web site.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors evaluating our company
should carefully consider the factors described below and all other information contained in this
Annual Report. Any of the following factors could materially harm our business, operating results,
and financial condition. Additional factors and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we
currently consider immaterial could also harm our business, operating results, and financial
condition. This section should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related
Notes and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
included in this Annual Report. We may make forward-looking statements from time to time, both
written and oral. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any
revisions to these forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those
projected in any such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set
forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report.

Declining general economic conditions and uncertainties in the global credit crisis and equity
markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.

The financial market crisis has continued to disrupt credit and equity markets worldwide. Local
and state governments may face financial pressures that could in turn affect our growth rate in
2010. We cannot assure you local and state spending levels will be unaffected by the global credit
crisis and if budget shortfalls occur they may negatively impact local and state information
technology spending and could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results,
and financial condition.

A decline in information technology spending may result in a decrease in our revenues or lower our
growth rate.

A decline in the demand for information technology among our current and prospective customers may
result in decreased revenues or a lower growth rate for us because our sales depend, in part, on
our customers’ level of funding for new or additional information technology systems and services.
Moreover, demand for our solutions may be reduced by a decline in overall demand for computer
software and services. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or
maintain our revenues.



Selling products and services into the public sector poses unique challenges.

We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of software and services to state, county
and city governments, other municipal agencies, and other public entities. We expect that sales to
public sector customers will continue to account for substantially all of our revenues in the
future. We face many risks and challenges associated with contracting with governmental entities,
including:

Each of these risks is outside our control. If we fail to adequately adapt to these risks and
uncertainties, our financial performance could be adversely affected.

The open bidding process for governmental contracts creates uncertainty in predicting future
contract awards.

Many governmental agencies purchase products and services through an open bidding process.
Generally, a governmental entity will publish an established list of requirements requesting
potential vendors to propose solutions for the established requirements. To respond successfully to
these requests for proposals, we must accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a
proposed contract, the time required to establish operations for the proposed client, and the
likely terms of any other third party proposals submitted. We cannot guarantee that we will win
any bids in the future through the request for proposal process, or that any winning bids will
ultimately result in contracts on favorable terms. Our failure to secure contracts through the
open bidding process, or to secure such contracts on favorable terms, may adversely affect our
business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Our products are complex and we run the risk of errors or defects with new product introductions or
enhancements.

Software products as complex as those developed by us may contain errors or defects, especially
when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Although we have not
experienced material adverse effects resulting from any such defects or errors to date, we cannot
assure you that material defects and errors will not be found after commencement of product
shipments. Any such defects could result in loss of revenues or delay market acceptance.

Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our
exposure to potential liability claims. It is possible, however, that we may not always be able to
negotiate such provisions in our contracts with customers or that the limitation of liability
provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective as a result of existing or
future federal, state or local laws, ordinances, or judicial decisions. Although we maintain
errors and omissions and general liability insurance, and we try to structure our contracts to
include limitations on liability, we cannot assure you that a successful claim could not be made or
would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of
operations.

We may experience difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy.

In addition, a significant portion of our growth has resulted from strategic acquisitions in new
product and geographic markets. Although our focus is on internal growth, we will continue to
identify and pursue strategic acquisitions and alliances with suitable candidates. Our future
success will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate future acquisitions and
other strategic alliances into our operations. Acquisitions may involve a number of special risks,
including diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel,
unanticipated events or circumstances, legal liabilities, and amortization of certain acquired
intangible assets. Some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, and results of



operations. Although we conduct due diligence reviews of potential acquisition candidates, we may
not identify all material liabilities or risks related to acquisition candidates. There can be no
assurance that any such strategic acquisitions or alliances will be accomplished on favorable terms
or will result in profitable operations.

We face significant competition from other vendors and potential new entrants into our markets.

We believe we are a leading provider of integrated solutions for the public sector. However, we
face competition from a variety of software vendors that offer products and services similar to
those offered by us, as well as from companies offering to develop custom software. We compete on
the basis of a number of factors, including:

We believe the market is highly fragmented with a large number of competitors that vary in size,
primary computer platforms, and overall product scope. Our competitors include consulting firms,
publicly held companies that focus on selected segments of the public sector market, and a
significant number of smaller, privately held companies. Certain competitors have greater
technical, marketing, and financial resources than we do. We cannot assure you that such
competitors will not develop products or offer services that are superior to our products or
services or that achieve greater market acceptance.

We also compete with internal, centralized information service departments of governmental
entities, which require us to persuade the end-user to stop the internal service and outsource to
us. In addition, our customers may elect in the future to provide information management services
internally through new or existing departments, which could reduce the market for our services.

We could face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the public
sector software application market and new products and technologies are introduced. Increased
competition could result in pricing pressure, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, and
loss of market share. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic
acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third-parties, thereby
increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. It is
possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly
gain significant market share. Further, competitive pressures could require us to reduce the price
of our software licenses and related services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to
compete successfully against current and future competitors, and the failure to do so would have
material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition.

We must respond to rapid technological changes to be competitive.

The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry
standards in computer hardware and software technology, changes in customer requirements, and
frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products embodying new
technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and
unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue
to enhance existing products and develop and introduce in a timely manner or acquire new products
that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer
requirements, and achieve market acceptance. We cannot assure you that we will successfully
identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and
cost-effective manner. Further, we cannot assure you that the products, capabilities, or
technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or
noncompetitive. If we are unable to develop or acquire on a timely and cost-effective basis new
software products or enhancements to existing products, or if such new products or enhancements do
not achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be
materially adversely affected.



We may be unable to hire, integrate, and retain qualified personnel.

Our continued success will depend upon the availability and performance of our key management,
sales, marketing, customer support, and product development personnel. The loss of key management
or technical personnel could adversely affect us. We believe that our continued success will
depend in large part upon our ability to attract, integrate, and retain such personnel. We have at
times experienced and continue to experience difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel.
Competition for qualified software development, sales, and other personnel is intense, and we
cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel.

Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in
additional expenses.

Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure,
including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and
New York Stock Exchange rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. The costs
required to comply with such evolving laws are difficult to predict. To maintain high standards of
corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources
to comply with evolving standards. This investment may result in an unforeseen increase in general
and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from
revenue-generating activities, which may harm our business, financial condition, or results of
operations.

We may experience fluctuations in quarterly revenue that could adversely impact our stock price and
our operating results.

Our actual revenues in a quarter could fall below expectations, which could lead to a decline in
our stock price. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate
substantially from quarter to quarter. Revenues from license fees in any quarter depend
substantially upon our contracting activity and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter
in accordance with our revenue recognition policies. Our quarterly revenue may fluctuate and may
be difficult to forecast for a variety of reasons, including the following:

Fluctuation in our quarterly revenues may adversely affect our operating results. In each fiscal
quarter our expense levels, operating costs, and hiring plans are based to some extent on
projections of future revenues and are relatively fixed. If our actual revenues fall below
expectations, we could experience a reduction in operating results.

As with other software vendors, we may be required to delay revenue recognition into future
periods, which could adversely impact our operating results.

We have in the past had to, and in the future may have to, defer revenue recognition for license
fees due to several factors, including whether:



Because of the factors listed above and other specific requirements under generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States for software revenue recognition, we must have very
precise terms in our license agreements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver and
install software or perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can
extend the sales cycle, and sometimes we do not obtain terms and conditions that permit revenue
recognition at the time of delivery or even as work on the project is completed.

Increases in service revenue as a percentage of total revenues could decrease overall margins and
adversely affect our operating results.

We realize lower margins on software and appraisal service revenues than on license revenue. The
majority of our contracts include both software licenses and professional services. Therefore, an
increase in the percentage of software service and appraisal service revenue compared to license
revenue could have a detrimental impact on our overall gross margins and could adversely affect
operating results.

Fixed- price contracts may affect our profits.

Some of our present contracts are on a fixed-priced basis, which can lead to various risks,
including:

•

the failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for an engagement;

•

the failure to effectively manage governmental agencies’ and other customers’
expectations regarding the scope of services to be delivered for an estimated price; and

•

the failure to timely complete fixed-price engagements within budget to the customers’
satisfaction.

If we do not adequately assess these and other risks, we may be subject to cost overruns and
penalties, which may harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations.

Our failure to properly manage growth could adversely affect our business.

We have expanded our operations since February 1998, when we entered the business of providing
software solutions and services to the public sector. We intend to continue expansion in the
foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth places a
significant demand on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively,
we must implement and improve our operational systems, procedures, and controls on a timely basis.
We must also identify, hire, train, and manage key managerial and technical personnel. If we fail
to implement these systems or employ and retain such qualified personnel, our business, financial
condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.

We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights.

Many of our product and service offerings incorporate proprietary information, trade secrets,
know-how, and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of contracts,
copyrights, and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our
technology. We cannot be certain that we have taken all appropriate steps to deter
misappropriation of our intellectual property. In addition, there has been significant litigation
in the United States in recent years involving intellectual property rights. We are not currently
involved in any material intellectual property litigation. We may, however, be a party to
intellectual property litigation in the future to protect our proprietary information, trade
secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. Further, we cannot assure you that
third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us in the future with
respect to current or future products. Any claims or litigation, with or without merit, could be
time-consuming and result in costly litigation and diversion of management’s attention. Further,
any claims and litigation could cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty
or licensing arrangements. Such royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be
available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Thus, litigation to defend and enforce our
intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, and results of operations, regardless of the final outcome of such litigation.



Changes in the insurance markets may affect our ability to win some contract awards and may lead to
increased expenses.

Some of our customers, primarily those for our property appraisal services, require that we secure
performance bonds before they will select us as their vendor. The number of qualified, high-rated
insurance companies that offer performance bonds has decreased in recent years, while the costs
associated with securing these bonds has increased dramatically. In addition, we are generally
required to issue a letter of credit as security for the issuance of a performance bond. We
periodically enter into long-term borrowing agreements and each letter of credit we issue without
corresponding cash collateral may reduce our borrowing capacity under the borrowing agreement. We
cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure such performance bonds in the future on terms that
are favorable to us, if at all. Our inability to obtain performance bonds on favorable terms or at
all could impact our future ability to win some contract awards, particularly large property
appraisal services contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, and results of operations.

Recent volatility in the stock markets, increasing shareholder litigation, the adoption of
expansive legislation that redefines corporate controls (in particular, legislation adopted to
prevent future corporate and accounting scandals), as well as other factors have recently led to
significant increases in premiums for directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. The number of
insurers offering directors and officers insurance at competitive rates has also decreased in
recent years. Volatility of the insurance market may result in future increases in our general and
administrative expenses, which may adversely affect future operating results.

Our stock price may be volatile.

The market price of our common stock may be volatile and may be significantly affected by many
different factors. Some examples of factors that can have a significant impact on our stock price
include:

In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume
fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for the common stock of technology
companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common
stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s
securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We
cannot assure you that similar litigation will not occur in the future with respect to us. Such
litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and
resources, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and
financial condition.

Historically, we have not paid dividends on our common stock.

We have not declared or paid a cash dividend since we entered the business of providing software
solutions and services to the public sector in February 1998. Additionally, our bank credit
agreement contains restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. We intend to retain earnings for
use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends
on our common stock in the foreseeable future.

Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could deter takeover
attempts.

Our board of directors may issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and may determine the
price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights,
of these shares of preferred stock. These determinations may be made without any further vote or
action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and
may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued
in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to
acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, some provisions of our
Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, and of the Delaware General Corporation Law could also delay,
prevent, or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us.



Financial Outlook.

From time to time in press releases and otherwise, we may publish forecasts or other
forward-looking statements regarding our results, including estimated revenues or net earnings.
Any forecast of our future performance reflects various assumptions. These assumptions are subject
to significant uncertainties, and as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be
incorrect. Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors
(including those described in this discussion), many of which are beyond our control. As a result,
we cannot be certain that our performance will be consistent with any management forecasts or that
the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. Current and potential
stockholders are cautioned not to base their entire analysis of our business and prospects upon
isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize our entire publicly available mix of
historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information regarding us,
our products and services, and the software industry when evaluating our prospective results of
operations.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.

Not applicable.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

We occupy a total of approximately 514,330 square feet of office space, 201,507 square feet of
which we own. One of the office buildings we own (approximately 84,000 square feet) has been
leased to third-party tenants. The lease agreements with respect to approximately 70% of this
leased space expire in July 2011 and the remaining agreement expires in June 2013. Upon expiration
of these agreements we expect to begin occupying the facility. We lease our principal executive
office located in Dallas, Texas, as well as other offices for our operations in Colorado, Iowa,
Maine, Ohio, Texas and Washington.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

On November 3, 2008, a putative collective action complaint was filed against us in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (the “Court”) on behalf of current and
former telephone and remote customer support personnel (“Category 1”), computer hardware and
software set up and maintenance personnel (“Category 2”), implementation personnel (“Category 3”),
sales support personnel (“Category 4”), and quality assurance analysts (“Category 5”). The
petition alleges that we misclassified these groups of employees as “exempt” rather than
“non-exempt” under the Fair Labor Standards Act and that we therefore failed to properly pay
overtime wages. The suit was initiated by six former employees working out of our Longview, Texas,
office and seeks to recover damages in the form of lost overtime pay, liquidated damages equal to
the amount of lost overtime pay, interest, costs, and attorneys’ fees.

On June 23, 2009, the Court issued an Order granting Plaintiffs’ motion for conditional
certification for the purpose of providing notice to potential plaintiffs about the litigation.
Accordingly, the plaintiffs sent the court ordered notice to all current and former employees who
worked in the foregoing job classifications at any time from June 23, 2006 until June 23, 2009. On
October 26, 2009, the “opt in” period for plaintiffs and potential plaintiffs closed. There are a
total of 78 plaintiffs in the litigation consisting of the following: 31 in Category 1; 4 in
Category 2; 39 in Category 3; 2 in Category 4; and 2 in Category 5.

Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to our business and except as described
in this Annual Report, there are no material legal proceedings pending to which we are party or to
which any of our properties are subject.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

Not applicable.



PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES.

Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “TYL.” At December 31,
2009, we had approximately 2,115 stockholders of record. A number of our stockholders hold their
shares in street name; therefore, there are substantially more than 2,115 beneficial owners of our
common stock.

The following table shows, for the calendar periods indicated, the high and low sales price per
share of our common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.

High

Low

2008:

First Quarter

$

14.70

$

12.29

Second Quarter

15.97

13.33

Third Quarter

18.47

13.29

Fourth Quarter

15.17

9.79

2009:

First Quarter

$

14.79

$

11.35

Second Quarter

17.76

14.17

Third Quarter

17.62

14.51

Fourth Quarter

21.09

16.76

2010:

First Quarter (through February 22, 2010)

$

21.52

$

18.32

We did not pay any cash dividends in 2009 or 2008. Our bank credit agreement contains
restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. We intend to retain earnings for use in the
operation and expansion of our business, and, therefore, we do not anticipate declaring a cash
dividend in the foreseeable future.

The following table summarizes certain information related to our stock option plan and our
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). There are no warrants or rights related to our equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2009.

Number of securities remaining

Number of securities to be

Weighted average

available for future issuance

issued upon exercise of

exercise price of

under equity compensation

outstanding options,

outstanding

plans (excluding securities

warrants and rights as of

options, warrants

reflected in initial column as of

Plan Category

December 31, 2009

and rights

December 31, 2009)

Equity compensation plans approved by security shareholders:

Stock options

5,703,430

$

11.12

176,378

ESPP

25,072

16.92

341,306

Equity compensation plans not approved by security shareholders

—

—

—

5,728,502

$

11.15

517,684



During 2009, we purchased approximately $1.2 million shares of our common stock for an
aggregate purchase price of $17.0 million. A summary of the repurchase activity during 2009 is as
follows:

Additional

Maximum

number of

number of shares

shares

that may be

Total number

authorized that

Average

repurchased

of shares

may be

price paid

under current

Period

repurchased

repurchased

per share

authorization

Three months ended March 31

707,000

—

$

12.49

791,000

Additional authorization by the board of directors

—

2,000,000

—

2,791,000

Three months ended June 30

8,000

—

15.28

2,783,000

Three months ended September 30

520,000

—

15.49

2,263,000

October 1 through October 31

—

—

—

2,263,000

November 1 through November 30

—

—

—

2,263,000

December 1 through December 31

—

—

—

2,263,000

Total year ended December 31, 2009

1,235,000

2,000,000

$

13.77

The repurchase program, which was approved by our board of directors, was announced in October
2002, and was amended in April and July 2003, October 2004, October 2005, May 2007, May 2008,
October 2008 and May 2009. Our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 2.0
million shares on May 14, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had remaining authorization to
repurchase up to 2.3 million additional shares of our common stock. There is no expiration date
specified for the authorization and we intend to repurchase stock under the plan from time to time.
Our bank credit agreement contains restrictions on the amount of common stock we may purchase.



Performance Graph

The following Performance Graph and related information shall not be deemed “soliciting material”
or to be “filed” with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be
incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically
incorporate it by reference into such filing.

The following table compares total Shareholder returns for Tyler over the last five years to the
Standard and Poor’s 500 Stock Index and the Standard and Poor’s 600 Information Technology
Index assuming a $100 investment made on December 31, 2004. Each of the three measures of
cumulative total return assumes reinvestment of dividends. The stock performance shown on the
graph below is not necessarily indicative of future price performance.

Company / Index

12/31/04

12/31/05

12/31/06

12/31/07

12/31/08

12/31/09

Tyler Technologies, Inc.


105.02

168.18

154.19

143.30

238.16

S&P 500 Index


104.91

121.48

128.16

80.74

102.11

S&P 600 Information Technology Index


99.76

109.17

119.32

71.15

105.41



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

(In thousands, except per share data)

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,






STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA:

Revenues

$

290,286

$

265,101

$

219,796

$

195,303

$

170,457

Costs and expenses:

Cost of revenues

(1)

161,523

155,314

135,371

120,499

108,970

Selling, general and administrative expenses

(1)

70,115

62,923

51,724

48,389

43,821

Research and development expense

11,159

7,286

4,443

3,322

2,421

Restructuring charge

—

—

—

—

1,260

Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles

2,705

2,438

1,478

1,318

1,266

Non-cash legal settlement related to warrants

(2)

—

9,045

—

—

—

Operating income

44,784

28,095

26,780

21,775

12,719

Other (expense) income, net

(146

)

1,181

1,800

1,080


Income from operations before income taxes

44,638

29,276

28,580

22,855

13,625

Income tax provision

17,628

14,414

11,079

8,493

5,432

Net income

$

27,010

$

14,862

$

17,501

$

14,362

$

8,193

Net income per diluted share

$

0.74

$

0.38

$

0.42

$

0.34

$

0.19

Weighted average diluted shares

36,624

39,184

41,352

41,868

42,075

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS DATA:

Cash flows provided by operating activities

$

42,941

$

47,802

$

34,111

$

26,804

$

21,187

Cash flows (used by) provided by investing activities

(13,658

)

(9,554

)

(34,275

)

(24,326

)

1,820

Cash flows used by financing activities

(21,349

)

(46,128

)

(7,406

)

(5,999

)

(14,847

)

BALANCE SHEET DATA:

Total assets

$

270,670

$

251,761

$

241,508

$

220,276

$

194,437

Shareholders’ equity

134,358

114,262

137,211

125,875

112,197

(1)

Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of
Accounting Standards Codification 718, Stock Compensation, using the modified-prospective
method. In 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, cost of revenues included $540,000,
$364,000, $227,000 and $147,000 share-based compensation expense. Selling, general and
administrative expenses in 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, included $4.5 million,
$3.5 million, $2.1 million and $1.8 million share-based compensation expense. In accordance
with the standard, results of operations for the year 2005 are reported under the previous
accounting standard and no expense was recorded.

(2)

On June 27, 2008, we settled outstanding litigation related to two Stock Purchase
Warrants (the “Warrants”) owned by Bank of America, N. A. (“BANA”). The Warrants entitled
BANA to acquire 1.6 million shares of Tyler common stock at an exercise price of $2.50 per
share. Following court-ordered mediation, in July 2008, BANA paid us $2.0 million and we
issued to BANA 801,883 restricted shares of Tyler common stock. Accordingly, we recorded a
non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million, which was not tax
deductible.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that are not
historical in nature and typically address future or anticipated events, trends, expectations or
beliefs with respect to our financial condition, results of operations or business.
Forward-looking statements often contain words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,”
“foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates,” “plans,” “intends,” “continues,” “may,” “will,” “should,”
“projects,” “might,” “could” or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe
our business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking
statements. We believe there is a reasonable basis for our forward-looking statements, but they
are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results could differ materially from
the expectations and beliefs reflected in the forward-looking statements. We presently consider
the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from our expectations and beliefs: (1) economic, political and market conditions,
including the recent global economic and financial crisis, and the general tightening of access to
debt or equity capital; (2) our ability to achieve our financial forecasts due to various factors,
including project delays by our customers, reductions in transaction size, fewer transactions,
delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for service
agreements; (3) changes in the budgets or regulatory environments of our customers, primarily local
and state governments, that could negatively impact information technology spending; (4)
technological and market risks associated with the development of new products or services or of
new versions of existing or acquired products or services; (5) our ability to successfully complete
acquisitions and achieve growth or operational synergies through the integration of acquired
businesses, while avoiding unanticipated costs and disruptions to existing operations; (6)
competition in the industry in which we conduct business and the impact of competition on pricing,
customer retention and pressure for new products or services; (7) the ability to attract and retain
qualified personnel and dealing with the loss or retirement of key members of management or other
key personnel; and (8) costs of compliance and any failure to comply with government and stock
exchange regulations. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our
business are described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” We expressly disclaim any obligation to
publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.

OVERVIEW

General

We provide integrated information management solutions and services for the public sector, with a
focus on local governments. We develop and market a broad line of software products and services
to address the information technology (“IT”) needs of cities, counties, schools and other local
government entities. In addition, we provide professional IT services to our customers, including
software and hardware installation, data conversion, training and for certain customers, product
modifications, along with continuing maintenance and support for customers using our systems. We
also provide subscription-based services such as hosted solutions as well as property appraisal
outsourcing services for taxing jurisdictions.

Our products generally automate three major functional areas:

•

Financial Management and Education;

•

Courts and Justice; and

•

Property Appraisal and Tax and Other.

We monitor and analyze several key performance indicators in order to manage our business and
evaluate our financial and operating performance. These indicators include the following:

•

Revenues — We derive our revenues from five primary sources: sale of software licenses;
subscription-based services; software services; maintenance and support; and appraisal
services. Because the majority of the software we sell is “off-the-shelf,” increased sales
of software products generally result in incrementally higher gross margins. Thus, the
most significant driver to our business is the number and size of software license sales.
In addition, new software license sales generally generate implementation services revenues
as well as future maintenance and support revenues, which are a recurring revenue source.
We also monitor our customer base and churn since our maintenance and support revenue
should increase



Acquisitions

On July 16, 2009, we completed the acquisition of certain assets of KPL, Inc. d/b/a Parker-Lowe &
Associates (“Parker-Lowe”) for $700,000 in cash. Parker-Lowe provides scanning and retrieval
software and related services for land record and social services offices in local governments
primarily in the North Carolina area. This acquisition was accounted for as a purchase of a
business.

On April 3, 2009, we completed the acquisition of all of the capital stock of Assessment Evaluation
Services, Inc. (“AES”). AES develops integrated property appraisal solutions and specializes in
applications that deal with the unique provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code. The
purchase price was approximately $1.1 million in cash.

In connection with these transactions we acquired total tangible assets of approximately $480,000
and assumed total liabilities of approximately $835,000, including $450,000 for contingent
consideration for which we have paid $38,000 as of December 31, 2009. We recorded goodwill of
approximately $1.3 million, all of which is expected to be deductible for tax purposes, and other
intangible assets of approximately $820,000. The $820,000 of intangible assets is attributable to
acquired software and customer relationships that will be amortized over a weighted average period
of approximately 9 years. Our balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 reflects the allocation of the
purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values
at the dates of acquisition.

The operating results of these acquisitions are included in our results of operations since the
date of acquisition. We believe these acquisitions will complement our business by expanding our
presence in certain geographic areas and adding to our customer base.

In the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, we also paid approximately $1.1 million for certain
software assets to complement our tax and appraisal solutions and our student information
management solutions.

Outlook

The financial market crisis has continued to disrupt credit and equity markets worldwide. Broad
economic conditions remain uncertain and public sector entities continue to experience pressures
that are reflected in longer than normal decision processes. Local and state governments may face
financial pressures that could in turn affect our growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 and for
the calendar year. While market conditions are not robust, we have great stability from the
foundation of recurring revenues and high customer retention. Our base of recurring revenues from
maintenance and support and subscription-based services is approximately



49% of total revenues. Consistent with our historical trends, we expect that first quarter 2010
earnings will not reach the level achieved in the fourth quarter of 2009, and will likely be below last years first quarter earnings. We also expect that in excess of 60% of our annual earnings will occur in the second half of 2010.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our
financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). The preparation of these financial statements requires us
to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the
date of the financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues, cost of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period, and related disclosure of contingencies. The Notes to the Financial
Statements included as part of this Annual Report describe our significant accounting policies used
in the preparation of the financial statements. Significant items subject to such estimates and
assumptions include the application of the percentage-of-completion and proportionate performance
methods of revenue recognition, the carrying amount and estimated useful lives of intangible
assets, determination of share-based compensation expense and valuation allowance for receivables.
We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to
be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments
about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
conditions.

We believe the following critical accounting policies require significant judgments and estimates
used in the preparation of our financial statements.

Revenue Recognition

. We recognize revenues in accordance with the provisions of Accounting
Standards Codification (“ ASC”) 605, Revenue Recognition and ASC 985-605, Software Revenue
Recognition. Our revenues are derived from sales of software licenses, subscription-based
services, appraisal services, maintenance and support, and services that typically range from
installation, training and basic consulting to software modification and customization to meet
specific customer needs. For multiple element software arrangements, which do not entail the
performance of services that are considered essential to the functionality of the software, we
generally record revenue when the delivered products or performed services result in a legally
enforceable and non-refundable claim. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts and sales
adjustments, which are provided at the time the revenue is recognized. Because most of our
customers are governmental entities, we rarely incur a loss resulting from the inability of a
customer to make required payments. In a limited number of cases, we encounter a customer who is
dissatisfied with some aspect of the software product or our service, and we may offer a
“concession” to such customer. In those limited situations where we grant a concession, we rarely
reduce the contract arrangement fee, but alternatively may perform additional services, such as
additional training or programming a minor feature the customer had in their prior software
solution. These amounts have historically been nominal. In connection with our customer
contracts and the adequacy of related allowances and measures of progress towards contract
completion, our project managers are charged with the responsibility to continually review the
status of each customer on a specific contract basis. Also, we review, on at least a quarterly
basis, significant past due accounts receivable and the adequacy of related reserves. Events or
changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount for the allowances for doubtful
accounts and sales adjustments may require revision, include, but are not limited to, deterioration
of a customer’s financial condition, failure to manage our customer’s expectations regarding the
scope of the services to be delivered, and defects or errors in new versions or enhancements of our
software products.

We use contract accounting, primarily the percentage-of-completion method, as discussed in ASC
605-35, Construction — Type and Certain Production — Type Contracts, for those software
arrangements that involve significant production, modification or customization of the software, or
where our software services are otherwise considered essential to the functionality of the
software. We measure progress-to-completion primarily using labor hours incurred, or value added.
In addition, we recognize revenue using the proportionate performance method of revenue recognition
for our property appraisal projects, some of which can range up to five years. These methods rely
on estimates of total expected contract revenue, billings and collections and expected contract
costs, as well as measures of progress toward completion. We believe reasonably dependable
estimates of revenue and costs and progress applicable to various stages of a contract can be made.
At times, we perform additional and/or non-contractual services for little to no incremental fee
to satisfy customer expectations. If changes occur in delivery, productivity or other factors used
in developing our estimates of expected costs or revenues, we revise our cost and revenue
estimates, and any revisions are charged to income in the period in which the facts that give rise
to that revision first become known. In connection with these and certain other contracts, we may
perform the work prior to when the services are billable and/or payable pursuant to the contract.
The termination clauses in most of our contracts provide for the payment for the fair value of
products delivered and services performed in the event of an early termination.



For subscription-based services such as application service provider arrangements and other hosting
arrangements, we evaluate whether each of the elements in these arrangements represents a separate
unit of accounting, as defined by ASC 605-25, Multiple Element Arrangements, using all applicable
facts and circumstances, including whether (i) we sell or could readily sell the element
unaccompanied by the other elements, (ii) the element has stand-alone value to the customer, (iii)
there is objective reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered item, and (iv) there is a
general right of return. We consider the applicability of ASC 605-55-121 and 122 with respect to
arrangements that include the right to use software stored on another entity’s hardware on a
contract-by-contract basis. In hosted term-based agreements, where the customer does not have the
contractual right to take possession of the software, hosting fees are recognized on a monthly
basis over the term of the contract commencing when the customer has access to the software. For
professional services associated with hosting arrangements that we determine do not have
stand-alone value to the customer, we recognize the services revenue ratably over the remaining
contractual period once hosting has gone live and we may begin billing for the hosting services.
We record amounts that have been invoiced in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or
revenues, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met.

In connection with certain of our contracts, we have recorded retentions receivable or unbilled
receivables consisting of costs and estimated profit in excess of billings as of the balance sheet
date. Many of the contracts which give rise to unbilled receivables at a given balance sheet date
are subject to billings in the subsequent accounting period. Management reviews unbilled
receivables and related contract provisions to ensure we are justified in recognizing revenue prior
to billing the customer and that we have objective evidence which allows us to recognize such
revenue. In addition, we have a sizable amount of deferred revenue which represents billings in
excess of revenue earned. The majority of this liability consists of maintenance billings for
which payments are made in advance and the revenue is ratably earned over the maintenance period,
generally one year. We also have deferred revenue for those contracts in which we receive a
deposit and the conditions in which to record revenue for the service or product has not been met.
On a periodic basis, we review by customer the detail components of our deferred revenue to ensure
our accounting remains appropriate.

Intangible Assets and Goodwill

. Our business acquisitions typically result in the creation of
goodwill and other intangible asset balances, and these balances affect the amount and timing of
future period amortization expense, as well as expense we could possibly incur as a result of an
impairment charge. The cost of acquired companies is allocated to identifiable tangible and
intangible assets based on estimated fair value, with the excess allocated to goodwill.
Accordingly, we have a significant balance of acquisition date intangible assets, including
software, customer related intangibles, trade name and goodwill. In addition, we capitalize
software development costs incurred subsequent to the establishment of technological feasibility.
These intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. All intangible assets
with definite and indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment annually or whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.

Recoverability of goodwill is generally measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset
to its fair value, generally determined by estimated future net cash flows expected to be generated
by the asset. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually as of April, or more frequently if
impairment indicators arise. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying
amount exceeds the asset’s fair value. The fair values calculated in our impairment tests are
determined using discounted cash flow models involving several assumptions. These assumptions
include, but are not limited to, anticipated operating income growth rates, our long-term
anticipated operating income growth rate and the discount rate. Our cash flow forecasts are based
on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the
underlying businesses. The assumptions that are used are based upon what we believe a hypothetical
marketplace participant would use in estimating fair value. We have identified two reporting
units for impairment testing. Our reporting units are the same as our reportable segments and
consistent with the reporting units tested for impairment in prior years. Assets, liabilities and
goodwill have been assigned to reporting units based on assets acquired and liabilities assumed as
of the date of acquisition. We evaluate the reasonableness of the fair value calculations of our
reporting units by comparing the total of the fair value of all of our reporting units to our total
market capitalization. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable
but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain.

Recoverability of other intangible assets is generally measured by comparison of the carrying
amount to estimated undiscounted future cash flows. The assessment of recoverability or of the
estimated useful life for amortization purposes will be affected if the timing or the amount of
estimated future operating cash flows is not achieved. Such indicators may include, among others:
a significant decline in expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in stock
price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business
climate; unanticipated competition; and reductions in growth rates. In addition, products,
capabilities, or technologies developed by others may render our software products obsolete or
non-competitive. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the
recoverability of goodwill or other intangible assets.

Our annual goodwill impairment analysis, which we performed during the second quarter of 2009, did
not result in an impairment charge. During 2009 we did not identify any triggering events which
would require an update to our annual impairment. A



hypothetical 10% decrease in the fair value of either of our reporting units as of December 31,
2009 would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill.

Share-Based Compensation.

We have a stock option plan that provides for the grant of stock options
to key employees, directors and non-employee consultants. We estimate the fair value of
share-based awards on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model.
Share-based compensation expense includes the estimated effects of forfeitures, which will be
adjusted over the requisite service period to the extent actual forfeitures differ, or are expected
to differ from such estimates. Changes in estimated forfeitures are recognized in the period of
change and will also impact the amount of expense to be recognized in future periods. Forfeiture
rate assumptions are derived from historical data. We estimate stock price volatility at the date
of grant based on the historical volatility of our common stock. Estimated option life is
determined using the “simplified method” in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 110.
Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of share-based awards
at the grant date requires considerable judgment, including estimating stock price volatility,
expected option life and forfeiture rates.

ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND OTHER

The following discussion compares the historical results of operations on a basis consistent with
GAAP for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.

2009 Compared to 2008

Revenues

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our revenues for the following
years ended December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($in thousands)


Total


Total

$

%

Software licenses

$

42,131


%

$

41,490


%

$



%

Subscriptions

17,181


14,374


2,807


Software services

80,405


74,997


5,408


Maintenance

124,512


107,458


17,054


Appraisal services

18,740


19,098


(358

)

(2

)

Hardware and other

7,317


7,684


(367

)

(5

)

Total revenues

$

290,286


%

$

265,101


%

$

25,185


%

Software licenses

. Software license revenues consist of the following components for the
following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($in thousands)


Total


Total

$

%

Financial management and education

$

25,708


%

$

29,124


%

$

(3,416

)

(12)

%

Courts and justice

13,801


10,128


3,673


Appraisal and tax and other

2,622


2,238




Total software license revenues

$

42,131


%

$

41,490


%

$



%

In 2009 we signed 74 large new contracts with average software license fees of approximately
$307,000, compared to 72 large new contracts signed in 2008 with average software license fees of
approximately $311,000. We consider contracts with a license fee component of $100,000 or more
to be large. Although a contract is signed in a particular year, the year in which the revenue
is recognized may be different because we recognize revenue according to our revenue recognition
policy as described in Note 1 in the Notes to Financial Statements.

Changes in software license revenues consist of the following components:

•

Software license revenue related to our financial management and education solutions
declined $3.4 million compared to the prior year. We acquired several student information
and financial management solutions for K-12 schools from January through August 2008.
Excluding the impact of these acquisitions software license revenue would have declined
$4.3 million. The decline was due to several factors. In 2009 our sales cycle to
negotiate and close contracts which have reached the



request for proposal phase lengthened
slightly mainly due to budgetary constraints related to declining economic conditions. As
a result the purchasing processes for some of our customers have been extended to include
more approval and documentation requirements. The software installation period for most of
our financial management and education solutions is relatively short and delays in the
timing of signing new contracts will impact our results in the short term. In addition, a
few contracts have included requirements to construct interfaces to existing systems or
other essential functionality which results in recognizing revenue over a longer period of
time. While we expect to continue to experience longer than normal sales cycles in 2010
and continued weakness through mid-2010, we currently expect financial management and
education solutions software license revenues for 2010 to be slightly higher than 2009.

•

Software license revenue related to our courts and justice software solutions increased
$3.7 million in 2009 compared to 2008. Both 2009 and 2008 included approximately $1.7
million of revenue from contracts which had been deferred in accordance with the terms of
these contracts. Courts and justice software license revenues were higher in 2009 due to
contract arrangements that included more software license revenue than in the comparable
prior year periods, slight price increases and improved installation processes as our
primary courts and justice solution matures. In addition approximately $1.0 million of the
increase related to achieving certain milestones for several contracts. We do not expect
similar large adjustments to courts and justice software solutions revenue in 2010 due to
recognition of revenue previously deferred in accordance with contract language. Therefore
we currently expect courts and justice software solutions software license revenue in 2010
to increase at a much slower rate compared to 2009.

Subscriptions.

Subscription-based services revenue primarily consists of revenues derived from
application service provider (“ASP”) arrangements and other hosted service offerings, software
subscriptions and disaster recovery services. ASP and other software subscription agreements are
typically for periods of three to six years and automatically renew unless either party cancels
the agreement. Disaster recovery and miscellaneous other hosted service agreements are typically
renewable annually. New customers for ASP and other hosted service offerings as well as existing
customers who converted to our ASP model provided the majority of the subscription revenue
increase with the remaining increase due to slightly higher rates for disaster recovery services.
In June 2008, as a result of changes in its technology organization, one customer terminated
its ASP arrangement with us and elected, as provided in the ASP contract, to purchase the
software instead. This contract contributed approximately $450,000 of subscription revenue in
each of the first two quarters of 2008.

Software services

. Changes in software services revenues consist of the following components:

•

Software services revenue related to financial management and education solutions, which
comprise approximately 60% of our software services revenue in the periods presented,
increased 5% compared to 2008. We acquired several student information and financial
management solutions for K-12 schools from January through August 2008. Excluding the
impact of these acquisitions, software services revenue increased 3%, which was mainly due
to additions to our implementation and support staff as well as leverage in the utilization
of our implementation and support staff.

•

Software services revenue related to courts and justice solutions comprise approximately
30% of our software services revenues in the periods presented and increased 21% compared to
2008. These increases reflect our increased capacity to deliver backlog following
additions to our implementation and support staff and slightly higher rates on some
arrangements. Also, increased contract volume in our municipal courts software solutions,
primarily in Texas, generated higher related services revenue.

Maintenance

. We provide maintenance and support services for our software products and third
party software. Maintenance revenues increased 16% in 2009 compared to 2008. Maintenance
and support services grew 14% in 2009, excluding the impact of acquisitions. This increase
was due to growth in our installed customer base and slightly higher maintenance rates on
most of our product lines.

Appraisal services

. Appraisal services revenue declined 2% in 2009 compared to 2008. The
appraisal services business is somewhat cyclical and driven in part by statutory revaluation
cycles in various states. We substantially completed several large
appraisal projects mid-2009. We began several new revaluation contracts late 2009 and as a
result currently expect appraisal revenues to increase slightly in 2010.



Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues and those
components stated as a percentage of related revenues for the following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

related

related

Change

($in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Software licenses

$

5,440


%

$

9,224


%

$

(3,784

)

(41)

%

Acquired software

1,411


1,799


(388

)

(22

)

Software services,
maintenance and subscriptions

137,199


126,247


10,952


Appraisal services

11,518


12,251


(733

)

(6

)

Hardware and other

5,955


5,793




Total cost of revenues

$

161,523


%

$

155,314


%

$

6,209


%

The following table sets forth a comparison of gross margin percentage by revenue type for the
periods presented for the following years ended December 31:

Gross margin percentages



Change

Software licenses and acquired software

83.7

%

73.4

%

10.3

%

Software services, maintenance and subscriptions

38.2

35.9

2.3

Appraisal services

38.5

35.9

2.6

Hardware and other

18.6

24.6

(6.0

)

Overall gross margin

44.4

%

41.4

%

3.0

%

Software license and acquired software

. Amortization expense for capitalized development
costs on certain software products comprised approximately 15% of our cost of software license
revenues in 2009 compared to approximately 50% of our cost of software license in 2008. The
remaining balance is made up of third party software costs. Once a product is released, we
begin to amortize, over the estimated useful life of the product, any capitalized costs
associated with its development. Amortization expense is determined on a product-by-product
basis at an annual rate not less than straight-line basis over the product’s estimated life,
which is generally five years. Development costs consist mainly of personnel costs, such as
salary and benefits paid to our developers, and rent for related office space.

Cost of acquired software includes amortization expense for software acquired through
acquisitions. We completed several acquisitions in the period 2007 through 2009 and these
costs are being amortized over a weighted average period of approximately 5 years. In late
2008 software associated with one significant acquisition completed in December 2003 became
fully amortized.

In 2009, our software license gross margin percentage rose significantly compared to the prior year
periods because several products became fully amortized in late 2008, as did software acquired
related to a significant acquisition in December 2003. We did not capitalize any internal software
development costs in 2009 or 2008.

Software services, maintenance and subscription-based services

. Cost of software services,
maintenance and subscriptions primarily consists of personnel costs related to installation of our
software, conversion of customer data, training customer personnel and support activities and
various other services such as ASP and disaster recovery. In 2009, the software services,
maintenance and subscriptions gross margin increased compared to the prior year partly because
maintenance and various other services such as ASP and disaster recovery costs typically grow at a
slower rate than related revenues due to leverage in the utilization of our support and maintenance
staff and economies of scale. We have increased our implementation and support staff for both the
financial management and education solutions and courts and justice solutions by 51 employees since
2008 in order to expand our capacity to implement our contract backlog. This increase was offset
somewhat by 24 fewer employees for appraisal and tax solutions. The



software services, maintenance
and subscription-based services gross margin also benefited from slightly higher rates for certain
services.

Appraisal services

. Our appraisal gross margin increased compared to 2008 as the result of cost
savings and operational efficiencies experienced on an unusually complex project. A high
proportion of the costs of appraisal services revenue are variable, as we often hire temporary
employees to assist in appraisal projects whose term of employment generally ends with the
projects’ completion.

Our blended gross margin for 2009 was higher than 2008 due to lower amortization expense of
software development costs described above. The gross margin also benefited from leverage in the
utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale and slightly higher rates
on certain services.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses consist primarily of salaries, employee
benefits, travel, share-based compensation expense, commissions and related overhead costs for
administrative and sales and marketing employees as well as, professional fees, trade show
activities, advertising costs and other marketing related costs. The following table sets forth a
comparison of our SG&A expenses for the following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Selling, general and
administrative expenses

$

70,115


%

$

62,923


%

$

7,192


%

The increase in SG&A expenses included higher share-based compensation expense, commission
costs and marketing expenses. Marketing expenses in 2009 include costs associated with the launch
of a new corporate branding initiative. Our SG&A employee count increased 4% from 2008.

Research and Development Expense

Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, employee benefits and related
overhead costs associated with product development and enhancements and upgrades provided to
existing customers under maintenance plans. The following table sets forth a comparison of our
research and development expense for the following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Research and development expense

$

11,159


%

$

7,286


%

$

3,873


%

Research and development expense consist mainly of costs associated with the Microsoft
Dynamics AX project, in addition to costs associated with other new product development efforts. We
have increased our research and development staff by 72 employees since 2008. In January 2007, we
entered into a Software Development and License Agreement, which provided for a strategic alliance
with Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”) to jointly develop core public sector functionality for
Microsoft Dynamics AX to address the accounting needs of public sector organizations worldwide. In
September 2007, Tyler and Microsoft signed an amendment to the Software Development and License
Agreement, which grants Microsoft intellectual property rights in and to certain portions of the
software code provided and developed by Tyler into Microsoft Dynamics AX products to be marketed
and sold outside of the public sector in exchange for reimbursement payments to partially offset
the research and development costs.

In 2009 and 2008, we offset our research and development expense by $3.5 million and $1.8 million,
respectively, which were the amounts earned under the terms of our agreement with Microsoft. In
September 2008, Tyler and Microsoft signed a statement of work under the Amended Software
Development and License Agreement for which we currently expect to recognize offsets to our
research and development expense by approximately $850,000 each quarter through the end of 2010.
In addition, in October 2009, the scope of the project was further expanded that will result in
additional offsets to research and development expense, varying in amount from quarter to quarter,
with the first payment to be invoiced on August 31, 2010 and invoiced quarterly through March 31,
2012 for a total of approximately $6.2 million. The actual amount and timing of future research
and development costs and related reimbursements and whether they are capitalized or expensed may
vary.



Non-Cash Legal Settlement Related to Warrants

On June 27, 2008, we settled outstanding litigation related to the Warrants owned by Bank of
America, N. A. (“ BANA”). As disclosed in prior SEC filings, the Warrants entitled BANA to acquire
1.6 million shares of Tyler common stock at an exercise price of $2.50 per share. Following
court-ordered mediation, in July 2008, BANA paid us $2.0 million and we issued to BANA 801,883
restricted shares of Tyler common stock. Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash legal settlement
related to warrants charge of $9.0 million, which was not tax deductible.

Amortization of Customer and Trade Name Intangibles

Acquisition intangibles are comprised of the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of
net tangible assets acquired that is allocated to acquired software and customer and trade name
intangibles. The remaining excess purchase price is allocated to goodwill that is not subject to
amortization. Amortization expense related to acquired software is included with cost of revenues,
while amortization expense of customer and trade name intangibles is recorded as other operating
expense. The estimated useful lives of both customer and trade name intangibles are 5 to 25 years.
The following table sets forth a comparison of amortization of customer and trade name intangibles
for the following years ended December 31:

Change

($in thousands)



$

%

Amortization of customer and trade
name intangibles

$

2,705

$

2,438

$



%

In 2009 we completed several acquisitions and purchased certain software assets to complement
our tax and appraisal solutions and our student information management solutions. These
transactions increased amortizable customer and trade name intangibles by approximately $625,000.
This amount will be amortized over approximately 10 years.

Estimated annual amortization expense relating to customer and trade name acquisition intangibles,
excluding acquired software for which the amortization expense is recorded as cost of revenues, for
the next five years is as follows (in thousands):


$

2,654


2,638


2,586


2,427


2,426

Other

Other (expense) income in 2009 and 2008 includes non-usage and other fees associated with a credit
agreement entered into in October 2008. Other income in 2008 also included $1.1 million of
interest income which declined due to significantly lower invested cash balances in 2009. Our
invested cash balances declined due to purchases of treasury stock and investments in office
facilities in late 2008 and 2009.

Income Tax Provision

The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the following years
ended December 31:

Change

($in thousands)



$

%

Income tax provision

$

17,628

$

14,414

$

3,214


%

Effective income tax rate

39.5

%

49.2

%

Our effective income tax rate declined compared to 2008 mainly due to a non-cash legal
settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million in 2008, which was not deductible. In
addition to the impact of the non-deductible non-cash legal settlement charge in 2008,



the
effective income tax rate for both years were different from the statutory United States federal
income tax rate of 35% due to state income taxes, non-deductible share-based compensation expense,
the qualified manufacturing activities deduction, and non-deductible meals and entertainment costs.

Approximately 40% of our stock option awards qualify as incentive stock options (“ISOs”) for income
tax purposes. As such, a tax benefit is not recorded at the time the compensation cost
related to the options is recorded for book purposes due to the fact that an ISO does not
ordinarily result in a tax benefit unless there is a disqualifying disposition. Non-qualified
stock options result in the creation of a deferred tax asset, which is a temporary difference,
until the time that the option is exercised. Due to the treatment of ISOs for tax purposes,
our effective tax rate from year to year is subject to variability.

2008 Compared to 2007

Revenues

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our revenues for the following
years ended December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($in thousands)


Total


Total

$

%

Software licenses

$

41,490


%

$

35,063


%

$

6,427


%

Subscriptions

14,374


10,406


3,968


Software services

74,997


60,283


14,714


Maintenance

107,458


85,411


22,047


Appraisal services

19,098


21,318


(2,220

)

(10

)

Hardware and other

7,684


7,315




Total revenues

$

265,101


%

$

219,796


%

$

45,305


%

Software licenses

. Software license revenues consist of the following components for the
following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($in thousands)


Total


Total

$

%

Financial management
and education

$

29,124


%

$

27,236


%

$

1,888


%

Courts and justice

10,128


5,987


4,141


Appraisal and tax and other

2,238


1,840




Total software license revenues

$

41,490


%

$

35,063


%

$

6,427


%

Changes in software license revenues consist of the following components:

•

Software license revenue related to our financial management and education solutions for
2008 increased 7% compared to the prior year. Revenue from student information management
solutions as well as student transportation management solutions acquired in the last twelve
months contributed substantially to the increase. The remaining increase was mainly due to
contract arrangements that included more software license revenue than in the past.

•

Software license revenue related to our courts and justice software solutions increased
69% for 2008 compared to the prior year. New statewide contracts in Indiana and New Mexico
contributed approximately two-thirds of the increase. The remaining increase was primarily
due to an expanded presence in the markets for municipal courts software solutions and
public safety software solutions.

Subscriptions.

New ASP customers and existing customers converting to ASP arrangements
provided the majority of the subscription revenue increase with the remaining increase due to new
disaster recovery customers and slightly higher rates for disaster recovery services.



Software services

. Changes in software services revenues consist of the following components:

•

Software services revenue related to financial management and education solutions, which
comprises slightly more than half of our software services revenue in the years presented,
increased substantially compared to 2007. This increase was driven in part by increased
capacity to deliver backlog following additions to our implementation and support staff
since 2007 and due to larger and more complex contracts, which include more programming and
project management services. In addition, we acquired a student transportation management
solution in January 2008 which contributed approximately $3.9 million to software service
revenues in 2008. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, we added approximately 95
employees to our financial management and education implementation and training staff
during 2008.

•

Software services revenue related to our courts and justice solutions experienced strong
increases compared to 2007, reflecting increased capacity to deliver backlog following
additions to our implementation and support staff since mid-2007. In addition, increased
contract volume for municipal courts software solutions and public safety software
solutions also generated higher related services revenue. We added approximately 12
employees to our courts and justice implementation and training staff during 2008.

Maintenance

. Maintenance revenues increased 26% in 2008 compared to 2007. Excluding the impact
of acquisitions, maintenance and support services grew 16% in 2008. This increase was due
to growth in our installed customer base and slightly higher maintenance rates on most of
our product lines.

Appraisal services

. Appraisal services revenue declined 10% in 2008 compared to 2007. In late
2007, we substantially completed several projects related to the Ohio revaluation cycle, which
occurs every six years, as well as a few other large contracts. Appraisal revenues for the first
six months of 2008 were down 23% compared to the first six months of 2007. In mid-2008 we began
a complete reappraisal of real property in Orleans Parish, Louisiana. As a result of this
contract and an overall increase in contract volume, appraisal revenues for the last six months
of 2008 increased 4% over the last six months of 2007.



Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues and those
components stated as a percentage of related revenues for the following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

related

related

Change

($in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Software licenses

$

9,224


%

$

7,953


%

$

1,271


%

Acquired software

1,799


2,279


(480

)

(21

)

Software services, maintenance
and subscriptions

126,247


104,993


21,254


Appraisal services

12,251


14,467


(2,216

)

(15

)

Hardware and other

5,793


5,679




Total cost of revenues

$

155,314


%

$

135,371


%

$

19,943


%

The following table sets forth a comparison of gross margin percentage by revenue type for the
periods presented for the following years ended December 31:

Gross margin percentages



Change

Software licenses and acquired software

73.4

%

70.8

%

2.6

%

Software services, maintenance and subscriptions

35.9

32.7

3.2

Appraisal services

35.9

32.1

3.8

Hardware and other

24.6

22.4

2.2

Overall gross margin

41.4

%

38.4

%

3.0

%

Software license

. In 2008, our software license gross margin percentage rose compared to the
prior year mainly due to strong license fee revenue increases. Because approximately one-half
of our cost of software license revenues in both periods is comprised of amortization of
capitalized development costs, increased license fee revenues inherently result in higher
gross margins.

Software services, maintenance and subscription-based services

. In 2008, the software services,
maintenance and subscriptions gross margin increased compared to the prior year partly because
maintenance and various other services such as ASP and disaster recovery costs typically grow
at a slower rate than related revenues due to leverage in the utilization of our support and
maintenance staff and economies of scale. We have increased our implementation and support
staff by 215 employees during 2008 in order to expand our capacity to implement our contract
backlog. This increase includes 102 employees related to acquisitions completed in 2008.

Appraisal services

. Our appraisal gross margin for 2008 is higher than the prior year due to cost
savings associated with a significant complex reappraisal project.

Our blended gross margin in 2008 was higher than the prior year in large part due to leverage in
the utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale, with resulting
increases in gross margin for each revenue category.



Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

The following table sets forth a comparison of our SG&A expenses for the following years ended
December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Selling, general and
administrative expenses

$

62,923


%

$

51,724


%

$

11,199


%

Excluding the impact of acquisitions, our SG&A employee count increased 9% during 2008.

Research and Development Expense

The following table sets forth a comparison of our research and development expense for the
following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Research and development expense

$

7,286


%

$

4,443


%

$

2,843


%

Research and development expense consist mainly of costs associated with the Microsoft
Dynamics AX project, in addition to costs associated with other new product development efforts.
In 2008 and 2007, we offset our research and development expense by $1.8 million and $1.6 million,
respectively, which were the amounts earned under the terms of our research and development
agreement with Microsoft.

Non-Cash Legal Settlement Related to Warrants

On June 27, 2008, we settled outstanding litigation related to the Warrants owned by BANA. The
Warrants entitled BANA to acquire 1.6 million shares of Tyler common stock at an exercise price of
$2.50 per share. Following court-ordered mediation, in July 2008, BANA paid us $2.0 million and we
issued to BANA 801,883 restricted shares of Tyler common stock. Accordingly, we recorded a
non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million, which was not tax deductible.

Amortization of Customer and Trade Name Intangibles

The following table sets forth a comparison of amortization of customer and trade name intangibles
for the following years ended December 31:

Change

($in thousands)



$

%

Amortization of customer and trade
name intangibles

$

2,438

$

1,478

$



%

In 2008, we completed three acquisitions, which increased amortizable customer and trade name
intangibles by $12.3 million.

Other

Interest income was the main component of other income in both 2008 and 2007. Other income in 2008
also includes non-usage and other fees associated with a credit agreement entered into in October
2008. Interest income in 2008 was $1.1 million compared to $1.8 million in 2007. Interest income
declined due to lower invested cash balances and slightly lower interest rates. Our invested cash
balances declined due to purchases of treasury stock and investments in office facilities in 2008.



Income Tax Provision

The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the following years
ended December 31:

Change

($in thousands)



$

%

Income Tax Provision

$

14,414

$

11,079

$

3,335


%

Effective income tax rate

49.2

%

38.8

%

Our effective income tax rate increased approximately twelve points compared to the prior year
due to a non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million, which was not
deductible. The effective income tax rates were different from the statutory United States federal
income tax rate of 35% primarily due to non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge which
was not deductible, as well as state income taxes, non-deductible share-based compensation expense,
the qualified manufacturing activities deduction, and non-deductible meals and entertainment costs.

BUSINESS SEGMENT DISCUSSION

Enterprise Software Solutions


% change


% change


Revenue

$

250,059


%

$

225,887


%

$

182,065

Gross Margin

$

114,309

$

97,214

$

71,684

Gross Margin percentage


%


%


%

Segment Operating Income

$

55,639


%

$

47,698


%

$

34,833

In 2009 software license revenues were flat compared to 2008. Growth in recurring revenues
from subscription-based services and maintenance experienced a 14% increase, excluding the impact
of acquisitions, and was the primary factor for the increase in overall revenue and segment
operating income for the Enterprise Software Solutions segment. This increase was due to growth
in our installed customer base and slightly higher maintenance rates on most of our product lines.
New customers for ASP and other hosted service offerings as well as existing customers converting
to ASP arrangements and slightly higher rates for disaster recovery services also contributed to
this increase. The gross margin and segment operating income rose in 2009 due to lower
amortization expense of software development costs. The gross margin and segment operating income
also benefited from leverage in the utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies
of scale and slightly higher rates on certain services.

In 2008 software license revenues were 18% higher than 2007 mainly due to higher courts and
justice contract volume as a result of an expanded presence in Indiana and New Mexico. 2008
software license revenue also benefitted from student information management solutions and
transportation solutions acquired in early 2008. Excluding the impact of acquisitions in
2008, revenues from subscription-based arrangements and maintenance grew by 19% compared to
2007 primarily due to growth in our customer base. Our gross margin and segment operating
income in 2008 was higher than 2007 in large part due to leverage in the utilization of our
support and maintenance staff and economies of scale and higher software license revenues.

Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services


% change


% change


Revenue

$

40,776


%

$

38,868


%

$

38,649

Gross Margin

$

15,489

$

13,231

$

12,966

Gross Margin percentage


%


%


%

Segment Operating Income

$

6,949


%

$

5,448


%

$

5,040

In 2009 overall revenues for the Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and Services segment
increased compared to 2008 mainly due to a 16% increase in subscription-based arrangements and
maintenance due to growth in our customer base and slightly higher rates. Excluding the results
of acquisitions, subscription-based arrangements and maintenance increased 15% compared to 2008.
This



increase was offset slightly by 2% lower appraisal services. The appraisal services business
is somewhat cyclical and driven in part by scheduled revaluation cycles in various states. We
substantially completed several large appraisal projects mid-2009. Our appraisal gross margin and
segment operating income increased compared to 2008 as the result of cost savings and operational
efficiencies experienced on an unusually complex appraisal project. A high proportion of the costs
of appraisal services revenue are variable, as we often hire temporary employees to assist in
appraisal projects whose term of employment generally ends with the projects’ completion.

Overall appraisal and tax revenues in 2008 were flat compared to 2007. Although maintenance
revenues increased 8%, appraisal services revenues declined 10%. In late 2007, we substantially
completed several appraisal projects related to the Ohio revaluation cycle, which occurs every six
years, as well as a few other large contracts. The gross margin for 2008 was flat compared to 2007
due to cost savings associated with a significant complex reappraisal project which offset declines
from lower contract volume.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY

As of December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents (including restricted cash equivalents)
of $15.7 million and current and non-current investments of $2.0 million, compared to cash and cash
equivalents (including restricted cash equivalents) of $6.8 million and current and non-current
investments of $4.6 million at December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, we had no outstanding
borrowings and outstanding letters of credit totaling $7.3 million to secure surety bonds required
by some of our customer contracts. These letters of credit expire through mid-2010.

The following table sets forth a summary of cash flows for the years ended December 31:

($in thousands)




Cash flows provided by (used by):

Operating activities

$

42,941

$

47,802

$

34,111

Investing activities

(13,658

)

(9,554

)

(34,275

)

Financing activities

(21,349

)

(46,128

)

(7,406

)

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

$

7,934

$

(7,880

)

$

(7,570

)

Net cash provided by operating activities continues to be our primary source of funds to
finance operating needs and capital expenditures. Other capital resources include cash on hand,
public and private issuances of debt and equity securities, and bank borrowings. The capital and
credit markets have become more volatile and tightened as a result of adverse conditions that have
caused the failure and near failure of a number of large financial services companies. It is
possible that our ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited by these or other
factors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we believe that cash provided by operating activities,
cash on hand and our revolving credit agreement are sufficient to fund our working capital
requirements, capital expenditures, income tax obligations, and share repurchases for the
foreseeable future.

In 2009, operating activities provided net cash of $42.9 million, primarily generated from net
income of $27.0 million, non-cash depreciation and amortization charges of $9.5 million, non-cash
share-based compensation expense of $5.0 million and a decrease in working capital of $2.7 million
offset slightly by a $1.7 million decrease related to deferred income taxes. Working capital
declined due to higher accounts payable and accrued liabilities pertaining to timing of payments on
vendor invoices and income tax liabilities and an accrued liability of $1.8 million for a retention
payment related to construction of an office building. Other sources of working capital were
deferred revenue related to December maintenance billings and a decrease in prepaid expenses.
These working capital declines were offset somewhat by an increase in annual software maintenance
billings as a result of growth in our installed customer base. The increase in accounts receivable
was offset slightly by the collection of several large customer billings, one of which had been
outstanding for over twelve months.

Cash flows provided by operating activities in 2008 included several advance payments from
customers. In general, changes in the balance of deferred revenue are cyclical and primarily
driven by the timing of our maintenance renewal billings. Our renewal dates occur throughout the
year but our heaviest renewal cycles occur in the second and fourth quarters.

Non-current investments available-for-sale consist of two auction rate municipal securities (“ARS”)
which are collateralized debt obligations supported by municipal and state agencies and do not
include mortgage-backed securities. Short-term investments



available-for-sale consists of the
portion of one of these ARS which was partially redeemed at par during the period January 1,
2010 through February 22, 2010. These ARS are debt instruments with stated maturities
ranging from 22 to 33 years, for which the interest rate is designed to be reset through Dutch
auctions approximately every 30 days. However, due to events in the credit markets, auctions
for these securities have not occurred since February 2008. Both of our ARS have had very
small partial redemptions at par in the period from July 2009 through February 2010. As of
December 31, 2009 we have continued to earn and collect interest on both of our ARS. Because
quoted prices in active markets are no longer available we determined the estimated fair
values of these securities utilizing a discounted trinomial model. The model considers the
probability of three potential occurrences for each auction event through the maturity date of
each ARS. The three potential outcomes for each auction are (i) successful auction/early
redemption, (ii) failed auction and (iii) issuer default. Inputs in determining the
probabilities of the potential outcomes include but are not limited to, the securities’
collateral, credit rating, insurance, issuer’s financial standing, contractual restrictions on
disposition and the liquidity in the market. The fair value of each ARS is determined by
summing the present value of the probability-weighted future principal and interest payments
determined by the model. Since there can be no assurances that auctions for these securities
will be successful in the near future, we have classified our ARS as non-current investments.

In association with this estimate of fair value, we have recorded an after-tax temporary unrealized
loss on our non-current ARS of $18,000, net of related tax effects of $10,000 in 2009, which is
included in accumulated other comprehensive loss on our balance sheet. The unrealized loss
includes the impact of adjusting previously recorded unrealized losses of approximately $120,000,
net of related tax effects of $65,000 as of December 31, 2008 for several ARS which were
subsequently redeemed for $2.5 million at par during 2009.

We consider the impairment in our ARS as temporary because we do not have the intent to sell,
nor is it more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell these securities before recovery of
their cost basis. We believe that this temporary decline in fair value is due entirely to
liquidity issues, because the underlying assets of these securities are supported by municipal and
state agencies and do not include mortgage-backed securities, have redemption features which call
for redemption at 100% of par value and have a current credit rating of A or AAA. The ratings on
the ARS take into account credit support through insurance policies guaranteeing each of the bonds’
payment of principal and accrued interest, if it becomes necessary. In addition, both ARS have had
very small partial redemptions at par in the period July 2009 through February 2010. Based on
our cash and cash equivalents balance of $15.7 million and expected operating cash flows, we do not
believe a lack of liquidity associated with our ARS will adversely affect our ability to conduct
business, and believe we have the ability to hold the securities throughout the currently estimated
recovery period. We will continue to evaluate any changes in the market value of our ARS and in
the future, depending upon existing market conditions, we may be required to record an
other-than-temporary decline in market value.

At December 31, 2009, our days sales outstanding (“DSOs”) were 98 days compared to DSOs of 99 days
at December 31, 2008. DSOs are calculated based on accounts receivable (excluding long-term
receivables, but including unbilled receivables) divided by the quotient of annualized quarterly
revenues divided by 360 days.

Investing activities used cash of $13.7 million in 2009 compared to $9.6 million in 2008. In
connection with plans to consolidate our workforce and support planned long-term growth, we paid
$9.4 million for construction of an office building and expect to pay the final retainage of $1.8
million by mid-2010. We also liquidated $2.5 million of investments in ARS for cash at par. In
2009 we completed the acquisition of all of the capital stock of Assessment Evaluation Services,
Inc. for $1.1 million in cash, paid $700,000 in cash for certain assets of KPL, Inc. d/b/a
Parker-Lowe & Associates and acquired various software assets for $1.1 million in cash. Capital
expenditures and acquisitions were funded from cash generated from operations.

In 2008, we liquidated $36.4 million of ARS investments for cash at par, and we completed the
acquisitions of School Information Systems, Inc., VersaTrans Solutions Inc. and certain assets of
Olympia Computing Company, Inc. d/b/a Schoolmaster to expand our presence in the education market.
The combined purchase price, excluding cash acquired and including transaction costs, was
approximately $23.9 million in cash and approximately 196,000 shares of Tyler common stock valued
at $2.9 million. We paid $3.3 million, which included $2.1 million for land, for an office
development. We also paid $12.7 million for an office building, land, and a related tenant lease
in Yarmouth, Maine.

Cash used in financing activities was primarily comprised of purchases of treasury shares, net of
proceeds from stock option exercises, payments on our revolving credit line and contributions from
our employee stock purchase plan. During 2009, we purchased 1.2 million shares of our common stock
for an aggregate purchase price of $17.0 million. We also paid $1.3 million for common stock
repurchases accrued as of December 31, 2008.



The repurchase program, which was approved by our board of directors, was announced in October
2002, and was amended in April and July 2003, October 2004, October 2005, May 2007, May 2008,
October 2008 and May 2009. Our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 2.0
million shares on May 14, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had remaining authorization to
repurchase up to 2.3 million additional shares of our common stock. Our share repurchase program
allows us to repurchase shares at our discretion and market conditions influence the timing of the
buybacks and the number of shares repurchased. These share repurchases are funded using our
existing cash balances as well as borrowings under our revolving credit agreement and may occur
through open market purchase and transactions structured through investment banking institutions,
privately negotiated transactions and/or other mechanisms. There is no expiration date specified
for the authorization and we intend to repurchase stock under the plan from time to time. Our bank
credit agreement contains restrictions on the amount of common stock we may purchase.

During 2008, we purchased 4.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of
$59.0 million.

In 2009 we issued 425,000 shares of common stock and received $2.3 million in aggregate proceeds
upon exercise of stock options. In 2008 we received $1.8 million from the exercise of options to
purchase approximately 379,000 shares of our common stock under our employee stock option plan and
during 2007, we received $3.6 million from the exercise of options to purchase approximately
878,000 shares of our common stock under our employee stock option plan. In 2009 we received $1.5
million from contributions to the Tyler Technologies, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”).
In both 2008 and 2007, we received $1.2 million from contributions to the ESPP.

Subsequent to December 31, 2009 and through February 22, 2010 we purchased approximately 59,000
shares of our common stock for an aggregate cash purchase price of $1.1 million.

In October 2008, we entered into a revolving bank credit agreement (the “Credit Facility”) and a
related pledge and security agreement which originally matured October 19, 2009. We amended and
extended the related pledge and security agreement in October 2009. The Credit Facility matures
October 18, 2010 and provides for total borrowings of up to $25.0 million and a $10.0 million
Letter of Credit facility which can either be cash collateralized or issued using availability
under the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our property.
The Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial conditions
and prohibits us from making certain investments, advances, cash dividends or loans, restricts the
amount of our common stock we may purchase and limits incurrence of additional indebtedness and
liens. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with those covenants. We expect borrowings
to fund discretionary purchases of our common stock or fund acquisitions.

As of December 31, 2009, we had no outstanding borrowings and unused available borrowing
capacity of $23.7 million under the Credit Facility. In addition, as of December 31, 2009,
our bank had issued outstanding letters of credit totaling $7.3 million to secure surety bonds
required by some of our customer contracts. These letters of credit have been collateralized
by restricted cash balances of $6.0 million and $1.3 million of our available borrowing
capacity and expire through mid-2010.

We paid income taxes, net of refunds received, of $18.1 million in 2009, $15.7 million in 2008, and
$8.7 million in 2007.

In the first quarter of 2010 we acquired all the assets of Wiznet, Inc. (“Wiznet”) for a cash
purchase price of $9.5 million. Wiznet provides electronic document filing solutions for courts
and law offices throughout the United States and is currently integrated with our primary courts
and justice solution. We have not finalized the allocation of the purchase price.

Excluding acquisitions and final retainage payment of $1.8 million for an office building, we
anticipate that 2010 capital spending will be between $3.7 million and $4.2 million. We
expect the majority of our capital spending in 2010 will consist of computer equipment and
software for infrastructure expansion. We currently do not expect to capitalize significant
amounts related to software development in 2010, but the actual amount and timing of those
costs, and whether they are capitalized or expensed may result in additional capitalized
software development. Capital spending in 2010 is expected to be funded from existing cash
balances and cash flows from operations.

From time to time we engage in discussions with potential acquisition candidates. In order to
pursue such opportunities, which could require significant commitments of capital, we may be
required to incur debt or to issue additional potentially dilutive securities in the future. No
assurance can be given as to our future acquisition opportunities and how such opportunities will
be financed.

We lease office facilities, as well as transportation, computer and other equipment used in our
operations under non-cancelable operating lease agreements expiring at various dates through 2014.
Most leases contain renewal options and some contain purchase



options. Following are the future
obligations under non-cancelable leases at December 31, 2009 (in thousands):






Thereafter

Total

Future rental payments under operating leases

$

6,033

$

5,265

$

3,954

$

2,365

$

1,721

$

—

$

19,338

As of December 31, 2009, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, guarantees to
third parties or material purchase commitments, except for the operating lease commitments listed
above.

CAPITALIZATION

At December 31, 2009, our capitalization consisted of $134.4 million of shareholders’ equity.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In September 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2009-13, Multiple Element
Arrangements. ASU 2009-13 addresses the determination of when the individual deliverables included
in a multiple arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting. ASU 2009-13 also
modifies the manner in which the transaction consideration is allocated across separately
identified deliverables and establishes definitions for determining fair value of elements in an
arrangement. This new update is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010.
Early adoption is allowed. The new standard may impact our application service
 provider arrangements to recognize revenues, such as installation and data conversion, which are
generally provided at the beginning of the arrangement as incurred instead of ratably over the life
of the initial hosting term. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material
impact on our financial condition or results of operation.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

Market risk represents the risk of loss that may affect us due to adverse changes in financial
market prices and interest rates. Our investments available-for-sale consist of auction rate
municipal securities (“ARS”) which are collateralized debt obligations supported by municipal and
state agencies and do not include mortgage-backed securities.

Non-current investments available-for-sale consist of two ARS with stated maturities ranging from
22 to 33 years, for which the interest rate is designed to be reset through Dutch auctions
approximately every 30 days which would have qualified as Level 1 under ASC 820, Fair Value
Measurements. However, due to events in the credit markets, auctions for these securities have not
occurred since February 2008. Therefore, quoted prices in active markets are no longer available
and we determined the estimated fair values of these securities as of December 31, 2009, utilizing
a discounted trinomial model.

In association with this estimate of fair value, we have recorded an after-tax temporary unrealized
loss on our non-current ARS of $18,000, net of related tax effects of $10,000 in 2009, which is
included in accumulated other comprehensive loss on our balance sheet. The unrealized loss
includes the impact of adjusting previously recorded unrealized losses of approximately $120,000,
net of related tax effects of $65,000 as of December 31, 2008 for several ARS which were
subsequently redeemed for $2.5 million at par during 2009. We consider the impairment in our ARS
as temporary because we do not have the intent to sell, nor is it more-likely-than-not that we will
be required to sell these securities before recovery of their cost basis. We believe that this
temporary decline in fair value is due entirely to liquidity issues, because the underlying assets
of these securities are supported by municipal and state agencies and do not include
mortgage-backed securities, have redemption features which call for redemption at 100% of par value
and have a current credit rating of A or AAA. The ratings on the ARS take into account credit
support through insurance policies guaranteeing each of the bonds’ payment of principal and accrued
interest, if it becomes necessary. In addition, both ARS have had very small partial redemptions
at par in the period July 2009 through February 2010. Based on our cash and cash equivalents
balance of $15.7 million and expected operating cash flows, we do not believe a lack of liquidity
associated with our ARS will adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and believe we have
the ability to hold the securities throughout the currently estimated recovery period. We will
continue to evaluate any changes in the market value of our ARS and in the future, depending upon
existing market conditions, we may be required to record an other-than-temporary decline in market
value.



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

The reports of our independent registered public accounting firm and our financial statements,
related notes, and supplementary data are included as part of this Annual Report beginning on page
F-1.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

— We maintain disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act) designed to
provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we
file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the
time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. These include controls and procedures
designed to ensure that this information is accumulated and communicated to our management,
including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosures. Management, with the participation of the chief
executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure
controls and procedures as of December 31, 2009. Based on this evaluation the chief
executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of December 31, 2009.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

— Tyler’s management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting as
defined in Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Tyler’s internal control over financial
reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance to Tyler’s management and board of directors
regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only
reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.

Management assessed the effectiveness of Tyler’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in

Internal Control -
Integrated Framework

. Based on our assessment, we concluded that, as of December 31, 2009, Tyler’s
internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.

Tyler’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 has been audited by Ernst
& Young LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm who also audited Tyler’s financial
statements. Ernst & Young’s attestation report on Tyler’s internal control over financial
reporting appears on page F-2 hereof.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

— During the quarter ended December 31, 2009,
there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Securities
Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f), that are materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION.

None.



PART III

See the information under the following captions in Tyler’s definitive Proxy Statement, which is
incorporated herein by reference. Only those sections of the Proxy Statement that specifically
address the items set forth herein are incorporated by reference. Such incorporation by reference
does not include the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the Compensation Committee Report or the
Audit Committee Report which are included in the Proxy Statement.

Headings in Proxy Statement

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.

“Tyler Management” and “Corporate
Governance Principles and Board
Matters”

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

“Executive Compensation”

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

“Security Ownership of Certain  Beneficial Owners and Management”

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.

“Executive Compensation “ and
“Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions”

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.

The information required under this item may be found under the section captioned “Proposals For
Consideration — Proposal Three — Ratification of Ernst & Young LLP as Our Independent Auditors for
Fiscal Year 2010” in our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.

The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report:

(a)

(1) The financial statements are filed as part of this Annual Report.

Page

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-1

Statements of Operations for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

F-3

Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008

F-4

Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

F-5

Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

F-6

Notes to Financial Statements

F-7

(2)

Financial statement schedules:

There are no financial statement schedules filed as part of this
Annual Report, since the required information is included in the
financial statements, including the notes thereto, or the
circumstances requiring inclusion of such schedules are not
present.

(3)

Exhibits

Certain of the exhibits to this Annual Report are hereby
incorporated by reference, as specified:

Exhibit

Number

Description

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Tyler Three, as
amended through May 14, 1990, and Certificate of
Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 1990, and incorporated by reference
herein).

3.2

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our Form 8-K, dated
February 19, 1998, and incorporated by reference herein).

3.3

Amended and Restated By-Laws of Tyler Corporation, dated
November 4, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 3.3 to our Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 1997, and incorporated by
reference herein).



Exhibit

Number

Description

3.4

Certificate of Amendment dated May 19, 1999 to the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation (filed as Exhibit 3.4 to our
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, and
incorporated by reference herein).

4.1

Specimen of Common Stock Certificate (filed as Exhibit 4.1
to our registration statement no. 33-33505 and incorporated
by reference herein).

4.2

Second Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Credit
Agreement by and between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Bank
of Texas, N.A. dated August 21, 2009 (filed as Exhibit 4.1
to our Form 10-Q for the three months ended September 30,
2009 and incorporated by reference herein).

4.3

First Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Pledge
and Security Agreement by and between Tyler Technologies,
Inc. and Bank of Texas, N.A. dated October 19, 2009 (filed
as Exhibit 4.3 to our Form 10-Q for the three months ended
September 30, 2009 and incorporated by reference herein).

4.4

Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement by and between
Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Bank of Texas, N.A. dated
October 19, 2009 (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to our Form 10-Q for
the three months ended September 30, 2009 and incorporated
by reference herein).

10.1

Form of Indemnification Agreement for directors and
officers (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2002 and incorporated by reference
herein).

10.2

Stock Option Plan amended and restated as of May 12, 2000
(filed as Exhibit 4.1 to our registration statement
no. 333-98929 and incorporated by reference herein).

10.3

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and John S. Marr Jr. dated February 26,
2008 (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to our Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2007 and incorporated by reference
herein).

10.4

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and Dustin R. Womble dated February 26,
2008 (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to our Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2007 and incorporated by reference
herein).

10.5

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and Brian K. Miller, dated February 26,
2008 (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to our Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2007 and incorporated by reference
herein).

10.6

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and H. Lynn Moore dated February 26,
2008 (filed as Exhibit 10.8 to our Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2007 and incorporated by reference
herein).



Exhibit

Number

Description

10.7

Employee Stock Purchase Plan (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to our
registration statement 333-116406 dated June 10, 2004 and
incorporated by reference herein).

*23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

*31.1

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Principal Executive Officer.

*31.2

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Principal Financial Officer.

*32

Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer
and Principal Financial Officer.

*

—  Filed herewith.

A copy of each exhibit may be obtained at a price of 15 cents per page, with a $10.00 minimum
order, by writing Investor Relations, 5949 Sherry Lane, Suite 1400, Dallas, Texas, 75225.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.





REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Tyler Technologies, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Tyler Technologies, Inc. as of December 31, 2009
and 2008, and the related statements of operations, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Tyler Technologies, Inc. at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), Tyler Technologies, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February
25, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas

February 25, 2010

F-1


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Tyler Technologies, Inc.

We have audited Tyler Technologies, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Tyler
Technologies, Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting included in the accompanying “Managements’ Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting.” Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk,
and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Tyler Technologies, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the balance sheets of Tyler Technologies, Inc. as of December 31, 2009 and
2008, and the related statements of operations, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 and our report dated February 25, 2010
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas

February 25, 2010

F-2


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Statements of Operations

For the years ended December 31

In thousands, except per share amounts




Revenues:

Software licenses

$

42,131

$

41,490

$

35,063

Subscriptions

17,181

14,374

10,406

Software services

80,405

74,997

60,283

Maintenance

124,512

107,458

85,411

Appraisal services

18,740

19,098

21,318

Hardware and other

7,317

7,684

7,315

Total revenues

290,286

265,101

219,796

Cost of revenues:

Software licenses

5,440

9,224

7,953

Acquired software

1,411

1,799

2,279

Software services, maintenance and subscriptions

137,199

126,247

104,993

Appraisal services

11,518

12,251

14,467

Hardware and other

5,955

5,793

5,679

Total cost of revenues

161,523

155,314

135,371

Gross profit

128,763

109,787

84,425

Selling, general and administrative expenses

70,115

62,923

51,724

Research and development expense

11,159

7,286

4,443

Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles

2,705

2,438

1,478

Non-cash legal settlement related to warrants

—

9,045

—

Operating income

44,784

28,095

26,780

Other (expense) income, net

(146

)

1,181

1,800

Income before income taxes

44,638

29,276

28,580

Income tax provision

17,628

14,414

11,079

Net income

$

27,010

$

14,862

$

17,501

Earnings per common share:

Basic

$

0.77

$

0.39

$

0.45

Diluted

$

0.74

$

0.38

$

0.42

Basic weighted average common shares outstanding

35,240

37,714

38,735

Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding

36,624

39,184

41,352

See accompanying notes.

F-3


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Balance Sheets

December 31

In thousands, except share and per share amounts



ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

9,696

$

1,762

Restricted cash equivalents

6,000

5,082

Short-term investments available-for-sale



Accounts receivable (less allowance for losses of $2,389 in 2009
and $2,115 in 2008)

81,245

76,989

Prepaid expenses

7,921

8,602

Other current assets

1,437

1,444

Deferred income taxes

3,338

2,570

Total current assets

109,687

97,224

Accounts receivable, long-term portion

1,018


Property and equipment, net

35,750

26,522

Non-current investments available-for-sale

1,976

3,779

Other assets:

Goodwill

90,258

88,791

Customer related intangibles, net

25,490

27,438

Software, net

4,218

5,112

Trade name, net

2,063

2,471

Sundry



$

270,670

$

251,761

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

3,807

$

2,617

Accrued liabilities

26,110

22,913

Short-term revolving line of credit

—

8,000

Deferred revenue

99,116

95,773

Income taxes payable



Total current liabilities

129,253

129,469

Deferred income taxes

7,059

8,030

Commitments and contingencies

Shareholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, $10.00 par value; 1,000,000 shares authorized,
none issued

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; 100,000,000 shares authorized;
48,147,969 shares issued in 2009 and 2008



Additional paid-in capital

153,734

151,245

Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax

(405

)

(387

)

Retained earnings

77,504

50,494

Treasury stock, at cost; 13,027,838 and 12,333,549 shares
in 2009 and 2008, respectively

(96,956

)

(87,571

)

Total shareholders’ equity

134,358

114,262

$

270,670

$

251,761

See accompanying notes.

F-4


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Statements of Shareholders’ Equity

For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

In thousands

Accumulated

Additional

Other

Total

Common  Stock

Paid-in

Comprehensive

Retained

Treasury Stock

Shareholders’

Shares

Amount

Capital

Income (Loss)

Earnings

Shares

Amount

Equity

Balance at December 31, 2006

48,148

$


$

151,627

$

(10

)

$

18,131

(9,256

)

$

(44,354

)

$

125,875

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

17,501

—

—

17,501

Unrealized gain on investment
securities, net of tax

—

—

—


—

—

—


Total comprehensive income

17,511

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plan

—

—

(7,339

)

—

—


10,928

3,589

Stock compensation

—

—

2,365

—

—

—

—

2,365

Treasury stock purchases

—

—

—

—

—

(1,250

)

(16,163

)

(16,163

)

Issuance of shares pursuant to
Employee Stock Purchase Plan

—

—

(2

)

—

—


1,119

1,117

Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—

2,917

—

—

—

—

2,917

Balance at December 31, 2007

48,148


149,568

—

35,632

(9,528

)

(48,470

)

137,211

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

14,862

—

—

14,862

Unrealized loss on investment
securities, net of tax

—

—

—

(387

)

—

—

—

(387

)

Total comprehensive income

14,475

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plan

—

—

(3,495

)

—

—


5,310

1,815

Stock compensation

—

—

3,820

—

—

—

—

3,820

Treasury stock purchases

—

—

—

—

—

(4,283

)

(58,984

)

(58,984

)

Issuance of shares pursuant to
Employee Stock Purchase Plan

—

—

(186

)

—

—


1,376

1,190

Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—


—

—

—

—


Issuance of shares in connection
with legal settlement

—

—


—

—


10,595

11,050

Issuance of shares for acquisitions

—

—


—

—


2,602

2,863

Balance at December 31, 2008

48,148


151,245

(387

)

50,494

(12,333

)

(87,571

)

114,262

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

27,010

—

—

27,010

Unrealized loss on investment
securities, net of tax

—

—

—

(18

)

—

—

—

(18

)

Total comprehensive income

26,992

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plan

—

—

(3,774

)

—

—


6,069

2,295

Stock compensation

—

—

5,045

—

—

—

—

5,045

Treasury stock purchases

—

—

—

—

(1,235

)

(17,000

)

(17,000

)

Issuance of shares pursuant to
Employee Stock Purchase Plan

—

—

(118

)

—

—


1,546

1,428

Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—

1,336

—

—

—

—

1,336

Balance at December 31, 2009

48,148

$


$

153,734

$

(405

)

$

77,504

(13,028

)

$

(96,956

)

$

134,358

See accompanying notes.

F-5


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Statements of Cash Flows

For the years ended December 31

In thousands




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

27,010

$

14,862

$

17,501

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

9,497

12,611

11,211

Non-cash legal settlement related to warrants

—

9,045

—

Share-based compensation expense

5,045

3,820

2,365

Provision for losses — accounts receivable

1,538

1,764


Excess tax benefit from exercises of share-based arrangements

(1,125

)

(666

)

(1,891

)

Deferred income tax benefit

(1,730

)

(2,151

)

(1,598

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, exclusive of
effects of acquired companies:

Accounts receivable

(6,277

)

(11,853

)

(1,575

)

Income tax payable

1,391


3,919

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

1,377

(338

)

(304

)

Accounts payable

1,190

(870

)

(1,955

)

Accrued liabilities

1,960

3,420

(1,619

)

Deferred revenue

3,065

17,331

7,304

Net cash provided by operating activities

42,941

47,802

34,111

Cash flows from investing activities:

Proceeds from sales of investments

2,500

45,065

45,480

Purchases of investments

—

(8,625

)

(67,545

)

Cost of acquisitions, net of cash acquired

(2,934

)

(23,868

)

(9,005

)

Additions to property and equipment

(12,352

)

(20,143

)

(3,678

)

Investment in software development costs

—

—

(167

)

Acquired lease

—

(1,387

)

—

(Increase) decrease in restricted investments

(918

)

(620

)


Decrease in other




Net cash used by investing activities

(13,658

)

(9,554

)

(34,275

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

(Decrease) increase in net borrowings on revolving credit facility

(8,000

)

8,000

—

Purchase of treasury shares

(18,263

)

(59,847

)

(14,037

)

Contributions from employee stock purchase plan

1,494

1,233

1,151

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

2,295

1,815

3,589

Excess tax benefits from exercise of share-based arrangements

1,125


1,891

Warrant exercise in connection with legal settlement

—

2,005

—

Net cash used by financing activities

(21,349

)

(46,128

)

(7,406

)

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

7,934

(7,880

)

(7,570

)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

1,762

9,642

17,212

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

9,696

$

1,762

$

9,642

See accompanying notes.

F-6


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Notes to Financial Statements

(Tables in thousands, except per share data)

(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

We provide integrated software systems and related services for the public sector, with a focus on
local governments. We develop and market a broad line of software solutions and services to address
the information technology (“IT”) needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government
entities. In addition, we provide professional IT services, including software and hardware
installation, data conversion, training, and for certain customers, product modifications, along
with continuing maintenance and support for customers using our systems. We also provide
subscription-based services such as application service provider arrangements and other hosting
services as well as property appraisal outsourcing services for taxing jurisdictions.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash in excess of that necessary for operating requirements is invested in short-term, highly
liquid, income-producing investments. Investments with original maturities of three months or less
are classified as cash and cash equivalents, which primarily consist of money market funds. Cash
and cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates market value.

As of December 31, 2009, we had issued outstanding letters of credit totaling $7.3 million in
connection with our surety bond program. These letters of credit have been collateralized by
restricted cash balances of $6.0 million and $1.3 million of our available borrowing capacity. We
do not believe these letters of credit will be required to be drawn upon. The letters of credit
expire through mid-2010.

INVESTMENTS

Investments consist of auction rate municipal securities. These investments are classified as
available-for-sale securities and are stated at fair value in accordance with Accounting Standards
Codification (“ASC”) 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures. Unrealized holding gains and
losses, net of the related tax effect, if any, are not reflected in earnings but are reported as a
separate component of other comprehensive income until realized. The cost basis of securities
sold is the specific cost of the auction rate municipal security. We account for the transactions
as “Proceeds from sales of investments” for the security relinquished, and a “Purchases of
investments” for the security purchased, in the accompanying Statements of Cash Flows.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

Software Arrangements:

We earn revenue from software licenses, subscriptions, software services, post-contract customer
support (“PCS” or “maintenance”), and hardware. PCS includes telephone support, bug fixes, and
rights to upgrades on a when-and-if available basis. We provide services that range from
installation, training, and basic consulting to software modification and customization to meet
specific customer needs. In software arrangements that include rights to multiple software
products, specified upgrades, PCS, and/or other services, we allocate the total arrangement fee
among each deliverable based on the relative fair value of each.

We typically enter into multiple element arrangements, which include software licenses, software
services, PCS and occasionally hardware. The majority of our software arrangements are multiple
element arrangements, but for those arrangements that involve significant production, modification
or customization of the software, or where software services are otherwise considered essential to
the functionality of the software in the customer’s environment, we use contract accounting and
apply the provisions of the Construction — Type and Production — Type Contracts as discussed in ASC
605-35.

If the arrangement does not require significant production, modification or customization or where
the software services are not considered essential to the functionality of the software, revenue is
recognized when all of the following conditions are met:

i.

persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists;

ii.

delivery has occurred;

iii.

our fee is fixed or determinable; and

iv.

collectability is probable.

F-7


For multiple element arrangements, each element of the arrangement is analyzed and we allocate a
portion of the total arrangement fee to the elements based on the fair value of the element using
vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (“VSOE”), regardless of any separate prices stated
within the contract for each element. Fair value is considered the price a customer would be
required to pay if the element was sold separately based on our historical experience of
stand-alone sales of these elements to third parties. For PCS, we use renewal rates for continued
support arrangements to determine fair value. For software services, we use the fair value we
charge our customers when those services are sold separately. We monitor our transactions to
insure we maintain and periodically revise VSOE to reflect fair value. In software arrangements
in which we have the fair value of all undelivered elements but not of a delivered element, we
apply the “residual method”, in compliance with ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition, in
accounting for any element of a multiple element arrangement involving software that remains
undelivered such that any discount inherent in a contract is allocated to the delivered element.
Under the residual method, if the fair value of all undelivered elements is determinable, the fair
value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is
allocated to the delivered element(s) and is recognized as revenue assuming the other revenue
recognition criteria are met. In software arrangements in which we do not have VSOE for all
undelivered elements, revenue is deferred until fair value is determined or all elements for which
we do not have VSOE have been delivered. Alternatively, if sufficient VSOE does not exist and the
only undelivered element is services that do not involve significant modification or customization
of the software, the entire fee is recognized over the period during which the services are
expected to be performed.

Software Licenses

We recognize the revenue allocable to software licenses and specified upgrades upon delivery of the
software product or upgrade to the customer, unless the fee is not fixed or determinable or
collectability is not probable. If the fee is not fixed or determinable, including new customers
whose payment terms are three months or more from shipment, revenue is generally recognized as
payments become due from the customer. If collectability is not considered probable, revenue is
recognized when the fee is collected. Arrangements that include software services, such as
training or installation, are evaluated to determine whether those services are essential to the
product’s functionality.

A majority of our software arrangements involve “off-the-shelf” software. We consider software to
be off-the-shelf software if it can be added to an arrangement with minor changes in the underlying
code and it can be used by the customer for the customer’s purpose upon installation. For
off-the-shelf software arrangements, we recognize the software license fee as revenue after
delivery has occurred, customer acceptance is reasonably assured, that portion of the fee
represents a non-refundable enforceable claim and is probable of collection, and the remaining
services such as training are not considered essential to the product’s functionality.

For arrangements that involve significant production, modification or customization of the
software, or where software services are otherwise considered essential, we recognize revenue using
contract accounting. We generally use the percentage-of-completion method to recognize revenue
from these arrangements. We measure progress-to-completion primarily using labor hours incurred,
or value added. The percentage-of-completion method generally results in the recognition of
reasonably consistent profit margins over the life of a contract because we have the ability to
produce reasonably dependable estimates of contract billings and contract costs. We use the level
of profit margin that is most likely to occur on a contract. If the most likely profit margin
cannot be precisely determined, the lowest probable level of profit in the range of estimates is
used until the results can be estimated more precisely. These arrangements are often implemented
over an extended time period and occasionally require us to revise total cost estimates. Amounts
recognized in revenue are calculated using the progress-to-completion measurement after giving
effect to any changes in our cost estimates. Changes to total estimated contract costs, if any,
are recorded in the period they are determined. Estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are
recorded in the period in which we first determine that a loss is apparent.

For arrangements that include new product releases for which it is difficult to estimate final
profitability except to assume that no loss will ultimately be incurred, we recognize revenue under
the completed contract method. Under the completed contract method, revenue is recognized only
when a contract is completed or substantially complete. Historically these amounts have been
immaterial.

Subscription-Based Services

Subscription-based services primarily consist of revenues derived from application service provider
(“ASP”) arrangements and other hosted service offerings, software subscriptions and disaster
recovery services.

We recognize revenue for ASP and other hosting services, software subscriptions, term license
arrangements with renewal periods of twelve months or less and disaster recovery ratably over the
period of the applicable agreement as services are provided. Disaster recovery agreements and
other hosting services are typically renewable annually. ASP and software subscriptions are
typically for periods of three to six years and automatically renew unless either party cancels the
agreement. The majority of the ASP and other

F-8


hosting services and software subscriptions also include professional services as well as
maintenance and support. In certain ASP arrangements, the customer also acquires a license to the
software.

For ASP and other hosting arrangements, we evaluate whether each of the elements in these
arrangements represents a separate unit of accounting, as defined by ASC 605-25, Multiple Element
Arrangements and ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition, using all applicable facts and
circumstances, including whether (i) we sell or could readily sell the element unaccompanied by the
other elements, (ii) the element has stand-alone value to the customer, (iii) there is objective
reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered item, and (iv) there is a general right of
return. We consider the applicability of ASC 605-55-121 and 122 with respect to arrangements that
include the right to use software stored on another entity’s hardware on a contract-by-contract
basis. In hosted term-based agreements, where the customer does not have the contractual right to
take possession of the software, hosting fees are recognized on a monthly basis over the term of
the contract commencing when the customer has access to the software. For professional services
associated with hosting arrangements that we determine do not have stand-alone value to the
customer, we recognize the services revenue ratably over the remaining contractual period once
hosting has gone live and we may begin billing for the hosting services. We record amounts that
have been invoiced in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenues, depending on whether
the revenue recognition criteria have been met.

If we determine that the customer has the contractual right to take possession of our software at
any time during the hosting period without significant penalty, and can feasibly maintain the
software on the customer’s hardware or enter into another arrangement with a third party to host
the software, we recognize the license, professional services and hosting services revenues
pursuant to ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition.

Software Services

Some of our software arrangements include services considered essential for the customer to use the
software for the customer’s purposes. For these software arrangements, both the software license
revenue and the services revenue are recognized as the services are performed using the
percentage-of-completion contract accounting method. When software services are not considered
essential, the fee allocable to the service element is recognized as revenue as we perform the
services.

Computer Hardware Equipment

Revenue allocable to computer hardware equipment, which is based on VSOE, is recognized when we
deliver the equipment and collection is probable.

Postcontract Customer Support

Our customers generally enter into PCS agreements when they purchase our software licenses. Our
PCS agreements are typically renewable annually. Revenue allocated to PCS is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the period the PCS is provided. All significant costs and expenses
associated with PCS are expensed as incurred. Fair value for the maintenance and support
obligations for software licenses is based upon the specific sale renewals to customers.

Allocation of Revenue in Statement of Operations

In our statement of operations, we allocate revenue to software licenses, software services,
maintenance and hardware and other based on the VSOE of fair value for elements in each revenue
arrangement and the application of the residual method for arrangements in which we have
established VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements. In arrangements where we are not able
to establish VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements, revenue is first allocated to any
undelivered elements for which VSOE of fair value has been established. We then allocate revenue
to any undelivered elements for which VSOE of fair value has not been established based upon
management’s best estimate of fair value of those undelivered elements and apply a residual method
to determine the license fee. Management’s best estimate of fair value of undelivered elements for
which VSOE of fair value has not been established is based upon the VSOE of similar offerings and
other objective criteria.

Appraisal Services:

For our property appraisal projects, we recognize revenue using the proportionate performance
method of revenue recognition since many of these projects are implemented over one to three year
periods and consist of various unique activities. Under this method of revenue recognition, we
identify each activity for the appraisal project, with a typical project generally calling for
bonding, office set up, training, routing of map information, data entry, data collection, data
verification, informal hearings, appeals and project management. Each activity or act is
specifically identified and assigned an estimated cost. Costs which are considered to be

F-9


associated with indirect activities, such as bonding costs and office set up, are expensed as
incurred. These costs are typically billed as incurred and are recognized as revenue equal to
cost. Direct contract fulfillment activities and related supervisory costs such as data
collection, data entry and verification are expensed as incurred. The direct costs for these
activities are determined and the total contract value is then allocated to each activity based on
a consistent profit margin. Each activity is assigned a consistent unit of measure to determine
progress towards completion and revenue is recognized for each activity based upon the percentage
complete as applied to the estimated revenue for that activity. Progress for the fulfillment
activities is typically based on labor hours or an output measure such as the number of parcel
counts completed for that activity. Estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the
period in which we first determine that a loss is apparent.

Other:

The majority of deferred revenue consists of unearned support and maintenance revenue that has been
billed based on contractual terms in the underlying arrangement with the remaining balance
consisting of payments received in advance of revenue being earned under software licensing,
subscription-based services, software and appraisal services and hardware installation. Unbilled
revenue is not billable at the balance sheet date but is recoverable over the remaining life of the
contract through billings made in accordance with contractual agreements. The termination clauses
in most of our contracts provide for the payment for the fair value of products delivered and
services performed in the event of an early termination.

Prepaid expenses and other current assets include direct and incremental costs, consisting
primarily of commissions associated with arrangements for which revenue recognition has been
deferred and third party subcontractor payments. Such costs are expensed at the time the related
revenue is recognized.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
the reporting period. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the
application of the percentage-of-completion and proportionate performance methods of revenue
recognition, the carrying amount and estimated useful lives of intangible assets, determination of
share-based compensation expense and valuation allowance for receivables. Actual results could
differ from estimates.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET

Property, equipment and purchased software are recorded at original cost and increased by the cost
of any significant improvements after purchase. We expense maintenance and repairs when incurred.
Depreciation and amortization is calculated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the
asset’s estimated useful life or the term of the lease in the case of leasehold improvements. For
income tax purposes, we use accelerated depreciation methods as allowed by tax laws.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS

We expensed research and development costs of $11.2 million during 2009, $7.3 million during 2008
and $4.4 million during 2007.

We reduced our research and development expense by approximately $3.5 million in 2009, $1.8
million in 2008 and $1.6 million in 2007, which was the amount earned under the terms of our
strategic alliance with a development partner.

INCOME TAXES

Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred taxes arise because
of different treatment between financial statement accounting and tax accounting, known as
“temporary differences.” We record the tax effect of these temporary differences as “deferred tax
assets” (generally items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the future periods) and
“deferred tax liabilities” (generally items that we received a tax deduction for, which have not
yet been recorded in the income statement). The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured
using enacted tax rules and laws that are expected to be in effect when the temporary differences
are expected to be recovered or settled. A valuation allowance would be established to reduce
deferred tax assets if it is likely that a deferred tax asset will not be realized.

F-10


SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION

We have a stock option plan that provides for the grant of stock options to key employees,
directors and non-employee consultants. Stock options vest after three to five years of continuous
service from the date of grant and have a contractual term of ten years. We account for
share-based compensation utilizing the fair value recognition pursuant to ASC 718, Stock
Compensation. See Note 10 — “Share-Based Compensation” for further information.

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill

We have used the purchase method of accounting for all of our business combinations. Our business
acquisitions result in the allocation of the purchase price to goodwill and other intangible
assets. We first allocate the cost of acquired companies to identifiable assets based on estimated
fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired,
net of liabilities assumed, is recorded as goodwill.

We review goodwill impairment annually as of April or more frequently whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate its carrying value may not be recoverable. We have identified two
reporting units for impairment testing. Our reporting units are the same as our reportable
segments and consistent with the reporting units tested for impairment in prior years. Assets,
liabilities and goodwill have been assigned to reporting units based on assets acquired and
liabilities assumed as of the date of acquisition.

The provisions of ASC 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other, require that we perform a two-step
impairment test on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit
to its carrying value. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the
net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not considered impaired and we are not required to
perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit
exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the
impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. If
the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds the asset’s implied fair value, then we
would record an impairment loss equal to the difference. The fair values calculated in our
impairment tests are determined using discounted cash flow models involving several assumptions.
These assumptions include, but are not limited to, anticipated operating income growth rates, our
long-term anticipated operating income growth rate and the discount rate. Our cash flow forecasts
are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage
the underlying businesses. The assumptions that are used are based upon what we believe a
hypothetical marketplace participant would use in estimating fair value. We evaluate the
reasonableness of the fair value calculations of our reporting units by comparing the total of the
fair value of all of our reporting units to our total market capitalization. We base our fair
value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and
inherently uncertain. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator
of impairment has occurred between testing dates. Such indicators may include, among others: a
significant decline in expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in stock price
and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business
climate; unanticipated competition; and reductions in growth rates. In addition, products,
capabilities, or technologies developed by others may render our software products obsolete or
non-competitive. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the
recoverability of goodwill. Our annual goodwill impairment analysis, which we performed during the
second quarter of 2009, did not result in an impairment charge.

Other Intangible Assets

We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets other than goodwill
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Customer base
constitutes approximately 80% of our purchased intangible assets other than goodwill. We review our
customer turnover each year for indications of impairment. Our customer turnover has historically
been very low (approximately 2%). If indications of impairment are determined to exist, we measure
the recoverability of assets by a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the estimated
undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of
the assets exceeds their estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the
amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. There have
been no significant impairments of intangible assets in any of the periods presented.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

We periodically evaluate whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of
our property and equipment or other long-lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable.
If such circumstances are determined to exist, we measure the recoverability of assets to be held
and used by a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset or appropriate grouping of assets and
the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. If the
carrying amount of the assets exceeds their estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is
recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the
assets. Assets to be disposed of would be separately presented in the balance sheet and reported at
the lower of the

F-11


carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated. The assets and
liabilities of a disposed group classified as held for sale would be presented separately in the
appropriate asset and liability sections of the balance sheet. There have been no significant
impairments of long-lived assets in any of the periods presented.

COSTS OF COMPUTER SOFTWARE

We capitalize software development costs upon the establishment of technological feasibility and
prior to the availability of the product for general release to customers. We did not capitalize
any software development costs in 2009 or 2008. We capitalized software development costs of
approximately $167,000 during 2007. Software development costs primarily consist of personnel
costs and rent for related office space. We begin to amortize capitalized costs when a product is
available for general release to customers. Amortization expense is determined on a
product-by-product basis at a rate not less than straight-line basis over the product’s remaining
estimated economic life, but not to exceed five years. Amortization of software development costs
was approximately $743,000 in 2009, $4.7 million in 2008, and $4.6 million in 2007, and is included
in cost of software license revenue in the accompanying statements of operations.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivables, accounts payables, short-term obligations,
deferred revenues and certain other assets at cost approximate fair value because of the short
maturity of these instruments. Our investments available-for-sale are recorded at fair value as of
December 31, 2009 based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their
fair value. See Note 3 — “Fair Value of Financial Instruments” for further information.

CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK AND UNBILLED RECEIVABLES

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to significant concentrations of credit risk
consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, investments in auction rate securities and
accounts receivable from trade customers. Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consists of
money market fund investments which are maintained at one major financial institution and the
balances often exceed insurable amounts. As of December 31, 2009 we had cash and cash equivalents
(including restricted cash) of $15.7 million. We perform periodic evaluations of the credit
standing of this financial institution.

Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the size and
geographical diversity of our customer base. Historically, our credit losses have not been
significant. As a result, we do not believe we have any significant concentrations of credit risk
as of December 31, 2009.

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts and sales adjustments, which are provided at the time
the revenue is recognized. Since most of our customers are domestic governmental entities, we
rarely incur a loss resulting from the inability of a customer to make required payments. Events
or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount for the allowances for doubtful
accounts and sales adjustments may require revision, include, but are not limited to, deterioration
of a customer’s financial condition, failure to manage our customer’s expectations regarding the
scope of the services to be delivered, and defects or errors in new versions or enhancements of our
software products. The following table summarizes the changes in the allowances for doubtful
accounts and sales adjustments:

Years  ended December 31,




Balance at beginning of year

$

2,115

$

1,851

$

2,971

Provisions for losses — accounts receivable

1,538

1,764


Collection of accounts previously written off

—


—

Deductions for accounts charged off or credits issued

(1,264

)

(1,510

)

(1,873

)

Balance at end of year

$

2,389

$

2,115

$

1,851

The termination clauses in most of our contracts provide for the payment for the fair value of
products delivered or services performed in the event of early termination. Our property appraisal
outsourcing service contracts can range up to three years and, in a few cases, as long as five
years in duration. In connection with these contracts, as well as certain software service
contracts, we may perform work prior to when the software and services are billable and/or payable
pursuant to the contract. We have historically recorded such unbilled receivables (costs and
estimated profit in excess of billings) in connection with (1) property appraisal services
contracts accounted for using proportionate performance accounting in which the revenue is earned
based upon activities performed in one accounting period but the billing normally occurs shortly
thereafter and may span another accounting period; (2) software services

F-12


contracts accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition using
labor hours as a measure of progress towards completion in which the services are performed in one
accounting period but the billing for the software element of the arrangement may be based upon the
specific phase of the implementation; (3) software revenue for which we have objective evidence
that the customer-specified objective criteria has been met but the billing has not yet been
submitted to the customer; (4) some of our contracts provide for an amount to be withheld from a
progress billing (generally a 10% retention) until final and satisfactory project completion is
achieved; and (5) in a limited number of cases, we may grant extended payment terms generally to
existing customers with whom we have a long-term relationship and favorable collection history.

In connection with this activity, we have recorded unbilled receivables of $13.8 million and $11.2
million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We also have recorded retention receivable of
$4.0 million at both December 31, 2009 and 2008 and these retentions become payable upon the
completion of the contract or completion of our field work and formal hearings. Unbilled
receivables and retention receivables expected to be collected in excess of one year have been
classified as accounts receivable, long-term portion in the accompanying balance sheets.

INDEMNIFICATION

Most of our software license agreements indemnify our customers in the event that the software sold
infringes upon the intellectual property rights of a third party. These agreements typically
provide that in such event we will either modify or replace the software so that it becomes
non-infringing or procure for the customer the right to use the software. We have recorded no
liability associated with these indemnifications, as we are not aware of any pending or threatened
infringement actions that are possible losses. We believe the estimated fair value of these
intellectual property indemnification clauses is minimal.

We have also agreed to indemnify our officers and board members if they are named or threatened to
be named as a party to any proceeding by reason of the fact that they acted in such capacity. A
form of the indemnification agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002. We maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance coverage to protect against any
such losses. We have recorded no liability associated with these indemnifications. Because of our
insurance coverage, we believe the estimated fair value of these indemnification agreements is
minimal.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In September 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2009-13, Multiple Element
Arrangements. ASU 2009-13 addresses the determination of when the individual deliverables included
in a multiple arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting. ASU 2009-13 also
modifies the manner in which the transaction consideration is allocated across separately
identified deliverables and establishes definitions for determining fair value of elements in an
arrangement. This new update is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010.
Early adoption is allowed. The new standard may impact our application service provider
arrangements to recognize revenues, such as installation and data conversion, which are generally
provided at the beginning of the arrangement as incurred instead of ratably over the life of the
initial hosting term. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on
our financial condition or results of operation.

(2) ACQUISITIONS

On July 16, 2009, we completed the acquisition of certain assets of KPL, Inc. d/b/a Parker-Lowe &
Associates (“Parker-Lowe”) for $700,000 in cash. Parker-Lowe provides scanning and retrieval
software and related services for land record and social services offices in local governments
primarily in the North Carolina area. This acquisition was accounted for as a purchase of a
business.

On April 3, 2009, we completed the acquisition of all of the capital stock of Assessment Evaluation
Services, Inc. (“AES”). AES develops integrated property appraisal solutions and specializes in
applications that deal with the unique provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code. The
purchase price was approximately $1.1 million in cash.

In connection with these transactions we acquired total tangible assets of approximately $480,000
and assumed total liabilities of approximately $835,000, including $450,000 for contingent
consideration for which we have paid $38,000 as of December 31, 2009. The remaining contingent
consideration is expected to be paid over the next two years. We recorded goodwill of
approximately $1.3 million, all of which is expected to be deductible for tax purposes, and other
intangible assets of approximately $820,000. The $820,000 of intangible assets is attributable to
acquired software and customer relationships that will be amortized over a weighted average period
of approximately 9 years. Our balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 reflects the allocation of the
purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values
at the dates of acquisition.

F-13


The operating results of these acquisitions are included in our results of operations since the
date of acquisition. We believe these acquisitions will complement our business by expanding our
presence in certain geographic areas and adding to our customer base.

In 2009, we also paid approximately $1.1 million for certain software assets to complement our tax
and appraisal solutions and our student information management solutions.

In August 2008, we completed the acquisition of all the capital stock of School Information
Systems, Inc., which develops and sells a full suite of student information and financial
management systems for K-12 schools. The purchase price, including transaction costs and excluding
cash balances acquired, was approximately $9.9 million in cash and approximately 70,000 shares of
Tyler common stock valued at $1.2 million.

In the first quarter of 2008, we completed the acquisitions of all of the capital stock of
VersaTrans Solutions Inc. (“VersaTrans”) and certain assets of Olympia Computing Company, Inc.
d/b/a Schoolmaster (“Schoolmaster”). VersaTrans is a provider of student transportation management
software solutions for school districts and school transportation providers across North America,
including solutions for school bus routing and planning, redistricting, GPS fleet tracking, fleet
maintenance and field trip planning. Schoolmaster provides a full suite of student information
systems, which manage such functions as grading, attendance, scheduling, guidance, health,
admissions and fund raising. The combined purchase price for these transactions excluding cash
acquired and including transaction costs was approximately $13.9 million in cash and approximately
126,000 shares of Tyler common stock valued at $1.7 million.

In September 2007, we completed the acquisition of all the capital stock of EDP Enterprises, Inc.
(“EDP”), which develops and sells financial and student information and management systems for
public school districts in Texas. In February 2007, we completed the acquisition of all of the
capital stock of Advanced Data Systems, Inc. (“ADS”), which develops and sells fund accounting
solutions, primarily in New England. The combined purchase price, including transaction costs
along with an office building used in ADS’s business and excluding cash balances acquired, for
these acquisitions as well as miscellaneous other software asset purchases was $9.0 million.

(3) FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Assets recorded at fair value in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 are categorized based
upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair value.
Hierarchical levels, defined by ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, are directly
related to the amount of subjectivity associated with the inputs to fair valuation of these assets,
are as follows:

Level 1 — Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities at the measurement date;

Level 2 — Inputs other than Level 1 inputs that are either directly or indirectly observable;
and

Level 3 — Unobservable inputs, for which little or no market data exist, therefore requiring
an entity to develop its own assumptions.

As of December 31, 2009 we held certain items that are required to be measured at fair value on a
recurring basis. The following tables summarize the fair value of these financial assets:

December 31, 2009

Quoted prices in

active markets for

Significant other

Significant

identical assets

observable inputs

unobservable inputs

Total

(Level 1)

(Level 2)

(Level 3)

Cash and cash equivalents

$

15,696

$

15,696

$

—

$

—

Short-term investments available-for-sale



—

—

Non-current investments available-for-sale

1,976

—

—

1,976

$

17,722

$

15,746

$

—

$

1,976

F-14


December 31, 2008

Quoted prices in

active markets for

Significant other

Significant

identical assets

observable inputs

unobservable inputs

Total

(Level 1)

(Level 2)

(Level 3)

Cash and cash equivalents

$

6,844

$

6,844

$

—

$

—

Short-term investments available-for-sale



—

—

Non-current investments available-for-sale

3,779

—

—

3,779

$

11,398

$

7,619

$

—

$

3,779

Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds with original maturity dates of
three months or less, for which we determine fair value through quoted market prices. These
money market funds did not experience any declines in fair value in 2009.

Investments available-for-sale consist of two auction rate municipal securities (“ARS”) which are
collateralized debt obligations supported by municipal and state agencies and do not include
mortgage-backed securities. Short-term investments available-for-sale consists of the portion
of one of these ARS, which was partially redeemed at par during the period January 1, 2010
through February 22, 2010. These ARS are debt instruments with stated maturities ranging
from 22 to 33 years, for which the interest rate is designed to be reset through Dutch
auctions approximately every 30 days. However, due to events in the credit markets, auctions
for these securities have not occurred since February 2008. Both of our ARS have had very
small partial redemptions at par in the period from July 2009 through February 2010. As of
December 31, 2009 we have continued to earn and collect interest on both of our ARS.

Because quoted prices in active markets are no longer available we determined the estimated fair
values of these securities utilizing a discounted trinomial model. The model considers the
probability of three potential occurrences for each auction event through the maturity date of
each ARS. The three potential outcomes for each auction are (i) successful auction/early
redemption, (ii) failed auction and (iii) issuer default. Inputs in determining the
probabilities of the potential outcomes include but are not limited to, the securities’
collateral, credit rating, insurance, issuer’s financial standing, contractual restrictions on
disposition and the liquidity in the market. The fair value of each ARS is determined by
summing the present value of the probability-weighted future principal and interest payments
determined by the model. Since there can be no assurances that auctions for these securities
will be successful in the near future, we have classified our ARS as non-current investments.

The par and carrying values, and related cumulative unrealized loss for our non-current ARS as of
December 31, 2009 are as follows:

Temporary

Carrying

Par Value

Impairment

Value

Non-current investments
available-for-sale

$

2,600

$


$

1,976

In association with this estimate of fair value, we have recorded an after-tax temporary unrealized
loss on our non-current ARS of $18,000, net of related tax effects of $10,000 in 2009, which is
included in accumulated other comprehensive loss on our balance sheet. The unrealized loss
includes the impact of adjusting previously recorded unrealized losses of approximately $120,000,
net of related tax effects of $65,000 as of December 31, 2008 for several ARS which were
subsequently redeemed for $2.5 million at par during 2009.

We consider the impairment in our ARS as temporary because we do not have the intent to sell,
nor is it more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell these securities before recovery of
their cost basis. We believe that this temporary decline in fair value is due entirely to
liquidity issues, because the underlying assets of these securities are supported by municipal and
state agencies and do not include mortgage-backed securities, have redemption features which call
for redemption at 100% of par value and have a current credit rating of A or AAA. The ratings on
the ARS take into account credit support through insurance policies guaranteeing each of the bonds’
payment of principal and accrued interest, if it becomes necessary. In addition, both ARS have had
very small partial redemptions at par in the period July 2009 through February 2010. Based on
our cash and cash equivalents balance of $15.7 million and expected operating cash flows, we do not
believe a lack of liquidity associated with our ARS will adversely affect our ability to conduct
business, and believe we have the ability to hold the securities throughout the currently estimated
recovery period. We will continue to evaluate any changes in the market value of our ARS and in
the future, depending upon existing market conditions, we may be required to record an
other-than-temporary decline in market value.

F-15


The following table reflects the activity for assets measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs
for the years ended December 31:

Balance as of December 31, 2007

$

—

Transfers into level 3

5,150

Transfers out of level 3

(775

)

Unrealized losses included in accumulated other comprehensive loss

(596

)

Balance as of December 31, 2008

3,779

Transfers into level 3

—

Transfers out of level 3

(75

)

Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements

(1,700

)

Unrealized losses included in accumulated other comprehensive loss

(28

)

Balance as of December 31, 2009

$

1,976

(4) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET

Property and equipment, net consists of the following at December 31:

Useful

Lives

(years)



Land

—

$

3,349

$

3,349

Computer equipment and purchased software

3-5

21,394

19,553

Furniture and fixtures


6,467

5,103

Building and leasehold improvements

5-39

26,208

16,248

Transportation equipment




57,747

44,519

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(21,997

)

(17,997

)

Property and equipment, net

$

35,750

$

26,522

Depreciation expense was $4.4 million during 2009, $3.5 million during 2008, and $2.8 million
during 2007.

We own an office building in Yarmouth, Maine, which is leased to third-party tenants and a building
in Lubbock, Texas, for which a small portion is leased to a third-party tenant. These leases
expire between 2011 and 2015 and are expected to provide rental income of approximately $1.5
million during 2010, $1.1 million during 2011, $628,000 during 2012, $391,000 during 2013, $222,000
during 2014 and $74,000 thereafter. The lease agreements in Yarmouth, Maine, expire between 2011
and 2013, at which time we expect to begin occupying the facility. Rental income associated with
these leases was $1.3 million and $662,000 in 2009 and 2008, respectively and was included as a
reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses.

F-16


(5) GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets and related accumulated amortization consists of the following at December 31:



Gross carrying amount of acquisition intangibles:

Goodwill

$

90,258

$

88,791

Customer related intangibles

39,512

38,887

Software acquired

23,403

22,143

Trade name

1,971

1,971

Lease acquired

1,387

1,387

156,531

153,179

Accumulated amortization

(35,217

)

(30,825

)

Acquisition intangibles, net

$

121,314

$

122,354

Post acquisition software development costs

$

36,701

$

36,701

Accumulated amortization

(35,986

)

(35,243

)

Post acquisition software costs, net

$


$

1,458

Total amortization expense, for acquisition related intangibles and post acquisition software
development costs, was $5.1 million during 2009, $9.1 million during 2008, and $8.4 million during
2007.

The allocation of acquisition intangible assets is summarized in the following table:

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Weighted

Weighted

Gross

Average

Gross

Average

Carrying

Amortization

Accumulated

Carrying

Amortization

Accumulated

Amount

Period

Amortization

Amount

Period

Amortization

Non-amortizable intangibles:

Goodwill

$

90,258

—

$

—

$

88,791

—

$

—

Amortizable intangibles:

Customer related intangibles

39,512

18 years

14,022

38,887

18 years

11,449

Software acquired

23,403

5 years

19,900

22,143

5 years

18,489

Trade name

1,971

19 years


1,971

19 years


Lease acquired

1,387

5 years


1,387

5 years


The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the two years ended December 31, 2009 are as
follows:

Enterprise

Appraisal and Tax

Software

Software Solutions

Solutions

and Services

Total

Balance as of December 31, 2007

$

66,966

$

4,711

$

71,677

Goodwill acquired during the year related to the purchase of VersaTrans

9,278

—

9,278

Goodwill acquired during the year related to the purchase of SIS

6,351

—

6,351

Goodwill acquired during the year related to the purchase of Schoolmaster

1,475

—

1,475

Other


—


Balance as of December 31, 2008

84,080

4,711

88,791

Goodwill acquired during the year related to the purchase of AES

—



Goodwill acquired during the year related to the purchase of Parker-Lowe


—


Other


—


Balance as of December 31, 2009

$

84,668

$

5,590

$

90,258

F-17


Estimated annual amortization expense relating to acquisition intangibles, including acquired
software for which the amortization expense is recorded as cost of revenues and acquired leases for
which amortization expense is recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses, is as
follows:

Years ending December 31,


$

4,387


3,805


3,538


2,973


2,498

(6) ACCRUED LIABILITIES

Accrued liabilities consist of the following at December 31:



Accrued wages, bonuses and commissions

$

15,945

$

13,908

Other accrued liabilities

5,378

5,737

Accrued building construction costs

1,816

—

Accrued health claims

1,551

1,921

Accrued third party contract costs

1,420

1,347

$

26,110

$

22,913

(7) SHORT-TERM REVOLVING LINE OF CREDIT

In October 2008, we entered into a revolving bank credit agreement (the “Credit Facility”) and a
related pledge and security agreement which originally matured October 19, 2009. We amended and
extended the related pledge and security agreement in October 2009. The Credit Facility matures
October 18, 2010 and provides for total borrowings of up to $25.0 million and a $10.0 million
Letter of Credit facility which can either be cash collateralized or issued using availability
under the Credit Facility. Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at a rate of
either the Wall Street Journal prime rate minus .5% or the 30, 60 or 90-day LIBOR rate plus 2%;
however, a minimum interest rate of 3.25% will apply. As of December 31, 2009, our effective
interest rate was 3.25% under the Credit Facility. The effective average interest rate for
borrowings during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 was 1.8%. The Credit Facility is
secured by substantially all of our assets. The Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain
financial ratios and other financial conditions and prohibits us from making certain
investments, advances, cash dividends or loans, restricts the amount of our common stock we may
purchase and limits incurrence of additional indebtedness and liens. As of December 31, 2009,
we were in compliance with those covenants. As of December 31, 2009, we had no outstanding
borrowings and unused available borrowing capacity of $23.7 million under the Credit Facility.
In addition, as of December 31, 2009, our bank had issued outstanding letters of credit totaling
$7.3 million to secure surety bonds required by some of our customer contracts. These letters
of credit have been collateralized by restricted cash balances of $6.0 million and $1.3 million
of our available borrowing capacity and expire through mid-2010. The carrying amount of the
Credit Facility approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of the instrument.

We paid interest of $174,000 in 2009.

F-18


(8) INCOME TAX

The income tax provision (benefit) on income from operations consists of the following:

Years ended December 31,




Current:

Federal

$

16,822

$

14,320

$

10,593

State

2,536

2,245

2,084

19,358

16,565

12,677

Deferred

(1,730

)

(2,151

)

(1,598

)

$

17,628

$

14,414

$

11,079

Reconciliation of the U.S. statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax expense rate for
operations follows:

Years ended December 31,




Income tax expense at statutory rate

$

15,623

$

10,247

$

10,003

State income tax, net of federal income tax benefit

1,634

1,089

1,321

Non-deductible business expenses


3,988


Qualified manufacturing activities

(586

)

(700

)

(490

)

Other, net

(8

)

(210

)

(363

)

$

17,628

$

14,414

$

11,079

In 2008, non-deductible business expenses included the impact of a non-cash legal settlement
related to warrants charge of $9.0 million, which was not tax deductible. See Note 14 —
“Commitments and Contingencies” for more information.

Approximately 40% of our unvested stock option awards qualify as incentive stock options (“ISOs”)
for income tax purposes. As such, a tax benefit is not recorded at the time the compensation cost
related to the options is recorded for book purposes due to the fact that an ISO does not
ordinarily result in a tax benefit unless there is a disqualifying disposition. Stock option
grants of non-qualified options result in the creation of a deferred tax asset, which is a
temporary difference, until the time that the option is exercised. Due to the treatment of ISOs
for tax purposes, our effective tax rate from year to year is subject to variability.

The tax effects of the major items recorded as deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December
31 are:



Deferred income tax assets:

Operating expenses not currently deductible

$

2,068

$

1,466

Employee benefit plans

3,628

2,528

Capital loss carryforward



Property and equipment



Total deferred income tax assets

6,156

4,418

Deferred income tax liabilities:

Intangible assets

(9,720

)

(9,697

)

Other

(157

)

(181

)

Total deferred income tax liabilities

(9,877

)

(9,878

)

Net deferred income tax liabilities

$

(3,721

)

$

(5,460

)

F-19


Although realization is not assured, we believe it is more likely than not that all the deferred
tax assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008 will be realized. Accordingly, we believe no valuation
allowance is required for the deferred tax assets. However, the amount of the deferred tax asset
considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if estimates of reversing taxable temporary
differences are revised.

No reserves for uncertain income tax positions have been recorded pursuant to ASC 740-10, Income
Taxes.

We are subject to U.S. federal tax as well as income tax of multiple state and local jurisdictions.
We are no longer subject to United States federal income tax examinations for years before 2006.
We are no longer subject to state and local income tax examinations by tax authorities for the
years before 2004.

We paid income taxes, net of refunds received, of $18.1 million in 2009, $15.7 million in 2008, and
$8.7 million in 2007.

(9) SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

The following table details activity in our common stock:

Years ended December 31,




Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

Purchases of common stock

(1,235

)

$

(17,000

)

(4,283

)

$

(58,984

)

(1,250

)

$

(16,163

)

Stock option exercises


2,295


1,815


3,589

Employee stock plan purchases


1,428


1,190


1,117

Shares issued for acquisitions

—

—


2,863

—

—

Shares issued in connection with legal settlement

—

—


11,050

—

—

Subsequent to December 31, 2009 and through February 22, 2010, we repurchased 59,000 shares for an
aggregate purchase price of $1.1 million. As of February 22, 2010 we had authorization from our
board of directors to repurchase up to 2.2 million additional shares of our common stock.

In 2008, we settled outstanding litigation related to two Stock Purchase Warrants owned by Bank of
America, N. A. (“BANA”). In July 2008, as a result of this settlement, BANA paid us $2.0 million
and we issued to BANA 801,883 restricted shares of Tyler common stock. See Note 14 — “Commitments
and Contingencies” for further information.

(10) SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION

Share-Based Compensation Plan

We have a stock option plan that provides for the grant of stock options to key employees,
directors and non-employee consultants. Stock options vest after three to five years of continuous
service from the date of grant and have a contractual term of ten years. Once options become
exercisable, the employee can purchase shares of our common stock at the market price on the date
we granted the option. We account for share-based compensation utilizing the fair value
recognition pursuant to ASC 718, Stock Compensation.

As of December 31, 2009, there were 176,000 shares available for future grants under the plan from
the 11.0 million shares previously approved by the stockholders.

Determining Fair Value of Stock Compensation

Valuation and Amortization Method. We estimate the fair value of share-based awards granted using
the Black-Scholes option valuation model. We amortize the fair value of all awards on a
straight-line basis over the requisite service periods, which are generally the vesting periods.

Expected Life. The expected life of awards granted represents the period of time that they are
expected to be outstanding. As provided by ASC 718-10, Stock Compensation, we use the
“simplified” method which is allowed for those companies that cannot reasonably estimate expected
life of options based on its historical share option exercise experience. We use the “simplified”
method to estimate expected life due to insufficient historical exercise data for the current
optionee group. In 2005 we established a practice
of granting options to a consistent optionee group. This optionee group has not been in place long
enough to generate sufficient

F-20


historical data to estimate the expected period of time an option
award would be expected to be outstanding.

Expected Volatility. Using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, we estimate the volatility of
our common stock at the date of grant based on the historical volatility of our common stock.

Risk-Free Interest Rate. We base the risk-free interest rate used in the Black-Scholes option
valuation model on the implied yield currently available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with
an equivalent remaining term equal to the expected life of the award.

Expected Dividend Yield. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock in the last ten
years and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently,
we use an expected dividend yield of zero in the Black-Scholes option valuation model.

Expected Forfeitures. We use historical data to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures. We record
stock-based compensation only for those awards that are expected to vest.

The following weighted average assumptions were used for options granted:

Years ended December 31,




Expected life (in years)

6.5

6.5

6.5

Expected volatility

37.2

%

40.9

%

42.6

%

Risk-free interest rate

3.1

%

3.5

%

4.5

%

Expected forfeiture rate


%


%


%

The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense related to share-based awards which
is recorded in the statement of operations:

Years ended December 31,




Cost of software services, maintenance and subscriptions

$


$


$


Selling, general and administrative expense

4,505

3,456

2,138

Total share-based compensation expense

5,045

3,820

2,365

Tax benefit

(1,233

)

(846

)

(451

)

Net decrease in net income

$

3,812

$

2,974

$

1,914

F-21


Stock Option Activity

Options granted, exercised, forfeited and expired are summarized as follows:

Weighted Average

Weighted

Remaining

Aggregate

Number of

Average

Contractual Life

Intrinsic

Shares

Exercise Price

(Years)

Value

Outstanding at December 31, 2006

4,087

$

5.32

Granted


13.42

Exercised

(878

)

4.09

Forfeited

(10

)

8.29

Outstanding at December 31, 2007

3,972

7.16

Granted

1,750

14.38

Exercised

(379

)

4.79

Forfeited

(34

)

10.82

Outstanding at December 31, 2008

5,309

9.69

Granted


17.25

Exercised

(425

)

5.40

Forfeited

(15

)

7.80

Outstanding at December 31, 2009

5,704

11.12


$

50,139

Exercisable at December 31, 2009

2,765

$

7.50


$

34,314

As of December 31, 2009, we had unvested options to purchase 2.9 million shares with a weighted
average grant date fair value of $6.70. As of December 31, 2009, we had $15.8 million of total
unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested options, net of expected forfeitures, which is
expected to be amortized over a weighted average amortization period of 3.6 years.

Other information pertaining to option activity was as follows during the twelve months ended
December 31:




Weighted average grant-date fair value of
stock options granted

$

7.38

$

6.73

$

6.69

Total fair value of stock options vested

4,346

2,600

1,710

Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised

4,656

3,929

8,793

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) participants may contribute up to 15% of their
annual compensation to purchase common shares of Tyler. The purchase price of the shares is equal
to 85% of the closing price of Tyler shares on the last day of each quarterly offering period. As
of December 31, 2009, there were 341,000 shares available for future grants under the ESPP from the
1.0 million shares originally reserved for issuance.

F-22


(11) EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings and diluted earnings per share data were computed as follows:

Years Ended December 31,




Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per share

Net income

$

27,010

$

14,862

$

17,501

Denominator:

Weighted-average basic common shares outstanding

35,240

37,714

38,735

Assumed conversion of dilutive securities:

Stock options

1,384

1,470

1,715

Warrants

—

—


Potentially dilutive common shares

1,384

1,470

2,617

Denominator for diluted earnings per share — Adjusted weighted-average shares

36,624

39,184

41,352

Earnings per common share:

Basic

$

0.77

$

0.39

$

0.45

Diluted

$

0.74

$

0.38

$

0.42

Stock options representing the right to purchase common stock of 2.6 million shares in 2009, 1.6
million shares in 2008, and 128,000 shares in 2007 were not included in the computation of diluted
earnings per share because their inclusion would have had an anti-dilutive effect.

(12) LEASES

We lease office facilities for use in our operations, as well as transportation, computer and other
equipment. We also have an office facility lease agreement with a shareholder. Most of our
leases are non-cancelable operating lease agreements and they expire at various dates through 2014.
In addition to rent, the leases generally require us to pay taxes, maintenance, insurance and
certain other operating expenses.

Rent expense was approximately $6.3 million in 2009, $5.9 million in 2008, and $4.9 million in
2007, which included rent expense associated with related party lease agreements of $2.0 million in
2009 and $1.8 million in both 2008 and 2007.

Future minimum lease payments under all non-cancelable leases at December 31, 2009 are as follows:

Years ending December 31,


$

6,033


5,265


3,954


2,365


1,721

Thereafter

—

$

19,338

Included in future minimum lease payments are non-cancelable payments due to related parties
of $1.9 million in 2010, $1.8 million in 2011, $1.7 million in 2012, $1.7 million in 2013, $1.7
million in 2014 and none thereafter.

(13) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

We provide a defined contribution plan for the majority of our employees meeting minimum service
requirements. The employees can contribute up to 30% of their current compensation to the plan
subject to certain statutory limitations. We contribute up to a maximum of 3% of an employee’s
compensation to the plan. We made contributions to the plan and charged operations $2.6 million
during 2009, $2.0 million during 2008, and $1.7 million during 2007.

F-23


(14) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

On November 3, 2008, a putative collective action complaint was filed against us in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (the “Court”) on behalf of current and
former telephone and remote customer support personnel (“Category 1”), computer hardware and
software set up and maintenance personnel (“Category 2”), implementation personnel (“Category 3”),
sales support personnel (“Category 4”), and quality assurance analysts (“Category 5”). The
petition alleges that we misclassified these groups of employees as “exempt” rather than
“non-exempt” under the Fair Labor Standards Act and that we therefore failed to properly pay
overtime wages. The suit was initiated by six former employees working out of our Longview, Texas,
office and seeks to recover damages in the form of lost overtime pay, liquidated damages equal to
the amount of lost overtime pay, interest, costs, and attorneys’ fees. On June 23, 2009, the Court
issued an Order granting Plaintiffs’ motion for conditional certification for the purpose of
providing notice to potential plaintiffs about the litigation. Accordingly, the plaintiffs sent
the court ordered notice to all current and former employees who worked in the foregoing job
classifications at any time from June 23, 2006 until June 23, 2009. On October 26, 2009, the “opt
in” period for plaintiffs and potential plaintiffs closed. There are a total of 78 plaintiffs in
the litigation consisting of the following: 31 in Category 1; 4 in Category 2; 39 in Category 3; 2
in Category 4; and 2 in Category 5. We intend to vigorously defend the action. Given the
preliminary nature of the alleged claims and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, we cannot
at this time estimate the possible outcome of any such action.

On June 27, 2008, we settled outstanding litigation related to two Stock Purchase Warrants (the
“Warrants”) owned by Bank of America, N. A. (“BANA”). As disclosed in prior SEC filings, the
Warrants entitled BANA to acquire 1.6 million shares of Tyler common stock at an exercise price of
$2.50 per share. The Warrants expired on September 10, 2007. Prior to their expiration, BANA
attempted to exercise the Warrants; however, the parties disputed whether or not BANA’s exercise
was effective. We filed suit for declaratory judgment seeking a court’s determination on the
matter, and BANA asserted numerous counterclaims against us, including breach of contract and
misrepresentation. Following court-ordered mediation, in July 2008, BANA paid us $2.0 million and
we issued to BANA 801,883 restricted shares of Tyler common stock. Accordingly, as a result of the
settlement, we recorded a non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million,
which was not tax deductible.

Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to our business and except as
described in this Annual Report, there are no material legal proceedings pending to which we are
party or to which any of our properties are subject.

(15) SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On January 6, 2010, we acquired all the assets of Wiznet, Inc. (“Wiznet”) for a cash purchase price
of $9.5 million. Wiznet provides electronic document filing solutions for courts and law offices
throughout the United States and is currently integrated with our primary courts and justice
applications. We have not finalized the allocation of the purchase price.

We evaluate events and transactions that occur after the balance sheet date as potential subsequent
events. We performed this evaluation through February 25, 2010, the date on which we issued our
financial statements

(16) SEGMENT AND RELATED INFORMATION

We are a major provider of integrated information management solutions and services for the public
sector, with a focus on local governments. Factors used to identify our reportable operating
segments include the financial information regularly utilized for evaluation by our chief operating
decision-maker (CODM) in making decisions about how to allocate resources and in assessing our
performance. We have determined that our CODM is our Chief Executive Officer.

We provide our software systems and services and appraisal services through four business
units:

•

financial management and education software solutions;

•

financial management and municipal courts and justice software solutions;

•

courts and justice software solutions; and

•

appraisal and tax software solutions and property appraisal services.

Historically, we have reported one segment. In 2009 we reexamined the economics of our businesses,
and found that the financial metrics for our appraisal and tax software solutions and services unit
were becoming dissimilar from our enterprise software solutions units. Accordingly, we now report
two segments: (1) Enterprise Software Solutions and (2) Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions and
Services. In accordance with ASC 280-10, Segment Reporting, the financial management and education
software solutions unit, financial management and municipal courts and justice software solutions
unit and the courts and justice software solutions unit meet

F-24


the criteria for aggregation and are
presented in one segment, “Enterprise Software Solutions.” The Enterprise Software Solutions
segment provides municipal and county governments and schools with software systems to meet their
information technology and automation needs for mission-critical “back-office” functions such as
financial management and courts and justice processes. The Appraisal and Tax Software Solutions
and Services segment provides systems and software that automate the appraisal and assessment of
real and personal property as well as property appraisal outsourcing services for local governments
and taxing authorities. Property appraisal outsourcing services include: the physical inspection
of commercial and residential properties; data collection and processing; computer analysis for
property valuation; preparation of tax rolls; community education; and arbitration between
taxpayers and the assessing jurisdiction.

We evaluate performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is
business segment operating income. We define segment operating income as income before noncash
amortization of intangible assets associated with their acquisition, share-based compensation
expense, interest expense and income taxes. Segment operating income includes intercompany
transactions. The majority of intercompany transactions relate to contracts involving more than
one unit and are valued based on the contractual arrangement. Segment operating income for
corporate primarily consists of compensation costs for the executive management team and certain
accounting and administrative staff and share-based compensation expense for the entire company.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 1,
“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”

Segment assets include net accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other current assets, net
property and equipment and intangibles associated with their acquisition. Corporate assets consist
of cash and investments, prepaid insurance, deferred income taxes and net property and equipment
mainly related to unallocated information and technology assets.

Enterprise Software Solutions segment capital expenditures in 2009 and 2008 include $11.2 million
and $16.0 million, respectively for the purchase of buildings in connection with plans to
consolidate workforces and support long-term growth. 2009 capital expenditures include a $1.8
million accrued retainage payment we expect to pay by mid-2010.

In 2009 and 2008 the Appraisal and Tax Solutions and Services segment had one appraisal services
customer which accounted for 10.4% and 12.6%, respectively, of this segment’s total revenues.

As of and year ended December 31, 2009

Enterprise

Appraisal and Tax

Software

Software Solutions

Solutions

and Services

Corporate

Totals

Revenues

Software licenses

$

39,910

$

2,221

$

—

$

42,131

Subscriptions

16,870


—

17,181

Software services

71,176

9,229

—

80,405

Maintenance

114,237

10,275

—

124,512

Appraisal services

—

18,740

—

18,740

Hardware and other

6,248

—

1,069

7,317

Intercompany

1,618

—

(1,618

)

—

Total Revenues

$

250,059

$

40,776

$

(549

)

$

290,286

Depreciation and amortization expense

8,031



9,497

Segment operating income

55,639

6,949

(13,688

)

48,900

Capital expenditures

13,361



14,167

Segment assets

$

220,135

$

25,597

$

24,938

$

270,670

F-25


As of and year ended December 31, 2008

Enterprise

Appraisal and Tax

Software

Software Solutions

Solutions

and Services

Corporate

Totals

Revenues

Software licenses

$

39,936

$

1,554

$

—

$

41,490

Subscriptions

14,352


—

14,374

Software services

65,906

9,091

—

74,997

Maintenance

98,383

9,075

—

107,458

Appraisal services

—

19,098

—

19,098

Hardware and other

6,354


1,304

7,684

Intercompany



(958

)

—

Total Revenues

$

225,887

$

38,868

$


$

265,101

Depreciation and amortization expense

11,596



12,611

Segment operating income

47,698

5,448

(11,769

)

41,377

Capital expenditures

17,563


2,160

20,143

Segment assets

$

208,868

$

24,409

$

18,484

$

251,761

As of and year ended December 31, 2007

Enterprise

Appraisal and Tax

Software

Software Solutions

Solutions

and Services

Corporate

Totals

Revenues

Software licenses

$

33,789

$

1,274

$

—

$

35,063

Subscriptions

10,406

—

—

10,406

Software services

52,784

7,499

—

60,283

Maintenance

77,012

8,399

—

85,411

Appraisal services

—

21,318

—

21,318

Hardware and other

7,294


—

7,315

Intercompany



(918

)

—

Total Revenues

$

182,065

$

38,649

$

(918

)

$

219,796

Depreciation and amortization expense

10,310



11,211

Segment operating income

34,833

5,040

(9,336

)

30,537

Capital expenditures

2,449



3,678

Segment assets

$

157,981

$

22,869

$

60,658

$

241,508

Reconciliation of reportable segment operating

income to the Company’s consolidated totals:




Total segment operating income

$

48,900

$

41,377

$

30,537

Amortization of acquired software

(1,411

)

(1,799

)

(2,279

)

Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles

(2,705

)

(2,438

)

(1,478

)

Non-cash legal settlement related to warrants

—

(9,045

)

—

Other (expense) income

(146

)

1,181

1,800

Income before income taxes

$

44,638

$

29,276

$

28,580

F-26


(17) QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (unaudited)

The following table contains selected financial information from unaudited statements of operations
for each quarter of 2009 and 2008.

Quarters Ended



Dec. 31

Sept. 30

June 30

Mar. 31

Dec. 31

Sept. 30

June 30

(A)

Mar. 31

Revenues

$

74,217

$

74,332

$

72,172

$

69,565

$

69,544

$

68,637

$

67,569

$

59,351

Gross profit

33,239

33,235

31,997

30,292

28,945

29,950

29,089

21,803

Income before income taxes

10,922

12,421

11,334

9,961

9,845

12,335

2,026

5,070

Net income

6,656

7,475

6,873

6,006

5,131

6,359


3,126

Earnings per diluted share

0.18

0.20

0.19

0.16

0.14

0.16

0.01

0.08

Shares used in computing diluted earnings per share

36,600

36,487

36,723

36,747

37,604

40,019

39,633

39,527

(A)

On June 27, 2008, we settled outstanding litigation related to two Stock Purchase
Warrants (the “Warrants”) owned by Bank of America, N. A. (“BANA”). The Warrants entitled
BANA to acquire 1.6 million shares of Tyler common stock at an exercise price of $2.50 per
share. Following court-ordered mediation, in July 2008, BANA paid us $2.0 million and we
issued to BANA 801,883 restricted shares of Tyler common stock. Accordingly, we recorded a
non-cash legal settlement related to warrants charge of $9.0 million, which was not tax
deductible, during the three months ended June 30, 2008.

F-27