10-K


d23024e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2004

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number 1-10485

TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE

75-2303920

(State or other jurisdiction

(I.R.S. employer

of incorporation or

identification no.)

organization)

5949 Sherry Lane, Suite 1400


Dallas, Texas

(Zip code)

(Address of principal

executive offices)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(972) 713-3700

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Name of each exchange

Title of each class

on which registered

COMMON STOCK, $0.01 PAR VALUE

NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

NONE

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS REQUIRED TO BE
FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS
(OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS
BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS. YES

þ

NO

o

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM 405 OF
REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE BEST OF REGISTRANT’S
KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF
THE FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K. YES

þ

NO

o

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT IS AN ACCELERATED FILER (AS DEFINED IN RULE
12b-2 OF THE ACT). YES

þ

NO

o

THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE VOTING STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF THE REGISTRANT
WAS $363,087,000 BASED ON THE REPORTED LAST SALE PRICE OF COMMON STOCK ON JUNE 30, 2004, WHICH IS
THE LAST BUSINESS DAY OF THE REGISTRANT’S MOST RECENTLY COMPLETED SECOND FISCAL QUARTER.

THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF COMMON STOCK OF THE REGISTRANT OUTSTANDING ON FEBRUARY 28, 2005 WAS 39,879,219.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

CERTAIN INFORMATION REQUIRED BY PART III OF THIS ANNUAL REPORT IS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE FROM THE REGISTRANT’S DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT FOR ITS ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
TO BE HELD ON MAY 19, 2005.

TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

FORM 10-K




PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Tyler Technologies, Inc. (“Tyler”) is a major provider of integrated information management
solutions and services for local governments. We partner with clients to make local government
more accessible to the public, more responsive to the needs of citizens and more efficient in its
operations. We have a broad line of software products and services to address the information
technology (“IT”) needs of virtually every major area of operation for cities, counties, schools
and other local government entities. Most of our customers have our software installed in-house.
For customers who prefer not to physically acquire the software and hardware, we provide outsourced
hosting for some of our applications at one of our data centers through an applications service
provider (“ASP”) arrangement. We provide professional IT services to our customers, including
software and hardware installation, data conversion, training and, at times, product modifications.
In addition, we are the nation’s largest provider of outsourced property appraisal services for
taxing jurisdictions. We also provide continuing customer support services to ensure proper
product performance and reliability, which provides us with long-term customer relationships and a
significant base of recurring maintenance revenue.

Tyler was founded in 1966. Prior to early 1998, we operated as a diversified industrial
conglomerate, with operations in various industrial, retail and distribution businesses, all of
which have been sold or otherwise disposed. In 1997, we embarked on a multi-phase growth plan
focused on serving the specialized information management needs of local governments nationwide.
In 1998 and 1999, we made a series of strategic acquisitions of companies in the local government
IT market.

In addition to our continuing operations in the software and services business described above, we
also operated from 1998 through 2000 a business segment focused on providing outsourced property
records management for local governments and reselling related data. In late 2000, we decided to
dispose of the information and property records services segment in order to strengthen our balance
sheet and allow us to focus our resources on the segment of business that we believe offers the
greatest growth and profit opportunities. We expect to continue to capitalize on these
opportunities by leveraging our large national client base, our long-term relationships with local
government customers, and our deep domain expertise in local government operations through the
development of state-of-the-art technologies and new nationally branded applications solutions. We
have and are continuing to develop a new generation of software products, some of which are based
on n-tier architecture, SQL-compliant databases, browser compatibility and component-based
technology.

MARKET OVERVIEW

The state and local government market is one of the largest and most decentralized IT markets in
the country, consisting of all 50 states, approximately 3,100 counties, 36,000 cities and towns and
14,500 school districts. This market is also comprised of approximately 35,000 special districts
and other agencies, each with specialized delegated responsibilities and unique information
management requirements.

Traditionally, local government bodies and agencies performed state-mandated duties, including
property assessment, record keeping, road maintenance, law enforcement, administration of election
and judicial functions, and the provision of welfare assistance. Today, a host of emerging and
urgent issues are confronting local governments, each of which demands a service response. These
areas include criminal justice and corrections, administration and finance, public safety, health
and human services, and public works. Transfers of responsibility from the federal and state
governments to county and municipal governments and agencies in these and other areas also place
additional service and financial requirements on these local government units. In addition,
constituents of local governments are increasingly demanding improved service and better access to
information from public entities. As a result, local governments recognize the increasing value of
information management systems and services to, among other things, improve revenue collection,
provide increased access to information, and streamline delivery of services to their constituents.
Local government bodies are now recognizing that “e-government” is an additional responsibility
for community development. From integrated tax systems to integrated civil and criminal justice
information systems, many counties and cities have benefited significantly from the implementation
of jurisdiction-wide systems that allow different agencies or government offices to share data and
provide a more comprehensive approach to information management. Many city and county governmental
agencies also have unique individual information management requirements, which must be tailored to
the specific functions of each particular office.



Many local governments also have difficulties attracting and retaining the staff necessary to
support their IT functions. As a result, they seek to establish long-term relationships with
reliable providers of high quality IT products and services such as Tyler.

Although local governments generally face budgetary constraints in their operations, their primary
revenue sources are usually property taxes, and to a lesser extent, utility fees, which tend to be
relatively stable. In addition, the acquisition of new technology typically enables local
governments to operate more efficiently, and often provides a measurable return on investment that
justifies the purchase of software and related services.

Gartner Dataquest estimates that state and local government spending for IT products and services
will grow from $42.3 billion in 2004 to $50.8 billion in 2007, with local government accounting for
$21.1 billion of IT spending in 2004 and $24.9 billion in 2007. The external services and software
segments of the market, where our business is primarily focused, are expected to be the most
rapidly growing areas of the local government IT market, expanding from $9.4 billion in 2004 to
$12.5 billion in 2007.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

We provide a comprehensive and flexible suite of products and services that address the information
technology needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. We derive our
revenues from four primary sources:

•

sales of software licenses;

•

software services;

•

maintenance and support, and

•

appraisal services.

We design, develop and market a broad range of software products to serve mission-critical
“back-office” functions of local governments. Our software applications are designed primarily for
use on hardware supporting UNIX/NT operating systems. Many of our software applications include
Internet-accessible solutions that allow for real-time public access to a variety of information or
that allow the public to transact business with local governments via the Internet. Our software
products and services are generally grouped in four major product areas:

•

Financial and City Solutions;

•

Courts and Justice;

•

Property Appraisal and Tax; and

•

Document Management.

Each of our core software systems consists of several fully integrated application modules. For
customers who acquire the software for use in-house, we generally license our systems under
standard license agreements that provide the customer with a fully paid, nonexclusive,
nontransferable right to use the software. In some of the product areas, such as financials and
property appraisal, we offer multiple solutions designed to meet the needs of different sized
governments.

We also offer certain software products on an outsourced basis for customers who do not wish to
maintain, update and operate these systems or to make large up-front capital expenditures to
implement these advanced technologies. For these customers, we either host the applications and
data at one of our data centers, or maintain the hardware and software at the client’s site.
Customers typically pay monthly fees under multi-year contracts for these services.

Historically, we have had a higher concentration of revenues in the second half of our fiscal year
due to governmental budget and spending cycles.

A description of our suite of products and services follows:

Software Licensing

Financial and City Solutions

Our Financial and City Solutions products are ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) systems for local
governments, which integrate information across all facets of a client organization. Our financial
products include modular fund accounting systems that can be



tailored to meet the needs of virtually any government agency or not-for-profit entity. Our
financial systems include modules for general ledger, budget preparation, fixed assets,
requisitions, purchase orders, bid management, accounts payable, contract management, accounts
receivable, investment management, inventory control, project and grant accounting, work orders,
job costing, GASB 34 reporting, payroll and human resources. All of our financial systems are
intended to conform to government auditing and financial reporting requirements and generally
accepted accounting principles.

We sell utility billing systems that support the billing and collection of metered and non-metered
services, along with multiple billing cycles. Our Web-enabled utility billing solutions allow
customers to access information online such as average consumption and transaction history. In
addition, our systems can accept secured Internet payments via credit cards and checks.

We also offer specialized products that automate numerous city functions, including municipal
courts, parking tickets, equipment and project costing, animal licenses, business licenses, permits
and inspections, code enforcement, citizen complaint tracking, ambulance billing, fleet
maintenance, and cemetery records management.

Tyler’s Financial and City Solutions products include Web components that enhance local
governments’ service capabilities by facilitating online access to information for both employees
and citizens and enabling online transactions.

Courts & Justice

We offer a complete, integrated suite of products designed to automate, track and manage the law
enforcement and judicial process, from the initiation of incidents in computer-aided
dispatch/emergency 911 systems through the process of arrest, court appearances and final
disposition to probation. These applications may be installed on a stand-alone basis or integrated
with our other products to eliminate duplicate entries and improve efficiency.

Our Web-enabled court systems are designed to automate the tracking and management of information
involved in criminal and civil court cases, including municipal, family and probate courts. These
applications track the status of criminal and civil cases, process fines and fees and generate the
specialized judgment and sentencing documents, citations, notices and forms required in court
proceedings. Additional judicial applications automate the management of court calendars,
coordinate judge’s schedules, generate court dockets, manage justice of the peace processes and
automate district attorney and prosecutor functions. Related products include jury selection,
“hot” check processing, and adult and juvenile probation management applications. Our courtroom
technologies allow judges to review cases, calendars, and to scan documents and mug shots using a
Web browser. Additionally, document-imaging options include the ability to scan, store, retrieve
and archive a variety of criminal and civil case-related documents.

Our law enforcement systems automate police and sheriff functions from dispatch and records
management through booking and jail management. Searching, reporting and tracking features are
integrated, allowing reliable, up-to-date access to current arrest and incarceration data. The
systems also provide warrant checks for visitors or book-ins, inmate classification and risk
assessment, commissary, property and medical processing, and automation of statistics and state and
federal reporting. Our computer-aided dispatch/emergency 911 system tracks calls and the
availability of emergency response vehicles, interfaces with local and state searches, and
generally assists dispatchers in processing emergency situations. The law enforcement and jail
management systems are fully integrated with the suite of court products that manages the judicial
process.

Our court and law enforcement systems allow the public to access, via the Internet, a variety of
information, including criminal and civil court records, jail booking and release information, bond
and bondsmen information, and court calendars and dockets. In addition, our systems allow cities
and counties to accept payments for traffic and parking tickets over the Internet, with a seamless
and automatic interface to back-office justice and financial systems.

In 2002 we introduced Odyssey, an all-new unified court case management system, that became
available for general release in the third quarter of 2003. Odyssey uses enhanced Web-browser
concepts to render a unique user interface. It incorporates current technology – XML, n-tier
architecture, component-based design, and an ultra-thin client footprint – to maximize the value of
a court’s investment in new software. We believe that some of Odyssey’s design concepts, including
embedded imaging functionality, COM+ objects to enable local customization, and an architecture
that enables multiple deployment options, are unique in the court automation marketplace. Odyssey
was the first of our new generation of n-tier, browser-based products and our initial marketing
efforts for the new court case management system have been focused on states, large cities and
counties.



Property Appraisal and Tax

We provide systems and software that automate the appraisal and assessment of real and personal
property, including record keeping, mass appraisal, inquiry and protest tracking, appraisal and tax
roll generation, tax statement processing, and electronic state-level reporting. These systems are
image- and video-enabled to facilitate the storage of and access to the many property-related
documents and for the online storage of digital photographs of properties for use in defending
values in protest situations. Other related tax applications are available for agencies that bill
and collect taxes, including cities, counties, school tax offices, and special taxing and
collection agencies. These systems support billing, collections, lock box operations, mortgage
company electronic payments, and various reporting requirements.

We have also developed a new appraisal system, Orion, based on the same technology platform that we
used for Odyssey. Orion will replace several UNIX based products and became available for general
release during 2004. Orion provides an intuitive, browser-based interface, integration for
Geographic Information System applications, valuation, assessment administration and tax billing
and collection.

Document Management

We offer a number of specialized applications designed to help county governments enhance and
automate courthouse operations. These systems record and index information for the many documents
maintained at the courthouse, such as deeds, mortgages, liens, UCC financing statements and vital
records (birth, death and marriage certificates).

Software Services

We provide a variety of professional IT services to customers who utilize our software products.
Virtually all of our customers contract with us for installation, training, and data conversion
services in connection with their purchase of Tyler’s software products. The complete
implementation process for a typical system includes planning, design, data conversion, set-up and
testing. At the culmination of the implementation process, an installation team travels to the
customer’s facility to ensure the smooth transfer of data to the new system. Installation fees are
charged separately to customers on either a fixed-fee or hourly charge basis, depending on the
contract, with full pass-through to customers of travel and other out-of-pocket expenses.

Both in connection with the installation of new systems and on an ongoing basis, we provide
extensive training services and programs related to our products and services. Training can be
provided in our training centers, onsite at customers’ locations, or at meetings and conferences,
and can be customized to meet customers’ requirements. The vast majority of our customers contract
with us for training services, both to improve their employees’ proficiency and productivity and to
fully utilize the functionality of our systems. Training services are generally billed on an
hourly basis, along with travel and other expenses.

Maintenance and Support

Following the implementation of our software systems, we provide ongoing software support services
to assist our customers in operating the systems and to periodically update the software. Support
is provided over the phone to customers through help desks staffed by our customer support
representatives. For more complicated issues, our staff, with the customer’s permission, can log
on to customers’ systems remotely. We maintain our customers’ software largely through releases
that contain improvements and incremental additions, along with updates necessary because of
legislative or regulatory changes.

Virtually all of our software customers contract for maintenance and support from us, which
provides a significant source of recurring revenue. We generally provide maintenance and support
under annual contracts, with a typical fee based on a percentage of the software product’s license
fee. These fees can be increased annually and may also increase as new license fees increase.
Maintenance and support fees are generally paid in advance for the entire maintenance contract
period. Most maintenance contracts automatically renew unless the customer or we give notice of
termination prior to expiration. Similar support is provided to our ASP customers, and is included
in their overall monthly fees.



Appraisal Services

We are the nation’s largest provider of real property appraisal outsourcing services for local
government taxing authorities. These services include:

Local government taxing entities normally reappraise real properties from time to time to update
values for tax assessment purposes and to maintain equity in the taxing process. In some
jurisdictions, reassessment cycles are mandated by law; in others, they are discretionary. While
some taxing jurisdictions perform reappraisals in-house, many local governments outsource this
function because of its cyclical nature and because of the specialized knowledge and expertise
requirements associated with it. Our business unit that provides appraisal outsourcing services to
local governments has been in this business since 1938.

In some instances, we also sell property tax and/or appraisal software products in connection with
appraisal outsourcing projects, while other customers may only engage us to provide appraisal
services. Appraisal outsourcing services are somewhat seasonal in nature to the extent that winter
weather conditions reduce the productivity of data collection activities in connection with those
projects.

STRATEGY

Our objective is to grow our revenue and earnings internally, supplemented by focused strategic
acquisitions. The key components of our business strategy are to:

•

Provide high quality, value–added products and services to our clients.

We
compete on the basis of, among other things, delivering to customers our deep domain
expertise in local government operations through the highest value products and services in
the market. We believe we have achieved a reputation as a premium product and service
provider to the local government market.

•

Continue to expand our product and service offerings.

While we already have what
we believe to be the broadest line of software products for local governments, we
continually upgrade our core software applications and expand our complementary product and
service offerings to respond to technological advancements and the changing needs of our
clients. For example, we offer solutions that allow the public to access data and conduct
transactions with local governments, such as paying traffic tickets, property taxes and
utility bills, via the Internet. We believe that the addition of such features enhance the
market appeal of our core products. Since 2001, we have also offered certain of our
software products in an ASP environment, a delivery model that we believe will, over time,
have increasing appeal to local governments and will be expanded to include more
applications. We have also increased our offerings of consulting and business process
reengineering services.

•

Leverage a core technology framework across multiple product development efforts.

We have developed a core technology framework upon which we have developed or are
developing a new generation of a number of products. By leveraging the core framework,
which is based on an n-tier, browser-based architecture, for the development of multiple
products, we believe we can develop new-generation products more efficiently, and at a lower
total cost. In addition, utilizing a core framework is also expected to help us bring new
products to market more rapidly. By having more products built on a common technology
framework, we expect to enhance our cross-selling opportunities and be able to provide
maintenance and other services more efficiently.

•

Expand our customer base.

We seek to establish long-term relationships with new
customers primarily through our sales and marketing efforts. While we currently have
customers in all 50 states, Canada, Puerto Rico, and the United Kingdom, not all of our
product lines have nationwide geographic penetration. We intend to continue to expand into
new geographic markets



o

products and services to complement our existing offerings;

o

entry into new markets related to local governments; and

o

new customers and/or geographic expansion.

When considering acquisition opportunities, we generally focus on companies with strong management
teams and employee bases and excellent customer relationships. In December 2003, we acquired Eden
Systems, Inc. (“Eden”), a provider of financial, personnel and citizen services systems for local
governments. Eden had 2003 revenues of approximately $11.8 million. In December 2003, we also
acquired certain assets of a business that provides forms software to users of some of our software
products. Prior to these acquisitions, our most recent acquisition included in our continuing
operations was completed in November 1999.

SALES, MARKETING, AND CUSTOMERS

We market our products and services through direct sales and marketing personnel located throughout
the United States. Other in-house marketing staff focuses on add-on sales, professional services
and support.

Sales of new systems are typically generated from referrals from other governmental offices or
departments within a county or municipality, referrals from other local governments, relationships
established between sales representatives and county or local officials, contacts at trade shows,
direct mailings, and direct contact from prospects already familiar with us. We are active in
numerous national, state, county, and local government associations, and participate in annual
meetings, trade shows, and educational events.

Customers consist primarily of county and municipal agencies, school districts and other local
government offices. In counties, customers include the auditor, treasurer, tax assessor/collector,
county clerk, district clerk, county and district court judges, probation officers, sheriff, and
county appraiser. At municipal government sites, customers include directors from various
departments, including administration, finance, utilities, public works, code enforcement,
personnel, purchasing, taxation, municipal court, and



police. Contracts for software products and services are generally implemented over periods of
three months to one year, with annually renewing maintenance and support update agreements
thereafter. Although either the customer or we can terminate these agreements, historically almost
all support and maintenance agreements are automatically renewed annually. Contracts for appraisal
outsourcing services are generally one to three years in duration. During 2004, approximately 34%
of our revenue was attributable to ongoing support and maintenance agreements.

COMPETITION

We compete with numerous local, regional, and national firms that provide or offer some or many of
the same products and services that we provide. Most of these competitors are smaller companies
that may be able to offer less expensive solutions than ours. Many of these firms operate within a
specific geographic area and/or in a narrow product or service niche. We also compete with
national firms, some of which have greater financial and technical resources than us, including
Oracle Corporation, Lawson Software, Inc., SAP AG, MAXIMUS, Inc., Affiliated Computer Services,
Inc., SunGard Data Systems, Inc. and Manatron, Inc. In addition, we sometimes compete with
consulting and systems integration firms, such as BearingPoint, Inc. and Accenture Ltd., which
develop custom systems, primarily for larger governments. We also occasionally compete with
central internal information service departments of local governments, which require us to persuade
the end-user department to discontinue service by its own personnel and outsource the service to
us. We compete on a variety of factors, including price, service, name recognition, reputation,
technological capabilities, and the ability to modify existing products and services to accommodate
the individual requirements of the customer. Our ability to offer an integrated system of
applications for several offices or departments is often a competitive strength. Local
governmental units often are required to seek competitive proposals through a request for proposal
process.

SUPPLIERS

All computers, peripherals, printers, scanners, operating system software, office automation
software, and other equipment necessary for the implementation and provision of our software
systems and services are presently available from several third-party sources. Hardware is
purchased on original equipment manufacturer or distributor terms at discounts from retail. We have
not experienced any significant supply problems.

BACKLOG

At December 31, 2004, we estimated our sales backlog was approximately $142.2 million, compared to
$139.3 million at December 31, 2003. The backlog represents contracts that have been signed but
the products have not been delivered or the services performed as of year-end. Approximately $97.8
million of the backlog is expected to be installed or services are expected to be performed during
2005.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, AND LICENSES

We regard certain features of our internal operations, software, and documentation as confidential
and proprietary and rely on a combination of contractual restrictions, trade secret laws and other
measures to protect our proprietary intellectual property. We generally do not rely on patents. We
believe that, due to the rapid rate of technological change in the computer software industry,
trade secrets and copyright protection are less significant than factors such as knowledge, ability
and experience of our employees, frequent product enhancements, and timeliness and quality of
support services. We typically license our software products under exclusive license agreements
which are generally non-transferable and have a perpetual term.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2004, we had approximately 1,400 employees. Appraisal outsourcing projects are
periodic in nature and can be widely dispersed geographically. We often hire temporary employees
to assist in these projects whose term of employment generally ends with the project’s completion.
None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to collective bargaining
agreements. We consider our relations with our employees to be positive.

INTERNET WEBSITE AND AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC FILINGS

We file annual, quarterly, current and other reports, proxy statements and other information with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act. You may
read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room by calling the
SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports,



proxy and other information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that
file electronically with the SEC. The address of site is

http://www.sec.gov

.

We also maintain an Internet
site, the address of which is

www.tylerworks.com

. We make available
free of charge through this site our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Forms 4 and 5, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition we also make available free
of charge through this site our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit
Committee Charter, Charter for the Compensation Committee and Charter for the Nominating
and Governance Committee. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements
regarding amendments to, or waiver from, a provision of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics by
posting such information on our Web site.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

We occupy a total of approximately 290,000 square feet of office and warehouse space, 30,000 of
which we own. We lease our principal executive office located in Dallas, Texas, as well as other
offices, facilities and project offices for our operating companies in California, Colorado,
Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, New York, North
Carolina, Ohio, South Dakota, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to our business and except as described
in this Annual Report, there are no material legal proceedings pending to which we or our
subsidiaries are parties or to which any of our properties are subject.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

Not applicable.



PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES
OF EQUITY SECURITIES.

Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “TYL.” At December 31,
2004, we had approximately 2,400 stockholders of record. A number of our stockholders hold their
shares in street name; therefore, there are substantially more than 2,400 beneficial owners of our
common stock.

The following table sets forth for the calendar periods indicated the high and low sales price per
share of our common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.

High

Low

2003:

First Quarter

$

4.40

$

3.36

Second Quarter

4.79

3.46

Third Quarter

7.45

4.30

Fourth Quarter

10.15

7.04

2004:

First Quarter

$

11.05

$

8.75

Second Quarter

10.10

8.17

Third Quarter

9.47

7.97

Fourth Quarter

9.99

7.60

2005:

First Quarter (through February 28, 2005)

$

8.45

$

6.29

We did not pay any cash dividends in 2004 or 2003. Our bank credit agreement contains
restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. Also, we intend to retain earnings for use in the
operation and expansion of our business, and, therefore, we do not anticipate declaring a cash
dividend in the foreseeable future.

The following table summarizes certain information related to our stock option plan and our
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). There are no warrants or rights related to our equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2004.

Number of securities remaining

Number of securities to be issued upon

available for future issuance under

exercise of outstanding options,

Weighted average exercise

equity compensation plans (excluding

warrants and rights as of

price of outstanding options,

securities reflected in initial column as

Plan Category

December 31, 2004

warrants and rights

of December 31, 2004)

Equity compensation
plans approved by
security
shareholders:

Stock options

3,963,397

$

4.21

1,153,967

ESPP

48,194

7.11

907,992

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security
shareholders

—

—

—

4,011,591

$

4.24

2,061,959



During 2004, we purchased approximately 1.5 million shares of our common stock for an
aggregate cash purchase price of $12.5 million. A summary of the repurchase activity during 2004
is as follows:

Additional

Maximum number

Total number

number of shares

Average

of shares that may

of shares

authorized that

price paid

be repurchased under

Period

repurchased

may be repurchased

per share

current authorization

Three months ended March 31

191,000

—

$

9.33

1,789,000

Three months ended June 30

327,000

—

9.09

1,462,000

Three months ended September 30

333,000

—

8.55

1,129,000

Additional authorization by the board of directors

—

2,000,000

—

3,129,000

October 1 through October 31

—

—

—

—

November 1 through November 30

528,000

—

8.20

2,601,000

December 1 through December 31

80,000

—

7.86

2,521,000

Total year ended December 31, 2004

1,459,000

2,000,000

$

8.58

2,521,000

The repurchase program, which was approved by our board of directors, was announced in October
2002, and was amended in April and July 2003 and October 2004. On October 27, 2004, our
board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 2.0 million shares for a total
authorization to repurchase 3.1 million shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2004,
we had authorization to repurchase up to 2.5 million additional shares of our common stock.
There is no expiration date specified for the authorization and we intend to repurchase stock
under the plan from time to time in the future.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

(In thousands, except per share data)

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,






STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA:

(1)

Revenues

$

172,270

$

145,454

$

133,897

$

118,816

$

93,933

Costs and expenses:

Cost of revenues

106,985

88,621

85,915

78,797

59,658

Selling, general and
administrative expenses

45,451

38,390

33,914

30,830

32,805

Amortization of acquisition intangibles

(2)

2,714

2,931

3,329

6,898

6,903

Operating income (loss)

17,120

15,512

10,739

2,291

(5,433

)

Realized gain on sale of investment
in H.T.E., Inc.

(3)

—

23,233

—

—

—

Other income (expense), net



(698

)

(479

)

(4,884

)

Income (loss) from continuing operations
before income taxes

17,437

39,084

10,041

1,812

(10,317

)

Income tax provision (benefit)

7,309

13,106

3,869

1,540

(2,810

)

Income (loss) from continuing operations

$

10,128

$

25,978

$

6,172

$


$

(7,507

)

Income (loss) from continuing operations
per diluted share

$

0.23

$

0.58

$

0.12

$

0.01

$

(0.17

)

Weighted average diluted shares

44,566

45,035

49,493

47,984

45,380

OTHER DATA:

EBITDA

(4)

$

28,377

$

48,104

$

18,557

$

13,203

$

4,253

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS DATA:

Cash flows provided (used) by operating
activities

$

22,159

$

22,535

$

19,845

$

12,744

$

(7,126

)

Cash flows (used) provided by investing
activities

(9,914

)

(590

)

(7,974

)

(9,706

)

65,401

Cash flows used by financing activities

(9,940

)

(25,421

)

(3,398

)

(5,984

)

(52,022

)

AS OF DECEMBER 31,






BALANCE SHEET DATA:

(1)

Total assets

$

190,487

$

186,396

$

169,845

$

146,975

$

150,712

Long-term obligations, less
current portion

—

—

2,550

2,910

7,747

Shareholders’ equity

118,400

117,907

118,656

100,884

96,122

(1)

For the years 2000 through 2004, results of operations include the results of
those companies which comprise continuing operations, from the respective dates we acquired
the companies. Selected financial data for 2000 has been restated to reflect discontinuation
of the information and property records services segment in 2000. See Notes 2 and 3 in the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2)

Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. Under the standard,
goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are no longer amortized but
instead tested for impairment at least annually. In accordance with the standard, results of
operations for years prior to 2002 are reported under the previous accounting standards for
goodwill and intangible assets. Amortization expense net of income taxes, related to goodwill
(including assembled workforce subsumed into goodwill) no longer expensed under the standard
was $2,960 in 2001 and $2,934 in 2000.

(3)

On March 25, 2003, we received cash proceeds of $39.3 million in connection with
a transaction to sell all of our 5.6 million shares of H.T.E., Inc. (“HTE”) common stock to
SunGard Data Systems Inc. for $7.00 cash per share. Our original cost basis in the HTE shares
was $15.8 million. After transaction and other costs, we recorded a gross realized gain of
$23.2 million ($16.2 million or $0.36 per diluted share after income taxes of $7.0 million)
for the year ended December 31, 2003.



(4)

EBITDA consists of income (loss) from continuing operations before interest, income taxes,
depreciation and amortization. Although EBITDA is not a defined measure of operating
performance or cash flows in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States (“GAAP”), we believe that EBITDA is widely used as a measure of operating
performance. Nevertheless, the measure should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute
for operating income, cash flows from operating activities, or any other measure for determining
operating performance or liquidity that is calculated in accordance with GAAP. EBITDA is not
necessarily an indication of amounts that may be available for us to reinvest or for any other
discretionary uses and does not take into account our debt service requirements and other
commitments. In addition, since all companies do not calculate EBITDA in the same manner, this
measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The
following reconciles EBITDA to income (loss) from continuing operations for the periods
presented:

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,






Income (loss) from continuing operations

$

10,128

$

25,978

$

6,172

$


$

(7,507

)

Amortization of acquisition intangibles

2,714

2,931

3,329

6,898

6,903

Depreciation and amortization
(included in cost of revenues and
selling, general and administrative
expenses)

8,672

6,465

5,193

4,014

2,783

Interest (income) expense, net
(included in other income (expense),
net)

(446

)

(376

)

(6

)


4,884

Income tax provision (benefit)

7,309

13,106

3,869

1,540

(2,810

)

EBITDA (2003 includes $23,233 gross
realized gain on sale of investment in
H.T.E., Inc.)

$

28,377

$

48,104

$

18,557

$

13,203

$

4,253



ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking
statements. The forward-looking statements are made in reliance upon safe harbor provisions of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward looking statements are subject to
certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include,
but are not limited to, those discussed in the section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations entitled “Factors That May Affect Our Future Results
and Market Price of Our Stock.” Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof. We
undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these
forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review the risk factors described in this
Annual Report and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC.

When used in this Annual Report, the words “believes,” “plans,” “estimates,” “expects,”
“anticipates,” “intends,” “continue,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “projects,” “forecasts,” “might,”
“could” or the negative of such terms and similar expressions are intended to identify
forward-looking statements.

OVERVIEW

We provide integrated information management solutions and services for local governments. We
develop and market a broad line of software products and services to address the information
technology (“IT”) needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. In
addition, we provide professional IT services to our customers, including software and hardware
installation, data conversion, training and for certain customers, product modifications, along
with continuing maintenance and support for customers using our systems. We also provide property
appraisal outsourcing services for taxing jurisdictions.

Our products are generally grouped into four major areas:

•

Financial and City Solutions;

•

Courts and Justice;

•

Property Appraisal and Tax; and

•

Document Management.

We monitor and analyze several key performance indicators in order to manage our business and
evaluate our financial and operating performance. These indicators include the following:

•

Revenues – We derive our revenues from four primary sources: sale of software licenses;
software services; appraisal services; and maintenance and support. Because we sell
primarily “off-the-shelf” software, increased sales of software products generally result
in incrementally higher gross margins. Thus, the most significant driver to our business
is the number and size of software license sales. In addition, new software license sales
generally generate implementation services revenues as well as future maintenance and
support revenues, which we view as a recurring revenue source. We also monitor our
customer base and churn since our maintenance and support revenue should increase due to
our historically low customer turnover.

•

Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins – Our primary cost component is personnel expenses in
connection with providing software implementation and appraisal services to our customers.
We can improve gross margins by controlling headcount and related costs and by expanding
our revenue base, especially from those products and services that produce incremental
revenue with minimal incremental cost, such as software licenses and maintenance and
support. Our appraisal projects are seasonal in nature, and we often employ appraisal
personnel on a short-term basis to coincide with the life of a project.

•

Selling, General and Administrative (“SG&A”) Expenses – The primary components of SG&A
expense are administrative and sales personnel salaries and commissions, marketing expense,
research and development costs, rent and professional fees. Sales commissions generally
fluctuate with revenues but other administrative expenses tend to grow at a slower rate
than revenues; however, these costs have recently grown disproportionately because of the
requirements of corporate governance legislation. Research and development costs will
fluctuate from year-to-year depending on product development activity.



•

Liquidity and Cash Flows – The primary driver of our cash flows is net income. In
addition, 2003 cash flow was positively impacted when we sold our investment in H.T.E.,
Inc. and received $39.3 million in cash proceeds. Uses of cash include capital investments
in software development and property and equipment and the discretionary purchases of
treasury stock. In 2004, we purchased 1.5 million shares of our common stock at our
aggregate cash purchase price of $12.5 million. Our working capital needs are fairly
stable throughout the year with the significant components of cash outflows being payment
of personnel expenses offset by cash inflows representing collection of accounts receivable
and cash receipts from customers in advance of revenue being earned.

•

Balance Sheet – Cash, accounts receivable and days sales outstanding and deferred
revenue balances are important indicators of our business.

•

EBITDA – Although EBITDA is not a measure of liquidity
required by or presented in accordance with GAAP, we monitor EBITDA
as a liquidity measure
because of our active acquisition program and the related amortization of our acquisition intangible assets and our significant investment in capitalized software
development. In addition we also use EBITDA to evaluate and price potential acquisition candidates. However EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool
and you should not consider EBITDA as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity or in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. For example, EBITDA does not reflect cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures, or changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs.

When considering acquisition opportunities, we generally focus on companies with strong management
teams and employee groups and excellent customer relationships. In December 2003 we acquired Eden
Systems, Inc. (“Eden”), a provider of financial, personnel and citizen services systems for local
governments. In December 2003, we also acquired certain assets of a business that provides forms
software to users of some of our software products. Prior to these acquisitions, our most recent
acquisition was completed in November 1999.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our
consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). The preparation of these financial
statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included as part of this Annual Report describe
our significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial
statements. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including, but not limited to, those
related to intangible assets, bad debts and our service contracts. We base our estimates on
historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the
circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values
of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may
differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

We believe the following critical accounting policies affect significant judgments and estimates
used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue Recognition

. We recognize revenues in accordance with the provisions of the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position (“SOP”) 97-2, “Software Revenue
Recognition,” as amended by SOP 98-4 and SOP 98-9, as well as Technical Practice Aids issued from
time to time by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and in accordance with the
SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104 “Revenue Recognition.” Our revenues are derived from sale of
software licenses, appraisal services, maintenance and support ,and services that typically range
from installation, training and basic consulting to software modification and customization to meet
specific customer needs. For multiple element software arrangements, which do not entail the
performance of services that are considered essential to the functionality of the software, we
generally record revenue when the delivered products or performed services result in a legally
enforceable and non-refundable claim. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts, sales
adjustments and estimated cost of product warranties, which are provided at the time the revenue is
recognized. Because most of our customers are governmental entities, we rarely incur a loss
resulting from the inability of a customer to make required payments. Occasionally, customers may
become dissatisfied with the functionality of the software products and/or the quality of the
services and request a reduction of the total contract price or similar concession. While we
engage in extensive product and service quality assurance programs and processes, our allowances
for these contract price reductions may need to be revised in the future. In connection with our
customer contracts and the adequacy of related allowances and measures of progress towards contract
completion, our project managers are charged with the responsibility to continually review the
status of each customer on a specific contract basis. Also, management at our corporate offices as
well as at our operating companies review, on at least a quarterly basis, significant past due
accounts receivable and the adequacy of related reserves. Events or changes in circumstances that
indicate that the carrying amount for the allowances for doubtful accounts, sales adjustments and
estimated cost of product warranties may require revision, include, but are not limited to,
deterioration of a customer’s financial condition, failure to manage our customer’s expectations
regarding the scope of the services to be delivered, and defects or errors in new versions or
enhancements of our software products.

For those software arrangements that include customization of the software, which is considered
essential to its functionality, and for substantially all of our real estate appraisal outsourcing
projects, we recognize revenue and profit as the work progresses using the



percentage-of-completion method and the proportionate performance method of revenue recognition.
These methods rely on estimates of total expected contract revenue, billings and collections and
expected contract costs, as well as measures of progress toward completion. We believe reasonably
dependable estimates of revenue and costs and progress applicable to various stages of a contract
can be made. At times, we perform additional and/or non-contractual services for little to no
incremental fee to satisfy customer expectations. If changes occur in delivery, productivity or
other factors used in developing our estimates of expected costs or revenues, we revise our cost
and revenue estimates, and any revisions are charged to income in the period in which the facts
that give rise to that revision first become known.

We use contract accounting, primarily the percentage-of-completion method, for those software
arrangements that include customization or modification of the software, or where our software
services are otherwise considered essential to the functionality of the software. In addition, we
recognize revenue using the proportionate performance method of revenue recognition for our real
estate appraisal projects, some of which can range up to three years. In connection with these
and certain other contracts, we may perform the work prior to when the services are billable and/or
payable pursuant to the contract. The termination clauses in most of our contracts provide for the
payment for the fair value of products delivered and services performed in the event of an early
termination. In connection with certain of our contracts, we have recorded retentions receivable
or unbilled receivables consisting of costs and estimated profit in excess of billings as of the
balance sheet date. Many of the contracts which give rise to unbilled receivables at a given
balance sheet date are subject to billings in the subsequent accounting period. Management reviews
unbilled receivables and related contract provisions to ensure we are justified in recognizing
revenue prior to billing the customer and that we have objective evidence which allows us to
recognize such revenue. In addition, we have a sizable amount of deferred revenue which represents
billings in excess of revenue earned. This liability primarily consists of maintenance billings in
which payments are made in advance and the revenue is ratably earned over the maintenance period,
generally one year. We also have deferred revenue for those contracts in which we receive a
deposit and the conditions in which to record revenue for the service or product has not been met.
On a periodic basis, we review by customer the detail components of our deferred revenue to ensure
our accounting remains appropriate.

Intangible Assets and Goodwill

. Our business acquisitions typically result in the creation of
goodwill and other intangible asset balances, and these balances affect the amount and timing of
future period amortization expense, as well as expense we could possibly incur as a result of an
impairment charge. The cost of acquired companies is allocated to identifiable tangible and
intangible assets based on estimated fair value, with the excess allocated to goodwill.
Accordingly, we have a significant balance of acquisition date intangible assets, including
software, customer related intangibles, trade name and goodwill. In addition, we capitalize
software development costs incurred subsequent to the establishment of technological feasibility.
Certain of these intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. All intangible
assets with definite and indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment annually or whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Recoverability of goodwill is generally measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset
to its fair value, generally determined by estimated future net cash flows expected to be generated
by the asset. Recoverability of other intangible assets is generally measured by comparison of the
carrying amount to estimated undiscounted future cash flows. The assessment of recoverability or of
the estimated useful life for amortization purposes will be affected if the timing or the amount of
estimated future operating cash flows is not achieved. Events or changes in circumstances that
indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to, a significant
decrease in the market value of the business or asset acquired, a significant adverse change in the
extent or manner in which the business or asset acquired is used, or a significant adverse change
in the business climate. In addition, products, capabilities, or technologies developed by others
may render our software products obsolete or non-competitive.



ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND OTHER

The following discussion compares the historical results of operations on a basis consistent with
GAAP for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. These results include the results of
operations of Eden from the date of its acquisition on December 2, 2003. See Note 2 in the Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

2004 Compared to 2003

Revenues

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our revenues for the following
years ended December 31:

% of

% of

2004 vs. 2003

($ in thousands)


Total


Total

$

%

Software licenses

$

30,258


%

$

25,914


%

$

4,344


%

Software services

49,786


37,128


12,658


Maintenance

57,760


47,157


10,603


Appraisal services

27,394


30,011


(2,617

)

(9

)

Hardware and other

7,072


5,244


1,828


Total revenues

$

172,270


%

$

145,454


%

$

26,816


%

Software licenses

. For the year ended December 31, 2004, software license revenues included
$3.5 million related to Eden Systems, compared to $100,000 for the same prior year period.
Excluding the software license revenue related to Eden, the increase in software license revenues
from 2003 to 2004 was approximately $900,000 or 3%. The change was the result of the following
factors:

•

Financial and city solutions software license revenues (excluding Eden) increased $4.9
million due to a combination of geographic expansion on the west coast and in the
southwest United States, and an increase in our implementation staff, which has allowed us
to install software products more quickly. In addition, the completion in March 2004 of
software enhancements to one of our financial software products has enabled us to expand
into larger cities and counties, resulting in larger contracts. Our financial and city
solutions software products automate accounting systems for cities, counties, school
districts, public utilities and not-for-profit organizations.

•

Justice and courts software license revenues decreased $3.5 million compared to the
prior year with approximately $1.4 million of the decline due to lower revenues from
Odyssey Case Management system (“Odyssey Courts”). In September 2003, we successfully
installed the first phase of Odyssey Courts in the State of Minnesota and Lee County,
Florida. The contract with the State of Minnesota is one of the largest software
contracts in our history, and we recorded $3.4 million of software license revenue in 2003
for both Minnesota and Lee County. In 2004, we had seven Odyssey contracts in process,
several of which began late in the year. We are recognizing revenue on these contracts
using contract accounting and recorded approximately $2.0 million of revenue for Odyssey
contracts in 2004. The remaining decline reflects lower sales of our legacy courts and
justice products.

We have recently introduced a variety of new software products which have replaced certain legacy
products. The acceptance of these new products in the marketplace is on-going. The following
software products have been released in the last two years:

Products

General Release Date

Odyssey Courts

September 2003

Orion Appraisal and Tax and other related products

March 2004 – December 2004

Eagle Document Management

July 2004



Software services

. Software services revenues increased $4.9 million, or 13%, compared to the
prior year period after excluding the increase in software services revenues generated by Eden of
$7.7 million. Higher software services revenues were attributable to the following factors:

•

Excluding Eden, software services revenues from our financial and city solutions
products were $2.5 million, or 14%, higher in 2004, primarily as a result of the increase
in related software licenses sales over the prior year. Typically, contracts for software
license include services such as installing the software, converting the customers’ data to
be compatible with the software and training customer personnel to use the software.
Increased staffing levels also allowed for faster implementation of our backlog. In
addition, we have been expanding our application service provider (ASP) and disaster
recovery markets, which contributed approximately $750,000 to the increase in 2004.

•

Software services revenues related to appraisal software products for the year ended
December 31, 2004 were $1.6 million higher than the prior year. Sales of Orion, our new
appraisal and tax product generated approximately $1.4 million of the increase.

•

In 2004, our document management division entered into a $1.9 million contract to
convert data into a microfilm format, which generated a $675,000 increase in software
services revenue over the prior year. This contract is expected to be completed in late
2005.

Maintenance

. We provide maintenance and support services for our software products and third party
software. Maintenance revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004 included $4.1 million
from Eden, compared to $300,000 for the same prior year period. Excluding the impact of Eden,
maintenance revenues during the year ended December 31, 2004 increased approximately 15% compared
to 2003 due to growth in our installed customer base and slightly higher maintenance rates on
certain product lines.

Appraisal services

. The decrease in appraisal services revenues is due to the completion of
certain significant appraisal contracts, particularly the completion of our contract with Lake
County, Indiana in the fourth quarter of 2003. These larger projects are often relatively
discretionary in nature, and the projects we recently completed have not been replaced by similar
projects.

Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues and
associated gross margins, and those components stated as a percentage of related revenues for the
following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

related

related

2004 vs. 2003

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Software licenses

$

8,819


%

$

6,610


%

$

2,209


%

Software services
and maintenance

72,609


56,892


15,717


Appraisal services

20,132


21,275


(1,143

)

(5

)

Hardware and other

5,425


3,844


1,581


Total cost of revenues

$

106,985


%

$

88,621


%

$

18,364


%

Overall gross margin


%


%

Cost of software license revenues

. The increase is related to the general release of several
software development products and the commencement of the related amortization expense. Once a
product is released, we begin to amortize the costs associated with its development over the
estimated useful life of the product. Amortization expense is determined on a product-by-product
basis at an annual rate not less than straight-line basis over the product’s estimated life
(generally 3-5 years). Development costs consist mainly of personnel costs, such as salary and
benefits paid to our developers, and rent for related office space. Current year product releases
include the Orion appraisal and tax products and an enhancement to one of our financial
and city solutions products. Amortization expense for 2004 also includes a full year of expense
related to Odyssey Courts versus only four months in 2003.



Cost of software services and maintenance revenues

. Cost of software services and maintenance
revenues primarily consists of expenses, such as personnel costs related to installation of our
software licenses, conversion of customer data, training customer personnel, support activities and
various other services such as ASP and disaster recovery. During the year ended December 31, 2004,
Eden contributed cost of software services and maintenance revenues of $7.9 million, compared to
$500,000 in the prior year. Excluding Eden, cost of software services and maintenance revenues
increased $8.3 million, or 15%, during 2004. Additional staff has been added to provide faster
implementation of our existing backlog. Excluding Eden, software services and maintenance revenues
increased 14% for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to 2003. Cost of software services and
maintenance revenues increased more than the associated revenues due to the time required to train
and orient additional personnel hired during 2004 before they can effectively perform
revenue-generating tasks, such as training and implementations. In addition, expenses increased as
the costs related to certain employees who previously worked on new software development products
ceased to be capitalized as those projects were completed and these employees moved into
implementation and support functions.

Cost of appraisal services revenues

. The decline in the cost of appraisal services revenues is
consistent with lower appraisal services revenues. In 2004, appraisal revenues declined at a
faster rate than cost of appraisal revenues due to the use of subcontractors to supplement our
appraisal staff on some of our larger contracts during 2004, resulting in lower margins. The
nature and timing of these contracts required us to retain staff on either short notice or with
specific qualifications, thus increasing the associated costs as a percentage of appraisal
revenues.

Gross margin.

Excluding the results of Eden, our gross margin for 2004 was 37% compared to 39% in
the prior year. The decline in gross margin from the prior year period was due to the following
factors:

•

Higher amortization costs of our software development products released from mid-year 2003 through 2004; and

•

The utilization of sub-contractors by our property appraisal and tax and document management divisions during 2004.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

The following table sets forth a comparison of our selling, general and administrative expenses
(SG&A) for the following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

2004 vs. 2003

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Selling, general and
administrative expenses

$

45,451


%

$

38,390


%

$

7,061


%

SG&A associated with Eden amounted to $4.4 million in 2004 compared to $350,000 in 2003.
Excluding Eden, SG&A increased 8% year-over-year. The increase in SG&A is a result of the
following factors:

•

Costs to comply with corporate governance and public disclosure requirements of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and New York Stock Exchange rules, including those associated
with documenting and testing internal controls. Compliance costs have been very high and
have significantly exceeded our original estimates. These costs consist of the engagement
of a third party firm to consult with us on the development and testing of our controls, as
well as the incremental costs associated with the independent auditors attesting to the
effectiveness of these controls. While some of the expenses we are incurring this year may
be considered “one-time” costs, it is clear that the new regulatory environment places an
expensive burden on companies that will continue into the future;

•

Increased headcount in our sales and marketing areas to support geographic expansion;

•

Higher commissions related to higher revenue levels; and

•

Higher research and development costs.



Amortization of Acquisition Intangibles

The following table sets forth a comparison of amortization of acquisition intangibles for the
following years ended December 31:

2004 vs. 2003

($ in thousands)



$

%

Amortization of acquisition intangibles

$

2,714

$

2,931

$

(217

)

(7

)%

Amortization expense has declined compared to the prior year due to certain intangible assets
recorded for previous acquisitions that became fully amortized beginning mid 2003 and throughout
2004. This decline was offset somewhat by the amortization expense for acquisition intangibles
recorded for the acquisition of Eden in December 2003. Acquisition intangibles are composed of the
excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired that is allocated
to acquired and amortizable software, customer related intangibles and trade name with the
remainder allocated to goodwill that is not subject to amortization. The estimated useful lives of
acquired software, customer related intangibles and trade name are 3 to 5 years, 20 to 25 years and
5 to 25 years, respectively. Estimated annual amortization expense relating to acquisition
intangibles for the next five years is as follows (in thousands):


$

2,060


2,060


2,008


1,921


1,155

Realized Gain on Sale of Investment in H.T.E., Inc

.

On March 25, 2003, we received cash proceeds of $39.3 million in connection with a transaction to
sell all of our 5.6 million shares of H.T.E., Inc. (“HTE”) common stock to SunGard Data Systems
Inc. for $7.00 cash per share. Our original cost basis in the HTE shares was $15.8 million. After
transaction and other costs, we recorded a gross realized gain of $23.2 million ($16.2 million or
$0.36 per diluted share after income taxes of $7.0 million) for the year ended December 31, 2003.

Income Tax Provision

The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the following years
ended December 31:

2004 vs. 2003

($ in thousands)



$

%

Income tax provision

$

7,309

$

13,106

$

(5,797

)

(44

)%

Effective income tax rate


%


%

The effective income tax rates for the periods presented were different from the statutory United
States federal income tax rate of 35% primarily due to the utilization of the capital loss
carryforward in 2003, increased state income taxes and non-deductible meals and entertainment
costs.

The income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2003 includes income tax expense of $7.0
million relating to the realized gain from the sale of our investment in HTE (after reduction in
valuation allowance related to the utilization of a capital loss carryforward amounting to $1.1
million on a tax-effected basis). For 2003, we had an effective income tax rate of 38% (excluding
the effect of the HTE gain) compared to 42% in 2004. The majority of the increase was due to
higher state income taxes because in 2004 we had more sales and profitability in highly taxed
states than in the prior year.

Discontinued Operations

One of our non-operating subsidiaries, Swan Transportation Company (“Swan”), had been involved in
various claims raised by former employees of a foundry that was owned by an affiliate of Swan and
Tyler prior to December 1995. These claims were for alleged work-related injuries and physical
conditions resulting from alleged exposure to silica, asbestos, and/or related industrial dusts.
After a series of bankruptcy court filings involving Swan, on December 23, 2003, Tyler in
accordance with the terms of the plan of reorganization, transferred the stock of Swan to the Swan
Asbestos and Silica Trust (“Trust”), an unaffiliated entity that will oversee



the processing and
payment of all present and future claims related to the foundry. On December 23, 2003, we paid
$1.48 million to the Trust in full and final release from all liability for claims associated with
the once-owned foundry (the “Swan Matter”). As a result of the release, any claimant is barred
from asserting any such claim, either now or in the future, against Tyler or its affected
affiliates. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the gain on disposal of discontinued
operations of $424,000 primarily resulted because we fully settled the Swan Matter at an amount
less than initially recorded and certain aspects of the settlement were conducted in a
beneficial tax manner. Accordingly, we recognized for the first time certain tax benefits
associated with payments on behalf of the Swan Matter.

Net Income

The following table sets forth a comparison of our net income, earnings per diluted share, income
from continuing operations per diluted share and diluted weighted average shares outstanding for
the following years ended December 31:

2004 vs. 2003

($ in thousands, except per share data)



$

%

Net income

$

10,128

$

26,402

$

(16,274

)

(62

)%

Earnings per diluted share

0.23

0.59

(0.36

)

(61

)

Income from continuing operations per
diluted share

0.23

0.58

(0.35

)

(60

)

Diluted weighted average shares outstanding

44,566

45,035

(469

)

(1

)

Net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003 included a $16.2 million realized
gain after income taxes relating to the sale of our investment in HTE, which had a diluted earnings
per share effect of $0.36 per diluted share.

2003 Compared to 2002

Revenues

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our revenues for the following
years ended December 31:

% of

% of

2003 vs. 2002

($ in thousands)


Total


Total

$

%

Software licenses

$

25,914


%

$

24,278


%

$

1,636


%

Software services

37,128


25,703


11,425


Maintenance

47,157


40,667


6,490


Appraisal services

30,011


37,319


(7,308

)

(20

)

Hardware and other

5,244


5,930


(686

)

(12

)

Total revenues

$

145,454


%

$

133,897


%

$

11,557


%

Software licenses

. Software license revenues for 2003 benefited from the successful first
phase installation of Odyssey Courts in the State of Minnesota and Lee County, Florida. Software
license revenues from these two contracts totaled $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003
compared to none in the prior year. In addition, we increased revenues from our financial and city
solutions software products by approximately $200,000 primarily by increasing sales and
implementation staff and releasing a new version of one of our county tax products for our
customers in the Midwest. However, sales of third-party software licenses relating to our
financial and city solutions products declined by approximately $700,000 due to the sales of a
one-time upgrade of the graphical user interface on some of our proprietary products in 2002 and
decreased emphasis on sales of third-party licenses in 2003. In late 2003, we opened a new
financial and city solutions sales office in California in an effort to further penetrate the west
coast market.

We also experienced a decline in our property appraisal and tax software license revenues of
approximately $750,000. Most of this decline related to one large property appraisal and tax
software installation in the third quarter of 2002.



Software services

. Higher software services revenues were attributable to the following factors:

•

Services related to implementation of Odyssey Courts. Our new courts and justice
product accounted for approximately 13% of the software services increase. In 2003, we
recognized $3.4 million of services revenue compared to $1.9 million in the prior year for
Minnesota and Lee County contracts.

•

Software services related to the increase in software license contracts signed in late
2002 and in the first half of 2003. Increased training staff has also allowed for faster
implementation of our backlog. Services related to property appraisal and tax software and
financial and city solutions software each contributed approximately $4.7 million and $3.5
million, respectively, of the increase in 2003 over 2002.

Maintenance

. The maintenance revenue increase was due to growth in our installed customer base and
slightly higher rates on certain product lines.

Appraisal services

. The decrease is related to the completion and progression of several major
appraisal contracts. During 2003, we signed a new six-year contract to provide Nassau County, New
York Board of Assessors (“Nassau County Extension”) with updated property assessments and
additional property appraisal and tax software. The following table contains the appraisal
services revenues for significant contracts for the years presented:

Appraisal

Appraisal revenue recorded

Total appraisal

revenues

Year ended December 31,

revenues

recognized

Anticipated Contract

($ in thousands)



per contract

to date

completion date

Nassau County, New
York Board of Assessors

$


$

12,100

$

29,500

$

29,500

First quarter 2003

Lake County, Indiana

6,300

8,200

15,300

15,300

Third quarter 2003

Indiana Revaluations

1,000

4,900

10,700

10,500

Mid-2004

Nassau County Extension

5,300

—

25,300

5,300

Estimated fiscal 2009

Franklin County, Ohio

2,700

—

9,100

2,700

Estimated mid-2005

Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues and gross
margins, and those components stated as a percentage of associated revenues for the years ended
December 31:

% of

% of

related

related

2003 vs. 2002

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Software licenses

$

6,610


%

$

5,482


%

$

1,128


%

Software services
and maintenance

56,892


50,175


6,717


Appraisal services

21,275


25,512


(4,237

)

(17

)

Hardware and other

3,844


4,746


(902

)

(19

)

Total cost of revenues

$

88,621


%

$

85,915


%

$

2,706


%

Overall gross margin


%


%

Cost of software license revenues

. In September 2003, we began amortizing the software
development costs of our Odyssey Courts product, as it was complete and ready for general release
to the public. The amortization for Odyssey Courts is calculated using the straight-line method of
amortization over an estimated five-year useful life. In 2003, we recorded amortization expense of
approximately $559,000 related to Odyssey Courts for the period September 1, 2003 (general release
date) through December 31, 2003. In addition, during 2002, we had several smaller products in the
development stage released in late 2002 and early 2003 that contributed to the increase in
amortization expense.



Cost of software services and maintenance revenues

. The increase in costs is consistent with
higher software services and maintenance revenues for the same periods, although software services
and maintenance revenues grew at a more rapid rate than the cost of those revenues, which is
reflective of more efficient utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of
scale.

Cost of appraisal services revenues

. The decrease in the cost of appraisal services revenues is
consistent with the decrease in appraisal services revenues. We often hire temporary employees to
assist in appraisal projects whose term of employment generally ends with the projects’ completion.
However, key appraisal personnel and management were retained in anticipation of new appraisal
contracts, which contributed to a 3% decline in appraisal gross margins compared to 2002.

Gross margin.

Our overall gross margin improved over the prior year due to higher software services
and maintenance revenues without a corresponding increase in related personnel costs reflecting a
more efficient utilization of our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale.
Improvements in software services and maintenance gross margin were slightly offset by declines in
software license gross margin due to amortization of new product releases and declines in the
appraisal services gross margin.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

The following table sets forth a comparison of our SG&A for the following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

2003 vs. 2002

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Selling, general and
administrative
expenses

$

38,390


%

$

33,914


%

$

4,476


%

The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2003 compared to 2002 is a
result of the following factors:

Amortization of Acquisition Intangibles

The following table sets forth a comparison of amortization of acquisition intangibles for the
following years ended December 31:

2003 vs. 2002

($ in thousands)



$

%

Amortization of acquisition intangibles

$

2,931

$

3,329

$

(398

)

(12

)%

The decrease in amortization from 2002 is related to certain of our acquisition intangibles
becoming fully amortized during 2003.



Other Income (Expense), Net

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of other income (expense), net
for the following years ended December 31:

2003 vs. 2002

($ in thousands)



$

%

Legal fees associated with investment in HTE

$

—

$

(704

)

$



%

Interest income





Interest expense

(257

)

(187

)

(70

)


Realized net loss on sale of short-term
investments available-for-sale

(39

)

—

(39

)

(100

)

Minority interest


—



$


$

(698

)

During the year ended December 31, 2002, we incurred approximately $704,000 of legal and other
costs associated with legal matters concerning various tort claims HTE alleged against us and HTE’s
attempted redemption of our 5.6 million shares for $1.30 per share. In September 2002, HTE
released us from all tort claims and a court declared HTE’s reported redemption of our shares was
invalid. In March 2003, we sold for cash our entire investment in HTE for $7.00 per share.

The increase in interest income is related to higher invested cash balances, including $39.3
million in cash received upon the sale of our investment in HTE in late March 2003, proceeds from
the exercise of stock options, as well as cash generated from operations. The cash received from
the sale of HTE was offset by payments totaling $24.1 million for repurchase of a total of
approximately 6.0 million shares of our common stock in a modified Dutch Auction tender offer in
May 2003 and on the open market throughout 2003. In addition, we made a cash payment of
approximately $12.1 million, net of cash acquired, for two acquisitions made in December 2003, the
most significant of which is Eden.

Income Tax Provision

The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the following years
ended December 31:

2003 vs. 2002

($ in thousands)



$

%

Income tax provision

$

13,106

$

3,869

$

9,237


%

Effective income tax rate


%


%

The 2003 income tax provision includes income tax expense of approximately $7.0 million relating to
the realized gain from the sale of our investment in HTE (after reduction in valuation allowance
related to the utilization of a capital loss carryforward amounting to $1.1 million on a
tax-effected basis). For the year ended December 31, 2003, we had an effective income tax rate of
38% (excluding the effect of the HTE gain). The effective income tax rates for 2003 compared to
2002 were different from the statutory United States federal income tax rate of 35% primarily due
to the utilization of the capital loss carryforward in 2003, state income taxes and non-deductible
meals and entertainment costs.



Net Income

The following table sets forth a comparison of our net income, earnings per diluted share, income
from continuing operations per diluted share and diluted weighted average shares outstanding for
the years ended December 31:

2003 vs. 2002

($ in thousands, except per share data)



$

%

Net income

$

26,402

$

7,989

$

18,413


%

Earnings per diluted share

0.59

0.16

Income from continuing operations per
diluted share

0.58

0.12

Diluted weighted average shares outstanding

45,035

49,493

(4,458

)

(9

)%

During 2003, we repurchased approximately 6.0 million shares of our common stock through our
modified Dutch Auction tender offer and purchases on the open market. Had we not executed those
repurchases, our net income per share including the gain on the sale of our investment in HTE, for
the year ended December 31, 2003 would have been reduced by $0.07 per diluted share.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) recently enacted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R (“SFAS No. 123R”), “Share-Based Payment” which replaces
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (“SFAS No. 123”), “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation” and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” SFAS
No. 123R requires the measurement of all employee share-based payments to employees, including
grants of employee stock options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense
in our consolidated statements of operations. The accounting provisions of SFAS No. 123R are
effective for reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2005.

We are required to adopt SFAS No. 123R in the third quarter of 2005. The pro forma disclosures
previously permitted under SFAS No. 123 no longer will be an alternative to financial statement
recognition. See Note 1 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for the estimated impact on net income and
net income per diluted share amounts for the third and fourth quarter of 2005, of recording
share-based payments in our consolidated statement of operations using a fair-value-based method
similar to the methods required under SFAS No. 123R to measure compensation expense for employee
stock incentive awards.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY

Historically, we have funded our operations and cash expenditures primarily with cash generated
from operating activities. As of December 31, 2004, our balance in cash and cash equivalents was
$12.6 million and we had short-term investments of $13.8 million, compared to cash and cash
equivalents of $10.3 million and short-term investments of $11.7 million at December 31, 2003.
Cash provided by operating activities was $22.2 million compared to cash provided by operations of
$22.5 million in 2003 and $19.8 million in 2002. Cash and short-term investments increased
primarily due to continued strong operating performance and collections of receivables.

At December 31, 2004, our days sales outstanding (“DSOs”) were 92 days compared to DSOs of 98 days
at December 31, 2003. The decrease in DSOs is due primarily to continued strong cash collections
during 2004. DSOs are determined based on accounts receivable divided by the quotient of
annualized quarterly revenues divided by 360 days.

Investing activities used cash of $9.9 million in 2004 compared to $590,000 in 2003 and $8.0
million in 2002. The cash used in investing activities in 2004 was comprised of investments in
software development costs and property and equipment, short-term bond funds and additional
purchase price payments related to the Eden acquisition. Investing activities in 2003 included
$39.3 million of gross proceeds on the sale of our investment in H.T.E., Inc. which was offset by
the investment of such proceeds in short-term bond funds, software development costs, property and
equipment and the acquisition of Eden.

On February 11, 2005, we entered into a new revolving bank credit agreement (the “2005 Credit
Facility”). The 2005 Credit Facility matures February 11, 2008 and provides for total borrowings of
up to $30.0 million and a $10.0 million Letter of Credit facility under which the banks will issue
cash collateralized letters of credit. As of February 28, 2005, our effective interest rate was
4.2% under the



2005 Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2004 we had no debt and outstanding
letters of credit totaling $4.8 million under a previous debt agreement to secure surety bonds
required by some of our customer contracts. As of February 28, 2005, we had no outstanding
borrowings under the 2005 Credit Facility.

During 2004, we made capital expenditures of $6.8 million, including $4.6 million for software
development costs. The other expenditures related to computer equipment, furniture and fixtures
and expansions related to internal growth. Capital expenditures were funded from cash generated
from operations.

Proceeds from sales of short-term investments were $10.1 million during 2004. During 2004, we invested $8.9 million in auction rate municipal
bonds. The bonds pay interest at various fixed rates.

Pursuant to our purchase agreement with Eden, two of the shareholders of Eden were granted the
right to “put” their remaining shares to Tyler and we were also granted the right to “call”
the remaining shares. In January 2004, we purchased 500 shares for $145,000 in cash. We
purchased the remaining 2,000 shares for a cash purchase price of $580,000 in July 2004.

Financing activities used cash of $9.9 million in 2004 compared to $25.4 million in 2003 and $3.4
million in 2002. The cash used in financing activities in 2004 was primarily comprised of
purchases of treasury shares net of proceeds from stock option exercises. Financing activities in
2003 included the purchase of approximately 6.0 million shares of our common stock through our
modified Dutch Auction tender offer and purchases on the open market for $24.1 million.

During 2004, we purchased approximately 1.5 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate
cash purchase price of $12.5 million.

In 2004, we received $1.9 million from the exercise of options to purchase approximately 680,000
shares of our common stock under our employee stock option plan. During 2003 we issued 554,000
shares of common stock and received $1.7 million in aggregate proceeds, upon exercise of stock
options and during 2002 we issued 491,000 shares of common stock and received $1.6 million in
aggregate proceeds upon exercise of stock options.

During 2004, we received $673,000 for contributions to the Tyler Technologies, Inc. Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (“the ESPP”), which was adopted by our shareholders in May 2004. In October 2004, we
issued 44,000 shares of common stock for contributions made to the ESPP during the three months
ended September 30, 2004. In January 2005, we issued 48,000 shares of common stock for
contributions made to the ESPP during the three months ended December 31, 2004.

In March 2003 we retired an outstanding $2.5 million, 10% promissory note payable. The note was
originally due in January 2005 and required quarterly interest payments.

Subsequent to December 31, 2004 and through March 1, 2005 we have purchased approximately 915,000
shares of our common stock for an aggregate cash purchase price of $6.3 million.

Excluding acquisitions, we anticipate that 2005 capital spending will be approximately $6.2
million, $3.9 million of which will be related to software development. Capital spending in
2005 is expected to be funded from existing cash balances and cash flows from operations.

From time to time we will engage in discussions with potential acquisition candidates. In order to
pursue such opportunities, which could require significant commitments of capital, we may be
required to incur debt or to issue additional potentially dilutive securities in the future. No
assurance can be given as to our future acquisition opportunities and how such opportunities will
be financed. In the absence of future acquisitions of other businesses, we believe our current
cash balances and expected future cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our
anticipated cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures and other activities through the
next twelve months. If operating cash flows are not sufficient to meet our needs, we may borrow
under our credit agreement.



We primarily lease offices, as well as transportation, computer and other equipment used in our
operations under non-cancelable operating lease agreements expiring at various dates through 2013.
Most leases contain renewal options and some contain purchase options. Following are the future
obligations under non-cancelable leases at December 31, 2004 (in thousands):






Thereafter

Total

Future rental
payments under
operating leases

$

4,580

$

3,938

$

3,735

$

3,740

$

3,705

$

5,806

$

25,504

It is not our usual business practice to enter into off-balance sheet arrangements. Moreover,
it is not our normal policy to issue guarantees to third parties. As of December 31, 2004, we have
no material purchase commitments, except for the operating lease commitments listed above.

CAPITALIZATION

At December 31, 2004, our capitalization consisted of $118.4 million of shareholders’ equity.

FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND MARKET PRICE OF OUR STOCK

An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors evaluating our company
should carefully consider the factors described below and all other information contained in this
Annual Report. Any of the following factors could materially harm our business, operating results,
and financial condition. Additional factors and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we
currently consider immaterial could also harm our business, operating results, and financial
condition. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements
and related Notes and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations included in this Annual Report. We may make forward-looking statements from time to
time, both written and oral. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results
of any revisions to these forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially
from those projected in any such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including
those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report.

A decline in information technology spending may result in a decrease in our revenues or lower our
growth rate.

A decline in the demand for information technology among our current and prospective customers may
result in decreased revenues or a lower growth rate for us because our sales depend, in part, on
our customers’ level of funding for new or additional information technology systems and services.
Moreover, demand for our solutions may be reduced by a decline in overall demand for computer
software and services. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or
maintain our revenues.

We may experience fluctuations in quarterly revenue that could adversely impact our stock price and
our operating results.

Our actual revenues in a quarter could fall below expectations, which could lead to a decline in
our stock price. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate
substantially from quarter to quarter. Revenues from license fees in any quarter depend
substantially upon our contracting activity and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter
in accordance with our revenue recognition policies. Our quarterly revenue may fluctuate and may
be difficult to forecast for a variety of reasons, including the following:



Fluctuation in our quarterly revenues may adversely affect our operating results. In each fiscal
quarter our expense levels, operating costs, and hiring plans are based on projections of future
revenues and are relatively fixed. If our actual revenues fall below expectations, we could
experience a reduction in operating results.

As with other software vendors, we may be required to delay revenue recognition into future
periods, which could adversely impact our operating results.

We have in the past had to, and in the future may have to, defer revenue recognition for license
fees due to several factors, including whether:

Because of the factors listed above and other specific requirements under generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States for software revenue recognition, we must have very
precise terms in our license agreements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver and
install software or perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can
extend the sales cycle, and sometimes we do not obtain terms and conditions that permit revenue
recognition at the time of delivery or even as work on the project is completed.

Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in
additional expenses.

Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure,
including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and
New York Stock Exchange rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. The costs
required to comply with such evolving laws are difficult to predict. To maintain high standards of
corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources
to comply with evolving standards. This investment may result in an unforeseen increase in general
and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from
revenue-generating activities, which may harm our business, financial condition, or results of
operations.

Increases in service revenue as a percentage of total revenues could decrease overall margins and
adversely affect our operating results.

We realize lower margins on software and appraisal service revenues than on license revenue. The
majority of our contracts include both software licenses and the provision of professional
services. Therefore, an increase in the percentage of software service and appraisal service
revenue compared to license revenue could have a detrimental impact on our overall gross margins
and could adversely affect operating results.

Selling products and services into the public sector poses unique challenges.

We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of software and services to state, county
and city governments, other municipal agencies, and other public entities. We expect that sales to
public sector customers will continue to account for substantially all of our revenues in the
future. We face many risks and challenges associated with contracting with governmental entities,
including:



•

changes in governmental administrations and personnel;

•

limitations on governmental resources placed by budgetary restraints, which in some
circumstances, may provide for a termination of executed contracts because of a lack of
future funding; and

•

the general effect of economic downturns and other changes on local governments’ ability
to spend public funds on outsourcing arrangements.

Each of these risks is outside our control. If we fail to adequately adapt to these risks and
uncertainties, our financial performance could be adversely affected.

The open bidding process for governmental contracts creates uncertainty in predicting future
contract awards.

Many governmental agencies purchase products and services through an open bidding process.
Generally, a governmental entity will publish an established list of requirements requesting
potential vendors to propose solutions for the established requirements. To respond successfully to
these requests for proposals, we must accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a
proposed contract, the time required to establish operations for the proposed client, and the
likely terms of any other third party proposals submitted. We cannot guarantee that we will win
any bids in the future through the request for proposal process, or that any winning bids will
ultimately result in contracts on favorable terms. Our failure to secure contracts through the
open bidding process, or to secure such contracts on favorable terms, may adversely affect our
business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Fixed price contracts may affect our profits.

Some of our present contracts are on a fixed-priced basis, which can lead to various risks,
including:

•

the failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for an engagement;

•

the failure to effectively manage governmental agencies’ and other customers’
expectations regarding the scope of services to be delivered for an estimated price; and

•

the failure to timely complete fixed-price engagements within budget to the customers’
satisfaction.

If we do not adequately assess these and other risks, we may be subject to cost overruns and
penalties, which may harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations.

We face significant competition from other vendors and potential new entrants into our markets.

We believe we are a leading provider of integrated solutions for the public sector. However, we
face competition from a variety of software vendors that offer products and services similar to
those offered by us, as well as from companies offering to develop custom software. We compete on
the basis of a number of factors, including:

We believe the market is highly fragmented with a large number of competitors that vary in size,
primary computer platforms, and overall product scope. Our competitors include the consulting
divisions of national and regional accounting firms, publicly held companies that focus on selected
segments of the public sector market, and a significant number of smaller, privately held
companies. Certain competitors have greater technical, marketing, and financial resources than us.
We cannot assure you that such competitors will not develop products or offer services that are
superior to our products or services or that achieve greater market acceptance.

We also compete with internal, centralized information service departments of governmental
entities, which requires us to persuade the end-user to stop the internal service and outsource to
us. In addition, our customers may elect in the future to provide information management services
internally through new or existing departments, which will reduce the market for our services.



We could face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the public
sector software application market and new products and technologies are introduced. Increased
competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, and
loss of market share. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic
acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third-parties, thereby
increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. It is
possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly
gain significant market share. Further, competitive pressures could require us to reduce the price
of our software licenses and related services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to
compete successfully against current and future competitors, and the failure to do so would have
material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition.

We must respond to rapid technological changes to be competitive.

The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry
standards in computer hardware and software technology, changes in customer requirements, and
frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products embodying new
technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and
unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue
to enhance existing products and develop and introduce in a timely manner or acquire new products
that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer
requirements, and achieve market acceptance. We cannot assure you that we will successfully
identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and
cost-effective manner. Further, we cannot assure you that the products, capabilities, or
technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or
noncompetitive. If we are unable to develop or acquire on a timely and cost-effective basis new
software products or enhancements to existing products, or if such new products or enhancements do
not achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be
materially adversely affected.

Our failure to properly manage growth could adversely affect our business.

We have expanded our operations rapidly since February 1998, when we entered the business of
providing software solutions and services to the public sector. We intend to continue expansion in
the foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This rapid growth
places a significant demand on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth
effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems, procedures, and controls on a
timely basis. We must also identify, hire, train, and manage key managerial and technical
personnel. If we fail to implement these systems or employ and retain such qualified personnel,
our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely
affected.

In addition, a significant portion of our growth has resulted from strategic acquisitions in new
product and geographic markets. Although our future focus will be on internal growth, we will
continue to identify and pursue strategic acquisitions and alliances with suitable candidates. Our
future success will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate future acquisitions
and other strategic alliances into our operations. Acquisitions may involve a number of special
risks, including diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel,
unanticipated events or circumstances, legal liabilities, and amortization of certain acquired
intangible assets. Some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although we conduct due diligence
reviews of potential acquisition candidates, we may not identify all material liabilities or risks
related to acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that any such strategic acquisitions
or alliances will be accomplished on favorable terms or will result in profitable operations.

We may be unable to hire, integrate, and retain qualified personnel.

Our continued success will depend upon the availability and performance of our key management,
sales, marketing, customer support, and product development personnel. The loss of key management
or technical personnel could adversely affect us. We believe that our continued success will
depend in large part upon our ability to attract, integrate, and retain such personnel. We have at
times experienced and continue to experience difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel.
Competition for qualified software development, sales, and other personnel is intense, and we
cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel.



We may experience difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy.

We occasionally expand our business through the acquisition of complementary companies. We cannot,
however, make any assurances that we will be able to identify any potential acquisition candidates
or complete any additional acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, we cannot
assure you that any future acquisitions will be successfully integrated or will be advantageous to
us.

We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights.

Many of our product and service offerings incorporate proprietary information, trade secrets,
know-how, and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of contracts,
copyrights, and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our
technology. We cannot be certain that we have taken all appropriate steps to deter
misappropriation of our intellectual property. In addition, there has been significant litigation
in the United States in recent years involving intellectual property rights. We are not currently
involved in any material intellectual property litigation. We may, however, be a party to
intellectual property litigation in the future to protect our proprietary information, trade
secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. Further, we cannot assure you that
third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us in the future with
respect to current or future products. Any claims or litigation, with or without merit, could be
time-consuming and result in costly litigation and diversion of management’s attention. Further,
any claims and litigation could cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty
or licensing arrangements. Such royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be
available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Thus, litigation to defend and enforce our
intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, and results of operations, regardless of the final outcome of such litigation.

Our products are complex and, as such, we run the risk of errors or defects with new product
introductions or enhancements.

Software products as complex as those developed by us may contain errors or defects, especially
when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Although we have not
experienced material adverse effects resulting from any such defects or errors to date, we cannot
assure you that material defects and errors will not be found after commencement of product
shipments. Any such defects could result in loss of revenues or delay market acceptance.

Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our
exposure to potential liability claims. It is possible, however, that we may not always be able to
negotiate such provisions in our contracts with customers or that the limitation of liability
provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective as a result of existing or
future federal, state or local laws, ordinances, or judicial decisions. Although we maintain
errors and omissions and general liability insurance, and we try to structure our contracts to
include limitations on liability, we cannot assure you that a successful claim could not be made or
would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of
operations.

Our Application Service Provider strategy has yet to gain widespread acceptance.

Some businesses choose to access enterprise software applications through application service
providers, or ASPs, which are businesses that host applications and provide access to software on a
subscription basis. The public sector market for ASP solutions is new and unproven. Acceptance of
our ASP model depends upon the ability and willingness of different governmental entities to accept
and implement ASP solutions. Some prospective clients have expressed security and privacy concerns
with the ASP model, including a concern regarding the confidential nature of the information and
transactions available from and conducted with governments and concerns regarding off-site storage
of such information. We have limited experience selling our solutions through ASPs and may not be
successful in generating revenue from this distribution channel.



Changes in the insurance markets may affect our ability to win some contract awards and may
lead to increased expenses.

Some of our customers, primarily those for our property appraisal services, require that we secure
performance bonds before they will select us as their vendor. The number of qualified, high-rated
insurance companies that offer performance bonds has decreased in recent years, while the costs
associated with securing these bonds has increased dramatically. In addition, we are generally
required to issue a letter of credit as security for the issuance of a performance bond. Each
letter of credit we issue without corresponding cash collateral reduces our borrowing capacity
under our senior secured credit agreement. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure such
performance bonds in the future on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our inability to
obtain performance bonds on favorable terms or at all could impact our future ability to win some
contract awards, particularly large property appraisal services contracts, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Recent volatility in the stock markets, increasing shareholder litigation, the adoption of
expansive legislation that redefines corporate controls (in particular, legislation adopted to
prevent future corporate and accounting scandals), as well as other factors have recently led to
significant increases in premiums for directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. The number of
insurers offering directors and officers insurance at competitive rates has also decreased in
recent years. We cannot predict when the insurance market for such coverage will stabilize, if at
all. The continued volatility of the insurance market may result in future increases in our
general and administrative expenses, which may adversely affect future operating results.

Our stock price may be volatile.

The market price of our common stock may be volatile and may be significantly affected by many
different factors. Some examples of factors that can have a significant impact on our stock price
include:

In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume
fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for the common stock of technology
companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common
stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s
securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We
cannot assure you that similar litigation will not occur in the future with respect to us. Such
litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and
resources, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and
financial condition.

Historically, we have not paid dividends on our common stock.

We have not declared or paid a cash dividend since we entered the business of providing software
solutions and services to the public sector in February 1998. Our credit agreement restricts our
ability to pay cash dividends. We intend to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion
of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the
foreseeable future.

Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could deter takeover
attempts.

Our board of directors may issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and may determine the
price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights,
of these shares of preferred stock. These determinations may be made without any further vote or
action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and
may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued
in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to
acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, some provisions of our
Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, and of the Delaware General Corporation Law could also delay,
prevent, or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us.



Financial Outlook

From time to time in press releases and otherwise, we may publish forecasts or other
forward-looking statements regarding our results, including estimated revenues or net earnings.
Any forecast of our future performance reflects various assumptions. These assumptions are subject
to significant uncertainties, and as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be
incorrect. Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors
(including those described in this discussion), many of which are beyond our control. As a result,
we cannot be certain that our performance will be consistent with any management forecasts or that
the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. Current and potential
stockholders are cautioned not to base their entire analysis of our business and prospects upon
isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize our entire publicly available mix of
historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information regarding us,
our products and services, and the software industry when evaluating our prospective results of
operations.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

Market risk represents the risk of loss that may affect us due to adverse changes in financial
market prices and interest rates. As of December 31, 2004, we had funds invested in a state and
municipal bond mutual fund and auction rate municipal and corporate bonds, all of which we
accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities.” These investments were treated as available-for-sale under SFAS No. 115. The
carrying value of these investments approximates fair market value. We are not exposed to any
market risk related to the municipal bond mutual fund as we liquidated it in February 2005. Due to
the nature of the auction rate municipal and corporate bonds, we are not subject to significant
market rate risk.

We have no outstanding debt at December 31, 2004, and we therefore are not subject to any interest
rate risk.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

The reports of our independent registered public accounting firm and our consolidated financial
statements, related notes, and supplementary data are included as part of this Annual Report
beginning on page F-1.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

— Our chief executive officer and our chief
financial officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)) as of December 31,
2004. Based on such evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have
concluded that as of December 31, 2004 such disclosure controls and procedures were effective and
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file or submit
under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time
periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and include controls and procedures designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in such reports is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer,
as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

— During the quarter ended December 31, 2004, there were
no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting, as defined in Securities Exchange Act
Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f), that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

—  Tyler’s management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting as
defined in Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Tyler’s internal control over financial
reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance to Tyler’s management and board of directors
regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.



Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only
reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.

Management assessed the effectiveness of Tyler’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in

Internal Control -
Integrated Framework

. Based on our assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2004, Tyler’s
internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.

Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004 has been audited by Ernst & Young, LLP, the independent registered public
accounting firm who also audited Tyler’s consolidated financial statements. Ernst & Young’s
attestation report on management’s assessment of Tyler’s internal control over financial reporting
appears on page F-2 hereof.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

None.

PART III

See the information under the following captions in Tyler’s definitive Proxy Statement, which is
incorporated herein by reference. Only those sections of the Proxy Statement that specifically
address the items set forth herein are incorporated by reference. Such incorporation by reference
does not include the Compensation Committee Report, the Audit Committee Report or the Stock
Performance Graphs, which are included in the Proxy Statement.

Headings in Proxy Statement

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF
THE REGISTRANT.

“Tyler Management”

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

“Executive Compensation”

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

“Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management”

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS.

“Executive Compensation — Employment
Contracts”

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information required under this item may be found under the section captioned “Proposals For
Consideration — Proposal Two — Ratification of Ernst & Young LLP as Our Independent Auditors for
Fiscal Year 2005” in our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE.

The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report:

(a)

(1)       The consolidated financial statements are filed as part of this Annual
Report.

Page

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-1

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002

F-3

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2004 and 2003

F-4

Consolidated
Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-7

(2)

The following financial statement schedule is filed as part of this report.

Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

F-24

All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable

accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not

required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and,

therefore, have been omitted.

(3)

Exhibits

Certain of the exhibits to this Annual Report are hereby incorporated by

reference, as specified:

Exhibit

Number

Description

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Tyler Three, as amended
through May 14, 1990, and Certificate of Designation of Series A
Junior Participating Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1990, and incorporated
by reference herein).

3.2

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our Form 8-K, dated
February 19, 1998, and incorporated by reference herein).



Exhibit

Number

Description

3.3

Amended and Restated By-Laws of Tyler Corporation, dated November
4, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 3.3 to our Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1997, and incorporated by reference herein).

3.4

Certificate of Amendment dated May 19, 1999 to the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation (filed as Exhibit 3.4 to our Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, and incorporated by
reference herein).

4.1

Specimen of Common Stock Certificate (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to our
registration statement no. 33-33505 and incorporated by reference
herein).

10.1

Credit Agreement dated as of February 27, 2002, by and between
Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Bank of Texas, N.A. (filed as
Exhibit 4.6 to our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001
and incorporated by reference herein).

10.2

First Amendment to Credit Agreement by and between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and Bank of Texas, N.A. dated March 5, 2002.
(filed as Exhibit 4.7 to our Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001 and incorporated by reference herein).

10.3

Second Amendment to Credit Agreement, First Amendment to Pledge
and Security Agreement, and Lenders Consent and Waiver by and
Among Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Bank of Texas N.A. (filed as
Exhibit 4.5 to our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002
and incorporated by reference herein).

10.4

Third Amendment to Credit Agreement, Second Amendment to Pledge
and Security Agreement, Lender’s Consent and Waiver, and
Borrower’s Acknowledgement, by and between Tyler Technologies,
Inc. and Bank of Texas, N.A. dated effective January 10, 2003
(filed as Exhibit 4.9 to our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2003, and incorporated by reference herein).

10.5

Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement, and Lender’s Consent, by
and between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Bank of Texas, N.A.
dated effective March 27, 2003 (filed as Exhibit 4.10 to our Form
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and incorporated by
reference herein).

10.6

Fifth Amendment to Credit Agreement and Lender’s Consent and
Waiver, by and between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Bank of
Texas, N.A. (filed as Exhibit 4.11 to our Form 10-Q, dated
effective March 31, 2003 and incorporated by reference herein).

10.7

Sixth Amendment to Credit Agreement, Third Amendment to Pledge
and Security Agreement and Lender’s Consent and Agreement, by and
between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Bank of Texas, N.A. dated
effective December 2, 2003 (filed as Exhibit 4.8 to our Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2003 and incorporated by
reference herein).



Exhibit

Number

Description

10.8

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement by and between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and Bank of Texas, N.A. as Administrative
Agent, Letter of Credit Issuer and Lender, and Texas Capital
Bank, as Lender. (filed as Exhibit 99.2 to our Form 8-K, dated
effective February 15, 2005 and incorporated by reference
herein).

10.9

Form of Indemnification Agreement for directors and officers
(filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002 and incorporated by reference herein).

10.10

Stock Option Plan amended and restated as of May 12, 2000 (filed
as Exhibit 4.1 to our registration statement no. 333-98929 and
incorporated by reference herein and amended by Exhibit 4.2).

10.11

Purchase Agreement between Tyler Corporation, Richmond Partners,
Ltd. and Louis A. Waters, dated August 20, 1997 (filed as
Exhibit 10.24 to our Form 8-K, dated September 2, 1997, and
incorporated by reference herein).

10.12

Employment agreement between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and
Theodore L. Bathurst, dated October 7, 1998, (filed as Exhibit
10.18 to our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1998,
and incorporated by reference herein).

10.13

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and John S. Marr Jr. dated July 1, 2003
(filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2003 and incorporated by reference herein).

10.14

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and John M. Yeaman dated July 1, 2003 (filed
as Exhibit 10.2 to our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2003 and incorporated by reference herein).

10.15

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and Dustin R. Womble dated July 1, 2003
(filed as Exhibit 10.8 to our Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2003 and incorporated by reference herein).

10.16

Employee Stock Purchase Plan (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to our
registration statement 333-116406 dated June 10, 2004 and
incorporated by reference herein).

*21

Subsidiaries of Tyler

*23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

*31.1

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Principal Executive Officer
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*31.2

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Principal Financial Officer,
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.



Exhibit

Number

Description

*32.1

Certifications by Principal Executive Officer pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1330, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*32.2

Certification by Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1330, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

* —
Filed herewith.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

Date: March 8, 2005

By:

/s/ John S. Marr

John S. Marr

Chief Executive Officer and President

(principal executive officer)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

Date: March 8, 2005

By:

/s/ John S. Marr

John S. Marr

Chief Executive Officer and President

Director

(principal executive officer)

Date: March 8, 2005

By:

/s/ John M. Yeaman

John M. Yeaman

Chairman of the Board

Date: March 8, 2005

By:

/s/ Theodore L. Bathurst

Theodore L. Bathurst

Vice President and Chief

Financial Officer

(principal financial officer)

Date: March 8, 2005

By:

/s/ Brian K. Miller

Brian K. Miller

Vice President — Finance and Treasurer

Date: March 8, 2005

By:

/s/ Terri L. Alford

Terri L. Alford

Controller

(principal accounting officer)



Date: March 8, 2005

By:

/s/ Donald R. Brattain

Donald R. Brattain

Director

Date: March 8, 2005

By:

/s/ J. Luther King

J. Luther King

Director

Date: March 8, 2005

By:

/s/ G. Stuart Reeves

G. Stuart Reeves

Director

Date: March 8, 2005

By:

/s/ Michael D. Richards

Michael D. Richards

Director

Date: March 8, 2005

By:

/s/ Glenn A. Smith

Glenn A. Smith

Director



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Tyler Technologies, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Tyler Technologies, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2004. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule
based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Tyler Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries at
December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of Tyler Technologies, Inc.’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
and our report dated March 3, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas

March 3, 2005

F-1


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Tyler Technologies, Inc.

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
Internal Controls over Financial Reporting, that Tyler Technologies, Inc. maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Tyler Technologies, Inc.’s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that Tyler Technologies, Inc. maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material
respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, Tyler Technologies, Inc. maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2004, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Tyler Technologies, Inc. as of December
31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’ equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004 and our report dated
March 3, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

ERNST & YOUNG
LLP

Dallas, Texas

March 3, 2005

F-2


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Operations

For the years ended December 31

In thousands, except per share amounts




Revenues:

Software licenses

$

30,258

$

25,914

$

24,278

Software services

49,786

37,128

25,703

Maintenance

57,760

47,157

40,667

Appraisal services

27,394

30,011

37,319

Hardware and other

7,072

5,244

5,930

Total revenues

172,270

145,454

133,897

Cost of revenues:

Software licenses

8,819

6,610

5,482

Software services and maintenance

72,609

56,892

50,175

Appraisal services

20,132

21,275

25,512

Hardware and other

5,425

3,844

4,746

Total cost of revenues

106,985

88,621

85,915

Gross profit

65,285

56,833

47,982

Selling, general and administrative expenses

45,451

38,390

33,914

Amortization of acquisition intangibles

2,714

2,931

3,329

Operating income

17,120

15,512

10,739

Realized gain on sale of investment in H.T.E., Inc.

—

23,233

—

Other income (expense), net



(698

)

Income from continuing operations before
income taxes

17,437

39,084

10,041

Income tax provision

7,309

13,106

3,869

Income from continuing operations

10,128

25,978

6,172

Gain on disposal of discontinued operations,
after income taxes

—


1,817

Net income

$

10,128

$

26,402

$

7,989

Basic income per common share:

Continuing operations

$

0.25

$

0.61

$

0.13

Discontinued operations

—

0.01

0.04

Net income per common share

$

0.25

$

0.62

$

0.17

Diluted income per common share:

Continuing operations

$

0.23

$

0.58

$

0.12

Discontinued operations

—

0.01

0.04

Net income per common share

$

0.23

$

0.59

$

0.16

Basic weighted average common shares outstanding

41,288

42,547

47,136

Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding

44,566

45,035

49,493

See accompanying notes.

F-3


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

December 31

In thousands, except share and per share amounts



ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

12,573

$

10,268

Short-term investments available-for-sale

13,832

11,669

Accounts receivable (less allowance for losses of $986 in 2004
and $1,094 in 2003)

45,801

42,517

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

5,042

3,853

Deferred income taxes

1,611

1,536

Total current assets

78,859

69,843

Property and equipment, net

6,624

6,927

Other assets:

Restricted certificate of deposit

7,500

7,500

Goodwill

53,709

53,932

Customer related intangibles, net

18,855

20,014

Software, net

23,385

26,390

Trade name and other acquisition intangibles, net

1,369

1,476

Sundry



$

190,487

$

186,396

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

2,890

$

2,378

Accrued liabilities

13,660

14,541

Deferred revenue

41,541

37,843

Income taxes payable

1,023


Total current liabilities

59,114

55,292

Deferred income taxes

12,973

13,182

Minority interest

—


Commitments and contingencies

Shareholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, $10.00 par value; 1,000,000 shares authorized,
none issued

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; 100,000,000 shares authorized;
48,147,969 shares issued in 2004 and 2003



Additional paid-in capital

152,870

156,201

Accumulated deficit

(4,424

)

(14,552

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax

—

(32

)

Treasury stock, at cost; 7,423,361 and 6,703,763 shares in 2004
and 2003, respectively

(30,527

)

(24,191

)

Total shareholders’ equity

118,400

117,907

$

190,487

$

186,396

See accompanying notes.

F-4


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity

For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

In thousands

Accumulated

Additional

Other

Total

Common Stock

Paid-in

Comprehensive

Accumulated

Treasury Stock

Shareholders’

Shares

Amount

Capital

Income (Loss)

Deficit

Shares

Amount

Equity

Balance at December 31, 2001

48,148

$


$

157,242

$

(4,545

)

$

(48,943

)

(920

)

$

(3,351

)

$

100,884

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

7,989

—

—

7,989

Unrealized gain on investment
security, net of tax

—

—

—

11,963

—

—

—

11,963

Total comprehensive income

19,952

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plans

—

—

(542

)

—

—


2,164

1,622

Treasury stock purchases

—

—

—

—

—

(1,500

)

(4,000

)

(4,000

)

Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—


—

—

—

—


Balance at December 31, 2002

48,148


156,898

7,418

(40,954

)

(1,929

)

(5,187

)

118,656

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

26,402

—

—

26,402

Unrealized loss on investment
securities, net of tax

—

—

—

(32

)

—

—

—

(32

)

Reclassification adjustment, net of
income taxes of $3,995

—

—

—

(7,418

)

—

—

—

(7,418

)

Total comprehensive income

18,952

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plans

—

—

(645

)

—

—


2,318

1,673

Treasury stock purchases

—

—

—

—

—

(6,019

)

(24,104

)

(24,104

)

Stock warrant exercises

—

—

(1,584

)

—

—


1,584

—

Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—


—

—

—

—


Shares issued for acquisitions

—

—

1,240

—

—


1,198

2,438

Balance at December 31, 2003

48,148


156,201

(32

)

(14,552

)

(6,704

)

(24,191

)

117,907

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

10,128

—

—

10,128

Unrealized loss on investment
securities, net of tax

—

—

—

(37

)

—

—

—

(37

)

Reclassification adjustment,
net of income taxes of $37

—

—

—


—

—

—


Total comprehensive income

10,160

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plans

—

—

(3,704

)

—

—


5,644

1,940

Treasury stock purchases

—

—

—

—

—

(1,459

)

(12,518

)

(12,518

)

Stock warrant exercises

—

—

(143

)

—

—



—

Issuance of shares pursuant to
Employee Stock Purchase Plan

—

—

(66

)

—

—




Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—


—

—

—

—


Balance at December 31, 2004

48,148

$


$

152,870

$

—

$

(4,424

)

(7,423

)

$

(30,527

)

$

118,400

See accompanying notes.

F-5


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

For the years ended December 31

In thousands




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

10,128

$

26,402

$

7,989

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
provided by operations:

Depreciation and amortization

11,386

9,396

8,522

Realized gain on sale of investment in H.T.E., Inc.

—

(23,233

)

—

Realized net losses on sales of investment securities



—

Non-cash interest and other charges




Provision for losses — accounts receivable


1,104


Deferred income tax (benefit) provision

(300

)

4,628

3,384

Discontinued operations — noncash charges and
changes in operating assets and liabilities

—

(843

)

(2,458

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, exclusive of
effects of acquired companies and discontinued operations:

Accounts receivable

(3,760

)

(7,354

)

1,056

Income tax payable

1,063



Prepaid expenses and other current assets

(1,084

)

(77

)

(316

)

Accounts payable


(238

)


Accrued liabilities

(961

)

2,603

1,095

Deferred revenue

4,186

9,161

(1,007

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

22,159

22,535

19,845

Cash flows from investing activities:

Proceeds from sale of investment in H.T.E., Inc.

—

39,333

—

Purchases of short-term investments

(12,277

)

(27,758

)

—

Proceeds from sales of short-term investments

10,055

16,000

—

Cost of acquisitions, net of cash acquired

(946

)

(12,109

)

—

Increase in restricted certificate of deposit

—

(7,500

)

—

Investment in software development costs

(4,575

)

(6,761

)

(7,210

)

Additions to property and equipment

(2,267

)

(1,796

)

(2,508

)

Proceeds from disposal of discontinued operations
and related assets

—


1,807

Other


(126

)

(63

)

Net cash used by investing activities

(9,914

)

(590

)

(7,974

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Payments on notes payable

(35

)

(2,990

)

(456

)

Payment of debt of discontinued operations

—

—

(324

)

Purchase of treasury shares

(12,518

)

(24,104

)

(4,000

)

Contributions from employee stock purchase plan


—

—

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

1,940

1,673

1,622

Debt issuance costs

—

—

(240

)

Net cash used by financing activities

(9,940

)

(25,421

)

(3,398

)

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

2,305

(3,476

)

8,473

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

10,268

13,744

5,271

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

12,573

$

10,268

$

13,744

See accompanying notes.

F-6


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Tables in thousands, except per share data)

December 31, 2004 and 2003

(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

We provide integrated software systems and related services for local governments. We develop and
market a broad line of software products and services to address the information technology (“IT”)
needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. In addition, we provide
professional IT services to our customers, including software and hardware installation, data
conversion, training, and for certain customers, product modifications, along with continuing
maintenance and support for customers using our systems. We also provide property appraisal
outsourcing services for taxing jurisdictions.

Tyler’s business is subject to risks and uncertainties including dependence on information
technology spending by customers, fluctuations of quarterly results, a lengthy and variable sales
cycle, dependence on key personnel, dependence on principal products and third-party technology and
rapid technological change.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

The consolidated financial statements include our parent company and our subsidiaries, all of which
are wholly-owned as of December 31, 2004 (see Note 2). All significant intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. In 2005 we merged all of our subsidiaries into
the parent company.

CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS AND OTHER

Cash equivalents include items almost as liquid as cash, such as money market investments with
insignificant interest rate risk and original maturities of three months or less at the time of
purchase. For purposes of the statements of cash flows, we consider all investments with original
maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 115, “Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” we determine the appropriate classification of
debt and equity securities at the time of purchase and re-evaluate the classification as of each
balance sheet date. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, we classified our short-term investments as
available-for-sale securities pursuant to SFAS No. 115. Investments which are classified as
available-for-sale are recorded at fair value as determined by quoted market price and unrealized
holding gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, if any, are not reflected in earnings but
are reported as a separate component of other comprehensive income until realized. Interest and
dividends earned on these securities are reinvested in the securities. The cost basis of
securities sold is determined using the average cost method. Following is a summary of short-term
investments:

Unrealized

Unrealized

Estimated

December 31, 2004

Cost

Gains

Losses

Fair Value

Auction rate municipal bonds

$

8,925

$

—

$

—

$

8,925

State and municipal bond mutual fund

4,907

—

—

4,907

$

13,832

$

—

$

—

$

13,832

Unrealized

Unrealized

Estimated

December 31, 2003

Cost

Gains

Losses

Fair Value

State and municipal bond mutual fund

$

5,843

$

—

$

(6

)

$

5,837

Fixed income securities mutual fund

5,875

—

(43

)

5,832

$

11,718

$

—

$

(49

)

$

11,669

F-7


Included in other assets is a $7.5 million restricted certificate of deposit with a maturity
in excess of one year which collateralizes letters of credit required under our surety bond
program. These letters of credit expire during 2005 and early 2006.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

We earn revenue from software licenses, postcontract customer support (“PCS” or “maintenance”),
hardware, software related services and appraisal services. PCS includes telephone support, bug
fixes, and rights to upgrades on a when-and-if available basis. We provide services that range
from installation, training, and basic consulting to software modification and customization to
meet specific customer needs. In software arrangements that include rights to multiple software
products, specified upgrades, PCS, and/or other services, we allocate the total arrangement fee
among each deliverable based on the relative fair value of each. Fair values are estimated using
vendor specific objective evidence.

We recognize revenue from software transactions in accordance with Statement of Position (“SOP”)
97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition,” as amended by SOP 98-4 and SOP 98-9 and, in accordance with
the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff, Accounting Bulletin No. 104, “Revenue Recognition” as
follows:

Software Licenses:

We recognize the revenue allocable to software licenses and specified upgrades upon delivery of the
software product or upgrade to the customer, unless the fee is not fixed or determinable or
collectibility is not probable. If the fee is not fixed or determinable, including new customers
whose payment terms are three months or more from shipment, revenue is generally recognized as
payments become due from the customer. If collectibility is not considered probable, revenue is
recognized when the fee is collected. Arrangements that include software services, such as
training or installation, are evaluated to determine whether those services are essential to the
product’s functionality.

A majority of our software arrangements involve “off-the-shelf” software. We consider software to
be off-the-shelf software if it can be added to an arrangement with minor changes in the underlying
code and it can be used by the customer for the customer’s purpose upon installation. For
off-the-shelf software arrangements, we recognize the software license fee as revenue after
delivery has occurred, customer acceptance is reasonably assured, that portion of the fee
represents a non-refundable enforceable claim and is probable of collection, and the remaining
services such as training are not considered essential to the product’s functionality.

For arrangements that include customization or modification of the software, or where software
services are otherwise considered essential, we recognize revenue using contract accounting. We use
the percentage-of-completion method to recognize revenue from these arrangements. We measure
progress-to-completion primarily using labor hours incurred, or value added. The
percentage-of-completion methodology generally results in the recognition of reasonably consistent
profit margins over the life of a contract since we have the ability to produce reasonably
dependable estimates of contract billings and contract costs. We use the level of profit margin
that is most likely to occur on a contract. If the most likely profit margin cannot be precisely
determined, the lowest probable level of profit in the range of estimates is used until the results
can be estimated more precisely. These arrangements are often implemented over an extended time
period and occasionally require us to revise total cost estimates. Amounts recognized in revenue
are calculated using the progress-to-completion measurement after giving effect to any changes in
our cost estimates. Changes to total estimated contract costs, if any, are recorded in the period
they are determined. Estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period in which
we first determine that a loss is apparent.

Software Services:

Some of our software arrangements include services considered essential for the customer to use the
software for the customer’s purposes. For these software arrangements, both the software license
revenue and the services revenue are recognized as the services are performed using the
percentage-of-completion contract accounting method. When software services are not considered
essential, the fee allocable to the service element is recognized as revenue as we perform the
services.

Appraisal Services:

For our real estate appraisal projects, we recognize revenue using the proportionate performance
method of revenue recognition since many of these projects are often implemented over a one to
three year period and consist of various unique activities. Under this method of revenue
recognition, we identify each activity for the appraisal project with a typical project generally
calling for bonding, office set up, training, routing of map information, data entry, data
collection, data verification, informal hearings, appeals and project management. Each activity
or act is specifically identified and assigned an estimated cost. Costs which are considered to
be associated with indirect activities, such as bonding costs and office set up, are expensed as
incurred. These costs are typically billed as incurred and are recognized as revenue equal to
cost. Direct contract fulfillment activities and related supervisory costs such as data

F-8


collection, data entry and verification are expensed as incurred. The direct costs for these
activities are determined and the total contract value is then allocated to each activity based on
a consistent profit margin. Each activity is assigned a consistent unit of measure to determine
progress towards completion and revenue is recognized for each activity based upon the percentage
complete as applied to the estimated revenue for that activity. Progress for the fulfillment
activities is typically based on labor hours or an output measure such as the number of parcel
counts completed for that activity. Estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the
period in which we first determine that a loss is apparent.

Computer Hardware Equipment:

Revenue allocable to computer hardware equipment, which is based on vendor specific objective
evidence of fair value, is recognized when we deliver the equipment and collection is probable.

Postcontract Customer Support:

Our customers generally enter into PCS agreements when they purchase our software licenses. Our
PCS agreements are generally renewable every year. Revenue allocated to PCS is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the period the PCS is provided. All significant costs and expenses
associated with PCS are expensed as incurred. Fair value for the maintenance and support
obligations for software licenses is based upon the specific sale renewals to customers or upon
renewal rates quoted in the contracts.

Deferred revenue consists primarily of payments received in advance of revenue being earned under
software licensing, software services, hardware installation and support and maintenance contracts.
Unbilled revenue is not billable at the balance sheet date but is recoverable over the remaining
life of the contract through billings made in accordance with contractual agreements.

Prepaid expenses and other current assets include direct and incremental costs, consisting
primarily of third party sub-contractor payments and commissions associated with arrangements for
which revenue recognition has been deferred. Such costs are expensed at the time the related
revenue is recognized.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions
include the application of the percentage-of-completion and proportionate performance methods of
revenue recognition, the carrying amount and estimated useful lives of intangible assets and
valuation allowance for receivables. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET

Property, equipment and purchased software are recorded at original cost and increased by the cost
of any significant improvements after purchase. We expense maintenance and repairs when incurred.
Depreciation and amortization is calculated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the
asset’s estimated useful life or the term of the lease in the case of leasehold improvements. For
income tax purposes, we use accelerated depreciation methods as allowed by tax laws.

INTEREST COST

We capitalize interest cost as a component of capitalized software development costs. We
capitalized interest costs of $63,000 during 2003 and $269,000 during 2002. We did not capitalize
any interest costs during 2004.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS

Research and development costs are included with selling, general and administrative expenses and
are expensed when incurred. We expensed research and development costs of $2.5 million during 2004,
$1.1 million during 2003, and $611,000 during 2002.

F-9


OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET

Components of other income (expense), net are as follows:

Years ended December 31,




Interest income

$


$


$


Interest expense

(192

)

(257

)

(187

)

Realized net loss on sales of short-term investments available-for-sale

(106

)

(39

)

—

Minority interest (see Note 2)

(23

)


—

Legal fees associated with investment in H.T.E., Inc. (See Note 6)

—

—

(704

)

$


$


$

(698

)

INCOME TAXES

Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred taxes arise because
of different treatment between financial statement accounting and tax accounting, known as
“temporary differences.” We record the tax effect of these temporary differences as “deferred tax
assets” (generally items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the future periods) and
“deferred tax liabilities” (generally items that we received a tax deduction for, which have not
yet been recorded in the income statement). The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured
using enacted tax rules and laws that are expected to be in effect when the temporary differences
are expected to be recovered or settled. A valuation allowance would be established to reduce
deferred tax assets if it is likely that a deferred tax asset will not be realized.

STOCK COMPENSATION

In accordance with SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” we elected to account
for our stock-based compensation under Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” as amended, and related interpretations, including
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 44, “Accounting for Certain
Transactions involving Stock Compensation,” an interpretation of APB No. 25, issued in March 2000.
Under APB No. 25’s intrinsic value method, compensation expense is determined on the measurement
date; that is, the first date on which both the number of shares the option holder is entitled to
receive, and the exercise price, if any, are known. Compensation expense, if any, is measured
based on the award’s intrinsic value – the excess of the market price of the stock over the
exercise price on the measurement date. The exercise price of all of our stock options granted
equals the market price on the measurement date. Therefore, we have not recorded any compensation
expense related to grants of stock options.

The weighted-average fair value per stock option granted was $6.03 for 2004, $3.41 for 2003, and
$3.61 for 2002. We estimated the fair values using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and the
following assumptions for the periods presented:

Years ended December 31,




Expected dividend yield


%


%


%

Risk-free interest rate

3.7

%

3.3

%

4.9

%

Expected stock price volatility

79.1

%

86.5

%

77.0

%

Expected
term until exercise (years)




F-10


Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by SFAS No. 123
for awards granted after December 31, 1994, as if we had accounted for our stock-based awards to
employees under the fair value method of SFAS No. 123. The pro forma impact of applying SFAS No.
123 in 2004, 2003 and 2002 will not necessarily be representative of the pro forma impact in future
years. Our pro forma information is as follows:

Years ended December 31,




Net income as reported

$

10,128

$

26,402

$

7,989

Add stock-based employee compensation cost included in net income,
net of related tax benefit

—

—

—

Deduct total stock-based employee compensation expense determined
under fair-value-based method for all awards, net of related tax benefit

(1,086

)

(1,915

)

(2,110

)

Pro forma net income

$

9,042

$

24,487

$

5,879

Basic earnings per share:

As reported

$

0.25

$

0.62

$

0.17

Pro forma

$

0.22

$

0.58

$

0.12

Diluted earnings per share:

As reported

$

0.23

$

0.59

$

0.16

Pro forma

$

0.20

$

0.54

$

0.12

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment”. SFAS No. 123R is a
revision of SFAS No. 123 “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” and supersedes APB No. 25.
Among other items, SFAS No. 123R eliminates the use of APB No. 25 and the intrinsic value method of
accounting, and requires the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity
instruments, based on the grant date fair value of those awards, to be recorded in the financial
statements. The effective date of SFAS No. 123R is the first reporting period beginning after June
15, 2005, which is the third quarter of 2005 for calendar year companies, although early adoption
is allowed. SFAS No. 123R permits companies to adopt its requirements using either a “modified
prospective” method, or a “modified retrospective” method. Under the “modified prospective”
method, compensation cost is recognized in the financial statements beginning with the effective
date, based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123R for all share-based payments granted after that
date, and based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123 for all unvested awards granted prior to the
effective date of SFAS No. 123R. Under the “modified retrospective” method, the requirements are
the same as under the “modified prospective” method, but also permits entities to restate financial
statements of previous periods based on proforma disclosures made in accordance with SFAS No. 123.

We currently utilize a standard option pricing model (Black-Scholes) to measure the fair value of
stock options granted to employees. While SFAS No. 123R permits entities to continue to use such a
model, the standard also permits the use of a “lattice” model. We have not yet determined which
model we will use to measure the fair value of employee stock options upon the adoption of SFAS No.
123R.

SFAS No. 123R also requires that the benefits associated with the tax deductions in excess of
recognized compensation cost be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash
flow as required under current literature. This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows
and increase net financing cash flows in periods after the effective date. These future amounts
cannot be estimated, because they depend on, among other things, when employees exercise stock
options. However, the amount of operating cash flows recognized in prior periods for such excess
tax deductions, as shown in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, were $582,000 during 2004,
$292,000 during 2003, and $198,000 during 2002.

We currently expect to adopt SFAS No. 123R effective July 1, 2005; however, we have not yet
determined which of the adoption methods we will use. Subject to a complete review of the
requirements of SFAS No. 123R, based on stock options granted to employees through December 31,
2004, we expect that the adoption of SFAS No. 123R on July 1, 2005, would reduce both third quarter
2005 and fourth quarter 2005 net earnings by approximately $200,000 ($0.00 per share, diluted) each
quarter.

SFAS No. 123R also requires employee stock purchase plans (ESPP) with purchase price discounts
greater than 5% to be compensatory. Our ESPP has a 15% purchase price discount with “look back”
features, but the plan can be modified at any time. Based on our current intention to modify
certain portions of our plan, we expect the related compensatory charge would reduce both third
quarter 2005 and fourth quarter 2005 net earnings by approximately $50,000 ($0.00 per share,
diluted) each. See Note 12 for further information on our stock-based compensation plans.

F-11


COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows:

Years ended December 31,




Net income

$

10,128

$

26,402

$

7,989

Other comprehensive income (loss):

Change in fair value of short-term investments available-for-sale
(net of deferred tax benefit of $20 in 2004 and $17 in 2003)

(37

)

(32

)

—

Reclassification adjustment for unrealized gain related to investment in
H.T.E., Inc. (net of deferred tax expense of $3,995)

—

(7,418

)

—

Reclassification adjustment for unrealized gain related to investments
available-for-sale (net of deferred tax expense of $37)


—

—

Change in fair value of investment in H.T.E., Inc. (net of deferred tax expense
of $3,995 for 2002)

—

—

11,963

Total comprehensive income

$

10,160

$

18,952

$

19,952

SEGMENT AND RELATED INFORMATION

Although we have a number of operating subsidiaries, separate segment data has not been presented
as they meet the criteria for aggregation as permitted by SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures About Segments
of an Enterprise and Related Information.”

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

We have used the purchase method of accounting for all of our business combinations. Our business
acquisitions result in the allocation of the purchase price to goodwill and other intangible
assets. We allocate the cost of acquired companies first to identifiable assets based on estimated
fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired,
net of liabilities assumed, is recorded as goodwill.

Under SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” we will evaluate goodwill for impairment
annually as of April 1st, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. An impairment loss is
recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the asset’s fair value. In the
implementation of SFAS No. 142, we identified two reporting units for impairment testing. The
appraisal services and appraisal software stand-alone business unit qualified as a reporting unit
since it is one level below an operating segment, discrete financial information exists for the
business unit and the executive management group directly reviews this business unit. The other
software business units were aggregated into the other single reporting unit. The appraisal
services and appraisal software stand-alone business unit is organized in such a manner that both
of its revenue sources are tightly integrated with each other and discrete financial information at
the operating profit level does not exist for this business unit’s respective revenue sources.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

We periodically evaluate whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of
our property and equipment or other long-lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable.
If such circumstances are determined to exist, we measure the recoverability of assets to be held
and used by a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset or appropriate grouping of assets and
the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. If the
carrying amount of the assets exceeds their estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is
recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the
assets. Assets to be disposed of would be separately presented in the balance sheet and reported at
the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated.
The assets and liabilities of a disposed group classified as held for sale would be presented
separately in the appropriate asset and liability sections of the balance sheet.

COSTS OF COMPUTER SOFTWARE

Software development costs have been accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 86, “Accounting for
the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed.” Under SFAS No. 86,
capitalization of software development costs begins upon the establishment of technological
feasibility and prior to the availability of the product for general release to customers. We
capitalized software development costs of approximately $4.6 million during 2004, $6.8 million
during 2003 and $7.2 million during 2002. Software development costs primarily consist of
personnel costs, rent for related office space and capitalized interest cost. We begin to amortize
capitalized costs when a product is available for general release to customers. Amortization
expense is determined on a product-by-product basis at a rate not less than straight-line basis
over the product’s remaining estimated economic life.

F-12


Amortization of software development costs was approximately $6.1 million in 2004, $4.1 million
during 2003, and $2.8 million during 2002 and is included in cost of software license revenue in
the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

We use the following methods and assumptions to estimate the fair value of each class of financial
instruments at the balance sheet date:

•

Cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivables, accounts payables, deferred revenues and
certain other assets: Costs approximate fair value because of the short maturity of these
instruments. Our available-for-sale investments are recorded at fair value based on quoted
market prices.

•

We do not have any derivative financial instruments, including those for speculative or
trading purposes.

CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK AND UNBILLED RECEIVABLES

Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the large number of
customers to which our products and services are provided, as well as their dispersion across many
different geographic areas. Historically, our credit losses have not been significant. As a
result, we do not believe we have any significant concentrations of credit risk as of December 31,
2004.

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts, sales adjustments and estimated cost of product
warranties, which are provided at the time the revenue is recognized. Since most of our customers
are governmental entities, we rarely incur a loss resulting from the inability of a customer to
make required payments. Events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount
for the allowances for doubtful accounts, sales adjustments and estimated cost of product
warranties may require revision, include, but are not limited to, deterioration of a customer’s
financial condition, failure to manage our customer’s expectations regarding the scope of the
services to be delivered, and defects or errors in new versions or enhancements of our software
products.

Our property appraisal outsourcing service contracts can range up to three years and, in one case,
as long as six years in duration. In connection with these contracts as well as certain software
service contracts, we may perform the work prior to when the services are billable and/or payable
pursuant to the contract. The termination clauses in most of our contracts provide for the payment
for the fair value of products delivered and services performed in the event of an early
termination. We have recorded retentions and unbilled receivables (costs and estimated profit in
excess of billings) of $11.7 million and $7.6 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively,
in connection with such contracts. Retentions are included in accounts receivable and amounted to
$1.7 million at December 31, 2004, of which $536,000 is expected to be collected in excess of one
year.

One customer accounted for approximately 10% of our total consolidated revenues during 2002.

INDEMNIFICATION

In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 (“FIN 45”), “Guarantor’s Accounting and
Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others.”
FIN 45 requires that a guarantor recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the
fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee or indemnification. FIN 45 also
requires additional disclosure by a guarantor in its interim and annual consolidated financial
statements about its obligations under certain guarantees and indemnifications. The following
summarizes the agreements we have determined are within the scope of FIN 45:

Most of our software license agreements indemnify our customers in the event that the software sold
infringes upon the intellectual property rights of a third party. These agreements typically
provide that in such event we will either modify or replace the software so that it becomes
non-infringing or procure for the customer the right to use the software. We have recorded no
liability associated with this indemnification, as we are not aware of any pending or threatened
infringement actions that are possible losses. We believe the estimated fair value of these
intellectual property indemnification clauses is minimal.

We have also agreed to indemnify our officers and board members if they are named or threatened to
be named as a party to any proceeding by reason of the fact that they acted in such capacity. A
form of the indemnification agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002 and incorporated by reference herein. We maintain directors’ and officers’
insurance coverage to protect against any such losses. We have recorded no liability associated
with these indemnifications as we are

F-13


not aware of any pending or threatened actions or claims against any officer or board member. As a
result of the insurance policy coverage, we believe the estimated fair value of these
indemnification agreements is minimal.

RECLASSIFICATIONS

Certain amounts for previous years have been reclassified to conform to the current year
presentation.

(2) ACQUISITIONS

During December 2003, we acquired one company, Eden Systems, Inc. (“Eden”), and certain assets of
another business that provides forms software to users of some of our software products. The
results of these acquisitions have been included in our consolidated financial statements since
their respective dates of acquisition. We acquired 95% of the outstanding common stock of Eden on
December 2, 2003 and purchased the remaining 5% of the outstanding stock at various dates in 2004.
Eden provides financial, personnel and citizen services applications software for local
governments. We believe Eden’s products and expertise will complement our business model and give
us additional opportunities to provide our customers with solutions tailored specifically for local
governments. In particular, the addition of Eden considerably increases our presence in the
western part of the United States.

Following is a summary of our 2003 acquisitions:

Shares of

Value of

Customer Related

Company

Cash

Common Stock

Common Stock

Goodwill

Software

Trade Name

Intangibles

Eden

$

10,660


$

1,938

$

5,426

$

3,710

$

1,180

$

6,281

Other

2,400



1,985



—

Total

$

13,060


$

2,438

$

7,411

$

3,865

$

1,480

$

6,281

Cash paid for acquisitions excludes acquired cash balances of approximately $2.1 million and
includes payments in cash of $946,000 paid during the year ended December 31, 2004 in connection
with the purchase of remaining minority interest and other settlement matters. The value of the
Tyler common stock was determined based on the average market price of Tyler’s common shares over
the ten-day period before the terms of the acquisition were agreed to and announced. Approximately
$2.0 million of goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The software, trade name
and customer related intangibles have useful lives of 3-5 years, 5-25 years and 25 years,
respectively.

Pursuant to the agreement with Eden, two of the shareholders of Eden were granted the right to
“put” their remaining shares to Tyler and Tyler was also granted the right to “call” the remaining
shares. In January 2004, Tyler purchased 500 shares for $145,000 in cash. We purchased the
remaining 2,000 shares for a cash purchase price of $580,000 in July 2004, which increased our
ownership of the outstanding common stock of Eden from 96% to 100%.

The following unaudited pro forma information presents the consolidated results of operations as if
our acquisition of Eden occurred as of the beginning of 2002, after giving effect to certain
adjustments, including amortization of intangibles, interest and income tax effects. Pro forma
information does not include acquisitions that are not considered material to our results of
operations. The pro forma information does not purport to represent what our results of operations
actually would have been had such transaction or event occurred on the dates specified, or to
project our results of operations for any future period.

Years ended

December 31,

(Unaudited)



Revenues

$

157,248

$

143,228

Income from continuing operations

26,295

5,853

Net income

26,719

7,670

Net income per diluted share

$

0.59

$

0.15

F-14


The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition for Eden, excluding the impact of minority interest.
Following is the allocation of purchase price to assets acquired and liabilities assumed:

Current assets (including cash acquired of $2,139)

$

4,799

Property and equipment


Intangible assets subject to amortization (18 year weighted-average useful life):

Computer software (5 year useful life)

3,710

Customer base (25 year useful life)

6,281

Trade name (25 year useful life)

1,180

Goodwill

5,426

Other assets


Total assets acquired

21,685

Deferred revenues

1,793

Other current liabilities

1,304

Non-current liabilities – deferred taxes

3,870

Total liabilities assumed

6,967

Net assets acquired

$

14,718

(3) DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

Background of Disposed Businesses

Discontinued operations include our former information and property records services segment for
which our board of directors approved a formal plan of disposal in December 2000, two non-operating
subsidiaries related to a formerly owned subsidiary that we sold in December 1995 and an automotive
parts subsidiary sold in March 1999.

The business units within the discontinued information and property records services segment were
sold in 2000 and 2001. In May 2001, we sold all of the common stock of one of the businesses in the
discontinued information and property records services segment. In connection with the sale, we
received cash proceeds of $575,000, approximately 60,000 shares of Tyler common stock, a promissory
note of $750,000 and other contingent consideration. In June 2002, we renegotiated the proceeds
from the May 2001 sale transaction and received cash of approximately $846,000 (including interest
of $46,000) and a renegotiated promissory note. In August 2003, we received $127,000 to fully
settle this promissory note. In June 2002, we also sold the building of a business unit included
in this segment. Net proceeds from the sale totaled $961,000.

One of our non-operating subsidiaries, Swan Transportation Company (“Swan”), had been involved in
various claims raised by former employees of a foundry that was owned by an affiliate of Swan and
Tyler prior to December 1995. These claims were for alleged work related injuries and physical
conditions resulting from alleged exposure to silica, asbestos, and/or related industrial dusts.
After a series of bankruptcy court filings involving Swan, on December 23, 2003, Tyler in
accordance with the terms of the plan of reorganization, transferred the stock of Swan to the Swan
Asbestos and Silica Trust (“Trust”), an unaffiliated entity that will oversee the processing and
payment of all present and future claims related to the foundry. On December 23, 2003, we paid
$1.48 million to the Trust in full and final release from all liability for claims associated with
the once-owned foundry (the “Swan Matter”). As a result of the release, any claimant is barred
from asserting any such claim, either now or in the future, against Tyler or its affected
affiliates.

Composition of Gains on Disposals

During the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, we recorded gains on disposal of discontinued
operations, after income taxes, of $424,000 and $1.8 million, respectively.

During the year ended December 31, 2003, the gain on disposal of discontinued operations of
$424,000 primarily resulted because we fully settled the Swan Matter at an amount less than
initially recorded and certain aspects of the settlement were conducted in a beneficial tax manner.
Accordingly, we recognized for the first time certain tax benefits associated with payments on
behalf of the Swan Matter.

During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Internal Revenue Service issued temporary regulations
that in effect allowed us to deduct for tax purposes losses attributable to the March 1999 sale of
our automotive parts subsidiary that were previously not allowed. The tax benefit of allowing the
deduction of this loss amounted to approximately $970,000. In addition, we renegotiated a note
receivable and certain contingent consideration in connection with a subsidiary sold in 2001 and
received proceeds of $846,000 (including interest of $46,000) in 2002. We initially assigned no
value for accounting purposes to the note receivable and contingent

F-15


consideration when the loss on the disposal of the discontinued operation was first established in
2000 and when the note was first received in 2001. In addition, we entered into an agreement in
the fourth quarter of 2002 to settle the Swan Matter for an amount that was approximately $200,000
less than the liability initially established for this matter. The aggregate effects of these
events, net of the related tax effects, and other minor adjustments to the reserve for discontinued
operations resulted in a credit to discontinued operations of $1.8 million in 2002.

(4) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

We have two office building lease agreements with a shareholder and non-corporate officers. Total
rental expense related to such leases was $1.4 million during 2004, $1.5 million in 2003, and $1.1
million during 2002.

Total future minimum rental under noncancelable related party operating leases as of December 31,
2004, are as follows:


$

1,497


1,520


1,554


1,590


1,627

Thereafter


As disclosed in Note 11 – Shareholders’ Equity, we purchased 1.5 million shares of our common
stock from a former director for cash of $4.0 million in 2002.

(5) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET

Property and equipment, net consists of the following at December 31:

Useful

Lives

(years)



Land

—

$


$


Transportation equipment




Computer equipment and purchased software

3-5

11,259

10,216

Furniture and fixtures

3-10

4,038

3,794

Building and leasehold improvements

5-25

2,332

2,026

18,142

16,573

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(11,518

)

(9,646

)

Property and equipment, net

$

6,624

$

6,927

Depreciation expense was $2.5 million during 2004, $2.4 million during 2003, and $2.4 million
during 2002.

(6) INVESTMENT SECURITY AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE

On March 25, 2003, we received cash proceeds of $39.3 million in connection with a transaction to
sell all of our 5.6 million shares of H.T.E., Inc. (“HTE”) common stock to SunGard Data Systems
Inc. for $7.00 cash per share, pursuant to a Tender and Voting Agreement dated February 4, 2003.
Our original cost basis in the HTE shares was $15.8 million. After transaction and other costs, we
recorded a realized gross gain of $23.2 million ($16.2 million after income taxes of $7.0 million,
including the utilization for tax purposes and reduction in valuation allowance for accounting
purposes related to a capital loss carryforward amounting to $1.1 million on a tax effected basis).

Our 5.6 million shares of HTE represented an ownership interest of approximately 35%. Under GAAP,
a 20% or more investment in the voting stock of another company creates the presumption that the
investor has significant influence over the operating and financial policies of that company,
unless there is evidence to the contrary. Tyler’s management previously concluded that no such
influence existed. Thus, we accounted for our investment in HTE pursuant to the provisions of SFAS
No. 115 and our investment in HTE was previously classified as an available-for-sale security. As
of December 31, 2002, we had an unrealized holding gain of $11.4 million ($7.4 million after income
tax of $4.0 million), which was included as a component of other comprehensive income.

F-16


We originally acquired the 5.6 million shares of HTE common stock in 1999 in exchange for
approximately 2.8 million shares of our common stock. On October 29, 2001, HTE, pursuant to the
Florida “control share” statute, attempted to redeem all 5.6 million shares of HTE common stock
owned by us for a cash price of $1.30 per share. A series of legal actions were then filed by both
parties concerning the legality of the redemption. On September 24, 2002, we entered into a
settlement agreement with HTE in which HTE agreed that it would not attempt any other redemption of
our shares. In addition, HTE agreed to dismiss and release us from the tort claims it alleged
against us. During 2002, we incurred approximately $704,000 of legal and other related costs
associated with these matters, which are classified as other non-operating expenses in the
accompanying statements of operations.

(7) GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill, other intangible assets and related accumulated amortization consists of the following at
December 31:



Gross carrying amount of acquisition intangibles:

Goodwill

$

53,709

$

53,932

Customer related intangibles

24,278

24,278

Software acquired

16,023

16,023

Trade name and other acquisition intangibles

1,643

1,643

95,653

95,876

Accumulated amortization

(18,711

)

(15,997

)

Acquisition intangibles, net

$

76,942

$

79,879

Post acquisition software development costs

$

35,783

$

31,208

Accumulated amortization

(15,407

)

(9,275

)

Post acquisition software costs, net

$

20,376

$

21,933

Total amortization expense was $8.8 million during 2004, $7.0 million during 2003, and $6.1
million during 2002.

The allocation of acquisition intangible assets is summarized in the following table:

December 31, 2004

December 31, 2003

Gross Carrying

Weighted Average

Accumulated

Gross Carrying

Weighted Average

Accumulated

Amount

Amortization Period

Amortization

Amount

Amortization Period

Amortization

Intangibles no longer amortized:

Goodwill

$

53,709

—

$

—

$

53,932

—

$

—

Amortizable intangibles:

Customer related intangibles

24,278

22 years

5,423

24,278

22 years

4,264

Software acquired

16,023

5 years

13,014

16,023

5 years

11,566

Trade name and other acquisition
intangibles

1,643

21 years


1,643

21 years


The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the two years ended December 31, 2004 are
as follows:

Balance as of December 31, 2002

$

46,298

Goodwill acquired during the year

7,634

Balance as of December 31, 2003

53,932

Goodwill acquired during the year related to the purchase of minority interest in Eden Systems


Adjustments to finalize purchase price allocations for 2003 acquisitions

(910

)

Balance as of December 31, 2004

$

53,709

Estimated annual amortization expense relating to acquisition intangibles is as follows:

Year ending December 31,


$

2,060


2,060


2,008


1,921


1,155

F-17


(8) ACCRUED LIABILITIES

Accrued liabilities consist of the following at December 31:



Accrued wages, bonuses and commissions

$

8,926

$

10,184

Other accrued liabilities

2,869

2,779

Accrued health claims

1,110


Accrued third party contract costs



$

13,660

$

14,541

(9) LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

In 2002, we entered into a revolving bank credit agreement which originally matured on January 1,
2005 but was extended to February 14, 2005 (“2002 Credit Facility”). The 2002 Credit Facility
provided for total availability of up to $10.0 million. Borrowings bore interest at either prime
rate or at the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin of 3% and were limited to 80% of
eligible accounts receivable. The 2002 Credit Facility was secured by substantially all of our
personal property, by a pledge of the common stock of our operating subsidiaries, and was also
guaranteed by our operating subsidiaries. The 2002 Credit Facility required us to maintain certain
financial ratios and other financial conditions and prohibited us from making certain investments,
advances, cash dividends or loans. As of December 31, 2004, we were in compliance with those
covenants.

At December 31, 2004, our bank had issued outstanding letters of credit totaling $4.8 million under
our 2002 Credit Facility to secure surety bonds required by some of our customer contracts. These
letters of credit have been collateralized by restricted cash balances invested in a certificate of
deposit. Our borrowing base under the 2002 Credit Facility was limited by the amount of eligible
receivables. At December 31, 2004, we had no outstanding bank borrowings under the credit
agreement and had an available borrowing base of $8.0 million.

We paid interest of $105,000 in 2004, $238,000 in 2003, and $377,000 in 2002, which includes
non-usage and other fees associated with the credit agreement.

On February 11, 2005, we entered into a new revolving bank credit agreement (the “2005 Credit
Facility”). The 2005 Credit Facility matures February 11, 2008 and provides for total borrowings of
up to $30.0 million. Borrowings bear interest at either prime rate or at LIBOR plus a margin of
1.5%. The 2005 Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our personal property. The
2005 Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial
conditions and prohibits us from making certain investments, advances, cash dividends or loans.
The new credit agreement also includes a $10.0 million Letter of Credit facility under which the
banks will issue cash collateralized letters of credit.

F-18


(10) INCOME TAX

The income tax provision on income from continuing operations consisted of the following:

Years ended December 31,




Current:

Federal

$

5,978

$

7,710

$

—

State

1,631



7,609

8,478


Deferred

(300

)

4,628

3,384

$

7,309

$

13,106

$

3,869

Reconciliation of the U.S. statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax expense rate
for continuing operations follows:

Years ended December 31,




Income tax expense at statutory rate

$

6,103

$

13,679

$

3,514

State income tax, net of federal income tax
benefit

1,060



Non-deductible business expenses




Utilization of capital loss carryforward

—

(1,114

)

—

Other, net

(49

)

(87

)

—

$

7,309

$

13,106

$

3,869

The tax effects of the major items recorded as deferred tax assets and liabilities as of
December 31 are:



Deferred income tax assets:

Operating expenses not currently deductible

$

1,093

$


Employee benefit plans



Other – investment securities

—


Net deferred income tax assets

1,856

1,654

Deferred income tax liabilities:

Property and equipment

(356

)

(111

)

Intangible assets

(12,617

)

(13,093

)

Other

(245

)

(96

)

Total deferred income tax liabilities

(13,218

)

(13,300

)

Net deferred income tax liabilities

$

(11,362

)

$

(11,646

)

In 2003, we utilized our capital loss carryforward of $1.1 million on a tax-effected basis in
connection with a realized gain from the sale of our investment in HTE. See Note 6 – Investment
Security Available-For-Sale.

Although realization is not assured, we believe it is more likely than not that all the deferred
tax assets at December 31, 2004 and 2003 will be realized. Accordingly, we believe no valuation
allowance is required for the deferred tax assets. However, the amount of the deferred tax asset
considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if estimates of reversing taxable temporary
differences are revised.

We paid income taxes, net of refunds received, of $6.5 million in 2004, $6.5 million in 2003, and
$455,000 in 2002.

F-19


(11) SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

In 2004, we repurchased in the open market 1.5 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate
purchase price of $12.5 million. Subsequent to December 31, 2004 and through February 28, 2005, we
have repurchased 915,000 shares for an aggregate purchase price of $6.3 million. As of March 1,
2005 we have authorization from our board of directors to repurchase up to 1.6 million additional
shares of our common stock.

In April 2003, we commenced a modified Dutch Auction tender offer to purchase up to 4.2 million
shares of our common stock at a price not greater than $4.00 and not less than $3.60 per share. In
accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission rules, we had the right to purchase an
additional amount of shares not to exceed 2% of our outstanding shares (approximately 907,000
shares) without amending or extending our offer. Approximately 6.0 million shares of common stock
were properly tendered and not withdrawn at prices at or below $4.00 per share. We exercised our
right to purchase an additional 2% of our outstanding shares without amending or extending our
offer. As a result, in May 2003, we purchased 5.1 million shares of our common stock at a cash
purchase price of $4.00 per share and transaction costs of approximately $150,000, for a total cost
of $20.6 million. The final shares purchased reflect a pro-ration factor equal to 85% of the
shares tendered. In addition during 2003 we also repurchased 912,800 shares of common stock on the
open market for an aggregate purchase price of $3.5 million.

In August 2002, we consummated an agreement to purchase 1.1 million of our common shares from
William D. Oates, a former director of Tyler, for a cash purchase price of $4.0 million. In
October 2002, we repurchased an additional 400,000 of our shares as part of the initial agreement
by assigning our rights and obligations under a Data License and Update Agreement associated with
our discontinued information property records service business to eiStream. eiStream is an
affiliate of William D. Oates. The repurchase of all 1.5 million shares was charged to treasury
stock to the extent cash was paid.

In 2004, we issued 680,000 shares of common stock and received $1.9 million in aggregate proceeds,
upon exercise of stock options. During 2003 we issued 554,000 shares of common stock and received
$1.7 million in aggregate proceeds, upon exercise of stock options and during 2002 we issued
491,000 shares of common stock and received $1.6 million in aggregate proceeds upon exercise of
stock options.

In May 2004, our shareholders voted to adopt the Tyler Technologies, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase
Plan (“ESPP”). For the year ended December 31, 2004, employees had contributed $673,000 to the
ESPP and as a result we issued approximately 44,000 shares of common stock in October 2004 and
48,000 shares of common stock in January 2005 to the ESPP.

In November 2003, we exchanged a warrant issued in July 1997 to purchase 2.0 million shares of our
common stock at $2.50 per share into six separate warrants to purchase a total of 2.0 million
shares of our common stock at $2.50 per share. Subsequent to the exchange in 2003, several parties
exercised their warrants to purchase 375,000 shares of our common stock by way of cashless exercise
and were issued, on a net basis, 247,620 shares of our common stock from our treasury. In March
2004, another warrant holder exercised his warrant to purchase 21,234 shares of our common stock by
way of cashless exercise and was issued on a net basis, 15,780 shares of our common stock from our
treasury. As of December 31, 2004, we have warrants outstanding to purchase 1.6 million shares of
common stock at $2.50 per share. These warrants expire in September 2007.

In August 2003, Sanders Morris Harris Inc. (“SMH”) exercised its warrant issued in May 2000 to
purchase 333,380 shares of our common stock. The exercise price per share was $3.60 payable either
in cash or by the surrender of shares subject to the warrant with a value equal to the aggregate
exercise price as determined by the market price of our stock on the date of exercise. On August
27, 2003, SMH exercised the full amount of the warrant by way of cashless exercise and was issued,
on a net basis, 145,413 shares of our common stock from our treasury.

F-20


(12) STOCK PLANS

We have a stock option plan that provides for the grant of stock options to key employees and
directors. Options become fully exercisable after three to five years of continuous employment and
expire ten years after the grant date. Once exercisable, the employee can purchase shares of our
common stock at the market price on the date we granted the option. As of December 31, 2004,
there were 1.2 million shares available for future grants under the plan from the 7.5 million
shares approved by the stockholders.

The following table summarizes our stock option plan’s transactions for the three-year period ended
December 31, 2004:

Number of

Weighted-Average

Shares

Exercise Prices

Options outstanding at December 31, 2001

4,638

$

3.54

Granted


4.86

Forfeited

(322

)

5.65

Exercised

(491

)

3.29

Options outstanding at December 31, 2002

4,105

3.49

Granted

1,184

4.92

Forfeited

(105

)

2.49

Exercised

(554

)

3.01

Options outstanding at December 31, 2003

4,630

3.94

Granted


9.18

Forfeited

(48

)

3.18

Exercised

(680

)

2.85

Options outstanding at December 31, 2004

3,964

$

4.21

Exercisable options:

December 31, 2002

1,910

$

4.26

December 31, 2003

2,408

4.02

December 31, 2004

2,925

3.92

The following table summarizes information concerning outstanding and exercisable options at
December 31, 2004:

Weighted Average

Weighted Average

Weighted Average

Number of

Price of

Number of

Price of

Remaining

Outstanding

Outstanding

Exercisable

Exercisable

Range
of Exercise Prices

Contractual Life

Options

Options

Options

Options

$1.09 - $2.19

6.3

1,142

$

1.64

1,107

$

1.63

2.19  -  3.28

5.9


2.63


2.63

3.28  -  4.38

5.6


3.94


3.96

4.38  -  5.47

6.9

1,685

4.86


5.06

5.47  -  6.56

3.9


6.25


6.25

6.56  -  7.66

3.2


7.63


7.63

7.66  -  8.75

8.1


7.90


7.73

8.75  -  9.84

9.1


9.11


8.97

9.84  -  10.94

3.3


10.19


10.19

In May 2004, our shareholders voted to adopt the Tyler Technologies, Inc. Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) and to reserve 1.0 million shares of our common stock for issuance under the
ESPP. Under the ESPP, participants may contribute up to 15% of their annual compensation to
purchase common shares of Tyler. The purchase price of the shares is equal to 85% of the closing
price of Tyler shares on either the first or last day of each quarterly offering period, whichever
is lower. As of December 31, 2004, employees had contributed $673,000 to the ESPP. During October
2004 and January 2005, we issued approximately 44,000 and 48,000 shares of common stock,
respectively to the ESPP.

F-21


(13) EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings and diluted earnings per share data was computed as follows:

Years Ended December 31,




Numerator:

Income from continuing operations for basic and diluted earnings per share

$

10,128

$

25,978

$

6,172

Denominator:

Denominator for basic earnings per share –

Weighted-average shares

41,288

42,547

47,136

Effect of dilutive securities:

Employee stock options

2,114

1,496

1,386

Warrants

1,164



Potentially dilutive shares

3,278

2,488

2,357

Denominator for diluted earnings per share – Adjusted weighted-average shares

44,566

45,035

49,493

Basic earnings per share from continuing operations

$

0.25

$

0.61

$

0.13

Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations

$

0.23

$

0.58

$

0.12

Stock options representing the right to purchase common stock of 110,000 shares in 2004, 1.1
million shares during 2003, and 1.3 million shares during 2002 had exercise prices greater than the
average quoted market price of our common stock. These options were outstanding during 2004, 2003
and 2002, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because their
inclusion would have had an antidilutive effect.

(14) LEASES

We primarily lease offices for use in our operations as well as transportation, computer and other
equipment. Most of these leases are noncancelable operating lease agreements and they expire at
various dates through 2013. In addition to rent, the leases generally require us to pay taxes,
maintenance, insurance and certain other operating expenses.

Rent expense was approximately $4.6 million in 2004, $4.3 million in 2003, and $3.4 million in
2002.

Future minimum lease payments under all noncancelable leases at December 31, 2004 are as follows:

Operating

Fiscal Year

Leases


$

4,580


3,938


3,735


3,740


3,705

Thereafter

5,806

$

25,504

(15) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

We provide a defined contribution plan for the majority of our employees meeting minimum service
requirements. The employees can contribute up to 15% of their current compensation to the plan
subject to certain statutory limitations. We contribute up to a maximum of 2% of an employee’s
compensation to the plan. We made contributions to the plan and charged continuing operations
$801,000 in 2004, $931,000 during 2003, and $881,000 during 2002.

(16) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to our business, there are no material
legal proceedings pending to which we or our subsidiaries are parties or to which any of our
properties are subject.

F-22


(17) QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (unaudited)

The following tables contain selected financial information from unaudited consolidated statements
of operations for each quarter of 2004 and 2003.

Quarter Ended



Dec. 31

Sept. 30

June 30

Mar. 31

Dec. 31

Sept. 30

June 30

Mar. 31

(A)

Revenues

$

44,734

$

41,811

$

44,263

$

41,462

$

39,120

$

37,874

$

36,135

$

32,325

Gross profit

18,064

15,296

17,100

14,825

15,856

15,470

13,863

11,644

Income from continuing operations before
income taxes

5,361

3,539

5,059

3,478

5,617

5,253

3,214

25,000

Income from continuing operations

3,030

2,032

2,975

2,091

3,468

3,233

1,981

17,296

Income from discontinued operations

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

Net income

$

3,030

$

2,032

$

2,975

$

2,091

$

3,892

$

3,233

$

1,981

$

17,296

Diluted earnings from continuing operations

$

0.07

$

0.05

$

0.07

$

0.05

$

0.08

$

0.07

$

0.04

$

0.36

Diluted earnings from discontinued operations

—

—

—

—

0.01

—

—

—

Net earnings per diluted share

$

0.07

$

0.05

$

0.07

$

0.05

$

0.09

$

0.07

$

0.04

$

0.36

Shares used in computing diluted earnings
per share

44,056

44,350

44,803

45,062

44,502

43,181

44,796

47,738

(A)

On March 25, 2003, we received cash proceeds of $39.3 million in connection
with a transaction to sell all of our 5.6 million shares of HTE common stock to SunGard Data
Systems Inc. for $7.00 cash per share. Our original cost basis in the HTE shares was $15.8
million. After transaction and other costs, we recorded a gross realized gain of $23.2
million ($16.2 million or $0.36 per diluted share after income taxes of $7.0 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003).

F-23


TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(IN THOUSANDS)

Years ended December 31,




Allowance For Losses – Accounts Receivable

Balance at beginning of year

$

1,094

$


$

1,275

Additions charged to costs and expenses


1,104


Collection of accounts previously written off

(271

)

—

—

Deductions for accounts charged off or credits issued

(633

)

(700

)

(1,312

)

Balance at end of year

$


$

1,094

$


Years ended December 31,




Valuation Allowance — Deferred Tax Assets

Balance at beginning of year

$

—

$

1,114

$

1,690

Utilization of capital loss carryforward

—

(1,114

)

(99

)

Adjustment to actual capital loss carryforwards arising
from a previous sale

—

—

1,114

Change in basis difference on investment security

—

—

(1,591

)

Balance at end of year

$

—

$

—

$

1,114

F-24