10-K


d54229e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2007

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number 1-10485

TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE

(State or other jurisdiction

of incorporation or

organization)

75-2303920

(I.R.S. employer

identification no.)

5949 Sherry Lane, Suite 1400

Dallas, Texas

(Address of principal

executive offices)


(Zip code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(972) 713-3700

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Name of each exchange

Title of each class

on which registered

COMMON STOCK, $0.01 PAR VALUE

NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

NONE

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act.

YES

o

NO

þ

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or 15(d) of the Act.     YES

o

NO

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.      YES

þ

NO

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filer pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of the Form
10-K or any amendment to the Form 10-K. YES

o

NO

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
See the definitions of “large
accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

o

Accelerated filer

þ

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller Reporting Company

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act.) YES

o

NO

þ

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
$448,042,000 based on the reported last sale price of common stock on June 30, 2007, which is the
last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter.

The number of shares of common stock of the registrant outstanding on February 22, 2008 was
37,960,282.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain information required by Part III of this annual report is incorporated by reference
from the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of stockholders to be held
on May 15, 2008.

TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

FORM 10-K




PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Tyler Technologies, Inc. (“Tyler”) is a major provider of integrated information management
solutions and services for local governments. We partner with clients to make local government
more accessible to the public, more responsive to the needs of citizens and more efficient in its
operations. We have a broad line of software solutions and services to address the information
technology (“IT”) needs of virtually every major area of operation for cities, counties, schools
and other local government entities. Most of our customers have our software installed in-house.
For customers who prefer not to physically acquire the software and hardware, we provide outsourced
hosting for some of our applications at one of our data centers through an applications service
provider (“ASP”) arrangement through our subscription-based services. We provide professional IT
services to our customers, including software and hardware installation, data conversion, training
and, at times, product modifications. In addition, we are the nation’s largest provider of
outsourced property appraisal services for taxing jurisdictions. We also provide continuing
customer support services to ensure proper product performance and reliability, which provides us
with long-term customer relationships and a significant base of recurring maintenance revenue.

Tyler was founded in 1966. Prior to 1998, we operated as a diversified industrial conglomerate,
with operations in various industrial, retail and distribution businesses, all of which have been
divested. In 1997, we embarked on a multi-phase growth plan focused on serving the specialized
information management needs of local governments nationwide. In 1998 and 1999, we entered the
local government IT market through a series of strategic acquisitions of companies in the local
government IT market.

MARKET OVERVIEW

The state and local government market is one of the largest and most decentralized IT markets in
the country, consisting of all 50 states, approximately 3,100 counties, 36,000 cities and towns and
14,200 school districts. This market is also comprised of approximately 35,000 special districts
and other agencies, each with specialized delegated responsibilities and unique information
management requirements.

Traditionally, local government bodies and agencies performed state-mandated duties, including
property assessment, record keeping, road maintenance, law enforcement, administration of election
and judicial functions, and the provision of welfare assistance. Today, a host of emerging and
urgent issues are confronting local governments, each of which demands a service response. These
areas include criminal justice and corrections, administration and finance, public safety, health
and human services, and public works. Transfers of responsibility from the federal and state
governments to county and municipal governments and agencies in these and other areas also place
additional service and financial requirements on these local government units. In addition,
constituents of local governments are increasingly demanding improved service and better access to
information from public entities. As a result, local governments recognize the increasing value of
information management systems and services to, among other things, improve revenue collection,
provide increased access to information, and streamline delivery of services to their constituents.
Local government bodies are now recognizing that “e-government” is an additional responsibility
for community development. From integrated tax systems to integrated civil and criminal justice
information systems, many counties and cities have benefited significantly from the implementation
of jurisdiction-wide systems that allow different agencies or government offices to share data and
provide a more comprehensive approach to information management. Many city and county governmental
agencies also have unique individual information management requirements, which must be tailored to
the specific functions of each particular office.

Many local governments also have difficulties attracting and retaining the staff necessary to
support their IT functions. As a result, they seek to establish long-term relationships with
reliable providers of high quality IT products and services such as Tyler.

Although local governments generally face budgetary constraints in their operations, their primary
revenue sources are usually property taxes, and to a lesser extent, utility fees, which tend to be
relatively stable. In addition, the acquisition of new technology typically enables local
governments to operate more efficiently, and often provides a measurable return on investment that
justifies the purchase of software and related services.

Gartner estimates that state and local government IT spending will grow from $50.1 billion in 2008
to $57.5 billion in 2011, with local government accounting for $25.6 billion of IT spending in 2008
and $29.0 billion in 2011. The external services and software


segments of the market, where our business is primarily focused, is expected to expand from $13.5
billion in 2008 to $15.9 billion in 2011.



PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

We provide a comprehensive and flexible suite of products and services that address the information
technology needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. We derive our
revenues from five primary sources:

We design, develop and market a broad range of software solutions to serve mission-critical
“back-office” functions of local governments. Many of our software applications include
Internet-accessible solutions that allow for real-time public access to a variety of information or
that allow the public to transact business with local governments via the Internet. Our software
solutions and services are generally grouped in four major areas:

•

Financial Management and Education;

•

Courts and Justice;

•

Property Appraisal and Tax; and

•

Document Management.

Each of our core software systems consists of several fully integrated application modules. For
customers who acquire the software for use in-house, we generally license our systems under
standard perpetual license agreements that provide the customer with a fully paid, nonexclusive,
nontransferable right to use the software. In some of the product areas, such as financial
management and education and property appraisal and tax, we offer multiple solutions designed to
meet the needs of different sized governments.

We also offer certain software solutions on an outsourced basis for customers who do not wish to
maintain, update and operate these systems or to make large up-front capital expenditures to
implement these advanced technologies. For these customers, we host the applications and data at
one of our data centers. Customers typically pay monthly fees under multi-year contracts for these
subscription-based services.

Historically, we have had a greater proportion of our annual revenues in the second half of our
fiscal year due to governmental budget and spending cycles and the timing of system implementations
for customers desiring to “go live” at the beginning of the calendar year.

A description of our suite of products and services follows:

Software Licenses

Financial Management and Education

Our financial management and education solutions are ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) systems for
local governments, which integrate information across all facets of a client organization. Our
financial management solutions include modular fund accounting systems that can be tailored to meet
the needs of virtually any government agency or not-for-profit entity. Our financial management
systems include modules for general ledger, budget preparation, fixed assets, requisitions,
purchase orders, bid management, accounts payable, contract management, accounts receivable,
investment management, inventory control, project and grant accounting, work orders, job costing,
GASB 34 reporting, payroll and human resources. All of our financial management systems are
intended to conform to government auditing and financial reporting requirements and generally
accepted accounting principles.



We sell utility billing systems that support the billing and collection of metered and non-metered
services, along with multiple billing cycles. Our Web-enabled utility billing solutions allow
customers to access information online such as average consumption and transaction history. In
addition, our systems can accept secured Internet payments via credit cards and checks.

We also offer specialized products that automate numerous city functions, including municipal
courts, parking tickets, equipment and project costing, animal licenses, business licenses, permits
and inspections, code enforcement, citizen complaint tracking, ambulance billing, fleet
maintenance, and cemetery records management.

In 2006 we began offering a student information system for K-12 schools, which manages such
applications as scheduling, grades and attendance. We also added software applications to manage
public sector pension funds.

Tyler’s financial management and education solutions include Web components that enhance local
governments’ service capabilities by facilitating online access to information for both employees
and citizens and enabling online transactions.

Courts and Justice

We offer a complete, integrated suite of solutions designed to automate, track and manage the law
enforcement and judicial process, from the initiation of incidents in computer-aided
dispatch/emergency 911 systems through the process of arrest, court appearances and final
disposition to probation. These applications may be installed on a stand-alone basis or integrated
with our other solutions to eliminate duplicate entries and improve efficiency.

Our Web-enabled court systems are designed to automate the tracking and management of information
involved in criminal and civil court cases, including municipal, family and probate courts. These
applications track the status of criminal and civil cases, process fines and fees and generate the
specialized judgment and sentencing documents, citations, notices and forms required in court
proceedings. Additional judicial applications automate the management of court calendars,
coordinate judge’s schedules, generate court dockets, manage justice of the peace processes and
automate district attorney and prosecutor functions. Related products include jury selection,
“hot” check processing, and adult and juvenile probation management applications. Our courtroom
technologies allow courts to review cases, calendars, and to scan documents and mug shots using a
Web browser. Additionally, document-imaging options include the ability to scan, store, retrieve
and archive a variety of criminal and civil case-related documents.

Our law enforcement systems automate police and sheriff functions from dispatch and records
management through booking and jail management. Searching, reporting and tracking features are
integrated, allowing reliable, up-to-date access to current arrest and incarceration data. The
systems also provide warrant checks for visitors or book-ins, inmate classification and risk
assessment, commissary, property and medical processing, and automation of statistics and state and
federal reporting. Our computer-aided dispatch/emergency 911 system tracks calls and the
availability of emergency response vehicles, interfaces with local and state searches, and
generally assists dispatchers in processing emergency situations. The law enforcement and jail
management systems are fully integrated with the suite of court products that manages the judicial
process.

Our court and law enforcement systems allow the public to access, via the Internet, a variety of
information, including criminal and civil court records, jail booking and release information, bond
and bondsmen information, and court calendars and dockets. In addition, our systems allow cities
and counties to accept payments for traffic and parking tickets over the Internet, with a seamless
and automatic interface to back-office justice and financial systems.

In 2003 we released Odyssey, an all-new unified court case management system. Odyssey uses
enhanced Web-browser concepts to render a unique user interface. It incorporates current
technology – XML, n-tier architecture, component-based design, and an ultra-thin client footprint –
to maximize the value of a court’s investment in new software. We believe that some of Odyssey’s
design concepts, including embedded imaging functionality, COM+ objects to enable local
customization, and an architecture that enables multiple deployment options, are unique in the
court automation marketplace.

Property Appraisal and Tax

We provide systems and software that automate the appraisal and assessment of real and personal
property, including record keeping, mass appraisal, inquiry and protest tracking, appraisal and tax
roll generation, tax statement processing, and electronic state-level reporting. These systems are
image- and video-enabled to facilitate the storage of and access to the many property-related
documents and for the online storage of digital photographs of properties for use in defending
values in protest situations. Other related tax applications are available for agencies that bill
and collect taxes, including cities, counties, school tax offices, and special taxing and



collection agencies. These systems support billing, collections, lock box operations, mortgage
company electronic payments, and various reporting requirements.

Document Management

We offer a number of specialized software applications designed to help county governments enhance
and automate courthouse operations. These systems record, scan and index information for the many
documents maintained at the courthouse, such as deeds, mortgages, liens, UCC financing statements
and vital records (birth, death and marriage certificates). These applications include fully
integrated imaging systems with batch and scan processing capabilities and fully integrated
receipting and cashiering systems as well as Web-enabled public access.

Subscription-Based Services

Subscription-based services revenue primarily consists of revenues derived from ASP arrangements
and other hosted service offerings, software subscriptions and disaster recovery services. Our ASP
arrangements and other hosted service offerings, provide certain software solutions on an
outsourced basis for customers who do not wish to maintain, update and operate these systems or to
make large up-front capital expenditures to implement these advanced technologies.

ASP arrangements and other hosting services are typically for a period of three to six years and
automatically renew unless either party cancels the agreement. Other software subscriptions and
disaster recovery service arrangements are typically under annual contracts. The majority of the
ASP and other hosting services and software subscriptions also include professional services and
maintenance and support services. In certain ASP arrangements, the customer also acquires a
license to the software.

Software Services

We provide a variety of professional IT services to customers who utilize our software products.
Virtually all of our customers contract with us for installation, training, and data conversion
services in connection with their purchase of Tyler’s software products. The complete
implementation process for a typical system includes planning, design, data conversion, set-up and
testing. At the culmination of the implementation process, an installation team travels to the
customer’s facility to ensure the smooth transfer of data to the new system. Installation fees are
charged separately to customers on either a fixed-fee or hourly charge basis, depending on the
contract, with full pass-through to customers of travel and other out-of-pocket expenses.

Both in connection with the installation of new systems and on an ongoing basis, we provide
extensive training services and programs related to our products and services. Training can be
provided in our training centers, onsite at customers’ locations, or at meetings and conferences,
and can be customized to meet customers’ requirements. The vast majority of our customers contract
with us for training services, both to improve their employees’ proficiency and productivity and to
fully utilize the functionality of our systems. Training services are generally billed on an
hourly basis, along with travel and other expenses.

Maintenance and Support

Following the implementation of our software systems, we provide ongoing software support services
to assist our customers in operating the systems and to periodically update the software. Support
is provided over the phone to customers through help desks staffed by our customer support
representatives. For more complicated issues, our staff, with the customers’ permission, can log
on to customers’ systems remotely. We maintain our customers’ software largely through releases
that contain improvements and incremental additions, along with updates necessary because of
legislative or regulatory changes.

Virtually all of our software customers contract with us for maintenance and support, which
provides us with a significant source of recurring revenue. We generally provide maintenance and
support under annual contracts, with a typical fee based on a percentage of the software product’s
license fee. These fees can be increased annually and may also increase as new license fees
increase. Maintenance and support fees are generally paid in advance for the entire maintenance
contract period. Most maintenance contracts automatically renew unless the customer or Tyler gives
notice of termination prior to expiration. Similar support is provided to our ASP customers, and
is included in their overall monthly fees which are classified as subscription-based revenues.



Appraisal Services

We are the nation’s largest provider of property appraisal outsourcing services for local
government taxing authorities. These services include:

Local government taxing authorities normally reappraise properties from time to time to update
values for tax assessment purposes and to maintain equity in the taxing process. In some
jurisdictions, reassessment cycles are mandated by law; in others, they are discretionary. While
some taxing jurisdictions perform reappraisals in-house, many local governments outsource this
function because of its cyclical nature and because of the specialized knowledge and expertise
requirements associated with it. Our appraisal services business unit has been in this business
since 1938.

In some instances, we also sell property tax and/or appraisal software products in connection with
appraisal outsourcing projects, while other customers may only engage us to provide appraisal
services. Appraisal outsourcing services are somewhat seasonal in nature to the extent that winter
weather conditions reduce the productivity of data collection activities in connection with those
projects.

STRATEGY

Our objective is to grow our revenue and earnings internally, supplemented by focused strategic
acquisitions. The key components of our business strategy are to:

•

Provide high quality, value–added products and services to our clients.

We
compete on the basis of, among other things, delivering to customers our deep domain
expertise in local government operations through the highest value products and services in
the market. We believe we have achieved a reputation as a premium product and service
provider to the local government market.

•

Continue to expand our product and service offerings.

While we already have what
we believe to be the broadest line of software products for local governments, we
continually upgrade our core software applications and expand our complementary product and
service offerings to respond to technological advancements and the changing needs of our
clients. For example, we offer solutions that allow the public to access data and conduct
transactions with local governments, such as paying traffic tickets, property taxes and
utility bills, via the Internet. We believe that the addition of such features enhance the
market appeal of our core products. Since 2001, we have also offered certain of our
software products under an ASP or other software as a subscription-based service model which
we believe will, over time, have increasing appeal to local governments and will be expanded
to include more applications. We have also increased our offerings of consulting and
business process reengineering services.

•

Leverage a core technology framework across multiple product development efforts.

We have developed certain core technology frameworks upon which we have developed or are
developing a new generation of a number of products. By leveraging the core frameworks, for
the development of multiple products, we believe we can develop new-generation products more
efficiently, and at a lower total cost. In addition, utilizing a core framework is also
expected to help us bring new products to market more rapidly. By having more products
built on common technology frameworks, we expect to enhance our cross-selling opportunities
and be able to provide maintenance and other services more efficiently.

•

Expand our customer base.

We seek to establish long-term relationships with new
customers primarily through our sales and marketing efforts. While we currently have
customers in all 50 states, Canada, Puerto Rico, and the United Kingdom, not all of our
product lines have achieved nationwide geographic penetration. We intend to continue to
expand into new geographic markets by adding sales staff and targeting marketing efforts by
product in those areas. We also intend to continue to expand



our customer base to include more large governments. While our traditional market focus has
primarily been on small and mid-sized governments, our increased size and market presence,
together with the technological advances and improved scalability of certain of our products,
are allowing us to achieve success in selling to larger customers.

o

products and services to complement our existing offerings;

o

entry into new markets related to local governments; and

o

new customers and/or geographic expansion.

•

Establish strategic alliances.

In January 2007 we announced a strategic alliance
with Microsoft Corporation to jointly develop core public sector functionality for Microsoft
Dynamics AX to address the unique accounting needs of public sector organizations worldwide.
As part of this alliance we will enhance Microsoft Dynamics AX with public sector-specific
functionality. The co-development will broaden the functionality of Microsoft Dynamics AX,
providing both Tyler and Microsoft with a public sector accounting platform to support their
existing and prospective clients well into the future. Microsoft Dynamics AX with public
sector functionality will be sold in the United States and internationally through
Microsoft’s distribution channels and is expected to be available for delivery in 2010.
Tyler will also become an authorized Microsoft reseller for the Microsoft Dynamics solutions
developed under this arrangement, and will sell the solutions directly into the government
market. Tyler will receive license and maintenance royalties on direct and indirect sales
of the solutions co-developed under this multi-year term relationship.

SALES, MARKETING, AND CUSTOMERS

We market our products and services through direct sales and marketing personnel located throughout
the United States. Other in-house sales staff focuses on add-on sales, professional services and
support.

Sales of new systems are typically generated from referrals from other government offices or
departments within a county or municipality, referrals from other local governments, relationships
established between sales representatives and county or local officials, contacts at trade shows,
direct mailings, and direct contact from prospects already familiar with us. We are active in
numerous national, state, county, and local government associations, and participate in annual
meetings, trade shows, and educational events.



Customers consist primarily of county and municipal agencies, school districts and other local
government offices. In counties, customers include the auditor, treasurer, tax assessor/collector,
county clerk, district clerk, county and district court judges, probation officers, sheriff, and
county appraiser. At municipal government sites, customers include directors from various
departments, including administration, finance, utilities, public works, code enforcement,
personnel, purchasing, taxation, municipal court, and police. Contracts for software products and
services are generally implemented over periods of three months to one year, with annually renewing
maintenance and support update agreements thereafter. Although either the customer or we can
terminate these agreements, historically almost all support and maintenance agreements are
automatically renewed annually. Contracts for appraisal outsourcing services are generally one to
three years in duration. During 2007, approximately 39% of our revenue was attributable to ongoing
support and maintenance agreements.

COMPETITION

We compete with numerous local, regional, and national firms that provide or offer some or many of
the same products and services that we provide. Most of these competitors are smaller companies
that may be able to offer less expensive solutions than ours. Many of these firms operate within a
specific geographic area and/or in a narrow product or service niche. We also compete with
national firms, some of which have greater financial and technical resources than we do, including
Oracle Corporation, Lawson Software, Inc., SAP AG, MAXIMUS, Inc., Affiliated Computer Services,
Inc., SunGard Data Systems, Inc., New World Systems and Manatron, Inc. In addition, we sometimes
compete with consulting and systems integration firms, such as BearingPoint, Inc., which develop
custom systems, primarily for larger governments. We also occasionally compete with central
internal information service departments of local governments, which require us to persuade the
end-user department to discontinue service by its own personnel and outsource the service to us. We
compete on a variety of factors, including price, service, name recognition, reputation,
technological capabilities, and the ability to modify existing products and services to accommodate
the individual requirements of the customer. Our ability to offer an integrated system of
applications for several offices or departments is often a competitive strength. Local
governmental units often are required to seek competitive proposals through a request for proposal
process.

SUPPLIERS

All computers, peripherals, printers, scanners, operating system software, office automation
software, and other equipment necessary for the implementation and provision of our software
systems and services are presently available from several third-party sources. Hardware is
purchased on original equipment manufacturer or distributor terms at discounts from retail. We have
not experienced any significant supply problems.

BACKLOG

At December 31, 2007, our estimated revenue backlog was approximately $250.1 million, compared to
$205.9 million at December 31, 2006. The backlog represents signed contracts under which the
products have not been delivered or the services have not been performed as of year-end.
Approximately $165.2 million of the backlog is expected to be recognized during 2008.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, AND LICENSES

We regard certain features of our internal operations, software, and documentation as confidential
and proprietary and rely on a combination of contractual restrictions, trade secret laws and other
measures to protect our proprietary intellectual property. We generally do not rely on patents. We
believe that, due to the rapid rate of technological change in the computer software industry,
trade secrets and copyright protection are less significant than factors such as knowledge, ability
and experience of our employees, frequent product enhancements, and timeliness and quality of
support services. We typically license our software products under non-exclusive license agreements
which are generally non-transferable and have a perpetual term.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2007, we had 1,627 employees. Appraisal outsourcing projects are cyclical in
nature and can be widely dispersed geographically. We often hire temporary employees to assist in
these projects whose term of employment generally ends with the project’s completion. None of our
employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We
consider our relations with our employees to be positive.



INTERNET WEBSITE AND AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC FILINGS

We file annual, quarterly, current and other reports, proxy statements and other information with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act. You may
read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room by calling the
SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and other
information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file
electronically with the SEC. The address of this site is

http://www.sec.gov

.

We also
maintain an Internet site at

www.tylertech.com

. We make available free of charge through
this site our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Forms 4 and 5, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our “Code of Business Conduct and Ethics” is also
available on our Web site. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements regarding amendments
to, or waivers from, a provision of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics by posting such
information on our Web site.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors evaluating our company
should carefully consider the factors described below and all other information contained in this
Annual Report. Any of the following factors could materially harm our business, operating results,
and financial condition. Additional factors and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we
currently consider immaterial could also harm our business, operating results, and financial
condition. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements
and related Notes and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations included in this Annual Report. We may make forward-looking statements from time to
time, both written and oral. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results
of any revisions to these forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially
from those projected in any such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including
those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report.

A decline in information technology spending may result in a decrease in our revenues or lower our
growth rate.

A decline in the demand for information technology among our current and prospective customers may
result in decreased revenues or a lower growth rate for us because our sales depend, in part, on
our customers’ level of funding for new or additional information technology systems and services.
Moreover, demand for our solutions may be reduced by a decline in overall demand for computer
software and services. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or
maintain our revenues.

Our products are complex and we run the risk of errors or defects with new product introductions or
enhancements.

Software products as complex as those developed by us may contain errors or defects, especially
when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Although we have not
experienced material adverse effects resulting from any such defects or errors to date, we cannot
assure you that material defects and errors will not be found after commencement of product
shipments. Any such defects could result in loss of revenues or delay market acceptance.

Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our
exposure to potential liability claims. It is possible, however, that we may not always be able to
negotiate such provisions in our contracts with customers or that the limitation of liability
provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective as a result of existing or
future federal, state or local laws, ordinances, or judicial decisions. Although we maintain
errors and omissions and general liability insurance, and we try to structure our contracts to
include limitations on liability, we cannot assure you that a successful claim could not be made or
would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of
operations.



We may experience fluctuations in quarterly revenue that could adversely impact our stock price and
our operating results.

Our actual revenues in a quarter could fall below expectations, which could lead to a decline in
our stock price. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate
substantially from quarter to quarter. Revenues from license fees in any quarter depend
substantially upon our contracting activity and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter
in accordance with our revenue recognition policies. Our quarterly revenue may fluctuate and may
be difficult to forecast for a variety of reasons, including the following:

Fluctuation in our quarterly revenues may adversely affect our operating results. In each fiscal
quarter our expense levels, operating costs, and hiring plans are based on projections of future
revenues and are relatively fixed. If our actual revenues fall below expectations, we could
experience a reduction in operating results.

As with other software vendors, we may be required to delay revenue recognition into future
periods, which could adversely impact our operating results.

We have in the past had to, and in the future may have to, defer revenue recognition for license
fees due to several factors, including whether:

Because of the factors listed above and other specific requirements under generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States for software revenue recognition, we must have very
precise terms in our license agreements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver and
install software or perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can
extend the sales cycle, and sometimes we do not obtain terms and conditions that permit revenue
recognition at the time of delivery or even as work on the project is completed.

Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in
additional expenses.

Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure,
including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and
New York Stock Exchange rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. The costs
required to comply with such evolving laws are difficult to predict. To maintain high standards of
corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources
to comply with evolving standards. This investment may result in an unforeseen increase in general
and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from
revenue-generating activities, which may harm our business, financial condition, or results of
operations.



Increases in service revenue as a percentage of total revenues could decrease overall margins and
adversely affect our operating results.

We realize lower margins on software and appraisal service revenues than on license revenue. The
majority of our contracts include both software licenses and professional services. Therefore, an
increase in the percentage of software service and appraisal service revenue compared to license
revenue could have a detrimental impact on our overall gross margins and could adversely affect
operating results.

Selling products and services into the public sector poses unique challenges.

We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of software and services to state, county
and city governments, other municipal agencies, and other public entities. We expect that sales to
public sector customers will continue to account for substantially all of our revenues in the
future. We face many risks and challenges associated with contracting with governmental entities,
including:

Each of these risks is outside our control. If we fail to adequately adapt to these risks and
uncertainties, our financial performance could be adversely affected.

The open bidding process for governmental contracts creates uncertainty in predicting future
contract awards.

Many governmental agencies purchase products and services through an open bidding process.
Generally, a governmental entity will publish an established list of requirements requesting
potential vendors to propose solutions for the established requirements. To respond successfully to
these requests for proposals, we must accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a
proposed contract, the time required to establish operations for the proposed client, and the
likely terms of any other third party proposals submitted. We cannot guarantee that we will win
any bids in the future through the request for proposal process, or that any winning bids will
ultimately result in contracts on favorable terms. Our failure to secure contracts through the
open bidding process, or to secure such contracts on favorable terms, may adversely affect our
business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Fixed- price contracts may affect our profits.

Some of our present contracts are on a fixed-priced basis, which can lead to various risks,
including:

•

the failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for an engagement;

•

the failure to effectively manage governmental agencies’ and other customers’
expectations regarding the scope of services to be delivered for an estimated price; and

•

the failure to timely complete fixed-price engagements within budget to the customers’
satisfaction.

If we do not adequately assess these and other risks, we may be subject to cost overruns and
penalties, which may harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations.



We face significant competition from other vendors and potential new entrants into our markets.

We believe we are a leading provider of integrated solutions for the public sector. However, we
face competition from a variety of software vendors that offer products and services similar to
those offered by us, as well as from companies offering to develop custom software. We compete on
the basis of a number of factors, including:

We believe the market is highly fragmented with a large number of competitors that vary in size,
primary computer platforms, and overall product scope. Our competitors include the consulting
divisions of national and regional accounting firms, publicly held companies that focus on selected
segments of the public sector market, and a significant number of smaller, privately held
companies. Certain competitors have greater technical, marketing, and financial resources than we
do. We cannot assure you that such competitors will not develop products or offer services that
are superior to our products or services or that achieve greater market acceptance.

We also compete with internal, centralized information service departments of governmental
entities, which require us to persuade the end-user to stop the internal service and outsource to
us. In addition, our customers may elect in the future to provide information management services
internally through new or existing departments, which could reduce the market for our services.

We could face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the public
sector software application market and new products and technologies are introduced. Increased
competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, and
loss of market share. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic
acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third-parties, thereby
increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. It is
possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly
gain significant market share. Further, competitive pressures could require us to reduce the price
of our software licenses and related services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to
compete successfully against current and future competitors, and the failure to do so would have
material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition.

We must respond to rapid technological changes to be competitive.

The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry
standards in computer hardware and software technology, changes in customer requirements, and
frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products embodying new
technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and
unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue
to enhance existing products and develop and introduce in a timely manner or acquire new products
that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer
requirements, and achieve market acceptance. We cannot assure you that we will successfully
identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and
cost-effective manner. Further, we cannot assure you that the products, capabilities, or
technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or
noncompetitive. If we are unable to develop or acquire on a timely and cost-effective basis new
software products or enhancements to existing products, or if such new products or enhancements do
not achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be
materially adversely affected.

Our failure to properly manage growth could adversely affect our business.

We have expanded our operations since February 1998, when we entered the business of providing
software solutions and services to the public sector. We intend to continue expansion in the
foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth places a
significant demand on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively,
we must implement and improve our operational systems, procedures, and controls on a timely basis.
We must also identify, hire, train, and manage key managerial and technical personnel. If we fail
to implement these systems or employ and retain such qualified personnel, our business, financial
condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.



We may be unable to hire, integrate, and retain qualified personnel.

Our continued success will depend upon the availability and performance of our key management,
sales, marketing, customer support, and product development personnel. The loss of key management
or technical personnel could adversely affect us. We believe that our continued success will
depend in large part upon our ability to attract, integrate, and retain such personnel. We have at
times experienced and continue to experience difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel.
Competition for qualified software development, sales, and other personnel is intense, and we
cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel.

We may experience difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy.

In addition, a significant portion of our growth has resulted from strategic acquisitions in new
product and geographic markets. Although our future focus will be on internal growth, we will
continue to identify and pursue strategic acquisitions and alliances with suitable candidates. Our
future success will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate future acquisitions
and other strategic alliances into our operations. Acquisitions may involve a number of special
risks, including diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel,
unanticipated events or circumstances, legal liabilities, and amortization of certain acquired
intangible assets. Some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although we conduct due diligence
reviews of potential acquisition candidates, we may not identify all material liabilities or risks
related to acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that any such strategic acquisitions
or alliances will be accomplished on favorable terms or will result in profitable operations.

We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights.

Many of our product and service offerings incorporate proprietary information, trade secrets,
know-how, and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of contracts,
copyrights, and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our
technology. We cannot be certain that we have taken all appropriate steps to deter
misappropriation of our intellectual property. In addition, there has been significant litigation
in the United States in recent years involving intellectual property rights. We are not currently
involved in any material intellectual property litigation. We may, however, be a party to
intellectual property litigation in the future to protect our proprietary information, trade
secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. Further, we cannot assure you that
third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us in the future with
respect to current or future products. Any claims or litigation, with or without merit, could be
time-consuming and result in costly litigation and diversion of management’s attention. Further,
any claims and litigation could cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty
or licensing arrangements. Such royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be
available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Thus, litigation to defend and enforce our
intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, and results of operations, regardless of the final outcome of such litigation.

Our Application Service Provider strategy has yet to gain widespread acceptance.

Some businesses choose to access enterprise software applications through application service
providers, or ASPs, which are businesses that host applications and provide access to software on a
subscription basis. The public sector market for ASP solutions is new and unproven. Acceptance of
our ASP model depends upon the ability and willingness of different governmental entities to accept
and implement ASP solutions. Some prospective clients have expressed security and privacy concerns
with the ASP model, including a concern regarding the confidential nature of the information and
transactions available from and conducted with governments and concerns regarding off-site storage
of such information. We have limited experience selling our solutions through ASPs and may not be
successful in generating revenue from this distribution channel.



Changes in the insurance markets may affect our ability to win some contract awards and may lead to
increased expenses.

Some of our customers, primarily those for our property appraisal services, require that we secure
performance bonds before they will select us as their vendor. The number of qualified, high-rated
insurance companies that offer performance bonds has decreased in recent years, while the costs
associated with securing these bonds has increased dramatically. In addition, we are generally
required to issue a letter of credit as security for the issuance of a performance bond. We
periodically enter into long-term borrowing agreements and each letter of credit we issue without
corresponding cash collateral may reduce our borrowing capacity under the borrowing agreement. We
cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure such performance bonds in the future on terms that
are favorable to us, if at all. Our inability to obtain performance bonds on favorable terms or at
all could impact our future ability to win some contract awards, particularly large property
appraisal services contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, and results of operations.

Recent volatility in the stock markets, increasing shareholder litigation, the adoption of
expansive legislation that redefines corporate controls (in particular, legislation adopted to
prevent future corporate and accounting scandals), as well as other factors have recently led to
significant increases in premiums for directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. The number of
insurers offering directors and officers insurance at competitive rates has also decreased in
recent years. Volatility of the insurance market may result in future increases in our general and
administrative expenses, which may adversely affect future operating results.

Our stock price may be volatile.

The market price of our common stock may be volatile and may be significantly affected by many
different factors. Some examples of factors that can have a significant impact on our stock price
include:

In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume
fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for the common stock of technology
companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common
stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s
securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We
cannot assure you that similar litigation will not occur in the future with respect to us. Such
litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and
resources, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and
financial condition.

Historically, we have not paid dividends on our common stock.

We have not declared or paid a cash dividend since we entered the business of providing software
solutions and services to the public sector in February 1998. Additionally, we may enter into
credit agreements that could restrict our ability to pay cash dividends. We intend to retain
earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any
cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.

Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could deter takeover
attempts.

Our board of directors may issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and may determine the
price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights,
of these shares of preferred stock. These determinations may be made without any further vote or
action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and
may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued
in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to
acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, some provisions of our
Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, and of the Delaware General Corporation Law could also delay,
prevent, or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us.



Financial Outlook.

From time to time in press releases and otherwise, we may publish forecasts or other
forward-looking statements regarding our results, including estimated revenues or net earnings.
Any forecast of our future performance reflects various assumptions. These assumptions are subject
to significant uncertainties, and as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be
incorrect. Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors
(including those described in this discussion), many of which are beyond our control. As a result,
we cannot be certain that our performance will be consistent with any management forecasts or that
the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. Current and potential
stockholders are cautioned not to base their entire analysis of our business and prospects upon
isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize our entire publicly available mix of
historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information regarding us,
our products and services, and the software industry when evaluating our prospective results of
operations.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.

Not applicable.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

We occupy a total of approximately 297,000 square feet of office and warehouse space, 42,000 of
which we own. We lease our principal executive office located in Dallas, Texas, as well as other
offices for our divisions in Colorado, Iowa, Maine, Ohio, Texas and Washington.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

Prior to September 11, 2007, we had warrants outstanding to purchase 1.6 million shares of common
stock at $2.50 per share, which were held by Bank of America, N. A. (“BOA”) pursuant to the terms
of two Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Warrants (collectively, the “Warrants”). The exercise
price could be paid either in cash or by a “cashless exercise” in which the holder was required to
surrender the Warrants in exchange for warrant shares based on the following formula: [(Market
Price – $2.50) / (Market Price)] x 1. 6 million shares, with the Market Price calculated as the
immediately preceding 60-day trading average of our common stock. The Warrants identified specific
exercise procedures for each method of exercise and further provided that any exercise would not be
effective until we received all applicable documents, instruments, and the purchase price. The
Warrants were originally issued on September 10, 1997 and were exercisable from that date until 5
p.m., Central Time, September 10, 2007, when they expired.

On September 10, 2007, at 4:44 p.m., Central Time, BOA attempted to effectuate a “cashless
exercise” of the Warrants via email; however, we believe BOA did not comply with all of the
requirements set forth in the Warrants for an effective exercise. At 5:37 p.m., Central Time, BOA
recalled this email exercise notice, which we subsequently accepted. At 6:10 p.m., Central Time,
BOA attempted to effectuate a cash exercise of the Warrants by emailing a different notice of
exercise, which we believe also failed to comply with all of the requirements set forth in the
Warrants for an effective exercise, and in any event, was after the expiration date of the
Warrants. As a result, we believe these Warrants expired as of September 10, 2007 and have
excluded the effect of the Warrants from potentially dilutive common shares as of such date in our
earnings per share computation.

On October 12, 2007, we filed a declaratory judgment action against BOA in the District Court of
Dallas County, Texas, 101

st

Judicial District requesting the court to declare, among
other things, that the Warrants have expired pursuant to their terms. On November 14, 2007, BOA
filed an original answer and counterclaim asserting, among other things, that the parties modified
the exercise requirements of the Warrants, that Tyler breached the alleged modified contracts by
refusing to deliver the warrant shares to BOA, and that BOA is therefore entitled to specific
performance of the Warrants by us delivering the warrant shares or, in the alternative, to a
recovery of damages, including attorneys’ fees, interest, and costs. While we believe the Warrants
expired as of September 10, 2007, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate resolution of this
matter.

Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to our business and except as described
in this Annual Report, there are no material legal proceedings pending to which we are party or to
which any of our properties are subject.



ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

Not applicable.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES.

Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “TYL.” At December 31,
2007, we had approximately 2,150 stockholders of record. A number of our stockholders hold their
shares in street name; therefore, there are substantially more than 2,150 beneficial owners of our
common stock.

The following table shows, for the calendar periods indicated, the high and low sales price per
share of our common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.

High

Low

2006:

First Quarter

$

11.00

$

8.40

Second Quarter

11.50

9.80

Third Quarter

13.36

10.27

Fourth Quarter

14.99

12.41

2007:

First Quarter

$

14.93

$

12.03

Second Quarter

13.28

11.70

Third Quarter

15.74

11.39

Fourth Quarter

16.20

12.81

2008:

First Quarter (through February 22, 2008)

$

14.58

$

12.29

We did not pay any cash dividends in 2007 or 2006. We intend to retain earnings for use in the
operation and expansion of our business, and, therefore, we do not anticipate declaring a cash
dividend in the foreseeable future.

The following table summarizes certain information related to our stock option plan and our
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). There are no warrants or rights related to our equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2007.

Number of securities remaining

Number of securities to be

Weighted average

available for future issuance

issued upon exercise of

exercise price of

under equity compensation

outstanding options,

outstanding

plans (excluding securities

warrants and rights as of

options, warrants

reflected in initial column as of

Plan Category

December 31, 2007

and rights

December 31,2007)

Equity compensation plans
approved by security shareholders:

Stock options

3,972,076

$

7.16

211,471

ESPP

29,017

10.96

553,735

Equity compensation plans not
approved by security shareholders

—

—

—

4,001,093

$

7.19

765,206



During 2007, we purchased approximately 1.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate
purchase price of $16.2 million. A summary of the repurchase activity during 2007 is as follows:

Additional

Maximum number

number of shares

of shares that may

Total number

authorized that

Average

be repurchased

of shares

may be

price paid

under current

Period

repurchased

repurchased

per share

authorization

Three months ended March 31

290,000

—

$

13.62

741,000

Additional authorization by the board of directors

—

2,000,000

—

2,741,000

Three months ended June 30

599,000

—

11.99

2,142,000

Three months ended September 30

—

—

—

2,142,000

October 1 through October 31

—

—

—

2,142,000

November 1 through November 30

—

—

—

2,142,000

December 1 through December 31

361,000

—

13.94

1,781,000

Total year ended December 31, 2007

1,250,000

2,000,000

$

12.93

The repurchase program, which was approved by our board of directors, was announced in October
2002, and was amended in April and July 2003, October 2004, October 2005 and May 2007. On May
17, 2007, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 2.0 million
shares. As of December 31, 2007, we had remaining authorization to repurchase up to 1.8
million additional shares of our common stock. There is no expiration date specified for the
authorization and we intend to repurchase stock under the plan from time to time in the
future.



Performance Graph

The following Performance Graph and related information shall not be deemed “soliciting material”
or to be “filed” with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be
incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically
incorporate it by reference into such filing.

The following table compares total Shareholder returns for Tyler over the last five years to the
Standard and Poor’s 500 Stock Index and the Standard and Poor’s 600 Information Technology
Index assuming a $100 investment made on December 31, 2002. Each of the three measures of
cumulative total return assumes reinvestment of dividends. The stock performance shown on the
graph below is not necessarily indicative of future price performance.

Company / Index

12/31/02

12/31/03

12/31/04

12/31/05

12/31/06

12/31/07

Tyler Technologies, Inc.


230.94

200.48

210.55

337.17

309.11

S&P 500 Index


128.68

142.69

149.70

173.34

182.86

S&P 600 Information Technology Index


153.87

164.09

163.70

179.13

195.80



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

(In thousands, except per share data)

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,






STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA

(1)

:

Revenues

$

219,796

$

195,303

$

170,457

$

172,270

$

145,454

Costs and expenses:

Cost of revenues

(2)

135,371

120,499

108,970

108,432

90,627

Selling, general and administrative expenses

(2)

51,724

48,389

43,821

42,931

37,246

Research and development expense

4,443

3,322

2,421

2,520

1,144

Restructuring charge

—

—

1,260

—

—

Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles

1,478

1,318

1,266

1,267


Operating income

26,780

21,775

12,719

17,120

15,512

Realized gain on sale of investment in H.T.E., Inc.

(3)

—

—

—

—

23,233

Other income, net

1,800

1,080




Income from operations before income taxes

28,580

22,855

13,625

17,437

39,084

Income tax provision

11,079

8,493

5,432

7,309

13,106

Income from operations

$

17,501

$

14,362

$

8,193

$

10,128

$

25,978

Income from operations per diluted share

$

0.42

$

0.34

$

0.19

$

0.23

$

0.58

Weighted average diluted shares

41,352

41,868

42,075

44,566

45,035

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS DATA:

Cash flows provided by operating activities

$

34,111

$

26,804

$

21,187

$

22,159

$

22,535

Cash flows (used by) provided by investing activities

(34,275

)

(24,326

)

1,820

(9,914

)

(590

)

Cash flows used by financing activities

(7,406

)

(5,999

)

(14,847

)

(9,940

)

(25,421

)

BALANCE SHEET DATA:

Total assets

$

241,508

$

220,276

$

194,437

$

190,487

$

186,396

Shareholders’ equity

137,211

125,875

112,197

118,400

117,907

(1)

In December 2003, we acquired Eden Systems, Inc. (“Eden”), a provider of financial,
personnel and citizen services software for local governments. These results include the
results of the operations of Eden from the date of its acquisition.

(2)

Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment” using the
modified-prospective method. In 2007 and 2006, respectively, cost of revenues included
$227,000 and $147,000 share-based compensation expense. Selling, general and administrative
expenses in 2007 and 2006, respectively, included $2.1 million and $1.8 million share-based
compensation expense. In accordance with the standard, results of operations for the years
prior to 2006 are reported under the previous accounting standard and no expense was recorded.

(3)

On March 25, 2003, we received cash proceeds of $39.3 million in connection with a
transaction to sell all of our 5.6 million shares of H.T.E., Inc. (“HTE”) common stock to
SunGard Data Systems Inc. for $7.00 cash per share. Our original cost basis in the HTE shares
was $15.8 million. After transaction and other costs, we recorded a gross realized gain of
$23.2 million ($16.2 million or $0.36 per diluted share after income taxes of $7.0 million)
for the year ended December 31, 2003.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking
statements. The forward-looking statements are made in reliance upon safe harbor provisions of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements are subject to
certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include,
but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Readers are cautioned not to
place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only
as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any
revision to these forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review the risk factors
described in this Annual Report and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC.

When used in this Annual Report, the words “believes,” “plans,” “estimates,” “expects,”
“anticipates,” “intends,” “continue,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “projects,” “forecasts,” “might,”
“could” or the negative of such terms and similar expressions are intended to identify
forward-looking statements.

OVERVIEW

We provide integrated information management solutions and services for local governments. We
develop and market a broad line of software products and services to address the information
technology (“IT”) needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. In
addition, we provide professional IT services to our customers, including software and hardware
installation, data conversion, training and for certain customers, product modifications, along
with continuing maintenance and support for customers using our systems. We also provide
subscription-based services such as application service provider arrangements and other hosting
services as well as property appraisal outsourcing services for taxing jurisdictions.

Our products are generally grouped into four major areas:

•

Financial Management and Education;

•

Courts and Justice;

•

Property Appraisal and Tax; and

•

Document Management.

We monitor and analyze several key performance indicators in order to manage our business and
evaluate our financial and operating performance. These indicators include the following:

•

Revenues — We derive our revenues from five primary sources: sale of software licenses;
subscription-based services; software services; appraisal services; and maintenance and
support. Because the majority of the software we sell is “off-the-shelf”, increased sales
of software products generally result in incrementally higher gross margins. Thus, the
most significant driver to our business is the number and size of software license sales.
In addition, new software license sales generally generate implementation services revenues
as well as future maintenance and support revenues, which we view as a recurring revenue
source. We also monitor our customer base and churn since our maintenance and support
revenue should increase due to our historically low customer turnover.

•

Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins — Our primary cost component is personnel expenses
in connection with providing software implementation, subscription-based services and
appraisal services to our customers. We can improve gross margins by controlling headcount
and related costs and by expanding our revenue base, especially from those products and
services that produce incremental revenue with minimal incremental cost, such as software
licenses, subscription-based services, and maintenance and support. Our appraisal projects
are seasonal in nature, and we often employ appraisal personnel on a short-term basis to
coincide with the life of a project. As of December 31, 2007, our total full-time
equivalent employee count increased to 1,627 from 1,513 at December 31, 2006. The majority
of these additions were to our implementation and support staff, including additions to our
capacity to deliver our backlog, particularly for our Odyssey courts and justice solutions.
Our implementation and support staff at December 31, 2007 includes 73 full-time equivalent
employees added as a result of two acquisitions completed in 2007.



•

Selling, General and Administrative (“SG&A”) Expenses — The primary components of SG&A
expense are administrative and sales personnel salaries and commissions, marketing expense,
rent and professional fees. Sales commissions generally fluctuate with revenues but other
administrative expenses tend to grow at a slower rate than revenues.

•

Liquidity and Cash Flows — The primary driver of our cash flows is net income. Uses of
cash include acquisitions, capital investments in software development and property and
equipment and the discretionary purchases of treasury stock. During 2007 we used cash of
$9.0 million to acquire two companies and miscellaneous other software assets. In 2007, we
also purchased 1.3 million shares of our common stock at an aggregate purchase price of
$16.2 million. Our working capital needs are fairly stable throughout the year with the
significant components of cash outflows being payment of personnel expenses offset by cash
inflows representing collection of accounts receivable and cash receipts from customers in
advance of revenue being earned.

•

Balance Sheet — Cash, accounts receivable and days sales outstanding and deferred
revenue balances are important indicators of our business.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our
consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). The preparation of these financial
statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues, cost of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period, and related disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities. The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included as part of this Annual
Report describe our significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated
financial statements. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the
application of the percentage-of-completion and proportionate performance methods of revenue
recognition, the carrying amount and estimated useful lives of intangible assets, determination of
share-based compensation expense and valuation allowance for receivables. We base our estimates on
historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the
circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values
of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may
differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

We believe the following critical accounting policies affect significant judgments and estimates
used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue Recognition

. We recognize revenues in accordance with the provisions of Statement of
Position (“SOP”) 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition,” as amended by SOP 98-4 and SOP 98-9, as well
as Technical Practice Aids issued from time to time by the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants, and in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 104 “Revenue Recognition.” We recognize revenue on our appraisal services contracts
using the proportionate performance method of accounting, with considerations for the provisions of
Emerging Issue Task Force (“EITF”) No. 00-21, “Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.”
Our revenues are derived from sales of software licenses, subscription-based services, appraisal
services, maintenance and support, and services that typically range from installation, training
and basic consulting to software modification and customization to meet specific customer needs.
For multiple element software arrangements, which do not entail the performance of services that
are considered essential to the functionality of the software, we generally record revenue when the
delivered products or performed services result in a legally enforceable and non-refundable claim.
We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts and sales adjustments, which are provided at the time
the revenue is recognized. Because most of our customers are governmental entities, we rarely
incur a loss resulting from the inability of a customer to make required payments. In a limited
number of cases, we encounter a customer who is dissatisfied with some aspect of the software
product or our service, and we may offer a “concession” to such customer. In those limited
situations where we grant a concession, we rarely reduce the contract arrangement fee, but
alternatively may perform additional services, such as additional training or programming a minor
feature the customer had in their prior software solution. These amounts have historically been
considered nominal. In connection with our customer contracts and the adequacy of related
allowances and measures of progress towards contract completion, our project managers are charged
with the responsibility to continually review the status of each customer on a specific contract
basis. Also, we review, on at least a quarterly basis, significant past due accounts receivable
and the adequacy of related reserves. Events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the
carrying amount for the allowances for doubtful accounts and sales adjustments may require
revision, include, but are not limited to, deterioration of a customer’s financial condition,
failure to manage our customer’s expectations regarding the scope of the services to be delivered,
and defects or errors in new versions or enhancements of our software products.



For those software arrangements that involve significant production, modification or customization
of the software, which is considered essential to its functionality, and for substantially all
property appraisal outsourcing projects, we recognize revenue and profit as the work progresses
using the percentage-of-completion method and the proportionate performance method of revenue
recognition. These methods rely on estimates of total expected contract revenue, billings and
collections and expected contract costs, as well as measures of progress toward completion. We
believe reasonably dependable estimates of revenue and costs and progress applicable to various
stages of a contract can be made. At times, we perform additional and/or non-contractual services
for little to no incremental fee to satisfy customer expectations. If changes occur in delivery,
productivity or other factors used in developing our estimates of expected costs or revenues, we
revise our cost and revenue estimates, and any revisions are charged to income in the period in
which the facts that give rise to that revision first become known.

We use contract accounting, primarily the percentage-of-completion method, and apply the provisions
of SOP No. 81-1 “Accounting for Performance of Construction — Type and Certain Production — Type
Contracts” for those software arrangements that involve significant production, modification or
customization of the software, or where our software services are otherwise considered essential to
the functionality of the software. In addition, we recognize revenue using the proportionate
performance method of revenue recognition for our property appraisal projects, some of which can
range up to three years. In connection with these and certain other contracts, we may perform the
work prior to when the services are billable and/or payable pursuant to the contract. The
termination clauses in most of our contracts provide for the payment for the fair value of products
delivered and services performed in the event of an early termination.

For subscription-based services such as application service provider arrangements and other hosting
arrangements, we evaluate whether each of the elements in these arrangements represents a separate
unit of accounting, as defined by EITF 00-21, using all applicable facts and circumstances,
including whether (i) we sell or could readily sell the element unaccompanied by the other
elements, (ii) the element has stand-alone value to the customer, (iii) there is objective reliable
evidence of the fair value of the undelivered item, and (iv) there is a general right of return.
We consider the applicability of EITF No. 00-03, “Application of SOP 97-2 to Arrangements That
Include the Right to Use Software Stored on Another Entity’s Hardware” on a contract-by-contract
basis. In hosted term-based agreements, where the customer does not have the contractual right to
take possession of the software, hosting fees are recognized on a monthly basis over the term of
the contract commencing when the customer has access to the software. For professional services
associated with hosting arrangements that we determine do not have stand-alone value to the
customer, we recognize the services revenue ratably over the remaining contractual period once
hosting has gone live and we may begin billing for the hosting services. We record amounts that
have been invoiced in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenues, depending on whether
the revenue recognition criteria have been met.

In connection with certain of our contracts, we have recorded retentions receivable or unbilled
receivables consisting of costs and estimated profit in excess of billings as of the balance sheet
date. Many of the contracts which give rise to unbilled receivables at a given balance sheet date
are subject to billings in the subsequent accounting period. Management reviews unbilled
receivables and related contract provisions to ensure we are justified in recognizing revenue prior
to billing the customer and that we have objective evidence which allows us to recognize such
revenue. In addition, we have a sizable amount of deferred revenue which represents billings in
excess of revenue earned. The majority of this liability consists of maintenance billings for
which payments are made in advance and the revenue is ratably earned over the maintenance period,
generally one year. We also have deferred revenue for those contracts in which we receive a
deposit and the conditions in which to record revenue for the service or product has not been met.
On a periodic basis, we review by customer the detail components of our deferred revenue to ensure
our accounting remains appropriate.

Intangible Assets and Goodwill

. Our business acquisitions typically result in the creation of
goodwill and other intangible asset balances, and these balances affect the amount and timing of
future period amortization expense, as well as expense we could possibly incur as a result of an
impairment charge. The cost of acquired companies is allocated to identifiable tangible and
intangible assets based on estimated fair value, with the excess allocated to goodwill.
Accordingly, we have a significant balance of acquisition date intangible assets, including
software, customer related intangibles, trade name and goodwill. In addition, we capitalize
software development costs incurred subsequent to the establishment of technological feasibility.
These intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. All intangible assets
with definite and indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment annually or whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Recoverability of goodwill is generally measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset
to its fair value, generally determined by estimated future net cash flows expected to be generated
by the asset. Recoverability of other intangible assets is generally measured by comparison of the
carrying amount to estimated undiscounted future cash flows. The assessment of recoverability or of
the estimated useful life for amortization purposes will be affected if the timing or the amount of
estimated future operating cash flows is not achieved. Events or changes in circumstances that
indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to, a significant
decrease in the market value of the business or asset acquired, a significant adverse change in the
extent or manner in which the



business or asset acquired is used, or a significant adverse change in the business climate. In
addition, products, capabilities, or technologies developed by others may render our software
products obsolete or non-competitive.

Share-Based Compensation.

We have a stock option plan that provides for the grant of stock options
to key employees, directors and non-employee consultants. Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted
for share-based compensation utilizing the intrinsic value method in accordance with the
provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion (“APB”) No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,” and related Interpretations. Accordingly, no compensation expense was recorded because
the exercise prices of the stock options equaled the market prices of the underlying stock on the
dates of grants. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“ SFAS”) No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,” which establishes accounting for
share-based awards exchanged for employee services, using the modified prospective application
transition method. Subsequently, we recorded compensation expense in our statement of operations
over the service period that the awards are expected to vest.

We estimate the fair value of share-based awards on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option valuation model. Share-based compensation expense includes the estimated effects of
forfeitures, which will be adjusted over the requisite service period to the extent actual
forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ from such estimates. Changes in estimated
forfeitures are recognized in the period of change and will also impact the amount of expense to be
recognized in future periods. Forfeiture rate assumptions are derived from historical data. We
estimate stock price volatility at the date of grant based on the historical volatility of our
common stock. Estimated option life is determined using the “simplified method” in accordance with
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107. Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating
the fair value of share-based awards at the grant date requires considerable judgment, including
estimating stock price volatility, expected option life and forfeiture rates.

ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND OTHER

The following discussion compares the historical results of operations on a basis consistent with
GAAP for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.

2007 Compared to 2006

Revenues

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our revenues for the following
years ended December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($ in thousands)


Total


Total

$

%

Software licenses

$

35,063


%

$

37,247


%

$

(2,184

)

(6

)%

Subscriptions

10,406


7,298


3,108


Software services

60,283


50,861


9,422


Maintenance

85,411


73,413


11,998


Appraisal services

21,318


19,755


1,563


Hardware and other

7,315


6,729




Total revenues

$

219,796


%

$

195,303


%

$

24,493


%

Software licenses

. Software license revenues consist of the following components for the
following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($ in thousands)


Total


Total

$

%

Financial management
and education

$

24,988


%

$

27,292


%

$

(2,304

)

(8

)%

Courts and justice

5,987


4,756


1,231


Appraisal and tax and other

4,088


5,199


(1,111

)

(21

)

Total revenues

$

35,063


%

$

37,247


%

$

(2,184

)

(6

)%



In 2007 we signed 86 material new contracts with average software license fees of approximately
$434,000, compared to 78 material new contracts signed in 2006 with average software license fees
of approximately $326,000. We consider contracts with a license fee component of $100,000 or
more to be material. Although a contract is signed in a particular year, the year in which the
revenue is recognized may be different because we recognize revenue according to our revenue
recognition policy as described in Note 1 in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Changes in software license revenues consist of the following components:

•

Software license revenue related to our financial management and education solutions for
2007 decreased 8% compared to the prior year. Over half the decline was due to product mix
in 2007 that required less third party software. A portion of the remaining decline was
mainly due to a number of customers in 2007 choosing our subscription-based options, rather
than purchasing the software under a traditional perpetual software license arrangement.
Although these customers represented a relatively small percentage of new customers, the
size of those contracts was larger than in the prior year. Subscription-based arrangements
result in lower software license revenues in the initial year as compared to traditional
perpetual software license arrangement but generate higher overall subscription-based services revenue over the term of
the contract.

•

Software license revenue related to our courts and justice software solutions increased
26% for 2007 compared to the prior year. In the fourth quarter of 2007 we recorded software
license revenue of approximately $1.3 million from a contract which had been deferred in
accordance with the terms of the contract.

•

Appraisal and tax and other software license declined 21% in 2007 compared to the prior
year primarily due to the deferral of software license revenue on a customer arrangement
pending establishment of a revised timeline for the completion of certain development and
implementation services. We currently expect a revised implementation schedule will be
established and we will collect the remaining license fees contained in the arrangement.

Subscriptions.

Subscription-based services revenue primarily consists of revenues derived from
application service provider (“ASP”) arrangements and other hosted service offerings, software
subscriptions and disaster recovery services. ASP and other software subscriptions agreements
are typically for periods of three to six years and automatically renew unless either party
cancels the agreement. Disaster recovery and miscellaneous other hosted service agreements are
typically renewable annually. New ASP customers provided approximately two-thirds of the
subscription revenue increase due to further expansion into existing markets and new markets such
as Pennsylvania and Texas.

Software services

. Changes in software services revenues consist of the following components:

•

Software services revenue related to financial management and education solutions, which
comprises approximately half of our software services revenue in the years presented,
experienced modest increases compared to the prior year due to increased contract volume
and additions to implementation and training staff which enabled us to deliver our backlog
at a faster rate. Excluding the impact of acquisitions we have added approximately 40
people to our financial management and education implementation and training staff over the
last twelve months.

•

Software services revenue related to our courts and justice solutions experienced
substantial increases compared to the prior year, reflecting increased contract volume. We
had approximately 34 active Odyssey contracts in 2007 compared to approximately 25 active
Odyssey contracts in 2006, primarily due to continued expansion in Texas and Florida and a
new contract with Indiana. We have added approximately 50 people to our courts and justice
implementation and training staff over the last twelve months.

•

Software services revenue related to appraisal and tax and other solutions, which
comprise approximately 25% of our software services revenue in the periods presented, had
moderate increases for 2007 compared to the prior year. The majority of the increase is
related to one large appraisal and tax software implementation, which was substantially
completed by December 31, 2007. The level of appraisal and tax software services revenues
for 2008 will depend on our ability to replace the revenues associated with this large
implementation.

Maintenance

. We provide maintenance and support services for our software products and third
party software. Maintenance revenues increased over the prior year due to growth in our
installed customer base and slightly higher maintenance rates on most of our solutions.



Appraisal services

. Appraisal services are project-oriented and are driven in part by
revaluation cycles in various states. Appraisal services revenue for 2007 was 8% higher
than the prior year period. The increase was due to activity related to Ohio’s revaluation
cycle, which occurs every six years, and a $4.0 million contract with Fulton County,
Georgia, which began late in 2006. The Ohio revaluation projects began with smaller
counties late in the first quarter of 2006 and expanded to larger counties by the third
quarter of 2006. A substantial portion of the Ohio revaluation projects was complete by
December 31, 2007. We anticipate appraisal services revenues for 2008 will decline
moderately compared to 2007 if we are unable to replace the appraisal services revenues
associated with the Ohio revaluation.

Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues and those
components stated as a percentage of related revenues for the following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

related

related

Change

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Software licenses

$

7,953


%

$

9,968


%

$

(2,015

)

(20

)%

Acquired software

2,279


1,360




Software services, maintenance
and subscriptions

104,993


90,601


14,392


Appraisal services

14,467


13,563




Hardware and other

5,679


5,007




Total cost of revenues

$

135,371


%

$

120,499


%

$

14,872


%

The following table sets forth a comparison of gross margin percentage by revenue type for the
periods presented for the following years ended December 31:

Gross margin percentages



Change

Software licenses and acquired software

70.8

%

69.6

%

1.2

%

Software services, maintenance
and subscriptions

32.7

31.1

1.6

Appraisal services

32.1

31.3

0.8

Hardware

22.4

25.6

(3.2

)

Overall gross margin

38.4

%

38.3

%

0.1

%

Software license

. The main component of our cost of software license revenues is amortization
expense for capitalized development costs on certain software products, with third party
software costs making up the balance. Once a product is released, we begin to amortize, over
the estimated useful life of the product, any capitalized costs associated with its
development. Amortization expense is determined on a product-by-product basis at an annual
rate not less than straight-line basis over the product’s estimated life, which is generally
five years. Development costs consist mainly of personnel costs, such as salary and benefits
paid to our developers, and rent for related office space.

For 2007 our software license gross margin percentage increased slightly compared to the prior
year because our product mix in 2007 included less third party software, which has higher
associated costs than proprietary software. The gross margin also benefited from lower
amortization expense of software development costs because some products became fully
amortized during the first quarter of 2006.

Software services, maintenance and subscription-based services

. Cost of software services,
maintenance and subscriptions primarily consists of personnel costs related to installation of
our software, conversion of customer data, training customer personnel and support activities
and various other services such as ASP and disaster recovery. For 2007 the software services,
maintenance and



subscription gross margin percentage increased 1.6% over the prior year
because maintenance and
various other services such as ASP and disaster recovery costs
typically grow at a slower rate than related revenues due to leverage in the utilization of
our support and maintenance staff and economies of scale. We have increased our
implementation and support staff by 162 full-time equivalent employees since December 31,
2006. This increase includes 73 additional employees related to acquisitions completed in
2007. The remaining additions were to increase our capacity to train and deliver our
contract backlog, particularly for our courts and justice solutions.

Appraisal services

. Higher revenues associated with increased activity on the Ohio revaluation
projects contributed to the slight appraisal services gross margin percentage increase.

Our blended gross margin for 2007 was flat compared to the prior year due to a revenue mix that
included less software license and significant additions to our development and implementation
staff to deliver our growing backlog. Software license revenue inherently
has higher gross margins than other revenues such as professional services and hardware. Although
the revenue mix for 2007 also included less software license than the prior year, the negative
impact on the gross margin was offset by lower third party software costs as well as lower
amortization expense of software development costs described above.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

The following table sets forth a comparison of our selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”)
expenses for the following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Selling,
general and administrative expenses

$

51,724


%

$

48,389


%

$

3,335


%

SG&A costs grew at a slower rate than revenues in 2007 due to leverage in the utilization of our
administrative and sales staff.

Research and Development Expense

The following table sets forth a comparison of our research and development expense for the
following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Research and development expense

$

4,443


%

$

3,322


%

$

1,121


%

For 2007, research and development expense included costs associated with the Microsoft Dynamics
AX project, in addition to costs associated with other new product development efforts. In
2007, we reduced our research and development expense by $1.6 million, which was the amount
earned under the terms of our strategic alliance with Microsoft. We anticipate these costs
and associated reimbursements from Microsoft will continue into 2008; however, the actual
amount and timing of those costs and related reimbursements and whether they are capitalized
or expensed, may vary.



Amortization of Customer and Trade Name Intangibles

Acquisition intangibles are comprised of the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of
net tangible assets acquired that is allocated to acquired software and customer and trade name
intangibles. The remaining excess purchase price is allocated to goodwill that is not subject to
amortization. Amortization expense related to acquired software is included with cost of revenues
while amortization expense of customer and trade name intangibles is recorded as a non-operating
expense. The estimated useful lives of both customer and trade name intangibles are 5 to 25 years.
The following table sets forth a comparison of amortization of customer and trade name intangibles
for the following years ended December 31:

Change

($ in thousands)



$

%

Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles

$

1,478

$

1,318

$



%

Estimated annual amortization expense relating to customer and trade name acquisition intangibles,
excluding acquired software for which the amortization expense is recorded as cost of revenues, for
the next five years is as follows (in thousands):


$

1,561


1,475


1,475


1,460


1,393

Other

In 2007 interest income is the main component of other income. Other income in 2006 also includes
non-usage and other fees associated with a credit agreement we terminated in January 2007 and gains
and losses on risk management liabilities and assets associated with a foreign exchange contract.
Interest income in 2007 was $1.8 million compared to $1.4 million in 2006. The increase in
interest income is due to higher invested cash balances as the result of positive cash flow in
2007.

Income Tax Provision

The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the following years
ended December 31:

Change

($ in thousands)



$

%

Income tax provision

$

11,079

$

8,493

$

2,586


%

Effective income tax rate

38.8

%

37.2

%

The effective income tax rates were different from the statutory United States federal income tax
rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes, non-deductible share-based compensation expense,
the qualified manufacturing activities deduction, and non-deductible meals and entertainment costs.

The effective rate for 2006 was lower than the 2007 effective tax rate mainly due to changes in
the Texas franchise tax law and rates enacted in the second quarter of 2006 and favorable
state income tax audit results.

Slightly more than half of our stock option awards granted qualify as incentive stock options
(“ISO”) for income tax purposes. As such, a tax benefit is not recorded at the time the
compensation cost related to the options is recorded for book purposes due to the fact that an
ISO does not ordinarily result in a tax benefit unless there is a disqualifying disposition.
Stock option grants of non-qualified options result in the creation of a deferred tax asset,
which is a temporary difference, until the time that the option is exercised. Due to the
treatment of incentive stock options for tax purposes, our effective tax rate from year to
year is subject to variability.



2006 Compared to 2005

Revenues

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our revenues for the following
years ended December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($ in thousands)


Total


Total

$

%

Software licenses

$

37,247


%

$

29,418


%

$

7,829


%

Subscriptions

7,298


5,852


1,446


Software services

50,861


46,233


4,628


Maintenance

73,413


64,728


8,685


Appraisal services

19,755


18,374


1,381


Hardware and other

6,729


5,852




Total revenues

$

195,303


%

$

170,457


%

$

24,846


%

Software licenses

. Changes in software license revenues consist of the following components:

§

Software license revenue related to financial management and education solutions, which
comprise approximately 70% of our software license revenues in the years presented,
increased significantly compared to the prior year primarily due to growth from geographic
expansion and increased success in winning larger contracts. Third party software revenue
also increased over the comparable prior year because we sold more financial software
modules that utilize third party software. Also, in late 2005 we simplified the
implementation process for one of our financial products, which has enabled us to deliver
the product more rapidly.

§

In 2006 software license revenue related to our products other than financial management
and education solutions experienced strong increases in the aggregate compared to 2005.
Software license revenues from our Odyssey courts and justice products experienced a
substantial increase over the prior year as a result of the product maturing following
successful early implementations and leveraging our existing customer base. In addition,
licenses of our tax and appraisal products and a document management product were much
higher than the prior year due to several new Java based product releases and increased
appraisal revaluation activity. Our appraisal software license volume varies from period
to period dependent upon the special needs and timing of our customers. Local government
taxing entities normally reappraise properties from time to time to update values for tax
assessment purposes and to maintain equity in the taxing process. While certain of these
taxing jurisdictions contract with our appraisal services division to perform the
reappraisals, it is not always necessary for the customer to purchase new software in order
to process the appraisals. In some cases, a customer may simply add additional appraisal
software modules to enhance the functionality of its existing software.

Subscriptions.

Subscription-based services increased primarily due to new customers for ASP and
disaster recovery services as a result of geographic expansion, primarily in the South in the
aftermath of hurricane Katrina.

Software services

. Changes in software services revenues consist of the following components:

§

Software services revenue related to financial management and education solutions, which
comprise more than half of our software service revenue in the years presented, increased
significantly in 2006 compared to the prior year reflecting increased contract volume and
additions to training staff which enabled us to deliver our backlog at a faster rate.

§

Software services revenue related to Odyssey courts and justice solutions was up
moderately in 2006 compared to 2005 reflecting increased contract volume. Since March 31,
2005, we have increased our presence with Odyssey in Texas, Florida and Michigan and added
one contract in Nevada. Odyssey software services revenue did not increase as strongly as
Odyssey software license revenue because the prior year included a $1.4 million contract for
follow-on services to an existing customer that had previously implemented and accepted the
software.

§

Software services revenue related to our document management solutions experienced strong
increases in 2006 due to several new Java based product releases.



Maintenance

. We provide maintenance and support services for our software products and third party
software. Maintenance revenues increased due to growth in our installed customer base as evidenced
by our software license revenue and slightly higher maintenance rates on most of our product lines.

Appraisal services.

The appraisal services business is driven in part by revaluation cycles in
various states. Appraisal services revenue increased over the prior year mainly due to activity
related to Ohio’s revaluation cycle, which occurs every six years as well as the addition of new
customers. The Ohio revaluation projects began with smaller counties late in the first quarter of
2006 and expanded to larger counties by the third quarter of 2006.

Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins

The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues and those
components stated as a percentage of related revenues for the following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

related

related

Change

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Software licenses

$

9,968


%

$

9,087


%

$



%

Acquired software

1,360






Software services, maintenance
and subscriptions

90,601


80,614


9,987


Appraisal services

13,563


14,188


(625

)

(4

)

Hardware and other

5,007


4,287




Total cost of revenues

$

120,499


%

$

108,970


%

$

11,529


%

The following table sets forth a comparison of gross margin percentage by revenue type for the
periods presented for the following years ended December 31:

Gross margin percentages



Change

Software licenses and acquired software

69.6

%

66.4

%

3.2

%

Software services, maintenance
and subscriptions

31.1

31.0

0.1

Appraisal services

31.3

22.8

8.5

Hardware

25.6

26.7

(1.1

)

Overall gross margin

38.3

%

36.1

%

2.2

%

Software license.

Our software license gross margin percentage in 2006 increased due to
substantially higher software license revenues and slightly lower amortization expense of
software development costs as some products became fully amortized during the first quarter of
2006.

Software services, maintenance and subscription-based services.

The software services, maintenance
and subscriptions gross margin percentage in 2006 was comparable to the 2005. The cost of software
services, maintenance and subscriptions increased because we added to our implementation and
support staff to increase our capacity to support new sales growth and deliver sales backlog.

Appraisal services.

The appraisal services gross margin percentage increased in 2006 compared to
2005 mainly due to significant organizational changes and headcount reductions we made in the
second quarter of 2005 to our appraisal services business to bring costs in line with expected
levels of revenue. In addition, margins in 2005 were negatively affected by cost
inefficiencies associated
with one large contract.



The overall gross margin percentage rose mainly due to a revenue mix that included more software
license revenues, as well as lower costs as a result of the restructuring of our appraisal services
business in the second quarter of 2005. Software license revenue inherently has higher gross
margins than other revenues such as services and hardware.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

The following table sets forth a comparison of our SG&A expenses for the following years ended
December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Selling, general and
administrative expenses

$

48,389


%

$

43,821


%

$

4,568


%

In 2006 SG&A includes $2.0 million of non-cash share-based compensation expense as a result of
implementing SFAS No. 123R in January 2006. Partially offsetting these charges were lower
SG&A expenses relating to our appraisal services and appraisal and tax software businesses due
to the restructuring of those businesses in the second quarter of 2005.

Research and Development Expense

The following table sets forth a comparison of our research and development expense for the
following years ended December 31:

% of

% of

Change

($ in thousands)


revenues


revenues

$

%

Research and
development expense

$

3,322


%

$

2,421


%

$



%

Restructuring Charge

Because of unsatisfactory financial performance early in 2005, we made significant organizational
changes in the second quarter of 2005 to those areas of our business that were not performing to
our expectations. Our goal was to bring costs in line with expected levels of revenue while
improving the efficiency of our organizational structure to ensure that clients continue to receive
superior service.

We reorganized the appraisal services business to eliminate levels of management and reduce
overhead expense. We also took actions to reduce headcount and costs in our appraisal and tax
software division, and we consolidated certain senior management positions at the corporate office.
These cost reductions were made in the second quarter of 2005. As a result, we eliminated
approximately 120 positions, including management, staff and project-related personnel.

In connection with the reorganization, we incurred certain charges which were primarily comprised
of employee severance costs and related fringe benefits, and totaled approximately $1.3 million
before income taxes. The related payments were paid in 2005.

Other

Interest income is the main component of other income, which also includes non-usage and other fees
associated with a credit agreement we terminated in January 2007, gain on sale of certain assets,
gains and losses on risk management liabilities and assets associated with a foreign exchange
contract and miscellaneous other items. Interest income in 2006 was $1.4 million compared to
$900,000 in 2005.



Income Tax Provision

The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the following years
ended December 31:

Change

($ in thousands)



$

%

Income tax provision

$

8,493

$

5,432

$

3,061


%

Effective income tax rate

37.2

%

39.9

%

The effective rate for 2006 was lower than the prior year mainly due to changes in the Texas
franchise tax law and rates enacted in the second quarter of 2006, favorable state income tax
audit results and lower state income taxes as a result of a change in our corporate structure
implemented in early 2005. The decline in the effective tax rate for 2006 was offset somewhat
by non-deductible share-based compensation expense included in 2006 operating results.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY

The following table sets forth a summary of cash flows for the years ended December 31:

($ in thousands)




Cash flows provided by (used by):

Operating activities

$

34,111

$

26,804

$

21,187

Investing activities

(34,275

)

(24,326

)

1,820

Financing activities

(7,406

)

(5,999

)

(14,847

)

Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents

$

(7,570

)

$

(3,521

)

$

8,160

Historically, we have funded our operations and capital expenditures primarily with cash generated
from operating activities. As of December 31, 2007, our combined cash and cash equivalents
(including restricted cash equivalents) and short-term investments balance was $55.7 million
compared to $41.7 million at December 31, 2006. Cash and short-term investments increased
primarily due to continued strong operating performance and higher deferred revenue due to
additional maintenance customers and new contract signings.

Our short-term investments are comprised of auction rate municipal securities (“ARS”). ARS are
long-term variable rate bonds tied to short-term interest rates that are reset through a “Dutch
Auction” process that occurs every 28 to 35 days. We have the option to participate in the auction
and sell ARS to prospective buyers through a broker-dealer. We do not have the right to put the
security back to the issuer. Our investments in ARS all had AAA credit ratings at the time of
purchase and represent interests in collateralized debt obligations supported by municipal and
state agencies. ARS are considered highly liquid because of the auction process, which have
historically provided a liquid market for these securities. However, because the ARS have
long-term maturity dates, there is no guarantee that the holder will be able to liquidate its
holdings in the short term. As of February 22, 2008, our investment in ARS was $18.6 million
compared to $41.6 million at December 31, 2007. In 2008, the majority of the auctions we
participated in were successful and we expect that we will collect the principal associated with
these ARS. Based on the nature of the debt obligations and our ability to liquidate our ARS in
2008 we do not believe that any change in the liquidity of the ARS market will have a material
impact on our liquidity, cash flow or ability to fund operations.

At December 31, 2007, our days sales outstanding (“DSOs”) were 95 days compared to DSOs of 102 days
at December 31, 2006. DSOs are calculated based on accounts receivable (excluding long-term
receivables) divided by the quotient of annualized quarterly revenues divided by 360 days. The
decline in DSOs is primarily due to timing of billings.

Investing activities in 2007 include cash payments of $9.0 million for the acquisitions of EDP
Enterprises, Inc., Advanced Data Systems, Inc. and certain other software assets. Other investing
activities during 2007 were $22.1 million, net of sales, to purchase short-term investments and
$3.7 million in property and equipment. The property and equipment expenditures were related to
computer hardware and software and other asset additions to support internal growth. Investing
activities in 2006 include total cash
payments of $12.2 million and 325,000 shares of Tyler common stock for the acquisitions of
MazikUSA, Inc. and TACS, Inc. and certain maintenance and support agreements associated with one of
our financial solutions. Other investing activities during 2006



were capital expenditures of $4.3
million, including $4.1 million for computer hardware and purchased software for internal use,
including a new enterprise-wide customer relationship management system, and other asset additions
to support internal growth. In 2005 investing activities primarily consisted of investments in
software development and property and equipment.

Cash used in financing activities was primarily comprised of purchases of treasury shares, net of
proceeds from stock option exercises and contributions from our employee stock purchase plan.

During 2007, we purchased approximately 1.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate
purchase price of $16.2 million ($14.1 million in cash and $2.1 million in accrued liabilities at
December 31, 2007.) In 2006 we purchased approximately 1.0 million shares of our common stock for
an aggregate cash purchase price of $10.5 million and during 2005 we purchased approximately 2.5
million shares of our common stock for an aggregate cash purchase price of $17.7 million.

In 2007, we received $3.6 million from the exercise of options to purchase approximately 878,000
shares of our common stock under our employee stock option plan. During 2006 we issued 623,000
shares of common stock and received $2.9 million in aggregate proceeds, upon exercise of stock
options and during 2005 we issued 436,000 shares of common stock and received $1.8 million in
aggregate proceeds upon exercise of stock options. In 2007 we received $1.2 million from
contributions to the Tyler Technologies, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). In both 2006
and 2005, we received $1.0 million from contributions to the ESPP.

Subsequent to December 31, 2007 and through February 22, 2008 we purchased approximately 814,000
shares of our common stock for an aggregate cash purchase price of $10.5 million.

We maintain a $5.0 million Letter of Credit facility under which the bank issues cash
collateralized letters of credit. As of December 31, 2007 we had outstanding letters of credit
totaling $4.5 million to secure surety bonds required by some of our customer contracts.

In the first quarter of 2008 we acquired two companies for a combined cash purchase price (net of
cash acquired) of approximately $13.8 million and 126,000 shares of Tyler common stock. We have
not finalized the allocation of the purchase price of the acquired companies but expect this
allocation will result in non-cash charges that may have a slightly dilutive effect on earnings per
share in 2008.

Excluding acquisitions, we anticipate that 2008 capital spending will be between $4.5 million and
$5.5 million, the majority of which will be related to computer equipment and software for
infrastructure expansions. We currently do not expect to capitalize significant amounts
related to software development in 2008 but the actual amount and timing of those costs, and
whether they are capitalized or expensed may result in additional capitalized software
development. Capital spending in 2008 is expected to be funded from existing cash balances
and cash flows from operations.

From time to time we engage in discussions with potential acquisition candidates. In order to
pursue such opportunities, which could require significant commitments of capital, we may be
required to incur debt or to issue additional potentially dilutive securities in the future. No
assurance can be given as to our future acquisition opportunities and how such opportunities will
be financed. In the absence of future acquisitions of other businesses, we believe our current
cash balances and expected future cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our
anticipated cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures and other activities through the
next twelve months. If operating cash flows are not sufficient to meet our needs, we believe that
credit would be available to us.

We lease office facilities, as well as transportation, computer and other equipment used in our
operations under non-cancelable operating lease agreements expiring at various dates through 2013.
Most leases contain renewal options and some contain purchase options. Following are the future
obligations under non-cancelable leases at December 31, 2007 (in thousands):






Thereafter

Total

Future rental payments under operating leases

$

4,811

$

4,517

$

3,034

$

2,094

$

1,319

$


$

15,923

It is not our usual business practice to enter into off-balance sheet arrangements or to issue
guarantees to third parties. As of December 31, 2007 we have no material purchase commitments,
except for the operating lease commitments listed above.

CAPITALIZATION

At December 31, 2007, our capitalization consisted of $137.2 million of shareholders’ equity, with
no debt.



NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value
Measurements”. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and expands
disclosures about fair value measurements. We are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 157
beginning January 1, 2008. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 is not expected to have a material impact
on our consolidated financial statements or related disclosures.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

Market risk represents the risk of loss that may affect us due to adverse changes in financial
market prices and interest rates. As of December 31, 2007, we had funds invested in auction rate
municipal securities, which we accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.” These investments were treated as
available-for-sale under SFAS No. 115.  The carrying value of these investments approximates fair
market value. Due to the nature of these investments, we are not subject to significant market
rate risk.

We have no outstanding debt at December 31, 2007, and we therefore are not subject to any interest
rate risk.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

The reports of our independent registered public accounting firm and our consolidated financial
statements, related notes, and supplementary data are included as part of this Annual Report
beginning on page F-1.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.



ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

— Our chief executive officer and our chief
financial officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)) as of December 31,
2007. Based on such evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have
concluded that as of December 31, 2007 such disclosure controls and procedures were effective and
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file or submit
under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time
periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and include controls
and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in such reports
is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the chief executive officer and chief
financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

— During the quarter ended December 31, 2007, there were
no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting, as defined in Securities Exchange Act
Rule 13a-15(f), that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

— Tyler’s management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting as
defined in Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Tyler’s internal control over financial
reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance to Tyler’s management and board of directors
regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only
reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.

Management assessed the effectiveness of Tyler’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2007. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in

Internal Control –
Integrated Framework

. Based on our assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2007, Tyler’s
internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.

Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2007 has been audited by Ernst & Young, LLP, the independent registered public
accounting firm who also audited Tyler’s consolidated financial statements. Ernst & Young’s
attestation report on management’s assessment of Tyler’s internal control over financial reporting
appears on page F-2 hereof.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

None.



PART III

See the information under the following captions in Tyler’s definitive Proxy Statement, which is
incorporated herein by reference. Only those sections of the Proxy Statement that specifically
address the items set forth herein are incorporated by reference. Such incorporation by reference
does not include the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the Compensation Committee Report or the
Audit Committee Report which are included in the Proxy Statement.

Headings in Proxy Statement

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.

“Tyler Management” and “Corporate
Governance Principles and Board
Matters”

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

“Executive Compensation”

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

“Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management”

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.

“Executive Compensation “ and
“Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions”

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.

The information required under this item may be found under the section captioned “Proposals For
Consideration – Proposal Three – Ratification of Ernst & Young LLP as Our Independent Auditors for
Fiscal Year 2008” in our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS

The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report:

Page

(a) (1) The consolidated financial statements are filed as part of this
Annual Report.

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-1

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005

F-3

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005

F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005

F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-7

(2) Financial statement schedules:

There are no financial statement schedules filed as part of this
Annual Report, since the required information is included in the
consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, or
the circumstances requiring inclusion of such schedules are not
present.

(3) Exhibits

Certain of the exhibits to this Annual Report are hereby
incorporated by reference, as specified:

Exhibit

Number

Description

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Tyler Three, as
amended through May 14, 1990, and Certificate of
Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 1990, and incorporated by reference
herein).

3.2

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our Form 8-K, dated
February 19, 1998, and incorporated by reference herein).

3.3

Amended and Restated By-Laws of Tyler Corporation, dated
November 4, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 3.3 to our Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 1997, and incorporated by
reference herein).



Exhibit

Number

Description

3.4

Certificate of Amendment dated May 19, 1999 to the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation (filed as Exhibit 3.4 to our
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, and
incorporated by reference herein).

4.1

Specimen of Common Stock Certificate (filed as Exhibit 4.1
to our registration statement no. 33-33505 and incorporated
by reference herein).

10.1

Form of Indemnification Agreement for directors and
officers (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2002 and incorporated by reference
herein).

10.2

Stock Option Plan amended and restated as of May 12, 2000
(filed as Exhibit 4.1 to our registration statement
no. 333-98929 and incorporated by reference herein).

*10.3

Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Warrant to purchase
1,000,000 shares of common stock of Tyler Technologies,
Inc. between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Bank of America,
N.A., dated February 20, 2004, but effective as of
September 10, 1997.

*10.4

Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Warrant to purchase
603,766 shares of common stock of Tyler Technologies, Inc.
between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Bank of America, N.A.,
dated February 20, 2004, but effective as of September 10,
1997.

*10.5

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and John S. Marr Jr. dated February 26,
2008.

*10.6

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and Dustin R. Womble dated February 26,
2008.

*10.7

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and Brian K. Miller, dated February 26,
2008.

*10.8

Employment and Non-Competition Agreement between Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and H. Lynn Moore dated February 26,
2008.

10.9

Employee Stock Purchase Plan (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to our
registration statement 333-116406 dated June 10, 2004 and
incorporated by reference herein).

*23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm



Exhibit

Number

Description

*31.1

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Principal Executive Officer.

*31.2

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Principal Financial Officer.

*32

Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer
and Principal Financial Officer.

*

— Filed herewith.

A copy of each exhibit may be obtained at a price of 15 cents per page, $10.00, minimum order, by
writing Investor Relations, 5949 Sherry Lane, Suite 1400, Dallas, Texas, 75225.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.





REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Tyler Technologies, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Tyler Technologies, Inc. as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Tyler Technologies, Inc. at December 31, 2007 and
2006, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.

As discussed in Note 1 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company changed
its method of accounting for share-based compensation effective January 1, 2006.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), Tyler Technologies, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February
22, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas

February 22, 2008

F-1


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Tyler Technologies, Inc.

We have audited Tyler Technologies, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Tyler
Technologies, Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting is included in the accompanying “Managements’ Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting.” Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk,
and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Tyler Technologies, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Tyler Technologies, Inc. as of December
31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’ equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007 and our report dated
February 22, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas

February 22, 2008

F-2


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Operations

For the years ended December 31

In thousands, except per share amounts




Revenues:

Software licenses

$

35,063

$

37,247

$

29,418

Subscriptions

10,406

7,298

5,852

Software services

60,283

50,861

46,233

Maintenance

85,411

73,413

64,728

Appraisal services

21,318

19,755

18,374

Hardware and other

7,315

6,729

5,852

Total revenues

219,796

195,303

170,457

Cost of revenues:

Software licenses

7,953

9,968

9,087

Acquired software

2,279

1,360


Software services, maintenance and subscriptions

104,993

90,601

80,614

Appraisal services

14,467

13,563

14,188

Hardware and other

5,679

5,007

4,287

Total cost of revenues

135,371

120,499

108,970

Gross profit

84,425

74,804

61,487

Selling, general and administrative expenses

51,724

48,389

43,821

Research and development expense

4,443

3,322

2,421

Restructuring charge

—

—

1,260

Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles

1,478

1,318

1,266

Operating income

26,780

21,775

12,719

Other income, net

1,800

1,080


Income before income taxes

28,580

22,855

13,625

Income tax provision

11,079

8,493

5,432

Net income

$

17,501

$

14,362

$

8,193

Earnings per common share:

Basic

$

0.45

$

0.37

$

0.21

Diluted

$

0.42

$

0.34

$

0.19

Basic weighted average common shares outstanding

38,735

38,817

39,439

Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding

41,352

41,868

42,075

See accompanying notes.

F-3


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

December 31

In thousands, except share and per share amounts



ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

9,642

$

17,212

Restricted cash equivalents

4,462

4,962

Short-term investments available-for-sale

41,590

19,543

Accounts receivable (less allowance for losses of $1,851 in 2007
and $2,971 in 2006)

63,965

58,188

Prepaid expenses

7,726

6,864

Other current assets

1,324

2,326

Deferred income taxes

2,355

2,579

Total current assets

131,064

111,674

Accounts receivable, long-term portion


1,675

Property and equipment, net

9,826

7,390

Other assets:

Goodwill

71,677

66,127

Customer related intangibles, net

17,706

17,502

Software, net

9,588

14,554

Trade name, net

1,074

1,188

Sundry



$

241,508

$

220,276

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

3,323

$

5,063

Accrued liabilities

18,905

17,735

Deferred revenue

73,714

62,387

Income taxes payable


—

Total current liabilities

96,574

85,185

Deferred income taxes

7,723

9,216

Commitments and contingencies

Shareholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, $10.00 par value; 1,000,000 shares authorized,
none issued

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; 100,000,000 shares authorized;
48,147,969 shares issued in 2007 and 2006



Additional paid-in capital

149,568

151,627

Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax

—

(10

)

Retained earnings

35,632

18,131

Treasury stock, at cost; 9,528,467 and 9,255,783 shares in 2007
and 2006, respectively

(48,470

)

(44,354

)

Total shareholders’ equity

137,211

125,875

$

241,508

$

220,276

See accompanying notes.

F-4


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity

For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005

In thousands

Accumulated

Additional

Other

Retained

Total

Common Stock

Paid-in

Comprehensive

Earnings

Treasury Stock

Shareholders'

Shares

Amount

Capital

Income (Loss)

(Deficit)

Shares

Amount

Equity

Balance at December 31, 2004

48,148

$


$

152,870

$

—

$

(4,424

)

(7,423

)

$

(30,527

)

$

118,400

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

8,193

—

—

8,193

Unrealized loss on investment
securities, net of tax

—

—

—

(8

)

—

—

—

(8

)

Reclassification adjustment,
net of income taxes of $5

—

—

—


—

—

—


Total comprehensive income

8,193

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plan

—

—

(1,570

)

—

—


3,370

1,800

Stock compensation

—

—


—

—

—

—


Treasury stock purchases

—

—

—

—

—

(2,457

)

(17,683

)

(17,683

)

Issuance of shares pursuant to
Employee Stock Purchase Plan

—

—

(116

)

—

—


1,272

1,156

Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—


—

—

—

—


Balance at December 31, 2005

48,148


151,515

—

3,769

(9,273

)

(43,568

)

112,197

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

14,362

—

—

14,362

Unrealized loss on investment
securities, net of tax

—

—

—

(10

)

—

—

—

(10

)

Total comprehensive income

14,352

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plan

—

—

(3,158

)

—

—


6,074

2,916

Stock compensation

—

—

1,960

—

—

—

—

1,960

Treasury stock purchases

—

—

—

—

—

(1,033

)

(10,531

)

(10,531

)

Issuance of shares pursuant to
Employee Stock Purchase Plan

—

—


—

—




Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—

1,150

—

—

—

—

1,150

Issuance of
shares for acquisitions

—

—


—

—


2,753

2,891

Balance at December 31, 2006

48,148


151,627

(10

)

18,131

(9,256

)

(44,354

)

125,875

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

17,501

—

—

17,501

Unrealized gain on investment
securities, net of tax

—

—

—


—

—

—


Total comprehensive income

17,511

Issuance of shares pursuant
to stock compensation plan

—

—

(7,339

)

—

—


10,928

3,589

Stock compensation

—

—

2,365

—

—

—

—

2,365

Treasury stock purchases

—

—

—

—

—

(1,250

)

(16,163

)

(16,163

)

Issuance of shares pursuant to
Employee Stock Purchase Plan

—

—

(2

)

—

—


1,119

1,117

Federal income tax benefit related
to exercise of stock options

—

—

2,917

—

—

—

—

2,917

Balance at December 31, 2007

48,148

$


$

149,568

$

—

$

35,632

(9,528

)

$

(48,470

)

$

137,211

See accompanying notes.

F-5


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

For the years ended December 31

In thousands




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

17,501

$

14,362

$

8,193

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

11,211

10,102

10,443

Share-based compensation expense

2,365

1,960

—

Purchased in-process research and development charge

—


—

Non-cash interest and other charges

—


(73

)

Provision for losses — accounts receivable


2,077

1,641

Deferred income tax benefit

(1,598

)

(2,520

)

(2,200

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, exclusive of
effects of acquired companies:

Accounts receivable

(1,575

)

(10,400

)

(7,031

)

Income tax payable

2,028

(78

)

(421

)

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

(304

)

(1,496

)

(2,117

)

Accounts payable

(1,955

)

1,626


Accrued liabilities

(1,619

)


2,428

Deferred revenue

7,304

9,839

9,763

Net cash provided by operating activities

34,111

26,804

21,187

Cash flows from investing activities:

Purchases of short-term investments

(67,545

)

(26,825

)

(16,882

)

Proceeds from sales of short-term investments

45,480

19,016

18,964

Cost of acquisitions, net of cash acquired

(9,005

)

(12,237

)

—

Decrease in restricted investments



2,500

Investment in software development costs

(167

)

(236

)

(1,002

)

Additions to property and equipment

(3,678

)

(4,088

)

(1,734

)

Other



(26

)

Net cash (used by) provided by investing activities

(34,275

)

(24,326

)

1,820

Cash flows from financing activities:

Purchase of treasury shares

(14,037

)

(10,531

)

(17,683

)

Contributions from employee stock purchase plan

1,151

1,002

1,036

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

3,589

2,916

1,800

Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation expense

1,891


—

Net cash used by financing activities

(7,406

)

(5,999

)

(14,847

)

Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents

(7,570

)

(3,521

)

8,160

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

17,212

20,733

12,573

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

9,642

$

17,212

$

20,733

See accompanying notes.

F-6


Tyler Technologies, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Tables in thousands, except per share data)

(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

We provide integrated software systems and related services for local governments. We develop and
market a broad line of software solutions and services to address the information technology (“IT”)
needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. In addition, we provide
professional IT services, including software and hardware installation, data conversion, training,
and for certain customers, product modifications, along with continuing maintenance and support for
customers using our systems. We also provide subscription-based services such as application
service provider arrangements and other hosting services as well as property appraisal outsourcing
services for taxing jurisdictions.

Tyler’s business is subject to risks and uncertainties including dependence on IT spending by
customers, fluctuations of quarterly results, a lengthy and variable sales cycle, dependence on key
personnel, dependence on principal products and third-party technology and rapid technological
change. In addition, our products are complex and we run the risk of errors or defects with new
product introductions or enhancements.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

In 2005, we merged all of our subsidiaries into the parent company.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash in excess of that necessary for operating requirements is invested in short-term, highly
liquid, income-producing investments. Investments with original maturities of three months or less
are classified as cash and cash equivalents, which primarily consist of money market funds. Cash
and cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates market value.

SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

Short-term investments mainly consist of auction rate municipal securities with auction reset
periods that occur every 28 to 35 days. These investments are classified as available-for-sale
securities and are stated at fair value. Investments which are classified as available-for-sale
are recorded at fair value as determined by quoted market price and unrealized holding gains and
losses, net of the related tax effect, if any, are not reflected in earnings but are reported as a
separate component of other comprehensive income until realized. Interest and dividends earned on
these securities are reinvested in the securities. The cost basis of securities sold is determined
using the average cost method. At each reset period, we account for the transactions as “Proceeds
from sales of short-term investments” for the security relinquished, and a “Purchase of short-term
investments” for the security purchased, in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Following is a summary of short-term investments:

Unrealized

Unrealized

Estimated

December 31, 2007

Cost

Gains

Losses

Fair Value

Auction rate municipal securities

$

41,590

$

—

$

—

$

41,590

Unrealized

Unrealized

Estimated

December 31, 2006

Cost

Gains

Losses

Fair Value

Auction rate municipal securities

$

14,875

$

—

$

—

$

14,875

State and
municipal bonds

4,684

—

(16

)

4,668

$

19,559

$

—

$

(16

)

$

19,543

We maintain a $5.0 million Letter of Credit facility under which the bank issues cash
collateralized letters of credit. As of December 31, 2007 approximately $4.5 million of our cash
equivalents are restricted and designated as collateral for our letters of credit issued in
connection with our surety bond program. These letters of credit expire through mid 2008.

F-7


REVENUE RECOGNITION

Software Arrangements:

We earn revenue from software licenses, subscriptions, software related services, post-contract
customer support (“PCS” or “maintenance”), and hardware. PCS includes telephone support, bug
fixes, and rights to upgrades on a when-and-if available basis. We provide services that range
from installation, training, and basic consulting to software modification and customization to
meet specific customer needs. In software arrangements that include rights to multiple software
products, specified upgrades, PCS, and/or other services, we allocate the total arrangement fee
among each deliverable based on the relative fair value of each.

We typically enter into multiple element arrangements, which include software licenses, software
services, PCS and occasionally hardware. The majority of our software arrangements are multiple
element arrangements, but for those arrangements that involve significant production, modification
or customization of the software, or where software services are otherwise considered essential to
the functionality of the software in the customer’s environment, we use contract accounting and
apply the provisions of Statement of Position (“SOP”) 81-1 “Accounting for Performance of
Construction — Type and Certain Production — Type Contracts.”

If the arrangement does not require significant production, modification or customization or where
the software services are not considered essential to the functionality of the software, revenue is
recognized when all of the following conditions are met:

i.

persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists;

ii.

delivery has occurred;

iii.

our fee is fixed or determinable; and

iv.

collectibility is probable.

For multiple element arrangements, each element of the arrangement is analyzed and we allocate a
portion of the total arrangement fee to the elements based on the fair value of the element using
vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (“VSOE”), regardless of any separate prices stated
within the contract for each element. Fair value is considered the price a customer would be
required to pay if the element was sold separately based on our historical experience of
stand-alone sales of these elements to third parties. For PCS, we use renewal rates for continued
support arrangements to determine fair value. For software services, we use the fair value we
charge our customers when those services are sold separately. We monitor our transactions to
insure we maintain and periodically revise VSOE to reflect fair value. In software arrangements
in which we have the fair value of all undelivered elements but not of a delivered element, we
apply the “residual method” as allowed under SOP 98-9 in accounting for any element of a multiple
element arrangement involving software that remains undelivered such that any discount inherent in
a contract is allocated to the delivered element. Under the residual method, if the fair value of
all undelivered elements is determinable, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred
and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered element(s) and is
recognized as revenue assuming the other revenue recognition criteria are met. In software
arrangements in which we do not have VSOE for all undelivered elements, revenue is deferred until
fair value is determined or all elements for which we do not have VSOE have been delivered.
Alternatively, if sufficient VSOE does not exist and the only undelivered element is services that
do not involve significant modification or customization of the software, the entire fee is
recognized over the period during which the services are expected to be performed.

Software Licenses

We recognize the revenue allocable to software licenses and specified upgrades upon delivery of the
software product or upgrade to the customer, unless the fee is not fixed or determinable or
collectibility is not probable. If the fee is not fixed or determinable, including new customers
whose payment terms are three months or more from shipment, revenue is generally recognized as
payments become due from the customer. If collectibility is not considered probable, revenue is
recognized when the fee is collected. Arrangements that include software services, such as
training or installation, are evaluated to determine whether those services are essential to the
product’s functionality.

A majority of our software arrangements involve “off-the-shelf” software. We consider software to
be off-the-shelf software if it can be added to an arrangement with minor changes in the underlying
code and it can be used by the customer for the customer’s purpose
upon installation. For off-the-shelf software arrangements, we recognize the software license fee
as revenue after delivery has occurred, customer acceptance is reasonably assured, that portion of
the fee represents a non-refundable enforceable claim and is probable of collection, and the
remaining services such as training are not considered essential to the product’s functionality.

F-8


For arrangements that involve significant production, modification or customization of the
software, or where software services are otherwise considered essential, we recognize revenue using
contract accounting. We generally use the percentage-of-completion method to recognize revenue
from these arrangements. We measure progress-to-completion primarily using labor hours incurred,
or value added. The percentage-of-completion method generally results in the recognition of
reasonably consistent profit margins over the life of a contract because we have the ability to
produce reasonably dependable estimates of contract billings and contract costs. We use the level
of profit margin that is most likely to occur on a contract. If the most likely profit margin
cannot be precisely determined, the lowest probable level of profit in the range of estimates is
used until the results can be estimated more precisely. These arrangements are often implemented
over an extended time period and occasionally require us to revise total cost estimates. Amounts
recognized in revenue are calculated using the progress-to-completion measurement after giving
effect to any changes in our cost estimates. Changes to total estimated contract costs, if any,
are recorded in the period they are determined. Estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are
recorded in the period in which we first determine that a loss is apparent.

For arrangements that include new product releases for which it is difficult to estimate final
profitability except to assume that no loss will ultimately be incurred, we recognize revenue under
the completed contract method. Under the completed contract method, revenue is recognized only
when a contract is completed or substantially complete. Historically these amounts have been
immaterial.

Subscription-Based Services

Subscription-based services primarily consists of revenues derived from application service
provider (“ASP”) arrangements and other hosted service offerings, software subscriptions and
disaster recovery services.

We recognize revenue for ASP and other hosting services, software subscriptions and disaster
recovery ratably over the period of the applicable agreement as services are provided. Disaster
recovery agreements and other hosting services are typically renewable annually. ASP and software
subscriptions are typically for periods of three to six years and automatically renew unless either
party cancels the agreement. The majority of the ASP and other hosting services and software
subscriptions also include professional services as well as maintenance and support. In certain
ASP arrangements, the customer also acquires a license to the software.

For ASP and other hosting arrangements, we evaluate whether each of the elements in these
arrangements represents a separate unit of accounting, as defined by Emerging Issues Task Force
(“EITF”) 00-21, using all applicable facts and circumstances, including whether (i) we sell or
could readily sell the element unaccompanied by the other elements, (ii) the element has
stand-alone value to the customer, (iii) there is objective reliable evidence of the fair value of
the undelivered item, and (iv) there is a general right of return. We consider the applicability
of EITF No. 00-03, “Application of SOP 97-2 to Arrangements That Include the Right to Use Software
Stored on Another Entity’s Hardware” on a contract-by-contract basis. In hosted term-based
agreements, where the customer does not have the contractual right to take possession of the
software, hosting fees are recognized on a monthly basis over the term of the contract commencing
when the customer has access to the software. For professional services associated with hosting
arrangements that we determine do not have stand-alone value to the customer, we recognize the
services revenue ratably over the remaining contractual period once hosting has gone live and we
may begin billing for the hosting services. We record amounts that have been invoiced in accounts
receivable and in deferred revenue or revenues, depending on whether the revenue recognition
criteria have been met.

If we determine that the customer has the contractual right to take possession of our software at
any time during the hosting period without significant penalty, and can feasibly maintain the
software on the customer’s hardware or enter into another arrangement with a third party to host
the software, we recognize the license, professional services and hosting services revenues
pursuant to SOP 97-2.

Software Services

Some of our software arrangements include services considered essential for the customer to use the
software for the customer’s purposes. For these software arrangements, both the software license
revenue and the services revenue are recognized as the services are performed using the
percentage-of-completion contract accounting method. When software services are not considered
essential, the fee allocable to the service element is recognized as revenue as we perform the
services.

Computer Hardware Equipment

Revenue allocable to computer hardware equipment, which is based on VSOE, is recognized when we
deliver the equipment and collection is probable.

F-9


Postcontract Customer Support

Our customers generally enter into PCS agreements when they purchase our software licenses. Our
PCS agreements are typically renewable annually. Revenue allocated to PCS is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the period the PCS is provided. All significant costs and expenses
associated with PCS are expensed as incurred. Fair value for the maintenance and support
obligations for software licenses is based upon the specific sale renewals to customers.

Appraisal Services:

For our property appraisal projects, we recognize revenue using the proportionate performance
method of revenue recognition since many of these projects are implemented over one to three year
periods and consist of various unique activities. Under this method of revenue recognition, we
identify each activity for the appraisal project, with a typical project generally calling for
bonding, office set up, training, routing of map information, data entry, data collection, data
verification, informal hearings, appeals and project management. Each activity or act is
specifically identified and assigned an estimated cost. Costs which are considered to be
associated with indirect activities, such as bonding costs and office set up, are expensed as
incurred. These costs are typically billed as incurred and are recognized as revenue equal to
cost. Direct contract fulfillment activities and related supervisory costs such as data
collection, data entry and verification are expensed as incurred. The direct costs for these
activities are determined and the total contract value is then allocated to each activity based on
a consistent profit margin. Each activity is assigned a consistent unit of measure to determine
progress towards completion and revenue is recognized for each activity based upon the percentage
complete as applied to the estimated revenue for that activity. Progress for the fulfillment
activities is typically based on labor hours or an output measure such as the number of parcel
counts completed for that activity. Estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the
period in which we first determine that a loss is apparent.

Other:

The majority of deferred revenue consists of unearned support and maintenance revenue that has been
billed based on contractual terms in the underlying arrangement with the remaining balance
consisting of payments received in advance of revenue being earned under software licensing,
subscription-based services, software and appraisal services and hardware installation. Unbilled
revenue is not billable at the balance sheet date but is recoverable over the remaining life of the
contract through billings made in accordance with contractual agreements. The termination clauses
in most of our contracts provide for the payment for the fair value of products delivered and
services performed in the event of an early termination.

Prepaid expenses and other current assets include direct and incremental costs, consisting
primarily of commissions associated with arrangements for which revenue recognition has been
deferred and third party subcontractor payments. Such costs are expensed at the time the related
revenue is recognized.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions
include the application of the percentage-of-completion and proportionate performance methods of
revenue recognition, the carrying amount and estimated useful lives of intangible assets,
determination of share-based compensation expense and valuation allowance for receivables. Actual
results could differ from estimates.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET

Property, equipment and purchased software are recorded at original cost and increased by the cost
of any significant improvements after purchase. We expense maintenance and repairs when incurred.
Depreciation and amortization is calculated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the
asset’s estimated useful life or the term of the lease in the case of leasehold improvements. For
income tax purposes, we use accelerated depreciation methods as allowed by tax laws.

F-10


RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS

We expensed research and development costs of $4.4 million during 2007, $3.3 million during 2006
and $2.4 million during 2005.

In 2007, we reduced our research and development expense by $1.6 million, which was the amount
earned under the terms of our strategic alliance with a development partner.

INCOME TAXES

Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred taxes arise because
of different treatment between financial statement accounting and tax accounting, known as
“temporary differences.” We record the tax effect of these temporary differences as “deferred tax
assets” (generally items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the future periods) and
“deferred tax liabilities” (generally items that we received a tax deduction for, which have not
yet been recorded in the income statement). The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured
using enacted tax rules and laws that are expected to be in effect when the temporary differences
are expected to be recovered or settled. A valuation allowance would be established to reduce
deferred tax assets if it is likely that a deferred tax asset will not be realized.

STOCK COMPENSATION

Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for stock options using the intrinsic value method under
Accounting Principles Board Opinion (“APB”) No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” and
related interpretations, as permitted by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No.
123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation”, under which no compensation expense was recognized
for stock option grants. Accordingly, share-based compensation related to our stock options for
periods prior to 2006 are included as a pro forma disclosure in the financial statement footnotes.

Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123R,
“Share-Based Payment” using the modified-prospective method. Under this transition method,
compensation cost recognized in 2007 and 2006 includes the applicable amounts of: (a) compensation
cost of all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, January 1, 2006 (based
on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123,
and previously presented in the pro forma footnote disclosures), and (b) compensation cost for all
share-based payments granted subsequent to January 1, 2006 (based on the grant-date fair value
estimated in accordance with the new provisions of SFAS No. 123R). Results for prior periods have
not been restated.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we presented all tax benefits of deductions resulting from
the exercise of options as operating cash flows in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. SFAS
No. 123R requires the cash flows resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost
recognized for those options (excess tax benefits) to be classified as financing cash flows.

See Note 8 — Share-Based Compensation for further information.

SEGMENT AND RELATED INFORMATION

Although we have a number of operating divisions, separate segment data has not been presented as
they meet the criteria for aggregation as permitted by SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures About Segments of
an Enterprise and Related Information.”

F-11


GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

We have used the purchase method of accounting for all of our business combinations. Our business
acquisitions result in the allocation of the purchase price to goodwill and other intangible
assets. We first allocate the cost of acquired companies to identifiable assets based on estimated
fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired,
net of liabilities assumed, is recorded as goodwill.

Under SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” we evaluate goodwill for impairment
annually as of April, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. An impairment loss is
recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the asset’s fair value. In the
implementation of SFAS No. 142, we identified two reporting units for impairment testing. The
appraisal services and appraisal software stand-alone business unit qualified as a reporting unit
since it is one level below an operating segment, discrete financial information exists for the
business unit and the executive management group directly reviews this business unit. The other
software business units were aggregated into the other single reporting unit. The appraisal
services and appraisal software stand-alone business unit is organized in such a manner that both
of its revenue sources are tightly integrated with each other and discrete financial information at
the operating profit level does not exist for this business unit’s respective revenue sources.
There have been no significant impairments of goodwill or other intangibles.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

We periodically evaluate whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of
our property and equipment or other long-lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable.
If such circumstances are determined to exist, we measure the recoverability of assets to be held
and used by a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset or appropriate grouping of assets and
the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. If the
carrying amount of the assets exceeds their estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is
recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the
assets. Assets to be disposed of would be separately presented in the balance sheet and reported at
the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated.
The assets and liabilities of a disposed group classified as held for sale would be presented
separately in the appropriate asset and liability sections of the balance sheet. There have been
no significant impairments of long-lived assets.

COSTS OF COMPUTER SOFTWARE

Software development costs have been accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 86, “Accounting for
the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed.” Under SFAS No. 86,
capitalization of software development costs begins upon the establishment of technological
feasibility and prior to the availability of the product for general release to customers. We
capitalized software development costs of approximately $167,000 during 2007, $236,000 during 2006,
and $1.0 million during 2005. Software development costs primarily consist of personnel costs and
rent for related office space. We begin to amortize capitalized costs when a product is available
for general release to customers. Amortization expense is determined on a product-by-product basis
at a rate not less than straight-line basis over the product’s remaining estimated economic life,
but not to exceed five years. Amortization of software development costs was approximately $4.6
million in 2007, $5.1 million in 2006, and $5.9 million in 2005 and is included in cost of software
license revenue in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivables, accounts payables, deferred revenues and certain
other assets at cost approximate fair value because of the short maturity of these instruments. Our
available-for-sale investments are recorded at fair value based on quoted market prices.

CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK AND UNBILLED RECEIVABLES

Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the size and
geographical diversity of our customer base. Historically, our credit losses have not been
significant. As a result, we do not believe we have any significant concentrations of credit risk
as of December 31, 2007.

F-12


We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts and sales adjustments, which are provided at the time
the revenue is recognized. Since most of our customers are domestic governmental entities, we
rarely incur a loss resulting from the inability of a customer to make required payments. Events
or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount for the allowances for doubtful
accounts and sales adjustments may require revision, include, but are not limited to, deterioration
of a customer’s financial condition, failure to manage our customer’s expectations regarding the
scope of the services to be delivered, and defects or errors in new versions or enhancements of our
software products. The following table summarizes the changes in the allowances for doubtful
accounts and sales adjustments:

Years ended December 31,




Balance at beginning of year

$

2,971

$

1,991

$


Provisions for losses — accounts receivable


2,077

1,641

Collection of accounts previously written off

—


—

Deductions for accounts charged off or credits issued

(1,873

)

(1,108

)

(636

)

Balance at end of year

$

1,851

$

2,971

$

1,991

The termination clauses in most of our contracts provide for the payment for the fair value of
products delivered or services performed in the event of early termination. Our property appraisal
outsourcing service contracts can range up to three years and, in one case, as long as six years in
duration. In connection with these contracts, as well as certain software service contracts, we
may perform work prior to when the software and services are billable and/or payable pursuant to
the contract. We have historically recorded such unbilled receivables (costs and estimated profit
in excess of billings) in connection with (1) property appraisal services contracts accounted for
using proportionate performance accounting in which the revenue is earned based upon activities
performed in one accounting period but the billing normally occurs shortly thereafter and may span
another accounting period; (2) software services contracts accounted for using the
percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition using labor hours as a measure of progress
towards completion in which the services are performed in one accounting period but the billing for
the software element of the arrangement may be based upon the specific phase of the implementation;
(3) software revenue for which we have objective evidence that the customer-specified objective
criteria has been met but the billing has not yet been submitted to the customer; and (4) in a
limited number of cases, we may grant extended payment terms generally to existing customers with
whom we have a long-term relationship and favorable collection history. In addition, certain of
our property appraisal outsourcing contracts are required by law to have an amount withheld from a
progress billing (generally a 10% retention) until final and satisfactory project completion is
achieved, typically upon the completion of fieldwork or formal hearings.

In connection with this activity, we have recorded unbilled receivables of $11.2 million and $10.1
million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We also have recorded retention receivable of
$3.9 million and $3.8 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and these retentions
become payable upon the completion of the contract or completion of our field work and formal
hearings. Unbilled receivables and retention receivables expected to be collected in excess of one
year have been classified as accounts receivable, long-term portion in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets.

INDEMNIFICATION

Most of our software license agreements indemnify our customers in the event that the software sold
infringes upon the intellectual property rights of a third party. These agreements typically
provide that in such event we will either modify or replace the software so that it becomes
non-infringing or procure for the customer the right to use the software. We have recorded no
liability associated with these indemnifications, as we are not aware of any pending or threatened
infringement actions that are possible losses. We believe the estimated fair value of these
intellectual property indemnification clauses is minimal.

We have also agreed to indemnify our officers and board members if they are named or threatened to
be named as a party to any proceeding by reason of the fact that they acted in such capacity. A
form of the indemnification agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002. We maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance coverage to protect against
any such losses. We have recorded no liability associated with these indemnifications. Because of
our insurance coverage, we believe the estimated fair value of these indemnification agreements is
minimal.

F-13


NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued statement SFAS No. 157, “Fair
Value Measurements”. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair
value in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and expands
disclosures about fair value measurements. We are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 157
beginning January 1, 2008. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 is not expected to have a material impact
on our consolidated financial statements or related disclosures.

RECLASSIFICATIONS

Certain amounts for previous years have been reclassified to conform to the current year
presentation.

(2) ACQUISITIONS

In September 2007, we completed the acquisition of all the capital stock of EDP Enterprises, Inc.
(“EDP”), which develops and sells financial and student information and management systems for
public school districts in Texas. In February 2007, we completed the acquisition of all of the
capital stock of Advanced Data Systems, Inc. (“ADS”), which develops and sells fund accounting
solutions, primarily in New England.

The combined purchase price, including transaction costs along with an office building used in
ADS’s business and excluding cash balances acquired, for these acquisitions as well as
miscellaneous other software asset purchases was $9.0 million.

We believe these acquisitions will complement our business model by broadening our customer base
and will give us additional opportunities to provide our customers with solutions tailored
specifically for the public sector.

In connection with these transactions, we acquired total assets of approximately $5.3 million and
assumed total liabilities of approximately $5.2 million. We recorded goodwill of $5.6 million, of
which $2.4 million is expected to be deductible for tax purposes, and other intangible assets of
$3.3 million. The $3.3 million of intangible assets is attributable to acquired software and
customer relationships that will be amortized over a weighted average period of approximately 6
years. Our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2007 reflects the allocation of the
purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values
at the dates of acquisition. The operating results of these acquisitions are included in our
results of operations since their respective dates of acquisition.

In January 2006, we completed the acquisitions of all of the capital stock of MazikUSA, Inc.
(“Mazik”) and TACS, Inc. (“TACS”). The total value of these transactions, including transaction
costs, was approximately $14.6 million, which was comprised of $11.7 million in cash and 325,000
shares of Tyler common stock valued at $2.9 million. Mazik provides an integrated software
solution for schools that combines the functionalities of student performance monitoring, student
tracking, financial accounting, human resources and reporting. TACS provides pension and
retirement software solutions that assist public and private pension institutions in increasing
operational efficiency and accuracy.

In September 2006, we also purchased certain maintenance and support agreements associated with one
of our financial software products for approximately $580,000.

F-14


(3) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET

Property and equipment, net consists of the following at December 31:

Useful

Lives

(years)



Land

—

$


$


Computer equipment and purchased software

3-5

18,502

15,240

Furniture and fixtures


4,625

4,452

Building and leasehold improvements

5-35

4,099

2,426

Transportation equipment




27,684

22,592

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(17,858

)

(15,202

)

Property and equipment, net

$

9,826

$

7,390

Depreciation expense was $2.8 million during 2007, $2.4 million during 2006, and $2.5 million
during 2005.

(4) GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets and related accumulated amortization consists of the following at December 31:



Gross carrying amount of acquisition intangibles:

Goodwill

$

71,677

$

66,127

Customer related intangibles

26,858

25,291

Software acquired

20,093

19,113

Trade name

1,681

1,681

120,309

112,212

Accumulated amortization

(26,450

)

(23,449

)

Acquisition intangibles, net

$

93,859

$

88,763

Post acquisition software development costs

$

36,701

$

36,715

Accumulated amortization

(30,515

)

(26,107

)

Post acquisition software costs, net

$

6,186

$

10,608

Total amortization expense for acquisition related intangibles and post acquisition software
development costs was $8.4 million during 2007, $7.7 million during 2006, and $8.0 million during
2005.

F-15


The allocation of acquisition intangible assets is summarized in the following table:

December 31, 2007

December 31, 2006

Weighted

Weighted

Gross

Average

Gross

Average

Carrying

Amortization

Accumulated

Carrying

Amortization

Accumulated

Amount

Period

Amortization

Amount

Period

Amortization

Non-amortizable intangibles:

Goodwill

$

71,677

—

$

—

$

66,127

—

$

—

Amortizable intangibles:

Customer related
intangibles

26,858

21 years

9,152

25,291

21 years

7,789

Software acquired

20,093

5 years

16,691

19,113

5 years

15,167

Trade name

1,681

21 years


1,681

21 years


The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the two years ended December 31, 2007 are as
follows:

Balance as of December 31, 2005

$

53,709

Goodwill acquired during the year related to the purchase of Mazik

10,198

Goodwill acquired during the year related to the purchase of TACS

2,220

Balance as of December 31, 2006

66,127

Goodwill acquired during the year related to the purchase of ADS

2,240

Goodwill acquired during the year related to the purchase of EDP

3,187

Other


Balance as of December 31, 2007

$

71,677

Estimated annual amortization expense relating to acquisition intangibles, including acquired
software for which the amortization expense is recorded as cost of revenues, is as follows:

Years ending December 31,


$

3,056


2,289


2,289


1,707


1,425

F-16


(5) ACCRUED LIABILITIES

Accrued liabilities consist of the following at December 31:



Accrued wages, bonuses and commissions

$

10,029

$

10,392

Other accrued liabilities

3,744

4,416

Accrued treasury stock purchases

2,126

—

Accrued health claims

1,806

1,302

Accrued third party contract costs

1,200

1,625

$

18,905

$

17,735

(6) INCOME TAX

The income tax provision (benefit) on income from operations consists of the following:

Years ended December 31,




Current:

Federal

$

10,593

$

9,701

$

6,340

State

2,084

1,312

1,292

12,677

11,013

7,632

Deferred

(1,598

)

(2,520

)

(2,200

)

$

11,079

$

8,493

$

5,432

Reconciliation of the U.S. statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax expense rate for
operations follows:

Years ended December 31,




Income tax expense at statutory rate

$

10,003

$

7,999

$

4,769

State income tax, net of federal income tax benefit

1,321



Non-deductible business expenses




Qualified manufacturing activities

(490

)

(263

)

(149

)

Other, net

(363

)

(191

)

(148

)

$

11,079

$

8,493

$

5,432

Slightly more than half of our stock option awards granted qualify as incentive stock options
(“ISO”) for income tax purposes. As such, a tax benefit is not recorded at the time the
compensation cost related to the options is recorded for book purposes due to the fact that an ISO
does not ordinarily result in a tax benefit unless there is a disqualifying disposition. Stock
option grants of non-qualified options result in the creation of a deferred tax asset, which is a
temporary difference, until the time that the option is exercised. Due to the treatment of
incentive stock options for tax purposes, our effective tax rate from year to year is subject to
variability.

F-17


The tax effects of the major items recorded as deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December
31 are:



Deferred income tax assets:

Operating expenses not currently deductible

$

1,502

$

1,801

Employee benefit plans

1,687

1,224

Property and equipment



Total deferred income tax assets

3,303

3,074

Deferred income tax liabilities:

Intangible assets

(8,504

)

(9,535

)

Other

(167

)

(176

)

Total deferred income tax liabilities

(8,671

)

(9,711

)

Net deferred income tax liabilities

$

(5,368

)

$

(6,637

)

Although realization is not assured, we believe it is more likely than not that all the deferred
tax assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006 will be realized. Accordingly, we believe no valuation
allowance is required for the deferred tax assets. However, the amount of the deferred tax asset
considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if estimates of reversing taxable temporary
differences are revised.

We adopted the provisions of Financial Standards Accounting Board Interpretation (“FIN”) No. 48,
“Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,” on January 1, 2007. As a result of the
implementation of FIN 48, we recognized no material adjustments in the liability for unrecognized
income tax benefits. At the adoption date we did not have any unrecognized tax benefits and did
not have any interest or penalties accrued.

We are subject to U.S. federal tax as well as income tax of multiple state and local jurisdictions.
We are no longer subject to United States federal income tax examinations for years before 2004
and are no longer subject to state and local income tax examinations by tax authorities for the
years before 2002. The Internal Revenue Service concluded an examination of our U. S. Federal tax
return for 2005 in the second quarter of 2007, which did not result in any material adjustments.

We paid income taxes, net of refunds received, of $8.7 million in 2007, $10.4 million in 2006, and
$8.1 million in 2005.

(7) SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

The following table details activity in our common stock:

Years ended December 31,




Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

Purchases of common stock

(1,250

)

$

(16,163

)

(1,033

)

$

(10,531

)

(2,457

)

$

(17,683

)

Stock option exercises


3,589


2,916


1,800

Employee stock plan purchases


1,117




1,156

Shares issued for acquisitions

—

—


2,891

—

—

Subsequent to December 31, 2007 and through February 22, 2008, we repurchased 814,000 shares for an
aggregate purchase price of $10.5 million. As of February 22, 2008 we had authorization from our
board of directors to repurchase up to 967,000 additional shares of our common stock.

F-18


(8) SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION

Share-based compensation plan

We have a stock option plan that provides for the grant of stock options to key employees,
directors and non-employee consultants. Stock options vest after three to five years of continuous
service from the date of grant and have a contractual term of ten years. Once options become
exercisable, the employee can purchase shares of our common stock at the market price on the date
we granted the option. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123R,
“Share-Based Payment,” which establishes accounting for share-based awards exchanged for employee
services, using the modified prospective application transition method. Under this transition
method, compensation cost recognized in 2007 and 2006 includes the applicable amounts of:
(a) compensation cost of all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of,
January 1, 2006 (based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the original
provisions of SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” and previously presented in
the pro forma footnote disclosures), and (b) compensation cost for all share-based payments granted
subsequent to January 1, 2006 (based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the
new provisions of SFAS No. 123R). Results for prior periods have not been restated. For prior
periods we applied APB No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and related
Interpretations, and provided the required pro forma disclosures under SFAS No. 123.

If compensation expense for our stock-based awards to employees had been recognized using the fair
value method of SFAS No. 123R rather than the intrinsic value method under APB No. 25, net income
and earnings per share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts below for the year ended
December 31, 2005:

Net income as reported

$

8,193

Add stock based employee compensation cost included in net income,
net of related tax benefit

—

Deduct total stock based employee compensation expense determined
under fair value based method for all awards, net of related tax benefit

(831

)

Pro forma net income

$

7,362

Basic earnings per share:

As reported

$

0.21

Pro forma

$

0.19

Diluted earnings per share:

As reported

$

0.19

Pro forma

$

0.17

As of December 31, 2007, there were 211,000 shares available for future grants under the plan from
the 8.5 million shares previously approved by the stockholders.

Determining Fair Value Under SFAS No. 123R

Valuation and Amortization Method. We estimate the fair value of share-based awards granted using
the Black-Scholes option valuation model. We amortize the fair value of all awards on a
straight-line basis over the requisite service periods, which are generally the vesting periods.

Expected Life. The expected life of awards granted represents the period of time that they are
expected to be outstanding. We determine the expected life using the “simplified method” in
accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107.

Expected Volatility. Using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, we estimate the volatility of
our common stock at the date of grant based on the historical volatility of our common stock.

Risk-Free Interest Rate. We base the risk-free interest rate used in the Black-Scholes option
valuation model on the implied yield currently available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with
an equivalent remaining term equal to the expected life of the award.

F-19


Expected Dividend Yield. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock in the last ten
years and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently,
we use an expected dividend yield of zero in the Black-Scholes option valuation model.

Expected Forfeitures. We use historical data to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures. We record
stock-based compensation only for those awards that are expected to vest.

The following weighted average assumptions were used for options granted:

Years ended December 31,




Expected life (in years)

6.5



Expected volatility

42.6

%

45.0

%

48.4

%

Risk-free interest rate

4.5

%

4.9

%

4.1

%

Expected forfeiture rate


%


%


%

Share-Based Compensation Under SFAS No. 123R

The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense related to share-based awards under
SFAS No. 123R which is recorded in the statement of operations:

Years ended December 31,



Cost of software services and maintenance

$


$


Selling, general and administrative expense

2,138

1,813

Total share-based compensation expense

2,365

1,960

Tax benefit

(451

)

(336

)

Net decrease in net income

$

1,914

$

1,624

Share-based compensation expense recorded in the statement of operations for 2005 was zero.

At December 31, 2007 we had unvested options to purchase 1.7 million shares with a weighted average
grant date fair value of $5.28. As of December 31, 2007, we had $7.4 million of total unrecognized
compensation cost related to unvested options, net of expected forfeitures, which is expected to be
amortized over a weighted average amortization period of 2.4 years.

F-20


Stock Option Activity

Options granted, exercised, forfeited and expired are summarized as follows:

Weighted Average

Weighted

Remaining

Aggregate

Number of

Average

Contractual Life

Intrinsic

Shares

Exercise Price

(Years)

Value

Options outstanding at December 31, 2004

3,964

$

4.21

Granted

1,135

7.49

Exercised

(436

)

4.12

Forfeited

(55

)

7.49

Options outstanding at December 31, 2005

4,608

4.99

Granted


10.76

Exercised

(623

)

4.68

Forfeited

(127

)

6.42

Expired

(8

)

5.21

Options outstanding at December 31, 2006

4,087

5.32

Granted


13.42

Exercised

(878

)

4.09

Forfeited

(10

)

8.29

Options outstanding at December 31, 2007

3,972

7.16


$

23,350

Options exercisable at December 31, 2007

2,281

$

4.83


$

18,387

Other information pertaining to option activity was as follows during the twelve months ended
December 31:




Weighted average grant-date fair value of
stock options granted

$

6.69

$

6.13

$

3.47

Total fair value of stock options vested

1,710

1,757

1,519

Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised

8,793

4,227

1,753

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) participants may contribute up to 15% of their
annual compensation to purchase common shares of Tyler. The purchase price of the shares is equal
to 85% of the closing price of Tyler shares on the last day of each quarterly offering period. As
of December 31, 2007, there were 554,000 shares available for future grants under the ESPP from the
1.0 million shares originally reserved for issuance.

F-21


(9) EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings and diluted earnings per share data was computed as follows:

Years Ended December 31,




Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per share

Net income

$

17,501

$

14,362

$

8,193

Denominator:

Weighted-average basic common shares outstanding

38,735

38,817

39,439

Assumed conversion of dilutive securities:

Stock options

1,715

1,799

1,561

Warrants


1,252

1,075

Potentially dilutive common shares

2,617

3,051

2,636

Denominator for diluted earnings per share – Adjusted weighted-average shares

41,352

41,868

42,075

Earnings per common share:

Basic

$

0.45

$

0.37

$

0.21

Diluted

$

0.42

$

0.34

$

0.19

Stock options representing the right to purchase common stock of 128,000 shares in 2007, 13,000
shares in 2006, and 229,000 shares in 2005, had exercise prices greater than the average quoted
market price of our common stock. These options were outstanding during 2007, 2006 and 2005, but
were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because their inclusion would
have had an antidilutive effect.

Effective September 10, 2007, warrants to purchase 1.6 million shares of common stock at $2.50 per
share expired and the effect of these warrants is not included in the potentially dilutive common
shares after that date. See Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies for further information.

(10) LEASES

We lease office facilities for use in our operations, as well as transportation, computer and other
equipment. We also have two office facility lease agreements with a shareholder and certain
division managers. Most of our leases are noncancelable operating lease agreements and they
expire at various dates through 2013. In addition to rent, the leases generally require us to pay
taxes, maintenance, insurance and certain other operating expenses.

Rent expense was approximately $4.9 million in 2007 and 2006, and $4.6 million in 2005, which
included rent expense associated with related party lease agreements of $1.8 million in 2007, $1.7
million in 2006, and $1.5 million in 2005.

Future minimum lease payments under all noncancelable leases at December 31, 2007 are as follows:

Years ending December 31,


$

4,811


4,517


3,034


2,094


1,319

Thereafter


$

15,923

Included in future minimum lease payments are noncancelable payments due to related parties of $1.7
million each in 2008 and 2009; $559,000 in 2010 and none thereafter.

F-22


(11) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

We provide a defined contribution plan for the majority of our employees meeting minimum service
requirements. The employees can contribute up to 30% of their current compensation to the plan
subject to certain statutory limitations. We contribute up to a maximum of 2.5% of an employee’s
compensation to the plan. We made contributions to the plan and charged operations $1.7 million
during 2007, $1.6 million during 2006, and $1.0 million during 2005.

(12) RESTRUCTURING CHARGE

Because of unsatisfactory financial performance early in 2005, we made significant organizational
changes in the second quarter of 2005 to those areas of our business that were not performing to
our expectations. Our goal was to bring costs in line with expected levels of revenue while
improving the efficiency of our organizational structure to ensure that clients continue to receive
superior service.

We reorganized the appraisal services business to eliminate levels of management and reduce
overhead expense. We also took actions to reduce headcount and costs in our appraisal and tax
software division, and we consolidated certain senior management positions at the corporate office.
These cost reductions were made in the second quarter of 2005. As a result, we eliminated
approximately 120 positions, including management, staff and project-related personnel.

In connection with the reorganization, we incurred certain charges which were primarily comprised
of employee severance costs and related fringe benefits, and totaled approximately $1.3 million
before income taxes. The related payments were paid in 2005.

(13) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Prior to September 11, 2007, we had warrants outstanding to purchase 1.6 million shares of common
stock at $2.50 per share, which were held by Bank of America, N. A. (“BOA”) pursuant to the terms
of two Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Warrants (collectively, the “Warrants”). The exercise
price could be paid either in cash or by a “cashless exercise” in which the holder was required to
surrender the Warrants in exchange for warrant shares based on the following formula: [(Market
Price – $2.50) / (Market Price)] x 1. 6 million shares, with the Market Price calculated as the
immediately preceding 60-day trading average of our common stock. The Warrants identified specific
exercise procedures for each method of exercise and further provided that any exercise would not be
effective until we received all applicable documents, instruments, and the purchase price. The
Warrants were originally issued on September 10, 1997 and were exercisable from that date until 5
p.m., Central Time, September 10, 2007, when they expired.

On September 10, 2007, at 4:44 p.m., Central Time, BOA attempted to effectuate a “cashless
exercise” of the Warrants via email; however, we believe BOA did not comply with all of the
requirements set forth in the Warrants for an effective exercise. At 5:37 p.m., Central Time, BOA
recalled this email exercise notice, which we subsequently accepted. At 6:10 p.m., Central Time,
BOA attempted to effectuate a cash exercise of the Warrants by emailing a different notice of
exercise, which we believe also failed to comply with all of the requirements set forth in the
Warrants for an effective exercise, and in any event, was after the expiration date of the
Warrants. As a result, we believe these Warrants expired as of September 10, 2007 and have
excluded the effect of the Warrants from potentially dilutive common shares as of such date in our
earnings per share computation.

On October 12, 2007, we filed a declaratory judgment action against BOA in the District Court of
Dallas County, Texas, 101

st

Judicial District requesting the court to declare, among
other things, that the Warrants have expired pursuant to their terms. On November 14, 2007, BOA
filed an original answer and counterclaim asserting, among other things, that the parties modified
the exercise requirements of the Warrants, that Tyler breached the alleged modified contracts by
refusing to deliver the warrant shares to BOA, and that BOA is therefore entitled to specific
performance of the Warrants by us delivering the warrant shares or, in the alternative, to a
recovery of damages, including attorneys’ fees, interest, and costs. While we believe the Warrants
expired as of September 10, 2007, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate resolution of this
matter. At this time it is not possible to reasonably estimate the potential loss or range of
loss, if any.

Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to our business and except as described
in this Annual Report, there are no material legal proceedings pending to which we are party or to
which any of our properties are subject.

F-23


(14) SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

In the first quarter of 2008 we acquired two companies for a combined cash purchase price (net of
cash acquired) of approximately $13.8 million and 126,000 shares of Tyler common stock. We have
not finalized the allocation of the purchase price of the acquired companies but expect this
allocation will result in non-cash charges that may have a slightly dilutive effect on earnings per
share in 2008.

F-24


(15) QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (unaudited)

The following table contains selected financial information from unaudited consolidated statements
of operations for each quarter of 2007 and 2006.

Quarters Ended



Dec. 31

Sept. 30

June 30

Mar. 31

Dec. 31

Sept. 30

June 30

Mar. 31

Revenues

$

60,420

$

54,932

$

54,112

$

50,332

$

51,155

$

50,139

$

49,151

$

44,858

Gross profit

24,436

21,630

20,337

18,022

20,239

20,157

18,946

15,462

Income before income taxes

10,128

8,369

6,160

3,923

6,732

6,936

5,828

3,359

Net income

6,190

5,160

3,750

2,401

4,177

4,413

3,760

2,012

Earnings per diluted share

0.15

0.12

0.09

0.06

0.10

0.11

0.09

0.05

Shares used in computing diluted earnings per share

40,358

41,395

41,448

42,066

42,163

41,898

41,946

41,894

F-25