
10-K405
10-K405



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K



                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                       OR



                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 01-14010
                            ------------------------

                               WATERS CORPORATION

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



                                34 MAPLE STREET
                          MILFORD, MASSACHUSETTS 01757
         (Address, including zip code, of principal executive offices)

       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (508) 478-2000



                            ------------------------

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/  No / /

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/

    State the aggregate market value of the registrant's common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant as of March 22, 2000: $6,026,575,227.

    Indicate the number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock
as of March 22, 2000: 63,271,131.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated by
reference in Parts I and II.

    Portions of the proxy statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
are incorporated by reference in Part III.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      WATERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10K
                                     INDEX




                                     PART I

ITEM 1: BUSINESS

GENERAL

    Waters Corporation ("Waters" or the "Company") is a holding company which
owns only and all of the outstanding common stock of Waters Technologies
Corporation, the operating subsidiary. Waters Corporation was established to
acquire ("Acquisition") the predecessor Waters Chromatography Division
("Predecessor") of Millipore Corporation ("Millipore") on August 18, 1994.
Waters Corporation became a publicly traded company with its initial public
offering ("IPO") in November 1995. The Company has made two significant
acquisitions since its inception: Micromass Limited ("Micromass") in
September 1997 and TA Instruments, Inc. ("TAI") in May 1996.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

    The Company operates in the analytical instrument industry, with
manufacturing and distribution expertise in three complementary technologies:
high performance liquid chromatography ("HPLC") instruments, chromatography
columns and other consumables, and related service; mass spectrometry
instruments that can be integrated and used along with other analytical
instruments, especially HPLC; and thermal analysis and rheology instruments. The
Company also operates in several geographic segments. See Footnote 15 to the
Financial Statements for detailed results by geographic segment and products and
service revenue found in the 1999 Annual Report which is incorporated herein by
reference.

BUSINESS

    Waters, an analytical instrument manufacturer, is the world's largest
manufacturer and distributor of HPLC instruments, chromatography columns and
other consumables, and related service. The Company has the largest HPLC market
share in the United States, Europe and non-Japan Asia and has a leading position
in Japan. HPLC, the largest product segment of the analytical instrument market,
is utilized in a broad range of industries to detect, identify, monitor and
measure the chemical, physical and biological composition of materials, and to
purify a full range of compounds. Through its Micromass subsidiary, Waters is a
market leader in the development, manufacture, and distribution of mass
spectrometry instruments, which are complementary products that can be
integrated and used along with other analytical instruments, especially HPLC.
Through its TAI subsidiary, Waters is also the world's leader in thermal
analysis, a prevalent and complementary technique used in the analysis of
polymers.

    Developed in the 1950's, HPLC today is the standard technique used to
identify and analyze the constituent components of a variety of chemicals and
materials. HPLC's unique performance capabilities enable it to separate and
identify 80% of all known chemicals and materials. As a result, HPLC is used to
analyze substances in a wide variety of industries for research and development
purposes, quality control and process engineering applications. Within the
pharmaceutical and life science industries, its most significant end-use market,
HPLC is used extensively to identify new drugs, to develop manufacturing
methods, and to assure the potency and purity of new pharmaceuticals. HPLC is
used to identify food content for nutritional labeling in the food and beverages
industry and to test water and air purity within the environmental testing
industry. HPLC is also used in a variety of applications in other industries,
such as chemical and consumer products, as well as by universities and
government agencies. In many instances, Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and
Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") regulations, and those of their
international counterparts, mandate testing that requires HPLC instrumentation.

    Waters manufactures over 100 HPLC instrument types. A complete HPLC system
consists of five basic components: the solvent delivery system, the sample
injector, the separation column, the detector and the data acquisition unit. The
solvent delivery system pumps the solvent through the HPLC system, while the
sample injector injects the sample into the solvent flow. The separation column
then separates the sample into its components for analysis by the detector which
measures the presence and amount of


the constituents. The data acquisition unit then records and stores the
information from the detector. Consumable products primarily are columns packed
with separation media used in the HPLC testing process and are replaced at
regular intervals. The separation column contains one of several types of
packing, typically stationary phase packing made from silica. As the sample
flows through the column, it is separated into its constituent components.

    The acquisition of Micromass expanded the Company's product offerings in
mass spectrometry instruments. Micromass is a world leader in the development,
manufacture, sale and support of organic, inorganic, stable isotope and
inductively-coupled plasma ("ICP") mass spectrometers typically combined with
HPLC, chemical electrophoresis, chemical electrophoresis chromatography, gas
chromatography or elemental analysis systems. Mass spectrometry is a powerful
analytical technique that is used to identify unknown compounds, to quantify
known materials, and to elucidate the structural and chemical properties of
molecules by measuring the masses of individual molecules that have been
converted into ions. These products supply a diverse market with a strong
emphasis on the life science, pharmaceutical, biomedical, clinical,
environmental and geochemistry markets worldwide. With the acquisition of
Micromass, Waters became one of the leading worldwide manufacturers of HPLC-MS
systems; "hyphenated" analytical systems that bring together HPLC and mass
spectrometry detection. Design innovations in HPLC-MS interfacing technology
have drastically improved the operating efficiencies of these systems, greatly
simplifying their operation, driving down their overall cost and making them
much more affordable for the average analytical laboratory. These laboratories
previously relied on expert mass spectrometrists to provide them the information
they now get in minutes. The largest market for HPLC-MS is the pharmaceutical
market where new drug development technologies are placing greater demands on
laboratories to screen and analyze new drug compounds.

    The acquisition of TAI expanded the Company's product offerings to include
thermal analysis and rheology products. TAI develops, manufactures, sells and
services thermal analysis and rheology instruments which are used for the
physical characterization of polymers and related materials. Thermal analysis
measures the physical characteristics of materials as a function of temperature.
Changes in temperature affect several characteristics of materials such as their
physical state, weight, dimension and mechanical and electrical properties,
which may be measured by one or more thermal analysis techniques. Consequently,
thermal analysis techniques are widely used in the development, production and
characterization of materials in various industries such as plastics, chemicals,
automobiles, pharmaceuticals and electronics. Rheology instruments complement
thermal analyzers in characterizing materials. Rheology characterizes the flow
properties of materials and measures their viscosity, elasticity and deformation
under different types of loading. The information obtained provides insight with
regard to a material's behavior during manufacture, transport, usage and
storage.

    Instruments comprise about two thirds of the Company's total revenue.
Consumable products and service comprise the remaining one third.

CUSTOMERS

    Waters has a broad and diversified customer base that includes
pharmaceutical accounts, other industrial accounts, universities and government
agencies. The pharmaceutical segment represents the Company's largest sector and
includes multinational pharmaceutical companies, generic drug manufacturers and
biotechnology companies. The Company's other industrial customers include
chemical manufacturers, polymer manufacturers, food and beverage companies and
environmental testing laboratories. The Company also sells to various
universities and government agencies worldwide and Waters' technical support
staff work closely with these customers in developing and implementing
applications that meet their full range of analytical requirements.

    The Company does not rely on any one customer or group of customers for a
material portion of its sales. During fiscal 1999, no customer accounted for
more than 2% of the Company's net sales.


RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    Waters maintains an active research and development program focused on the
development and commercialization of products which both complement and update
the existing product offering. The Company's research and development
expenditures for 1999, 1998 and 1997, were $36.1 million, $34.4 million and
$25.8 million, respectively. Nearly all of the current HPLC products of the
Company have been developed at the main research and development center in
Milford, Massachusetts, with input and feedback from Waters' extensive field
organization. The majority of the mass spectrometry products have been developed
at facilities in England and nearly all of the current thermal analysis products
have been developed at the Company's research and development center in New
Castle, Delaware. There are approximately 350 employees involved in the
Company's research and development efforts.

SALES AND SERVICE

    Waters has the largest sales and service team focused exclusively on HPLC in
the industry. Across all technologies, using respective specialized sales and
service forces, the Company serves its customer base through over 1,000 field
representatives in 83 sales offices throughout the world. The sales
representatives have direct responsibility for account relationships, while
service representatives work in the field to install instruments and minimize
instrument downtime for customers. Technical support representatives work
directly with customers, helping them to develop customized applications and
procedures. Waters provides customers with comprehensive product literature and
also makes consumable products available through a dedicated catalog.

MANUFACTURING

    Waters provides high quality HPLC products by controlling each stage of
production of its instruments and columns. The Company assembles most of its
instruments at its facility in Milford, Massachusetts, where it performs
machining, wiring, assembly and testing. The Milford facility employs
manufacturing techniques that meet the strict ISO 9002 quality manufacturing
standards and FDA mandated Good Manufacturing Practices. The Company outsources
manufacturing of certain electronic components such as computers, monitors and
circuit boards to outside vendors that can meet the Company's quality
requirements.

    The Company manufactures its HPLC columns at its facilities in Taunton,
Massachusetts and Wexford, Ireland, where it processes, sizes and treats silica
and polymer media that are packed into columns, solid phase extraction
cartridges and bulk shipping containers. These facilities meet the same ISO and
FDA standards met by the Milford, Massachusetts facility and are approved by the
FDA to produce Class 1 medical devices.

    The Company manufactures its Mass spectrometry products at its facilities in
Manchester, England and Cheshire, England. Thermal analysis products are
manufactured at the Company's New Castle, Delaware facility and rheology
products are manufactured at the Company's Leatherhead, England facility.

COMPETITION

    The analytical instrument and systems market is highly competitive. The
Company encounters competition from several worldwide instrument manufacturers
in both domestic and foreign markets. Waters competes in its markets primarily
on the basis of instrument performance, reliability and service and, to a lesser
extent, price. Some competitors have instrument businesses that are much larger
than the Company's business, but are typically less focused on Waters' chosen
markets. Certain competitors have greater financial and other resources than the
Company.


    The market for consumable HPLC products, including separation columns, is
also highly competitive but is more fragmented than the analytical instruments
market. Waters encounters competition in the columns market from chemical
companies that produce column chemicals and small specialized companies that
pack and distribute columns. The Company believes that it is one of the few
suppliers that processes silica, packs columns, and distributes its own product.
Waters competes in this market on the basis of reproducibility, reputation and
performance, and, to a lesser extent, price.

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES

    Waters owns a number of United States and foreign patents and has patent
applications pending in the United States and abroad. Certain technology and
software is licensed from third parties. Waters also owns a number of
trademarks. While the patents, licenses and trademarks are viewed as valuable
assets, the Company's patent position is not of material importance to its
operations.

EMPLOYEES

    Waters employs approximately 3,000 employees. 55% of the Company's employees
are located in the United States. Labor relations are considered to be
excellent, and Waters employees are not represented by any union.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

    The Company is subject to Federal, state and local laws, regulations and
ordinances that (i) govern activities or operations that may have adverse
environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water, as well as handling
and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes, and (ii) impose liability
for the costs of cleaning up, and certain damages resulting from sites of past
spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances. The Company
believes that it currently conducts its operations, and in the past has operated
its business, in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws. From
time to time, operations of the Company have resulted or may result in
noncompliance with or liability for cleanup pursuant to environmental laws. The
Company does not currently anticipate any material adverse effect on its
operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of its
efforts to comply with environmental laws.

    With respect to the Predecessor operations of the Company's HPLC business,
Millipore has been notified that the United States Environmental Protection
Agency has determined that a release or a threat of a release of hazardous
substances as defined by CERCLA has occurred at certain sites to which chemical
wastes generated by its manufacturing operations have been sent. In each
instance, Millipore was only one of a large number of corporations and entities
which received such notification, and anticipates that any ultimate liability
for remedial costs will be shared by others. In any instances involving chemical
wastes generated by the Predecessor, Millipore has entered into partial
settlements, paid its proportionate financial obligation and received partial
releases.

    In connection with the Acquisition, Millipore agreed to retain environmental
liabilities resulting from pre-acquisition operations of the Company's
facilities. Notwithstanding this contractual agreement, under CERCLA and similar
environmental laws, the Company may remain primarily liable to certain persons
for environmental cleanup costs.

RISK FACTORS

    FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

    Certain of the statements in this Form 10-K and the documents incorporated
in this Form (including portions of our Annual Report) are forward-looking
statements, including statements regarding, among other items, (i) the impact of
the Company's new products, (ii) the Company's growth strategies, including


its intention to make acquisitions and introduce new products,
(iii) anticipated trends in the Company's business and (iv) the Company's
ability to continue to control costs and maintain quality. You can identify
these forward-looking statements by our use of the words "believes",
"anticipates", "plans", "expects", "may", "will", "would", "intends",
"estimates" and similar expressions, whether in the negative or affirmative.
These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which
are outside the control of the Company, including (i) changes in the HPLC, mass
spectrometry and thermal analysis portions of the analytical instrument
marketplace as a result of economic or regulatory influences, (ii) changes in
the competitive marketplace, including new products and pricing changes by the
Company's competitors and (iii) the ability of the Company to generate increased
sales and profitability from new product introductions, as well as additional
risk factors set forth below. Factual results or events could differ materially
from the plans, intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking
statements we make, whether because of these factors or for other reasons. We do
not assume any obligations to update any forward-looking statement we make.

    COMPETITION AND THE ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENT MARKET

    The analytical instrument market; in particular, the portion related to the
Company's HPLC, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis product lines; is highly
competitive, and the Company encounters competition from several international
instrument manufacturers and other companies in both domestic and foreign
markets. Certain competitors are divisions of significantly larger companies
which have greater financial and other resources than the Company. There can be
no assurances that the Company's competitors will not introduce more effective
and less costly products than those of the Company, or that the Company will be
able to increase its sales and profitability from new product introductions.
Additionally, the market may, from time to time, experience low sales growth.
Approximately 61% of the Company's net sales in 1999 were to the worldwide
pharmaceutical industry, which may be periodically subject to unfavorable market
conditions and consolidations. Unfavorable industry conditions could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.

    RISK OF DISRUPTION

    The Company manufactures HPLC instruments at its facility in Milford,
Massachusetts, separation columns at its facilities in Taunton, Massachusetts
and Wexford, Ireland, mass spectrometry products at its facilities in
Manchester, England and Cheshire, England, thermal analysis products at its
facility in New Castle, Delaware and rheology products at its facility in
Leatherhead, England. Any prolonged disruption to the operations at these
facilities, whether due to labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to
either facility or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's results of operations and financial condition.

    FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND EXCHANGE RATES

    Approximately 59% of Waters' 1999 net sales were outside of the United
States and were primarily denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, a
significant portion of the Company's sales and operations are subject to certain
risks, including adverse developments in the foreign political and economic
environment, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and
managing foreign operations and potentially adverse tax consequences.

    Additionally, the U.S. dollar value of the Company's net sales varies with
currency exchange rate fluctuations. Significant increases in the value of the
U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies could have a material adverse
effect on Waters' result of operations.


    RELIANCE ON KEY MANAGEMENT

    The operation of the Company requires managerial and operational expertise.
None of the key management employees has an employment contract with the
Company, and there can be no assurance that such individuals will remain with
the Company. If, for any reason, such key personnel do not continue to be active
in management, the Company's operations could be adversely affected.

    EURO CURRENCY CONVERSION

    Several countries of the European Union will adopt the euro as their legal
currency effective July 1, 2002. A transition period has been established from
January 1, 1999 to July 1, 2002 during which companies conducting business in
these countries may use the euro or their local currency. The Company has
considered the potential impact of the euro conversion on pricing competition,
information technology systems, currency risk and risk management. Currently,
the Company does not expect that the euro conversion will result in any material
increase in costs to the Company or have a material adverse effect on its
business or financial condition.

ITEM 2: PROPERTIES

    Waters operates 16 United States facilities and 70 international facilities.
The Company believes its facilities are suitable and adequate for its current
production level and for reasonable growth over the next few years. The
Company's primary facilities are summarized in the table below.

PRIMARY FACILITY LOCATIONS



- ------------------------

(1) M = Manufacturing; R = Research; S = Sales; D = Distribution; A =
    Administration

(2) Excludes 57 thousand square feet of additional space for administration
    purposes presently under construction and scheduled for occupancy in the
    fall of 2000.


    Waters operates and maintains 11 field offices in the United States and 62
field offices abroad in addition to sales offices in the primary facilities
listed above. The Company's field office locations are listed below.

FIELD OFFICE LOCATIONS (3)



- ------------------------

(3) Waters operates more than one office within certain states and foreign
    countries.

ITEM 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    From time to time, the Company and its subsidiaries are involved in various
litigation matters arising in the ordinary course of its business. The Company
does not believe that the matters in which it or its subsidiaries are currently
involved, either individually or in the aggregate, are material to the Company
or its subsidiaries.

    The Company, through its subsidiary TAI, asserted a claim against The
Perkin-Elmer Corporation ("PE") alleging patent infringement of three patents
owned by TAI ("the TAI patents"). PE counterclaimed for infringement of a patent
owned by PE ("the PE patent"). PE withdrew its claim for infringement preserving
its right to appeal rulings interpreting the claims of the PE patent. The U.S.
District Court for the District of Delaware granted judgment as a matter of law
in favor of TAI and enjoined PE from infringing the TAI patents. PE has appealed
the District Court judgment in favor of TAI. PE has also filed a motion for
post-judgment relief which motion has been denied. The Company believes it has
meritorious arguments and should prevail, although the outcome is not certain.
The Company believes that any outcome will not be material to the Company.

    The Company has filed suit in the U.S. against Hewlett-Packard Company and
Hewlett-Packard GmbH ("HP"), seeking a declaration that certain products sold
under the mark Alliance do not constitute an infringement of one or more patents
owned by HP or its foreign subsidiaries ("the HP patents"). The action in the
U.S. was dismissed for lack of controversy. Actions seeking revocation or
nullification of foreign HP patents have been filed by the Company in Germany,
France and England. A German patent tribunal found the HP German patent to be
valid. The Company is appealing the German decision. In England and Germany, HP
has brought an action alleging certain features of the Alliance pump may
infringe the HP patent. The Company believes it has meritorious arguments and
should prevail, although the outcome is not certain. The Company believes that
any outcome of the proceedings will not be material to the Company.

    Cohesive Technologies, Inc. ("Cohesive") has filed infringement actions
against the Company alleging that one product, out of many in a large product
line, infringes one or more Cohesive patents. The Company has denied
infringement. The Company believes it has meritorious arguments and should
prevail, although the outcome is not certain. The Company believes that any
outcome of the proceedings will not be material to the Company.


    Viscotek Corporation ("Viscotek") has filed a civil action against the
Company alleging one option offered with a high temperature gel permeation
chromatography instrument is an infringement of two patents. These patents are
owned by E. I. Du Pont de Nemours and Company ("Du Pont") and claimed to be
exclusively licensed to Viscotek. Du Pont is not a party to the suit. The
Company has answered the complaint and believes it does not infringe the
patents. The Company believes it has meritorious arguments and should prevail,
although the outcome is not certain. The Company believes that any outcome of
the proceedings will not be material to the Company.

    PE Corporation, MDS Inc. and Perkin-Elmer Sciex Instruments have filed a
civil action against the Micromass UK Limited and Micromass, Inc. wholly owned
subsidiaries of the Company alleging one or more mass spectroscopy instrument
products infringes upon a patent. The Company has not yet been served with the
complaint. The Company believes that it does not infringe the patent. The
Company believes it has meritorious arguments and should prevail, although the
outcome is not certain. The Company believes that any outcome of the proceedings
will not be material to the Company.

ITEM 4: SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    None.

    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

    Douglas A. Berthiaume, 51, has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors
of the Company since February 1996 and has served as President, Chief Executive
Officer and a Director of the Company since August 1994. From 1990 to 1994,
Mr. Berthiaume served as President of the Waters Chromatography Division of
Millipore. Mr. Berthiaume is a Director of Genzyme Corporation.

    Arthur G. Caputo, 48, has been Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and
Marketing of the Company since August 1994. He joined the Predecessor in
October 1977 and has held a number of positions in sales within the Predecessor
and Millipore. Prior to his current position, he was Senior Vice President and
General Manager of Millipore's North American Business Operations responsible
for establishing the Millipore North American Sales Subsidiary and also served
as the General Manager of Waters' North American field sales, support and
marketing functions.

    Thomas W. Feller, 59, has been Senior Vice President, E-Business Initiative
of the Company since January 2000. Prior to his current position, he was Senior
Vice President, Operations of the Company from August 1994 to December 1999. He
joined Millipore in 1977 and moved to the Predecessor as Vice President of
Operations in 1980. Mr. Feller returned to Millipore Operations in 1985 before
becoming Senior Vice President of Manufacturing Operations for the Predecessor
in January 1991. Prior to joining Millipore, Mr. Feller held various production
and manufacturing positions at Johnson and Johnson, Jensen Speaker and Baxter
Travenol.

    John R. Nelson, 56, has been Senior Vice President, Research, Development
and Engineering of the Company since August 1994. He joined the Predecessor in
August 1976 and has held a variety of positions in marketing as well as research
and development, including Vice President Waters Research Development and
Engineering, Senior Vice President Worldwide Marketing Operations and Senior
Vice President of Product Development. Mr. Nelson is also responsible for the
Company's Micromass Limited and TA Instruments, Inc. operations.

    Philip S. Taymor, 44, has been Senior Vice President, Finance and
Administration, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary of
the Company since August 1994. He joined Millipore in May 1981 and held several
positions in the Millipore organization, including Corporate Controller,
Director of Finance of Millipore's Membrane Division and Manager of Corporate
Accounting. Mr. Taymor joined the Predecessor in early 1992. His current
responsibilities include business and financial planning, accounting and
financial reporting, treasury operations, legal, tax and information systems.
Mr. Taymor joined Millipore from Grant Thornton & Company, Certified Public
Accountants.


    Brian K. Mazar, 42, Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Investor
Relations, has directed Human Resources and Investor Relations since
August 1994. He joined the Predecessor in 1991 as Director of Human Resources
with responsibility for worldwide human resources functions. From 1986 to 1991,
Mr. Mazar was Director of Human Resources of GeneTrak Systems. Prior thereto,
Mr. Mazar worked at Exxon Corporation and Corning Glass Works.

    Devette W. Russo, 47, Senior Vice President, Chromatography Consumables
Division, has directed the Chromatography Consumables Division since 1990. She
joined the Predecessor in 1975 as a Marketing Communications Account Manager,
and has held a variety of positions within the Predecessor and Millipore in
marketing before assuming her current responsibilities as Senior Vice President,
Chromatography Consumables Division. Prior positions include Director of
Corporate Communications for Millipore and Vice President of Marketing for the
Chemistry Division. Ms. Russo held various marketing and application support
roles before joining the Millipore organization.

    John A. Ornell, 42, has been Vice President, Operations of the Company since
January 2000. He joined Waters in 1990 and most recently was Vice President of
Manufacturing and Engineering. During his years at Waters, he has had
responsibility for Operations Finance and Distribution and had a senior role in
the successful implementation of the Company's worldwide business systems.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    The Company's Common Stock is registered under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol WAT. As of
March 22, 2000, the Company had approximately 286 common stockholders of record.
The Company has not declared or paid any dividends on its Common Stock in the
past two years and does not plan to pay dividends in the foreseeable future.

    On February 25, 1999, the Board of Directors approved an amendment to the
Company's Certificate of Incorporation to increase authorized common stock from
fifty million to one hundred million shares. The Board of Directors also
approved a two-for-one common stock split through the payment of a stock
dividend in an amount equal to one share of common stock for each share of
common stock issued and outstanding, contingent upon shareholder approval of the
amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation at the Company's Annual Meeting.
On May 4, 1999, shareholders approved the amendment. Shareholders of record on
May 27, 1999 received the stock dividend on or about June 10, 1999.

    The quarterly range of high and low sales prices for the Common Stock as
reported by the New York Stock Exchange (adjusted to reflect the two-for-one
stock split discussed above) is as follows:




ITEM 6: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    Reference is made to information contained in the section entitled "Selected
Financial Data" on page 52 of the 1999 Annual Report, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7: MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

    Reference is made to the information on pages 19 to 25 of the 1999 Annual
Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS CHANGES

    In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued
Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements which provides guidance related to revenue recognition based on
interpretations and practices followed by the SEC. SAB 101 is effective the
first fiscal quarter of fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1999 and
requires companies to report any changes in revenue recognition as a cumulative
change in accounting principle at the time of implementation in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion 20, Accounting Changes. In March 2000, the
SEC issued SAB 101A, Amendment Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements which
delays implementation of SAB 101 until the Company's second fiscal quarter of
2000. The Company will adopt SAB 101 and is currently in the process of
evaluating what impact, if any, SAB 101 will have on the financial position or
results of operations of the Company.

ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    Reference is made to the information on page 24 of the 1999 Annual Report,
which information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    Reference is made to the Company's consolidated financial statements and
notes thereto on pages 27 to 51 of the 1999 Annual Report together with the
"Report of Independent Accountants" dated January 21, 2000 on page 26 and
including "Quarterly Results" on page 50, which information is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 9: CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10: DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    a. Information concerning the Registrant's directors is set forth in the
Proxy Statement under the headings "Election of Directors" and "Directors
Meetings and Compensation." Such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

    b. Information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is set forth in the
Proxy Statement under the heading "Section 16(A) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance". Such information is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 11: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    Information concerning compensation of the Registrant's executive officers
is set forth in the Proxy Statement under the heading "Management Compensation."
Such information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12: SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    Information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is set forth in the Proxy Statement under the heading "Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners." Such information is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 13: CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    Information concerning certain relationships and related transactions is set
forth in the Proxy Statement under the heading "Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions." Such information is incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14: EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) Documents filed as part of this report

    (1) Financial Statements: Reference is made to the Company's consolidated
       financial statements and notes thereto on pages 27 to 51 of the 1999
       Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

    (2) Financial Statement Schedules:

                      WATERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
               for the years ended December 1999, 1998, and 1997



    (3) Exhibits:












                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities indicated on March 30, 2000.




