
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                                   FORM 10-K

          ( X )     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996

                                       OR

          (   )     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
                    15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                    FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM_________ TO _________.

                       Commission File Number:  01-14010

                               WATERS CORPORATION
                               ------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in the charter)

              DELAWARE                             13-3668640
              --------                           ---------------
  (State or other jurisdiction of         (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
   incorporation or organization)

                                34 MAPLE STREET
                         MILFORD, MASSACHUSETTS  01757
                         -----------------------------
         (Address, including zip code, of principal executive offices)


          Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   (508) 478-2000


 Securities of the Registrant registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                      None
 Securities of the Registrant registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                     Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

     Yes    ( X )                   No    (  )

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the best
of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  (X)

The aggregate market value of the voting stock of the Registrant held by non-
affiliates of the Registrant as of  March 24, 1997:  $756,197,606

Number of shares outstanding of the Registrant's common stock as of March 24,
1997: 28,929,595

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated by reference
in Parts I and II.

Portions of the proxy statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are
incorporated by reference in Part III.


 
                      WATERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10K
                                     INDEX


Index No.                                                       Page
- ---------                                                       ----

                                    PART I

1.      Business...............................................   3
2.      Properties.............................................   6
3.      Legal Proceedings......................................   7
4.      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders....   7


                                    PART II

5.      Market for Registrants Common Stock and
        Related Stockholder Matters............................   7
6.      Selected Financial Data................................   8
7.      Management's Discussion and Analysis of
        Financial Condition and Results of Operations..........   8
8.      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data............   8
9.      Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants
        on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.................   8

                                   PART III

10.     Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.....   8
11.     Executive Compensation.................................   8
12.     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
        and Management.........................................   9
13.     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.........   9

                                    PART IV

14.     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and
        Reports on Form 8-K....................................   9
        Signatures.............................................   11


 
                                    PART I

Item 1: BUSINESS

The Company

        Waters Corporation ("Waters" or the "Company") is a holding company 
which owns only and all of the outstanding common stock of Waters Technologies
Corporation. Waters Corporation was established to acquire ("Acquisition") the
predecessor Waters Chromatography Division ("Predecessor") of Millipore
Corporation ("Millipore") on August 18, 1994. Waters Corporation became a
publicly traded company with its initial public offering ("IPO") in November
1995.
        Effective on December 31, 1994, the Board of Directors approved a plan 
to divest operations of the Company's Extrel FTMS and Extrel Pittsburgh business
units. The description of Waters' business contained herein treats both business
units as discontinued operations, and excludes these units from this
description. For additional information, please see "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and the Results of Operations," and the
Financial Statements and the accompanying notes found in the 1996 Annual Report
which is incorporated herein by reference.

Business Segments

        The Company operates in only one business segment, but operates in 
several geographic segments. See Footnote 18 to the Financial Statements for
detailed results by geographic segment found in the 1996 Annual Report which is
incorporated herein by reference.

Business

        Waters is the world's largest manufacturer, distributor and provider 
of high performance liquid chromatography ("HPLC") instruments, columns and
other consumables, and related service. The Company has the largest HPLC market
share in the United States, Europe and non-Japan Asia and has a leading position
in Japan. HPLC, the largest product segment of the analytical instrument market,
is utilized in a broad range of industries to detect, identify, monitor and
measure the chemical, physical and biological composition of materials, and to
purify a full range of compounds. With its acquisition of TA Instruments, Inc.
("TAI") in May 1996, Waters is also the world's leader in thermal analysis, a
prevalent and complementary technique used in the analysis of polymers.

        Developed in the 1950's, HPLC today is the standard technique used to 
identify and analyze the constituent components of a variety of chemicals and
materials. HPLC's unique performance capabilities enable it to separate and
identify 80% of all known chemicals and materials. As a result, HPLC is used to
analyze substances in a wide variety of industries for research and development
purposes, quality control and process engineering applications. Within the
pharmaceutical and life science industries, its most important end-use market,
HPLC is used extensively to identify new drugs, to develop manufacturing
methods, and to assure the potency and purity of new pharmaceuticals. HPLC is
used to identify food content for nutritional labeling in the food and beverages
industry and to test water and air purity within the environmental testing
industry. HPLC is also used in a variety of applications in other industries,
such as chemical and consumer products, as well as by universities and
government agencies. In many instances, Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and
Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") regulations, and those of their
international counterparts, mandate testing that requires HPLC instrumentation.

        Waters manufactures over 100 HPLC instruments.  A complete HPLC system 
consists of five basic components: the solvent delivery system, the sample
injector, the separation column, the detector and the data acquisition unit. The
solvent delivery system pumps the solvent through the HPLC system, while the
sample injector injects the sample into the solvent flow. The separation column
then separates the sample into its components for analysis by the detector which
measures the presence and amount of 


 
the constituents. The data acquisition unit then records and stores the
information from the detector. Instrument and system sales comprise
approximately two thirds of the Company's annual revenues.

        Consumable products and service comprise the remaining one third of 
annual revenues. Consumable products primarily are columns packed with
separation media used in the HPLC testing process and are replaced at regular
intervals. The separation column contains one of several types of packing,
typically stationary phase packing made from silica. As the sample flows through
the column it is separated into its constituent components.

        The acquisition of TAI expands the Company's product offerings to 
include thermal analysis and rheology products. Thermal analysis measures the
physical characteristics of materials as a function of temperature. Changes in
temperature affect several characteristics of materials such as their physical
state, weight, dimension and mechanical and electrical properties, which may be
measured by one or more thermal analysis techniques. Consequently, thermal
analysis techniques are widely used in the development, production and
characterization of materials in various industries such as plastics, chemicals,
automobiles, pharmaceuticals and electronics. Rheology instruments complement
thermal analyzers in characterizing materials. Rheology characterizes the flow
properties of materials and measures their viscosity, elasticity and deformation
under different types of loading. The information obtained provides insight with
regard to a material's behavior during manufacture, transport, usage and
storage. Approximately 80% of TAI's annual revenues pertain to instrument sales.

Customers

        Waters has a broad and diversified customer base that includes 
pharmaceutical accounts, other industrial accounts, universities and government
agencies. The pharmaceutical segment represents the Company's largest sector and
includes multinational pharmaceutical companies, generic drug manufacturers and
biotechnology companies. The Company's other industrial customers include
chemical manufacturers, polymer manufacturers, food and beverage companies and
environmental testing laboratories. Expanding into the industrial customer
segment is the primary business objective behind the acquisition of TAI. The
instrumentation used to make physical measurements (based on thermal analysis)
is found in almost all customer settings that also utilize the Company's gel
permeation chromatography. Furthermore, there is an important relationship
between the information obtained from gel permeation chromatography analysis and
the properties that can be measured by thermal analysis.

        The Company also sells to various universities and government agencies 
worldwide and Waters' technical support staff work closely with these customers
in developing and implementing applications that meet their full range of
analytical requirements.

        The Company does not rely on any one customer or group of customers for 
a material portion of its sales. During fiscal 1996, no customer accounted for
more than 2% of the Company's net sales.

Research and Development

        Waters maintains an active research and development program focused on 
the development and commercialization of products which both complement and
update the existing product offering. The Company's research and development
expenditures, including those of the Predecessor, for 1996, 1995 and 1994, were
$20.9 million, $17.7 million and $20.2 million, respectively. Nearly all of the
current HPLC core products of the Company have been developed at the main
research and development center in Milford, Massachusetts, with input and
feedback from Waters' extensive field organization. Nearly all of the current
thermal analysis products have been developed at TAI's research and development
center in New Castle, Delaware and nearly all of the current rheology products
have been developed at the TAI facility in England. At December 31, 1996, there
were approximately 190 employees involved in the Company's research and
development efforts, with approximately 30 employees at TAI. Among its various
accomplishments, the Company recently attained accreditation with strict
International Standards Organization ("ISO") 9001 standards for software
development.


 
Sales and Service

        Waters has the largest sales and service team focused exclusively on 
HPLC in the industry. The Company serves its customer base through over 615
field representatives in 59 sales offices throughout the world, excluding TAI.
Many of Waters' field representatives are former Waters' customers. The sales
representatives have direct responsibility for account relationships, while
service representatives work in the field to install instruments and minimize
instrument downtime for customers. Technical support representatives work
directly with customers, helping them to develop customized applications and
procedures to expand the use of HPLC as a testing method. Waters provides
customers with comprehensive product literature and also makes consumable
products available through a dedicated catalog. TAI sells and services its own
products through over 100 field representatives in 11 offices throughout the
world.

Manufacturing

        Waters provides high quality HPLC products by controlling each stage of 
production of its instruments and columns. The Company assembles most of its
instruments at its facility in Milford, Massachusetts, where it performs
machining, wiring, assembly and testing. The Milford facility employs
manufacturing techniques that meet the strict ISO 9002 quality manufacturing
standards and FDA mandated Good Manufacturing Practices. The Company outsources
manufacturing of certain electronic components such as computers and screens to
outside vendors that can meet the Company's quality requirements.

        The Company manufactures its columns at its facility in Taunton, 
Massachusetts, where it processes, sizes and treats silica and polymer media
that are packed into columns, solid phase extraction cartridges and bulk
shipping containers. The Taunton facility meets the same ISO and FDA standards
met by the Milford, Massachusetts facility and is approved by the FDA to produce
Class 1 medical devices.

        TAI manufactures its thermal analysis products at its New Castle, 
Delaware facility and its rheology products at its Leatherhead, England
facility.
 
Competition

        The analytical instrument and systems market is highly competitive.  
The Company encounters competition from several worldwide instrument
manufacturers in both domestic and foreign markets, although only one other
company focuses principally on the HPLC market. Waters competes in this market
primarily on the basis of instrument performance, reliability and service and,
to a lesser extent, price. Many competitors who are not solely focused on the
HPLC market have instrument businesses that are much larger than the Company's
business. Certain competitors have greater financial and other resources than
the Company.

        The market for consumable products, including separation columns, is 
also highly competitive but is more fragmented than the instruments market.
Waters encounters competition in the columns market from chemical companies that
produce column chemicals and small specialized companies that pack and
distribute columns. The Company believes that it is one of the few suppliers
that processes silica, packs columns, and distributes its own product. Waters
competes in this market on the basis of reproducibility, reputation and
performance, and, to a lesser extent, price.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

        Waters owns a number of United States and foreign patents and has 
patent applications pending in the United States and abroad. Certain technology
and software is licensed from third parties. Waters also owns a number of
trademarks. While the patents, licenses and trademarks are viewed as valuable
assets, the Company's patent position is not of material importance to its
operations.


 
Employees

        At December 31, 1996, Waters had approximately 1,865 employees, 
excluding TAI. More than 60% of the Company's employees are located in the
United States. Labor relations are considered to be excellent and no Waters
employees have union affiliations. At December 31, 1996, TAI had approximately
225 employees worldwide and their geographic distribution was similar to the
distribution of Waters employees.

Environmental Matters

        The Company is subject to Federal, state and local laws, regulations 
and ordinances that (i) govern activities or operations that may have adverse
environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water, as well as handling
and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes, and (ii) impose liability
for the costs of cleaning up, and certain damages resulting from sites of past
spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances. The Company
believes that it currently conducts its operations, and in the past has operated
its business, in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws. From
time to time, operations of the Company have resulted or may result in
noncompliance with or liability for cleanup pursuant to environmental laws. The
Company does not currently anticipate any material adverse effect on its
operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of its
efforts to comply with environmental laws.

        Millipore has been notified that the United States Environmental 
Protection Agency has determined that a release or a threat of a release of
hazardous substances as defined by CERCLA has occurred at certain sites to which
chemical wastes generated by the manufacturing operations of the Predecessor
have been sent. In each instance, Millipore was only one of a large number of
corporations and entities which received such notification, and anticipates that
any ultimate liability for remedial costs will be shared by others. In any
instances involving chemical wastes generated by the Predecessor, Millipore has
entered into partial settlements, paid its proportionate financial obligation
and received partial releases.

        In connection with the Acquisition, Millipore agreed to retain 
environmental liabilities resulting from pre-acquisition operations of the
Company's facilities. Notwithstanding this contractual agreement, under CERCLA
and similar environmental laws, the Company may remain primarily liable to
certain persons for environmental cleanup costs.

Item 2: PROPERTIES

        Waters operates 16 United States facilities and 55 international 
facilities. The Company believes its facilities are adequate for its current
production level and for reasonable growth over the next few years. The
Company's primary facilities are summarized in the table below.

Primary Facility Locations

Location           Function (1)       Owned/Leased     Square Feet (000's)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Milford, MA                 M, R, S       Owned               408
Taunton, MA                 M             Owned               32
St. Quentin, France         S             Leased              18
Singapore                   S             Leased               5
Tokyo, Japan                R, S          Leased              12
New Castle, DE (2)          M, R, S       Leased              48
Leatherhead, England (2)    M, R, S       Leased              12
______________
                    
(1) M =  Manufacturing; R = Research; S = Sales
(2) TAI facilities


 
        Waters operates and maintains 13 field offices in the United States and
55 field offices abroad in addition to sales offices in Milford, MA and New
Castle, DE. The Company's primary field office locations are listed below.

Field Office Locations (3) 

 
______________

(3) Waters operates more than one office within certain 
states and foreign countries.

Item 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

        From time to time, the Company and its subsidiaries are involved in 
various litigation matters arising in the ordinary course of its business. None
of the matters in which the Company or its subsidiaries are currently involved,
either individually or in the aggregate, is material to the Company or its
subsidiaries.

        The Company is currently asserting a claim against Millipore under 
arbitration procedures specified in the purchase and sale agreement to the
Predecessor. The Company contends that Millipore has undervalued the amount of
assets it is obligated to transfer from the Millipore Retirement Plan to the
Waters successor plan. The Company believes it has meritorious arguments and
should prevail although the outcome is not certain. The Company believes that
any outcome of the arbitration proceeding will not be material to the Company.
 
Item 4: SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

                None.   


                                    PART II

Item 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

        The Company's Common Stock is registered under the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol WAT.
As of March 24, 1997, the Company had approximately 314 common stockholders
of record. The Company has not declared or paid any cash or other dividends on
its Common Stock and does not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable
future. On September 12, 1995 the Company declared and paid a special
distribution of $16,195,169.


 
        The quarterly range of high and low sales prices for the Common Stock 
as reported by the New York Stock Exchange is as follows:

                                                              Price Range 
                                                              -----------
For the quarter ended                                       High       Low
- ---------------------                                       ----       ---
December 31, 1995 (commencing November 17, 1995)        $ 18 1/8    $ 13 1/4
March 31, 1996                                             24 5/8     16 3/4
June 30, 1996                                              33         24 3/8
September 30, 1996                                         33         25 1/4
December 31, 1996                                          33 5/8     25 7/8

Item 6: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

        Reference is made to information contained in the section entitled 
"Selected Financial Data" on page 55 of the 1996 Annual Report, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7:  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

        Reference is made to the information on pages 29 to 35 of the 1996 
Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

        Reference is made to the Company's consolidated financial statements 
and notes thereto on pages 37 to 53 of the 1996 Annual Report together with the
"Report of Independent Accountants" dated January 22, 1997 on page 36 and
"Quarterly Results" on page 54, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 9: CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        None.   


                                   PART III


Item 10:  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        a.  Information concerning the Registrant's directors is set forth in 
the Proxy Statement under the headings "Election of Directors" and "Directors
Meetings and Compensation." Such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

        b.  Information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is set forth in 
the Proxy Statement under the heading "Director and Officer and Ten Percent
Stockholder Securities Reports." Such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 11:  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

        Information concerning compensation of the Registrant's executive 
officers is set forth in the Proxy Statement under the heading "Management
Compensation." Such information is incorporated herein by reference.


 
Item 12:  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

        Information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners 
and management is set forth in the Proxy Statement under the heading "Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners." Such information is incorporated herein
by reference.

Item 13:  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

        Information concerning certain relationships and related transactions 
is set forth in the Proxy Statement under the heading "Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions." Such information is incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART IV


Item 14:  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) Documents filed as part of this report

        (1)  Reference is made to the Company's consolidated financial
             statements and notes thereto on pages 37 to 53 of the 1996 Annual
             Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

        (2)  Not Applicable.

        (3)  List of exhibits

        Exhibit
        Number  Description of Document
        ------- -----------------------
        3.1     Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation 
                of Waters Corporation, as amended to date. (1)

        3.2     Amended and Restated Bylaws of Waters Corporation, as 
                amended to date. (1)

        10.1    Credit Agreement, dated as of November 22, 1995, among Waters
                Corporation, Waters Technologies Corporation, Bankers Trust
                Company and other Lenders party thereto. (2)

        10.2    First Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of March 6, 1996
                among Waters Corporation, Waters Technologies Corporation,
                Bankers Trust Company and other Lenders party thereto. (2)

        10.3    Waters Corporation Amended and Restated 1996 Long-Term
                Performance Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                A of the Proxy Statement for the 1996 Annual Meeting of
                Stockholders ("1996 Proxy Statement").

        10.4    Waters Corporation 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
                Incorporated by reference to Exhibit B of the 1996 Proxy
                Statement.

        10.5    Waters Corporation 1996 Non-Employee Director Deferred
                Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit C of the
                1996 Proxy Statement.


 
        10.6    Waters Corporation Amended and Restated 1996 Non-Employee
                Directors Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit D of the 1996 Proxy Statement.

        10.7    Agreement and Plan of Merger among Waters Corporation, TA Merger
                Sub, Inc. and TA Instruments, Inc. dated as of March 28, 1996.
                Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Report on Form 8-K
                dated March 29, 1996.

        10.8    Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement, dated
                March 7, 1996, of Waters Technologies Corporation. Incorporated
                by reference to the Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated March
                11, 1996.

        10.9    WCD Investors, Inc. Amended and Restated 1994 Stock Option Plan,
                as amended (including Form of Amended and Restated Stock Option
                Agreement). (2)

        10.10   Waters Corporation Retirement Plan. (2)

        10.11   Registration Rights Agreement made as of August 18, 1994, by and
                among WCD Investors, Inc., AEA Investors, Inc., certain
                investment funds controlled by Bain Capital, Inc. and other
                stockholders of Waters Corporation. (2)

        10.12   Form of Indemnification Agreement, dated as of August 18, 1994,
                between WCD Investors, Inc. and its directors and executive
                officers. (2)

        10.13   Form of Management Subscription Agreement, dated as of August
                18, 1994, between WCD Investors, Inc. and certain members of
                management. (2)

        11.1    Statement of Computation of Per Share Earnings.

        13.1    1996 Annual Report to Stockholders.

        13.2    Report of the Independent Accountants

        13.3    Report of the Independent Accountants

        21.1    Subsidiaries of Waters Corporation. (1)

        22.1    Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

        23.1    Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

        23.2    Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

        27.1    Financial Data Schedule.

        ______________
        (1)     Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Report on 
                Form 10-K dated March 29, 1996.
        (2)     Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Registration 
                Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-3810).


(b) Reports on Form 8-K

                No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the three month period 
                ended December 31, 1996.


 
                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:   March 24, 1997             Waters Corporation
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   /s/ Philip S. Taymor
                                   -----------------------------
                                   Philip S. Taymor
                                   Senior Vice President, Finance and
                                   Administration and Chief Financial Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities indicated on March 25, 1997.

 


