
10-K
0001.txt



                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
[X] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

[ ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934
For the transition period from      to
                               ----    ----

Commission File Number 1-3492
                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

             Delaware                                        75-2677995
    (State or other jurisdiction of                       (I.R.S. Employer
    incorporation of organization)                        Identification No.)

            3600 Lincoln Plaza, 500 N. Akard St., Dallas, Texas 75201
                    (Address of principal executive offices)
                   Telephone Number - Area code (214) 978-2600

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                        Name of each Exchange on
       Title of each class                                 which registered
       -------------------                                 ----------------
Common Stock par value $2.50 per share                   New York Stock Exchange
Baroid Corporation 8% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2003   New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No______

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of Common Stock held by nonaffiliates on February 28,
2001,  determined  using  the per  share  closing  price on the New  York  Stock
Exchange   Composite   tape   of   $39.82  on  that   date   was   approximately
$17,029,000,000.

As of  February 28, 2001, there were 428,468,110 shares  of Halliburton  Company
Common Stock $2.50 par value per share outstanding.

Portions of the  Halliburton  Company Proxy  Statement dated March 20, 2001, are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.



PART I

Item 1. Business.
     General  development of business.  Halliburton  Company's  predecessor  was
established in 1919 and incorporated  under the laws of the State of Delaware in
1924.   Halliburton   Company   provides  a  variety  of  services,   equipment,
maintenance,   and  engineering  and  construction  to  energy,  industrial  and
governmental customers.  Information related to acquisitions and dispositions is
set forth in Note 2 to the financial statements of this annual report. Financial
information about business segments. We operate in two business segments:
         -   Energy Services Group; and
         -   Engineering and Construction Group.
     Dresser Equipment Group is currently  presented as discontinued  operations
resulting from the decision of the Board of Directors to sell Dresser  Equipment
Group as it does not fit our core business goals and  objectives.  See Note 4 to
the financial statements for financial information about our business segments.
     Description  of  services  and  products.  Our  ability  to mix,  bundle or
integrate  products and services to meet the varied needs of our customers is of
increasing importance in the highly competitive environment in which we operate.
We believe that, based upon our customers' requirements, our future success will
depend, in part, upon our ability to offer total capabilities and solutions on a
global,  industry-encompassing  scale as well as discrete services and products.
Our business  strategy is focused on continuing to maintain global leadership in
providing our customers discrete services, products,  engineering,  construction
and maintenance which can be combined with our project  management  capabilities
to provide our customers a wide range of integrated solutions.  This strategy is
dependent upon four key goals: - technological leadership;
         -   operational excellence;
         -   innovative business relationships; and
         -   a dynamic workforce.
     We offer a broad suite of products  and  services  through the two business
segments which operate  globally as five business units.  The following  summary
describes our services and products for each business segment and unit.
     ENERGY SERVICES GROUP
     The Energy Services Group segment consists of Halliburton  Energy Services,
Brown & Root Energy  Services,  and Landmark  Graphics.  This segment provides a
wide range of  discrete  services  and  products  and  integrated  solutions  to
customers for the  exploration,  development  and production of oil and gas. The
segment serves independent, integrated, and national oil companies.
     Halliburton  Energy Services  provides  discrete  products and services and
integrated  solutions for oil and gas  exploration,  development  and production
throughout the world. Products and services range from the initial evaluation of
producing  formations to drilling,  completion,  production and well maintenance
for a single well or an entire field.  Major product and service line  offerings
include:
         -   pressure pumping, including:
             -   cementing,
             -   production enhancement (fracturing and acidizing), and
             -   tools and testing;
         -   logging;
         -   drilling systems;
         -   drilling fluids systems;
         -   drill bits; and
         -   specialized completion and  production  equipment and services, and
             well control products and services.
     Cementing  is the  process  used to bond the well  and  well  casing  while
isolating fluid zones and maximizing wellbore stability. This is accomplished by
pumping  cement and chemical  additives to fill the space between the casing and
the side of the  wellbore.  Our  cementing  service  line also  provides  casing
equipment and services.



     Production  enhancement  optimizes oil and gas reservoirs through a variety
of pressure pumping services, including: fracturing and acidizing, sand control,
coiled tubing, well control,  nitrogen services,  and specialty services.  These
services  are used to clean out a formation or to fracture  formations  to allow
increased oil and gas production.
     Tools  and  testing  includes  tubing-conveyed   perforating  products  and
services, drill stem and other well testing tools, data acquisition services and
production applications.
     Logging  products  and  services  include our  Magnetic  Resonance  Imaging
Logging (MRIL(R)), high-temperature logging as well as traditional open-hole and
cased-hole  logging  tools.  MRIL(R)  tools apply  medical  diagnostic  magnetic
resonance imaging  technology to the evaluation of subsurface rock formations in
newly  drilled oil and gas wells.  Our high  temperature  logging  tools combine
advanced  electronic  and  mechanical  tool  designs,  quality  materials  and a
telemetry  system to  operate in high  temperature  and high  pressure  downhole
environments.   Open-hole  tools  provide  information  on  well  visualization,
formation   evaluation   (including   resistivity,   porosity,   lithology   and
temperature),  rock mechanics and sampling.  Cased-hole tools provide  cementing
evaluation,   reservoir   monitoring,   pipe   evaluation,   pipe  recovery  and
perforating.
     Drilling systems and services are provided by Sperry-Sun  Drilling Systems.
These    services     include     directional    and    horizontal     drilling,
measurement-while-drilling,   logging-while-drilling,   multilateral  wells  and
related completion systems, and rig site information systems.
     Drilling  fluids  systems are  provided by Baroid  Drilling  Fluids.  These
services  provide  fluid  systems  and  performance  additives  for  oil and gas
drilling, completion and workover operations. In addition, Baroid sells products
for a wide variety of industrial customers.
     Drill bits,  offered by Security DBS,  include roller cone rock bits, fixed
cutter bits,  coring  equipment and services,  and other  downhole tools used to
drill wells.
     Completion  products  include  subsurface  safety  valves and flow  control
equipment,  surface safety systems,  packers and specialty completion equipment,
production  automation,  well  screens,  well control  services,  and  slickline
equipment and services.
     Halliburton  Energy  Services  also  provides  fully  integrated   oilfield
management and technical expertise in the following areas:
         -   integrated solutions; and
         -   reservoir description.
     Integrated  solutions provides  value-added oilfield project management and
solutions to  independent,  integrated,  and national oil companies.  Integrated
solutions  enhance field  deliverability  and maximize the customer's  return on
investment.  These services  leverage all Halliburton  Energy  Services  product
service  lines  and   technologies  as  well  as  overall   project   management
capabilities.
     Reservoir   description   is  composed  of  two  groups  -  geoscience  and
engineering,  and  computed  products.  The  geoscience  and  engineering  group
provides a comprehensive  suite of products  including  opportunity  assessment,
reservoir characterization,  field development planning, production enhancement,
reservoir  surveillance,  and reservoir management.  The computed products group
provides   interpretation   for  wellbore  imaging,   waveform  sonics,   cement
evaluation,  production,  and a  variety  of  open  and  cased-hole  information
evaluation  logs.  By  combining   reservoir   description  with  field  service
capabilities  and  technology,  Halliburton  Energy Services  provides  complete
reservoir solutions.
     Brown  &  Root  Energy   Services   provides   worldwide   engineering  and
construction  services to the  upstream oil and gas  industry.  Projects for our
customers are executed on a cost reimbursable or lump-sum,  turnkey basis. Brown
& Root Energy  Services  offers  deepwater  and  floating  production  solutions
including  deepwater  riser  solutions,  floating  production  technologies  and
project management systems tailored to the specific needs of our customers.  The
offshore group integrates capabilities required to plan, engineer, construct and
operate   offshore   production   facilities.   The  group  includes   front-end
engineering,   detailed   engineering,   project  management,   procurement  and
construction,  fabrication,  and production  services.  Capabilities include the
engineering,  procurement and  construction of offshore  drilling and production
platforms, process skids and modules, subsea components,  turret mooring systems
and production manifolds, structural pipe/caissons, semi-drilling rig components
and prefabricated components.



     Brown & Root Energy Services'  divisions  provide both onshore and offshore
support to customers.
         -   Halliburton   Subsea   provides   construction   and   installation
             capabilities, including a comprehensive fleet of semi-submersibles,
             remotely-operated vehicles and support vessels.  These vehicles and
             vessels are  used to install subsea manifolds,  templates,  spools,
             fixed risers, dynamic risers, mechanical connections,  pilings  and
             flexible pipelines.  Halliburton Subsea also provides trenching and
             repair operations.
         -   Wellstream manufactures and  supplies flexible pipe.  Flexible pipe
             is used  primarily in the  offshore oil  and gas industry  for both
             topside and subsea applications.
         -   Fabrication  products  and services  are provided  by Brown  & Root
             Energy Services at  one facility and  Brown & Root  Energy Services
             and a joint venture partner at two additional facilities.
         -   Pipeline services provided by our European Marine Contractors joint
             venture  includes  full   turnkey  pipeline  services  to  offshore
             customers.
         -   Pipecoating   services   are   provided   by  our   joint  venture,
             Bredero-Shaw.
         -   Granherne capabilities  include feasibility, conceptual  and front-
             end  engineering  and  design,  detailed  engineering, procurement,
             construction    site   management,   commissioning,   startup   and
             de-bottlenecking of both onshore and offshore facilities.
     Landmark Graphics provides  integrated  exploration and production software
information  systems and professional  services.  Landmark's software transforms
vast  quantities  of  seismic,  well log and other data into  detailed  computer
models  of  petroleum  reservoirs  to  optimize  exploration,   development  and
production decisions.  Landmark's products and services integrate data workflows
and operational  processes across  disciplines  including  geophysics,  geology,
drilling,  engineering,  production,  economics, finance and corporate planning,
and key partners and suppliers.
     ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION GROUP
     The Engineering and Construction Group segment, consisting of Kellogg Brown
& Root and Brown & Root  Services,  provides a wide range of  services to energy
and industrial customers and government entities worldwide.
     Kellogg Brown & Root is a global provider of  technology-based  engineering
and  construction   services  using  proprietary   processes  including  project
development,   technology   licensing  and  development,   consulting,   project
management, engineering,  procurement,  construction, operations and maintenance
services.  Projects for our customers are often executed on a lump-sum,  turnkey
basis, including:
         -   engineering, procurement and construction services for:
             -   liquefied natural gas and gas processing facilities;
             -   ammonia plant design and technology;
             -   olefins, polymer and phenol plants; and
             -   forest products facilities;
         -   industrial maintenance services to private sector customers; and
         -   planning,  process  technologies and  engineering,  procurement and
             construction services  in the construction  of refineries utilizing
             proprietary    techniques     in    fluid    catalytic    cracking,
             hydroprocessing, and residuum processing.
     Brown & Root  Services  is a  global  provider  to the  private  (primarily
non-energy) and government  sectors  offering  planning,  design,  construction,
operations, maintenance, asset management and decommissioning of infrastructure,
facilities  and  installations.  The following  summarizes  the business  unit's
product service lines and their distinctive capabilities:
         -   management  and  engineering  -  consulting  and civil  engineering
             services   providing  master  planning   and  consulting,   design,
             engineering,  project and  construction  management,  and  facility
             start-up;
         -   construction  - management  of large  infrastructure  and  building
             projects.   Other   services   include  on-call  construction   and
             facilities modification and repair;



         -   operations,  maintenance and  logistics - operation  of  government
             facilities and  installations, including  the provisioning  of food
             and housing  services for the  life-cycle of large  scale projects,
             weapons  demilitarization,  aircraft servicing,  fuels handling and
             management,   refuse    collection,   equipment   maintenance   and
             operations,  public works support, and transportation services; and
         -   investment  management - participation  in  the  design,  building,
             financing and  operation and ownership of  toll roads,  marine, and
             other public sector facilities.
     DRESSER EQUIPMENT GROUP
     The Dresser Equipment Group, now accounted for as discontinued  operations,
is made up of the  operating  divisions  that  design,  manufacture  and  market
equipment  used by the energy  industry  to  complete  the  process of  finding,
extracting,  processing,  and  delivering  petroleum  and its related  products.
Dresser  Equipment  Group  products  are  also  used  by a  multitude  of  other
industries that serve all sectors of the economy.
     Product service lines in this segment include:
         -   compression and pumping;
         -   measurement;
         -   flow control; and
         -   power systems.
     The  compression  and  pumping  product  service  line  included  two joint
ventures: Dresser-Rand and Ingersoll-Dresser Pump. Dresser-Rand manufactures and
services gas turbines;  centrifugal,  reciprocating and axial compressors;  stem
turbines; electric motors and generators. Ingersoll-Dresser Pump provides a wide
range  of  pumps  for  use  in  process  and  petrochemical  industries,   power
generation,  pulp and paper, water resources,  mining, pipeline, marine, general
industry and  agriculture.  In October 1999, we decided to sell our interests in
Dresser-Rand and  Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump to  Ingersoll-Rand.  Ingersoll-Dresser
Pump was sold on December 30, 1999. Dresser-Rand was sold on February 2, 2000.
     The measurement product service line includes the DMD-Roots, Instrument and
Wayne Divisions.  DMD produces gas meters,  electronic products for gas systems,
pipe  fittings,  couplings  and repair  devices for gas and water  utilities and
other  industries.  Roots  manufactures  rotary-lobe and centrifugal air and gas
handling  blowers as well as vacuum pumps.  Instrument  products include gauges,
thermometers,  switches, transducers,  transmitters and instrument isolators for
pressure  and  temperature  measurement  and  control.  Wayne  manufactures  and
supplies retail automation control and fuel dispensing systems worldwide.
     The flow control  product  service line includes the Dresser Valve division
which manufactures ball, gate, check, butterfly,  plug, safety relief, automated
globe,   rotary  control  and  specialty  valves;   chemical   injection  pumps;
regulators; surge relievers and actuators.
     The power  systems  product  service  line  includes  the  Waukesha  Engine
Division.  Waukesha  manufactures  spark  ignited  gaseous  fueled  engines  and
packaged engine-driven generator sets used in field gas compression.
     In April  2000,  we  determined  that the  remaining  parts of our  Dresser
Equipment  Group  business did not closely fit our core  businesses  and at that
time we  announced  our  intention  to sell  this  business.  See  Note 3 to the
financial statements for additional  information on the sale of our interests in
these activities.
     Markets  and  competition.  We are one of the world's  largest  diversified
energy  services  and  engineering  and  construction  services  companies.  Our
services and  products are sold in highly  competitive  markets  throughout  the
world. Competitive factors impacting sales of our services and products include:
price, service (including the ability to deliver services and products on an "as
needed,   where  needed"  basis),   product  quality,   warranty  and  technical
proficiency.  While we provide a wide range of discrete services and products, a
number of customers  have  indicated a preference  for  integrated  services and
solutions.  In the case of the Energy  Services Group,  integrated  services and
solutions relate to all phases of exploration, development and production of oil
and gas.  In the case of the  Engineering  and  Construction  Group,  integrated
services   and   solutions   relate  to  all  phases  of  design,   procurement,
construction, project management and maintenance of a facility. Demand for these
types of integrated  services and solutions is based  primarily  upon quality of
service, technical proficiency and value created.
     We conduct business worldwide in over 120 countries.  Since the markets for
our services and products  are so large and cross so many  geographic  lines,  a
meaningful  estimate of the number of competitors cannot be made. The industries
we serve  are  highly  competitive  and we have  many  substantial  competitors.
Generally,  our services and products are marketed through our own servicing and
sales organizations. A  small percentage of  sales of the Energy Service Group's



and  Dresser  Equipment  Group's  products  is made  through  supply  stores and
third-party representatives.
     Operations  in  some  countries  may be  adversely  affected  by  unsettled
political conditions,  expropriation or other governmental actions, and exchange
control and currency problems. We believe the geographic  diversification of our
business  activities reduces the risk that loss of operations in any one country
would be material to the conduct of our operations taken as a whole. Information
regarding our exposures to foreign currency  fluctuations,  risk  concentration,
and financial instruments used to minimize risk is included on page 17 under the
caption  "Financial  Instrument  Market  Risk"  and in Note 17 to the  financial
statements.
     Customers and backlog. In 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively,  84%, 83% and
87% of our revenues  from  continuing  operations  were derived from the sale of
products and services to the energy industry.  The following schedule summarizes
the backlog from continuing  operations of engineering and construction projects
at December 31, 2000 and 1999:

     We estimate  that 50% of the total  backlog  existing at December  31, 2000
will be completed  during 2001.  Our backlog  excludes  contracts  for recurring
hardware  and  software  maintenance  and  support  services.  Backlog  does not
indicate  what future  operating  results  will be because  backlog  figures are
subject to  substantial  fluctuations.  Arrangements  included in backlog are in
many instances  extremely complex,  nonrepetitive in nature and may fluctuate in
contract  value and timing.  Many contracts do not provide for a fixed amount of
work to be  performed  and are subject to  modification  or  termination  by the
customer.  The termination or modification of any one or more sizeable contracts
or the addition of other contracts may have a substantial  and immediate  effect
on backlog.
     Raw materials. Raw materials essential to our business are normally readily
available.  Where we are dependent on a single supplier for materials  essential
to our business,  we are confident that we could make  satisfactory  alternative
arrangements in the event of an interruption in supply.
     Research,  development  and  patents.  We maintain an active  research  and
development  program.  The program  improves  existing  products and  processes,
develops new products and  processes  and  improves  engineering  standards  and
practices that serve the changing needs of our customers.  Information  relating
to our  expenditures for research and development is included in Note 1 and Note
4 to the financial statements.
     We own a large number of patents and have pending a  substantial  number of
patent  applications  covering  various  products  and  processes.  We are  also
licensed under patents owned by others.  We do not consider a particular  patent
or group of patents to be material to our business.
     Seasonality.  Weather  and natural  phenomena  can  temporarily  affect the
performance of our services.  Winter months in the Northern  Hemisphere  tend to
affect operations negatively,  but the widespread  geographical locations of our
operations serve to mitigate the seasonal nature of our business.
     Employees.  At December 31, 2000, we employed  approximately  93,000 people
worldwide including about 9,000 related to discontinued operations.  At December
31, 1999, we employed  approximately  103,000 people  worldwide  including about
15,000 related to discontinued operations.
     Environmental  regulation. We are subject to various environmental laws and
regulations.  Compliance with these requirements has not substantially increased
capital expenditures,  adversely affected our competitive position or materially
affected our earnings.  We do not anticipate any material adverse effects in the
foreseeable  future as a result of existing  environmental laws and regulations.
See Note 9 to the financial statements.



Item 2. Properties.
     We own or lease hundreds of properties  throughout the world. The following
are the  locations of our  principal  facilities,  the facility  types and their
square footage for the continuing operations of our industry segments:



(continued on next page)




     In addition to the above listed properties, we own or lease:
         -   marine  fabrication  facilities covering  approximately  790  acres
             in Texas, England, and Scotland;
         -   mineral grinding facilities in Wyoming, Brazil, Colombia, Peru, and
             Venezuela covering approximately 660 acres;
         -   160 acre employee recreational facility in Oklahoma;
         -   outdoor storage and  undeveloped land covering 134 acres in  Texas,
             Scotland, Australia, and Algeria; and
         -   service   centers,   sales   offices   and   field   warehouses  at
             approximately 220  locations in  the United  States, almost  all of
             which are  owned, and  at approximately  250 locations  outside the
             United States in both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres.
     We also have mineral  rights to proven and  prospective  reserves of barite
and bentonite. These rights include leaseholds, mining claims and property owned
in fee.  Based on the number of tons of each of the above  minerals  consumed in
fiscal 2000, we estimate our proven  reserves are  sufficient for operations for
the  foreseeable  future.  All  properties  that we currently  occupy are deemed
suitable for their intended use.
     Among the properties  listed in the  tables above that are currently vacant
or sublet:
         -   160 acre marine fabrication facility in Nigg, Scotland;
         -   408,000  square foot  manufacturing  facility in Fort Worth, Texas;
         -   54,000 square foot office  facility in Arlington, Texas; and
         -   204,000  square  foot  administrative  facility  in  Dallas, Texas.
     The  properties  listed  in  the  tables  above  exclude  the  discontinued
operations of Dresser Equipment Group.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.
     Information  relating to various commitments and contingencies is described
in Note 9 to the financial statements.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
     There were no matters  submitted to a vote of security  holders  during the
fourth quarter of 2000.



Executive Officers of the Registrant.

     The following table indicates the names and ages of the executive  officers
of the  registrant  as of February 1, 2001,  along with a listing of all offices
held by each during the past five years:

Name and Age                   Offices Held and Term of Office
- ------------                   -------------------------------
     Jerry H. Blurton          Vice President and Treasurer, since July 1996
     (Age 56)                  Vice President - Finance & Administration of
                                 Halliburton Energy Services, August 1995 to
                                 July 1996

     Margaret E. Carriere      Vice President Human Resources, since August 2000
     (Age 49)                  Vice President and Associate General Counsel of
                                 Halliburton Energy Services, Inc., February
                                 2000 to August 2000
                               Law Department Manager of Integration &
                                 Development of Halliburton Energy Services,
                                 Inc., October 1998 to February 2000
                               Region Chief Counsel (London) Europe/Africa Law
                                 Department of Halliburton Energy Services,
                                 Inc., May 1994 to September 1998

     Lester L. Coleman         Executive Vice President and General Counsel,
     (Age 58)                    since May 1993

     Robert F. Heinemann       Vice President and Chief Technology Officer,
     (Age 47)                    since February 2000
                               Vice President of Mobil Technology Company and
                                 General Manager of Mobil Exploration and
                                 Producing Technical Center, 1997 to February
                               Manager of Surface Engineering and Upstream
                                 Strategic Research of Mobil Technology Company,
                                 1996 to 1997
                               Manager of Upstream Strategic Research of Mobil
                                 Technology Company, 1995 to 1996

     Arthur D. Huffman         Vice President and Chief Information Officer,
     (Age 48)                    since August 2000
                               Chief Information Officer of Group Air Liquide,
                                 1997 to August 2000
                               Vice President - Information Technology of Air
                                 Liquide America Corporation, 1995 to 1997

     John W. Kennedy           Executive Vice President - Global Business
     (Age 50)                    Development, since April 2000
                               Chief Operating Office of Brown & Root Energy
                                 Services, 1998 to April 2000
                               President of Dresser Enterprises, an internal
                                 marketing group of Dresser Industries, Inc.,
                                 1997 to 1998
                               President and Chief Operating Officer of Kellogg
                                 Oil & Gas Services Limited, 1995 to 1997

*    David J. Lesar            Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
     (Age 47)                    Executive Officer, since August 2000
                               President and Chief Operating Officer, May 1997
                                 to August 2000
                               Executive  Vice  President  and  Chief  Financial
                                 Officer, August 1995 to May 1997
                               President and Chief Executive Officer of Kellogg
                                 Brown & Root, Inc., September 1996 to January



Executive Officers of the Registrant (continued)

Name and Age                   Offices Held and Term of Office
- ------------                   -------------------------------
     Gary V. Morris            Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
     (Age 47)                    Officer, since May 1997
                               Senior Vice President - Finance, February 1997 to
                                 May 1997
                               Senior Vice President, May 1996 to February 1997
                               Vice President - Finance of Brown & Root, Inc.,
                                 June 1995 to May 1996

     R. Charles Muchmore, Jr.  Vice President and Controller, since August 1996
     (Age 47)                  Finance & Administration Director - Europe/Africa
                                 of Halliburton Energy Services, September 1995
                                 to August 1996

     David A. Reamer           Senior Vice President, since May 2000
     (Age 48)                  Senior Vice President-Shared Services Division of
                                 Halliburton Energy Services, Inc., since May
                               Senior Vice President-Shared Services of
                                 Halliburton Company, May 1998 to October 1998
                               Senior Vice President-Global Delivery of
                                 Products, Services and Solutions of
                                 Halliburton Energy Services, September 1997 to
                                 May 1998
                               Vice President-Global Delivery of Products,
                                 Services and Solutions of Halliburton Energy
                                 Services, April 1997 to September 1997
                               Vice President-Integrated Solutions of
                                 Halliburton Energy Services, August 1995 to
                                 April 1997

*    Donald C. Vaughn          Vice Chairman, since September 1998
     (Age 64)                  President and Chief Operating Officer of Dresser
                                 Industries, Inc., December 1996 to September
                               Executive Vice President, Dresser Industries,
                                 Inc., November 1995 to December 1996
                               Senior Vice President - Operations, Dresser
                                 Industries, Inc., January 1992 to November 1995
                               Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
                                 of M. W. Kellogg, Inc., June 1995 to June 1996
                               Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The M. W.
                                 Kellogg Company, September 1986 to June 1996




* Members of the Executive Committee of the registrant.
There  are  no  family  relationships  between  the  executive  officers  of the
registrant.



PART II

Item 5. Market  for  the  Registrant's  Common  Stock  and  Related  Stockholder
        Matters.
     Halliburton Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
and the Swiss  Exchange.  Information  relating to market prices of common stock
and quarterly dividend payment is included under the caption "Quarterly Data and
Market Price  Information"  on page 64 of this annual report.  Cash dividends on
common stock for 2000 and 1999 were paid in March, June,  September and December
of each  year.  Our board of  directors  intends  to  consider  the  payment  of
quarterly dividends on the outstanding shares of our common stock in the future.
The  declaration  and  payment  of  future  dividends,  however,  will be at the
discretion of the board of directors  and will depend upon,  among other things,
our:
         -   future earnings;
         -   general financial condition;
         -   success in business activities;
         -   capital requirements; and
         -   general business conditions.
     At December 31,  2000,  there were  approximately  25,800  shareholders  of
record. In calculating the number of shareholders, we consider clearing agencies
and security position listings as one shareholder for each agency or listing.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data.
     Information  relating  to selected  financial  data is included on pages 61
through 63 of this annual report.

Item 7. Management's Discussion and  Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations.
     Information  relating to management's  discussion and analysis of financial
condition  and results of  operations is included on pages 12 through 20 of this
annual report.

Item 7(a). Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
     Information relating to market risk is included in management's  discussion
and analysis of financial  condition and results of operations under the caption
"Financial Instrument Market Risk" on page 17 of this annual report.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.




                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
          Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
                           and Results of Operations

     In this  section,  we discuss the operating  results and general  financial
condition of Halliburton Company and its subsidiaries. We explain:
         -   factors and risks that impact our business;
         -   why our  earnings  and  expenses for  the year 2000 differ from the
             years 1999 and 1998;
         -   capital expenditures;
         -   factors that impacted our cash flows; and
         -   other  items  that  materially  affect  our  financial condition or
             earnings.

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
     Our continuing business is organized around two business segments:
         -   Energy Services Group; and
         -   Engineering and Construction Group.
     We also report the results of a third business  segment,  Dresser Equipment
Group, as discontinued operations.
     As the largest  provider  of products  and  services to the  petroleum  and
energy  industries,  the majority of the consolidated  revenues are derived from
the sale of services  and  products to large oil and gas  companies.  We conduct
business  in  over  120  countries  with  energy,  industrial  and  governmental
customers.  These  services  and  products  are used in the  earliest  phases of
exploration  and  development  of oil and gas reserves  through the refining and
distribution  process.  The industries we serve are highly competitive with many
substantial competitors for each segment.
     No country other than the United States or the United Kingdom  accounts for
more than 10% of our operations.  Unsettled political conditions,  expropriation
or other governmental  actions,  exchange controls and currency devaluations may
result in increased business risk in any one country,  including,  among others,
Algeria,   Angola,  Libya,  Nigeria,  and  Russia.  We  believe  the  geographic
diversification  of our  business  activities  reduces  the  risk  that  loss of
business in any one country  would be  material to our  consolidated  results of
operations.
     Halliburton Company
     The  year 2000  showed increased  activity in  the  North  American  energy
services environment. The international recovery from 1999 levels is expected to
materialize in 2001.  The engineering and construction business remains hampered
by  lower customer commitments;  however, we believe  the long-term fundamentals
remain   sound.   Rising    populations   in   many   countries    and   greater
industrialization  efforts   should  continue   to  propel   worldwide  economic
expansion, especially  in developing  nations.  We expect these factors to cause
increasing  demand for  oil and gas needed for refined products, petrochemicals,
fertilizers, power, and other needs.
     Energy Services Group
     During  2000,  the demand for the group's  oilfield  services  and products
recovered from lower levels in 1999 and late 1998. Consistent with past history,
the  activity  levels  in the  United  States  were the  first to  rebound  with
increased demand for products and services and an improved pricing  environment.
International  activity  began to improve in the second half of 2000.  Growth in
our business was driven  primarily by increased  rotary rig count on natural gas
wells in North America. The rotary rig count, which is an indicator of activity,
hit near-term  record highs for the third and fourth quarters after a brief drop
in the first half of the year.  Some experts  project that the average rig count
for 2001 will  increase over 20% as compared to 2000.  If forecasts  prove to be
accurate,  this would be the highest  level of activity in North  America  since
1985. This growth should have a favorable impact for the Energy Services Group.
     Crude oil prices  remained at or near record highs  throughout  2000,  with
West Texas  Intermediate  ending the year at over $32 per  barrel.  Natural  gas
prices continued to climb as a result of North America  experiencing the coldest
weather in recent years and low volumes of gas in storage.  Henry Hub gas prices
averaged  $6.20/MCF in the fourth quarter of 2000 and $8.12/MCF for the month of
December with occasional  spikes over $10.00/MCF during the month. For the year,
Henry Hub gas prices  averaged  $4.20/MCF  compared  to  $2.27/MCF  in 1999.  We
believe the  continued  high  commodity  prices bode well for the  industry  and
should  encourage  our  customers to increase  investments  in  exploration  and
production.



     Internationally, our business activity levels have not increased as much as
in North  America,  although  customers  who are focused on oil projects are now
starting  to  increase  their  global  capital   spending.   The  turnaround  in
international  rig activity  continued in the fourth  quarter,  with the highest
average  rig  count  since  1998 at 710 rigs  working  compared  to 576 in 1999.
However,   we  do  not  expect  to  see  any  significant   increase  in  larger
capital-intensive  field  development  projects  outside North America until the
second  half of 2001.  The merger and  consolidation  activities  of a number of
large  customers  over the past two  years  have  affected  the  demand  for our
products and services. The companies that have merged continue to evaluate their
oil and gas properties, refining and distribution facilities, and organizations.
This evaluation process has translated into a short-term reluctance to undertake
new  investments  resulting  in a lower  demand  for  some of our  products  and
services in 2000, especially outside North America.
     Engineering and Construction Group
     Most of the factors that  adversely  affected the Energy  Services Group in
1999 and 1998 also affected the  Engineering and  Construction  Group since over
half of the group's revenues come from customers in the oil and gas industry. We
believe  the  higher  rig  counts  experienced  in the  second  half of 2000 and
expected for 2001 should  positively  impact the  Engineering  and  Construction
Group, but much later in the cycle than the Energy Services Group.  Customers of
the  group  are  more  reluctant  to start  large  capital  projects,  including
refineries  and  petrochemical  plants,  during periods of uncertain oil prices.
Merged customers  rationalizing and optimizing their existing  capabilities have
further delayed  project starts.  The group has seen a number of large potential
projects deferred because of uncertain prices for petroleum products.  The group
is beginning to  experience  an increase in inquiries for bids and proposals for
potential new projects,  including several large international liquefied natural
gas projects. The Engineering and Construction Group has continued to expand its
services to the military - both in the United States and abroad.  The group sees
improving  opportunities to provide  additional support services to other United
States  agencies and to government  agencies of other  countries,  including the
United Kingdom. The demand for these services is expected to grow as governments
at all levels seek to control costs and improve services by outsourcing  various
functions.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS IN 2000 COMPARED TO 1999 AND 1998
REVENUES

     Revenues for 2000 were $11,944 million, a decrease of 3% from 1999 revenues
of $12,313 million and a decrease of 18% from 1998 revenues of $14,504  million.
In  regard  to  2000  compared  to  1999,   lower  levels  of   engineering  and
construction  revenues  in both  segments  were  partially  offset by  increased
oilfield services revenues within the Energy Services Group, particularly in the
United States.  In regard to 2000 compared  to 1998, the decline was experienced
in both segments.  While our oilfield services business recovered  substantially
during 2000, activity levels were still  about 10% lower than in 1998.  The 2000
total engineering and construction  activity within both segments was off almost
25% as  compared  to 1998 as  customers  continued  to  postpone  most major new
investments.  International  revenues were 66% of our  consolidated  revenues in
2000, compared with 70% in 1999 and 68% in 1998.
     Energy Services Group revenues were $7,916 million for 2000, an increase of
13% from  1999  revenues  of  $6,999  million  and a  decrease  of 12% from 1998
revenues of $9,009  million.  International  revenues  were 66% of total segment
revenues in 2000  compared  with 71% in 1999 and 67% in 1998.  Revenues  for the
group were positively impacted in late 1999 and throughout 2000 by increased rig
counts and  customer  spending,  particularly  within North  America,  following
increases in oil and gas prices that began in 1999. Increased demand for natural
gas and increased drilling activity  positively  benefited our oilfield services
product  service lines.  The pressure  pumping and logging product service lines
achieved revenue growth of 30% and 27%, respectively, compared to 1999. Drilling
fluids  increased  over 20%, while drill bits and  completion  products  service
lines increased about 14%.  Drilling systems service line revenues  increased by
7%. Geographically, strong North American activity resulted in revenue growth of
43%,  with growth  experienced  across all product  service lines in that region




compared to 1999. North America  generated 52% of total oilfield service product
service  line  revenues  for  2000  compared  to 44% in 1999.  Pressure  pumping
accounted  for  approximately  50% of the  increase  in  revenues  within  North
America,  reflecting higher activity levels in all work areas,  particularly the
Gulf of Mexico, South Texas, Canada, and Rocky Mountains. Revenues in the Middle
East and Latin America regions increased 16% and 12%, respectively,  compared to
1999. Europe/Africa revenues were up slightly while revenues in the Asia Pacific
region  declined  by  3%.  Activity  was  slower  to  increase   internationally
throughout   2000  despite  higher  oil  and  gas  prices.   The  turnaround  in
international  rig activity,  which started late in the second  quarter of 2000,
continued into the fourth quarter of 2000 when  international rig counts reached
the highest levels since late 1998.  Revenues also increased  across all regions
outside North America  during the fourth  quarter of 2000, as customer  spending
for exploration and production began to increase outside North America.
     Revenues from upstream oil and gas  engineering and  construction  services
declined  2% in 2000  compared  to 1999 and  about  20%  compared  to 1998.  The
decrease in 2000 reflects the continued  delay in engineering  and  construction
project  spending  by  our  customers.  Upstream  engineering  and  construction
business  revenues  benefited in 2000 from deepwater  projects in Latin America,
particularly  Mexico, and Africa,  reflecting the continued shift in work out of
the North Sea and into Latin America, Africa and Asia Pacific. In 1998, revenues
from upstream oil and gas engineering and construction  services  benefited from
large projects and from activities in the subsea,  pipecoating and flexible pipe
product service lines.
     Revenues for  integrated  exploration  and production  information  systems
reached  record high levels in 2000,  breaking  the  previous  high set in 1998.
Revenues  from  integrated   exploration  and  production   information  systems
increased 13% compared to 1999, and increased  slightly over 1998.  Increases in
software and  professional  services  revenues  were  partially  offset by lower
hardware  revenues,  which have been  de-emphasized.  Software sales contributed
just over 19% in revenue growth,  while professional  services increased over 7%
compared to 1999. In 1999 many  customers  for our  information  system  product
lines  put  off  software  purchases  due to  customers'  consolidations,  lower
activity levels and internal focus on Year 2000 issues.
     Engineering and  Construction  Group revenues were $4,028 million for 2000,
down 24% from $5,314  million in 1999 and down 27% from 1998  revenues of $5,495
million.  Higher oil and gas prices during 2000 did not translate into customers
proceeding  with new  awards of large  downstream  projects.  Many  other  large
projects, primarily gas and  liquefied  natural gas projects, were also delayed,
continuing a trend that started in 1999. In 1999 the group  increased  logistics
support services to military  peacekeeping  efforts in the Balkans and increased
activities  at the  Devonport  Dockyard  in the United  Kingdom.  The  logistics
support services to military  peacekeeping  efforts in the Balkans peaked in the
fourth quarter of 1999 as the main  construction  and procurement  phases of the
contract  were completed. These  increases partially offset  lower revenues from
engineering and construction projects, particularly major projects in Europe and
Africa,  which were winding down.  Revenues for the group in 1998 reflect higher
liquefied  natural gas project  revenues  in Asia and  Africa,  an enhanced  oil
recovery project in Africa, and a major ethylene project in Singapore.

OPERATING INCOME


     Operating  income was $462  million for 2000  compared to $401  million for
1999 and $170 million  for 1998. Business segment results include  restructuring
charges of $36 million in 2000 related to the  restructuring  of the engineering
and  construction  businesses.  See Note 11.  Excluding  special  credits of $47
million in 1999 and  special  charges of $959  million  during  1998,  operating
income for 2000 increased by 31% from 1999 and decreased 59% from 1998. See Note
12.



     Energy  Services  Group  operating  income  in 2000  was $526  million,  an
increase of 137% from 1999  operating  income of $222  million and a decrease of
46% compared to 1998 operating  income of $971 million.  Operating  margins were
6.6% in 2000,  up from 3.2% in 1999 and down from  10.8% in 1998.  Approximately
33%  of  the  Energy  Services   Group's   operating  income  was  derived  from
international activities  for 2000, compared  with 54% in 1999 and 1998.  During
2000,  strengthening  North American  drilling and oilfield activity resulted in
increased  equipment  utilization  and  improved  pricing  within  the  oilfield
services  product service lines.  Pressure  pumping  operating  income increased
about 135% compared to 1999 levels,  which were down about 70% compared to 1998,
while logging services operating income increased by over 200% compared to 1999.
Drilling fluids,  drilling systems and completion products were impacted by slow
recovery in international activity.  During the fourth quarter of 2000, oilfield
services  recorded an $8 million reversal of bad debts related to claims settled
by the United  Nations  against Iraq dating from the invasion of Kuwait in 1990.
Geographically,  strong oil and gas prices  throughout 2000 led to higher levels
of deepwater and onshore gas drilling within North America.  Activity  increases
in the Gulf of Mexico,  South Texas,  Canada, and Rocky Mountain work areas were
greater than most other areas.  Operating income outside North America continued
to lag the performance noted within North America,  reflecting  continued delays
in international exploration and production for oil and gas. On a positive note,
fourth  quarter  2000  operating  income  increased  across  all   international
geographic  regions  compared  to  the  third  quarter,   reflecting   increased
international spending by our customers.
     Operating  income  in  2000  for  upstream  oil  and  gas  engineering  and
construction  activities  declined by 5%  compared  to 1999 and 73%  compared to
1998.  Projects and  workloads are  increasingly  shifting from the North Sea to
Latin America, Africa and Asia Pacific.  Operating income benefited in 2000 from
a third quarter $88 million gain on sale of two semi-submersible vessels and one
multipurpose   support  vessel.   Lower  activity  levels   in  the  North  Sea,
particularly in the United Kingdom sector,  negatively impacted operating income
in 2000 and 1999 through lower  utilization  of  engineering  staff,  as well as
under utilization of manufacturing and fabricating capacity and subsea equipment
and  vessels,  which  carry large fixed  costs.  Given the number and  technical
complexity of the engineering and construction projects we perform, some project
losses are normal  occurrences.  However,  the environment for negotiations with
customers on claims and change orders has become more  difficult in the past few
years.  This  environment, combined  with  performance  issues  on a few  large,
technically  complex  jobs, contributed  to  unusually  high job losses on major
projects of $82 million in 2000,  including  $48 million in the fourth  quarter,
$77 million in 1999 and $99 million in 1998.  In addition,  the upstream oil and
gas engineering and construction  business recorded $11 million of restructuring
charges in 2000.
     Operating  income from integrated  exploration  and production  information
systems in 2000 increased almost 200% compared to 1999. Operating income in 2000
and 1999 was lower  than 1998 due to lower  software  sales  volumes in 1999 and
change in the software  license  product mix from  perpetual  license  sales for
which income is recognized at the time of sale to annual access  licenses  where
income is recognized over the license period.
     Engineering and Construction Group operating income for 2000 of $14 million
decreased  $189 million,  or 93% from 1999 and about $223  million,  or 94% from
1998.  The  operating  margin was just above zero in 2000 down from 3.8% in 1999
and 4.3% for 1998.  Operating margins in 2000 declined both  internationally and
in North America due to losses on projects as a result of higher than  estimated
costs on selected jobs and claims  negotiations on other jobs not progressing as
anticipated.  In the fourth  quarter of 2000,  job losses of $109  million  were
recorded as a result of these  conditions.  At the same time, the group recorded
$25 million of restructuring charges. Lower activity due to the trend in delayed
new  projects,  which  continued  through  the year,  also  negatively  impacted
operating income. Operating income in 1999 benefited from higher activity levels
supporting United States military peacekeeping efforts in the Balkans, offset by
reduced  engineering  and  construction  project  profits  due to the  timing of
project awards and revenue  recognition.  Operating  income in 1998 includes $16
million  favorable  settlement  of a  claim  on a  Middle  Eastern  construction
project.
     Special  credits  in 1999 are the  result of a change in  estimate  on some
components of the 1998 special charges. We continuously monitor the actual costs
incurred and reexamine our estimates of future costs.  In the second  quarter of
1999,  we concluded  that total costs,  particularly  for severance and facility
exit costs,  were lower than previously  estimated.  Therefore,  we reversed $47
million of the $959 million  special  charge that was originally  recorded.  See
Note 12.



     General  corporate  expenses for 2000 were $78  million,  an increase of $7
million  from  1999 and  down $1  million  compared  to  1998.  In 2000  general
corporate expenses increased primarily as a result of costs related to the early
retirement of our previous chairman and chief executive officer. In 1998 general
corporate  expenses of $79 million  included  expenses for  operating  Dresser's
corporate offices as well as our corporate offices. As a percent of consolidated
revenues, general  corporate expenses  were 0.7% in  2000, 0.6% in 1999 and 0.5%
in 1998.

NONOPERATING ITEMS

     Interest expense was $146 million for 2000 compared to $141 million in 1999
and $134 million in 1998.  Interest expense was up in 2000 due to higher average
interest rates on short-term  borrowings and additional  short-term debt used to
repurchase $759 million of our common stock under our share repurchase  program,
mostly during the fourth quarter.  These increases  offset the benefits from our
lower borrowings earlier in 2000 due to the use of the proceeds from the sale of
Ingersoll-Dresser Pump and Dresser-Rand to repay short-term debt.
     Interest income of $25 million declined $49 million from 1999 and was about
the same as 1998.  Interest  income in 1999  included  settlement  of income tax
issues in the United States and United  Kingdom and imputed  interest  income on
the note receivable from the sale of our ownership in M-I L.L.C.
     Foreign  currency gains (losses) netted to a loss of $5 million,  down from
losses of $8  million in 1999 and $10  million in 1998.  The losses in 2000 were
primarily  in Asia  Pacific  currencies  and the euro.  Losses in 1999  occurred
primarily  in Russian and Latin  American  currencies.  Losses in 1998  occurred
primarily in Asia Pacific currencies.
     Other,  net in 2000 was a net loss of $1 million  compared to a net loss of
$19  million in 1999 and a net gain of $3 million in 1998.  The net loss in 1999
includes a $26 million charge in the second quarter relating to an impairment of
Kellogg  Brown & Root's net  investment in Bufete  Industriale,  S.A. de C.V., a
large specialty engineering, procurement and construction company in Mexico.
     Provision for income taxes on continuing operations was $129 million for an
effective  tax rate of  38.5%,  compared  to 37.8% in 1999 and  281.8%  in 1998.
Excluding our special charges and related taxes, the effective rate was 38.8% in
1999 and 37.8% in 1998.
     Minority  interest  in net income of  subsidiaries  was $18 million in 2000
compared to $17 million in 1999 and $20 million in 1998.
     Income from continuing operations was $188 million in 2000 and $174 million
in 1999. In 1998 continuing operations was a loss of $120 million.
     Income from  discontinued  operations was $98 million in 2000, $124 million
in 1999 and $105 million in 1998.
     Gain on disposal of discontinued  operations resulting from the sale of our
51% interest in  Dresser-Rand  was $215  million  after-tax or $0.48 per diluted
share in 2000.  In 1999 we  recorded a gain on the sale of our 49%  interest  in
Ingersoll-Dresser Pump of $159 million after-tax or $0.36 per diluted share.
     Cumulative  effect of change in  accounting  method in 1999 of $19  million
after-tax,  or $0.04 per diluted  share,  reflects  our adoption of Statement of
Position 98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up Activities." See Note 13.
     Net income in 2000 was $501 million or $1.12 per diluted  share and in 1999
was $438 million or $0.99 per diluted share. In 1998 the net loss of $15 million
resulted in $0.03 loss per diluted share.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
     We ended 2000 with cash and equivalents of $231 million  compared with $466
million in 1999 and $203 million in 1998.
     Cash flows from operating  activities used $57 million for 2000 compared to
$58 million used for 1999 and provided  $150 million for 1998.  Working  capital
items,  which  include  receivables,  inventories,  accounts  payable  and other
working capital, net, used $563 million of cash in 2000 compared to providing $2
million in 1999 and using $533  million in 1998.  Included in changes to working
capital and other net changes are special charge usage for personnel reductions,
facility  closures,  merger  transaction  costs,  and  integration  costs of $54
million in 2000 and $202 million in 1999 and $112 million in 1998.



     Cash flows used in investing  activities  were $411 million for 2000,  $107
million for 1999 and $790 million for 1998. Capital expenditures of $578 million
in 2000 were  about 11%  higher  than in 1999 and about 31% lower  than in 1998.
Capital spending was mostly for equipment for Halliburton Energy Services, which
included investing in cementing  equipment designed to integrate our pumping and
mixing  systems  with new safety  and  technological  features.  Cash flows from
investing  activities in 1999 include $254 million  collected on the receivables
from  the  sale of our 36%  interest  in M-I  L.L.C.  Imputed  interest  on this
receivable of $11 million is included in operating cash flows. In 1998, net cash
used for investing  activities  includes  various  acquisitions of businesses of
approximately $40 million.
     Cash flows from financing activities used $584 million in 2000 and provided
$189  million in 1999 and $267  million in 1998.  We repaid $308  million on our
long-term debt in 2000. Net short-term borrowings consisting of commercial paper
and bank loans  provided $629 million in 2000.  Proceeds from exercises of stock
options  provided  cash flows of $105 million in 2000 compared to $49 million in
1999 and 1998.  Dividends to shareholders  used $221 million of cash in 2000 and
1999. In April 2000 our Board of Directors  approved a plan to implement a share
repurchase  program.  As of December 31, 2000 we had repurchased over 20 million
shares at a cost of $759 million.  In addition,  we  repurchased  $10 million of
common  stock both in 2000 and 1999 and $20  million in 1998 from  employees  to
settle their income tax liabilities  primarily for restricted  stock lapses.  We
may periodically repurchase our common stock as we deem appropriate.
     Cash flows from  discontinued  operations  provided $826 million in 2000 as
compared to $234 million and $235 million in 1999 and 1998,  respectively.  Cash
flows  for  2000   include   proceeds   from  the  sale  of   Dresser-Rand   and
Ingersoll-Dresser Pump of approximately $913 million.
     Capital  resources from  internally  generated  funds and access to capital
markets  are  sufficient  to  fund  our  working  capital  requirements,   share
repurchases and investing activities.  Our combined short-term notes payable and
long-term debt was 40%, 35% and 32% of total  capitalization at the end of 2000,
1999 and 1998,  respectively.  In 2000,  we  reduced  our  short-term  debt with
proceeds  from  the  sales of  Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump  and  Dresser-Rand  joint
ventures early in the year and increased  short-term  debt in the fourth quarter
to fund share  repurchases.  We plan to use proceeds from the Dresser  Equipment
Group sale to pay down debt recently  incurred for the repurchase of our shares.
This should return the  debt-to-capitalization  ratio to the 30% to 35% range by
the end of the second quarter of 2001.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MARKET RISK
     We are exposed to financial  instrument market risk from changes in foreign
currency  exchange  rates,  interest  rates and to a limited  extent,  commodity
prices.  We  selectively  hedge these  exposures  through the use of  derivative
instruments to mitigate our market risk from these  exposures.  The objective of
our hedging is to protect our cash flows  related to sales or purchases of goods
or  services  from  fluctuations  in  currency  rates.  Our  use  of  derivative
instruments includes the following types of market risk:
         -   volatility of the currency rates;
         -   time horizon of the derivative instruments;
         -   market cycles; and
         -   the type of derivative instruments used.
     We do not  use  derivative  instruments  for  trading  purposes.  We do not
consider any of our hedging activities to be material. See Note 1 for additional
information on our accounting  policies on derivative  instruments.  See Note 17
for additional disclosures related to derivative instruments.

RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES
     While oil and gas prices have  continued  to  maintain  the  strength  that
provides positive uplift to our oilfield services and integrated exploration and
production  information  systems  businesses,  our engineering and  construction
businesses  continue  to  experience  delays  in  customer  commitments  for new
upstream and  downstream  projects.  With the  exception of deepwater  projects,
short-term  prospects for increased  engineering and construction  activities in
either the upstream or downstream  businesses  are not  positive.  The continued
delays of upstream and downstream  projects,  and the resulting  decrease in our
backlog and levels of work, will make it difficult to achieve acceptable margins
in 2001 in our  engineering and  construction  businesses.  Accordingly,  in the
fourth quarter of 2000 we approved a plan to re-combine  all of our  engineering
and  construction  businesses  into  one  business  unit.  As a  result  of  the



reorganization of the engineering and construction  businesses,  we took actions
to  rationalize  our  operating  structure  including  write-offs  of equipment,
engineering  reference  designs  and  capitalized  software  of $20  million and
recorded severance costs of $16 million.
     During the third and fourth  quarters of 1998, we incurred  special charges
totaling  $980 million  related to the Dresser  merger and industry downturn, of
which $21  million  has been  recorded in  discontinued  operations.  During the
second  quarter of 1999,  we reversed  $47 million of our 1998  special  charges
based on our  reassessment of total costs to be incurred to complete the actions
covered in the charges.
     We  have  in  process  a  program  to exit  approximately  500  properties,
including  service,  administrative  and  manufacturing  facilities.  We accrued
expenses  to exit  approximately  400 of these  properties  in the 1998  special
charges.  Most of these properties are within the Energy Services Group. Through
December 31, 2000 we have vacated 97% of the approximate  500 total  facilities.
We have sold or returned to the owner 94% of the vacated properties.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
     We are subject to numerous environmental legal and regulatory  requirements
related to our operations  worldwide.  As a result of those obligations,  we are
involved  in  specific  environmental  litigation  and  claims,  the clean up of
properties   we  own  or  have   operated,   and  efforts  to  meet  or  correct
compliance-related matters. See Note 9.

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     The Private  Securities  Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides safe harbor
provisions for forward-looking information. Forward-looking information is based
on projections  and estimates,  not historical  information.  Some statements in
this annual  report are  forward-looking.  We may also  provide  oral or written
forward-looking  information  in  other  materials  we  release  to the  public.
Forward-looking  information  involves risks and uncertainties.  Forward-looking
information we provide reflects our best judgement based on current information.
Our results of operations  can be affected by inaccurate  assumptions we make or
by known or unknown  risks and  uncertainties.  In addition,  other  factors may
affect  the  accuracy  of  our  forward-looking  information.  As a  result,  no
forward-looking information can be guaranteed.  Actual events and the results of
operations may vary materially.
     While it is not possible to identify all factors,  we continue to face many
risks and  uncertainties  that could  cause  actual  results to differ  from our
forward-looking statements including:
     Geopolitical and legal.
         -   trade restrictions  and economic  embargoes imposed  by the  United
              States and other countries;
         -   unsettled  political   conditions,  war,   civil  unrest,  currency
             controls and  governmental actions  in the  numerous  countries  in
             which we operate;
         -   operations in countries with significant amounts of political risk,
             including,  for  example,  Algeria,  Angola,  Libya,  Nigeria,  and
             Russia;
         -   changes in foreign exchange rates;
         -   changes in  governmental regulations  in the  numerous countries in
             which we operate including, for example, regulations that:
             -   encourage or mandate hiring local contractors; and
             -   require foreign  contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase
                 supplies from, a particular jurisdiction;
         -   litigation,  including,  for   example,  asbestos  litigation   and
              environmental litigation; and
         -   environmental  laws,  including,  for  example,  those that require
             emission performance standards for facilities;
     Weather related.
         -   the effects of severe  weather conditions,  including, for example,
             hurricanes and tornadoes, on operations and facilities; and
         -   the impact  of prolonged severe  or mild  weather conditions on the
             demand for and price of oil and natural gas;



     Customers and vendors.
         -   the magnitude of governmental spending and outsourcing for military
             and logistical support of the type that we provide;
         -   changes  in  capital  spending  by  customers  in  the  oil and gas
             industry  for  exploration,  development,  production,  processing,
             refining, and pipeline delivery networks;
         -   changes  in  capital  spending by  governments  for  infrastructure
             projects of the sort that we perform;
         -   consolidation of customers in the oil and gas industry; and
         -   claim  negotiations  with engineering  and  construction  customers
             on cost variances and change orders on major projects;
     Industry.
         -   technological  and  structural  changes  in the  industries that we
              serve;
         -   changes in the price of oil and natural gas, including:
             -   OPEC's ability to set and maintain production levels and prices
                 for oil;
             -   the level of oil production by non-OPEC countries;
             -   the  policies  of governments  regarding  exploration  for  and
                 production  and  development  of  their  oil  and  natural  gas
                 reserves; and
             -   the level of demand for oil and natural gas;
         -   changes in the  price or the  availability  of commodities  that we
             use;
         -   risks  that  result  from  entering  into  fixed  fee  engineering,
             procurement  and  construction   projects  of  the  types  that  we
             provide  where  failure  to  meet  schedules,  cost  estimates   or
             performance   targets  could  result   in  non-reimbursable   costs
             which cause the project not to meet our expected profit margins;
         -   risks that  result from entering into complex business arrangements
             for technically  demanding projects  where failure  by  one or more
             parties could result in monetary penalties; and
         -   the risk inherent  in the use of derivative instruments of the sort
             that we use which could  cause a change  in value of the derivative
             instruments as a result of:
             -   adverse movements in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, or
                 commodity prices, or
             -   the value  and time period  of the derivative  being  different
                 than the exposures or cash flows being hedged;
     Personnel and mergers/reorganizations/dispositions.
         -   increased competition in  the hiring and  retention of employees in
             specific areas, including, for example, energy services operations,
             accounting and finance;
         -   integration of acquired businesses into Halliburton, including:
             -   standardizing  information  systems  or  integrating  data from
                 multiple systems;
             -   maintaining   uniform  standards,   controls,   procedures  and
                 policies; and
             -   combining operations  and personnel of acquired businesses with
                 ours;
         -   effectively   reorganizing   operations    and   personnel   within
             Halliburton;
         -   replacing  discontinued lines of  businesses with acquisitions that
             add value and complement our core businesses; and
         -   successful completion of planned dispositions.
     In addition, future trends for pricing, margins, revenues and profitability
remain  difficult to predict in the  industries  we serve.  We do not assume any
responsibility  to  publicly  update  any  of  our  forward-looking   statements
regardless  of whether  factors  change as a result of new  information,  future
events  or for any other  reason.  We do advise  you to  review  any  additional
disclosures  we make in our 10-Q,  8-K and 10-K  reports to the  Securities  and
Exchange  Commission.  We also suggest that you listen to our quarterly earnings
release conference calls with financial analysts.



OTHER ISSUES

Conversion to the Euro Currency
     On January 1, 1999, some member countries of the European Union established
fixed  conversion  rates  between  their  existing  currencies  and the European
Union's common currency (euro).  This was the first step towards transition from
existing  national  currencies to the use of the euro as a common currency.  The
transition  period for the  introduction of the euro ends June 30, 2002.  Issues
resulting  from the  introduction  of the euro  include  converting  information
technology systems, reassessing currency risk, negotiating and amending existing
contracts and  processing tax and accounting  records.  We are addressing  these
issues and do not expect  the euro to have a  material  effect on our  financial
condition or results of operations.

Implementation of SAB 101
     The  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  (SEC)  issued  Staff  Accounting
Bulletin (SAB) 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial  Statements,"  in December
1999.  The SAB  summarizes  some of the SEC staff's views in applying  generally
accepted accounting  principles to revenue recognition in financial  statements.
We have  completed a thorough  review of our revenue  recognition  policies  and
determined that our policies are consistent with SAB 101.

Accounting Change
     In June 1998, the Financial  Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS) No.  133,  "Accounting  for  Derivative
Instruments and for Hedging  Activities,"  subsequently  amended by SFAS No. 137
and SFAS No. 138. This standard  requires  entities to recognize all derivatives
on the statement of financial  position as assets or liabilities  and to measure
the  instruments at fair value.  Accounting for gains and losses from changes in
those fair values are specified in the standard depending on the intended use of
the derivative and other criteria. We have completed our review of contracts for
embedded  derivatives and evaluated our accounting  policies for derivatives and
hedging  activities.  We adopted SFAS 133 effective  January 2001 and determined
the initial  adoption did not have a material effect on our financial  condition
or results of operations.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
Halliburton Company:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Halliburton
Company (a Delaware  corporation)  and  subsidiary  companies as of December 31,
2000 and 1999, and the related  consolidated  statements of income,  cash flows,
and  shareholders'  equity  for  each of the  three  years in the  period  ended
December 31, 2000.  These  financial  statements are the  responsibility  of the
Company's  management.  Our  responsibility  is to  express  an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance  with  auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates  made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects,  the financial position of Halliburton
Company  and  subsidiary  companies  as of December  31, 2000 and 1999,  and the
results of their  operations  and their  cash flows for each of the three  years
ended  December 31, 2000, in conformity  with  accounting  principles  generally
accepted in the United States.





                                       /s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
                                       -----------------------
                                           ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


Dallas, Texas,
      January 30, 2001 (Except  with respect to  the matters  discussed in Notes
9 and 19, as to which the date is March 23, 2001.)



RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING
     We are  responsible  for the  preparation  and  integrity of our  published
financial statements.  The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with  accounting  principles  generally  accepted  in  the  United  States  and,
accordingly,  include  amounts  based on  judgements and  estimates  made by our
management. We also prepared the other information included in the annual report
and  are  responsible  for its  accuracy  and  consistency  with  the  financial
statements.
     The financial  statements have been audited by the  independent  accounting
firm, Arthur Andersen LLP. Arthur Andersen was given unrestricted  access to all
financial  records  and  related  data,  including  minutes of all  meetings  of
stockholders,  the Board of Directors and committees of the Board. Halliburton's
Audit  Committee  of the Board of Directors  consists of  directors  who, in the
business judgement of the Board of Directors, are independent under the New York
Exchange listing  standards.  The Board,  operating through its Audit Committee,
provides oversight to the financial reporting process.  Integral to this process
is the Audit Committee's  review and discussion with management and the external
auditors  of the  quarterly  and  annual  financial  statements  prior  to their
respective filing.
     We maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, which is
intended  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  to our  management  and  Board  of
Directors  regarding the  reliability  of our financial  statements.  The system
includes:
         -   a    documented   organizational    structure   and   division   of
             responsibility;
         -   established policies and procedures, including a code of conduct to
             foster a  strong  ethical climate which  is communicated throughout
             the company; and
         -   the careful selection, training and development of our people.
Internal  auditors  monitor the  operation  of the internal  control  system and
report  findings and  recommendations  to management and the Board of Directors.
Corrective  actions  are  taken  to  address  control   deficiencies  and  other
opportunities  for  improving the system as they are  identified.  In accordance
with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission's  new  rules  to  improve  the
reliability  of  financial  statements,  our interim  financial  statements  are
reviewed by Arthur Andersen LLP.
     There  are  inherent  limitations  in the  effectiveness  of any  system of
internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention
or  overriding  of controls.  Accordingly,  even an effective  internal  control
system can provide only reasonable  assurance with respect to the reliability of
our financial statements.  Also, the effectiveness of an internal control system
may change over time.
     We have  assessed our internal  control  system in relation to criteria for
effective  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  described in "Internal
Control-Integrated   Framework"   issued   by  the   Committee   of   Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon that assessment, we believe
that,  as of December 31, 2000,  our system of internal  control over  financial
reporting met those criteria.


HALLIBURTON COMPANY
by



    /s/   DAVID J. LESAR                         /s/   GARY V. MORRIS
- --------------------------------             ---------------------------------
         David J. Lesar                                Gary V. Morris
     Chairman of the Board,                     Executive Vice President and
         President and                             Chief Financial Officer
     Chief Executive Officer





                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
                        Consolidated Statements of Income
             (Millions of dollars and shares except per share data)




                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
             (Millions of dollars and shares except per share data)




                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
                 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
                        (Millions of dollars and shares)




                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
                 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
                        (Millions of dollars and shares)
                                  (continued)




                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                              (Millions of dollars)





                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
                      Notes to Annual Financial Statements

Note  1. Significant Accounting Policies
     We  employ  accounting  policies  that  are in  accordance  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles  in  the  United  States.  The  preparation  of
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect:
         -   the reported  amounts of  assets and  liabilities and disclosure of
             contingent assets  and liabilities  at the  date  of  the financial
             statements; and
         -   the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
             period.
Ultimate results could differ from those estimates.
     Principles of consolidation.  The consolidated financial statements include
the  accounts  of our company and all of our  majority-owned  subsidiaries.  All
material intercompany  accounts and transactions are eliminated.  Investments in
other  companies in which we own a 20% to 50% interest are  accounted  for using
the equity method. Specific prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform
to the current year presentation.
     Revenues  and income  recognition.  We  recognize  revenues as services are
rendered or products are shipped.  The distinction  between services and product
sales is based upon the overall activity of the particular  business  operation.
Revenues  from  engineering  and  construction  contracts  are  reported  on the
percentage of completion  method of accounting  using  measurements  of progress
towards completion appropriate for the work performed.  All known or anticipated
losses on contracts are provided for  currently.  Claims and change orders which
are in the process of being negotiated with customers, for extra work or changes
in the scope of work are included in revenue when collection is deemed probable.
Post-contract  customer support agreements are recorded as deferred revenues and
recognized as revenue  ratably over the contract  period of generally one year's
duration.  Training  and  consulting  service  revenues  are  recognized  as the
services are performed.  Sales of perpetual software  licenses,  net of deferred
maintenance  fees, are recorded as revenue upon shipment.  Sales of use licenses
are recognized as revenue over the license period.
     Research and development.  Research and development expenses are charged to
income as incurred.  See Note 4 for research and development expense by business
segment.
     Software  development  costs.  Costs of  developing  software  for sale are
charged  to  expense  when  incurred,   as  research  and   development,   until
technological   feasibility  has  been   established   for  the  product.   Once
technological  feasibility  is  established,   software  development  costs  are
capitalized  until the software is ready for general  release to  customers.  We
capitalized  costs  related to  software  developed  for resale of $7 million in
2000,  $12  million  in 1999 and $13  million in 1998.  Amortization  expense of
software  development  costs was $12 million for 2000,  $15 million for 1999 and
$18 million for 1998.  Once the software is ready for release,  amortization  of
the software  development costs begins.  Capitalized  software development costs
are amortized over periods which do not exceed three years.
     Income per share.  Basic income per share is based on the weighted  average
number of common shares  outstanding  during the year.  Diluted income per share
includes  additional common shares that would have been outstanding if potential
common  shares  with a  dilutive  effect  had  been  issued.  See  Note 10 for a
reconciliation of basic and diluted income per share.
     Cash  equivalents.  We  consider  all  highly  liquid  investments  with an
original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
     Receivables.  Our  receivables are generally not  collateralized.  With the
exception  of  claims  and  change  orders  which  are in the  process  of being
negotiated  with  customers,  unbilled work on uncompleted  contracts  generally
represents  work  currently  billable,  and this work is usually  billed  during
normal  billing  processes in the next month.  These  claims and change  orders,
included in unbilled  receivables,  amounted to $113  million and $98 million at
December  31,  2000 and 1999,  respectively,  and are  generally  expected to be
collected in the following year.
     Included in notes and accounts  receivable are notes with varying  interest
rates. Notes receivable totaled $38 million at December 31, 2000 and $41 million
at December 31, 1999.



     Inventories.  Inventories  are stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost
represents  invoice  or  production  cost for new items and  original  cost less
allowance for condition for used  material  returned to stock.  Production  cost
includes  material,   labor  and  manufacturing   overhead.  The  cost  of  most
inventories  is determined  using either the first-in,  first-out  method or the
average cost method,  although the cost of some United States  manufacturing and
field service  inventories is determined  using the last-in,  first-out  method.
Inventories  of sales items owned by foreign  subsidiaries  and  inventories  of
operating supplies and parts are generally valued at average cost.
     Property,  plant and equipment.  Property, plant and equipment are reported
at cost  less  accumulated  depreciation,  which is  generally  provided  on the
straight-line  method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Some assets
are depreciated on accelerated  methods.  Accelerated  depreciation  methods are
also used for tax purposes,  wherever  permitted.  Upon sale or retirement of an
asset,  the related  costs and  accumulated  depreciation  are removed  from the
accounts  and any  gain or  loss  is  recognized.  When  events  or  changes  in
circumstances  indicate that assets may be impaired, an evaluation is performed.
The  estimated  future  undiscounted  cash flows  associated  with the asset are
compared to the asset's  carrying  amount to determine if a write-down to market
value or  discounted  cash flow  value is  required.  We follow  the  successful
efforts method of accounting for oil and gas properties.
     Maintenance  and  repairs.  Expenditures  for  maintenance  and repairs are
generally  expensed;  expenditures  for renewals and  improvements are generally
capitalized.  We use  the  accrue-in-advance  method  of  accounting  for  major
maintenance  and repair  costs of marine  vessel dry  docking  expense and major
aircraft  overhauls and repairs.  Under this method we  anticipate  the need for
major  maintenance  and repairs and charge the  estimated  expense to operations
before the actual  work is  performed.  At the time the work is  performed,  the
actual cost incurred is charged against the amounts that were previously accrued
with any deficiency or excess charged or credited to operating expense.
     Excess of cost over net assets acquired. The excess of cost over net assets
acquired is amortized  on a  straight-line  basis over periods not  exceeding 40
years. The excess of cost over net assets acquired is continually  monitored for
potential  impairment.  When negative  conditions such as significant current or
projected  operating  losses  exist,  a review is  performed to determine if the
projected  undiscounted future cash flows indicate that an impairment exists. If
an  impairment  exists,  the excess of cost over net assets  acquired,  and,  if
appropriate,  the  associated  assets  are  reduced  to  reflect  the  estimated
discounted  cash  flows to be  generated  by the  underlying  business.  This is
consistent with methodologies in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
121  "Accounting  for the  Impairment  of Long-lived  Assets and for  Long-lived
Assets to be Disposed of."
     Income taxes. A valuation  allowance is provided for deferred tax assets if
it is more likely than not these items will either  expire before we are able to
realize their benefit, or that future  deductibility is uncertain.  Deferred tax
assets and liabilities  are recognized for the expected future tax  consequences
of events that have been realized in the financial statements or tax returns.
     Derivative instruments.  We enter into derivative financial transactions to
hedge  existing or  projected  exposures  to changing  foreign  exchange  rates,
interest  rates  and  commodity   prices.   We  do  not  enter  into  derivative
transactions  for  speculative  or  trading   purposes.   Derivative   financial
instruments to hedge exposure with an indeterminable maturity date are generally
carried at fair  value with the  resulting  gains and  losses  reflected  in the
results of operations. Gains or losses on hedges of identifiable commitments are
deferred  and  recognized  when the  offsetting  gains or losses on the  related
hedged  items are  recognized.  Deferred  gains or losses for  hedges  which are
terminated  prior to the  transaction  date are  recognized  when the underlying
hedged transactions are recognized.  In the event an identifiable  commitment is
no  longer  expected  to be  realized,  any  deferred  gains or losses on hedges
associated with the commitment are recognized  currently.  Costs associated with
entering into these  contracts are  presented in other  assets,  while  deferred
gains or losses are included in other liabilities or other assets, respectively,
on the  consolidated  balance sheets.  Recognized gains or losses on derivatives
entered into to manage  foreign  exchange risk are included in foreign  currency
gains and losses on the  consolidated  statements of income.  Gains or losses on
interest rate  derivatives  and commodity  derivatives  are included in interest
expense and operating income, respectively.  During the years ended December 31,
2000, 1999 and 1998, we did not enter into any significant transactions to hedge
interest rates or commodity prices.



     Foreign currency translation. Foreign entities whose functional currency is
the United States dollar  translate  monetary assets and liabilities at year-end
exchange rates and non-monetary items are translated at historical rates. Income
and expense  accounts are  translated  at the average rates in effect during the
year, except for  depreciation,  cost of product sales and revenues and expenses
associated  with  non-monetary  balance sheet  accounts  which are translated at
historical rates.  Gains or losses from changes in exchange rates are recognized
in  consolidated  income  in the  year of  occurrence.  Foreign  entities  whose
functional currency is the local currency translate net assets at year-end rates
and income and expense accounts at average exchange rates. Adjustments resulting
from  these  translations  are  reflected  in  the  consolidated  statements  of
shareholders' equity titled "cumulative translation adjustment."

Note  2. Acquisitions and Dispositions
     PES  acquisition.  In February 2000, our offer to acquire the remaining 74%
of the shares of PES  (International)  Limited  that we did not  already own was
accepted  by PES  shareholders.  PES is based  in  Aberdeen,  Scotland,  and has
developed  technology that complements  Halliburton  Energy Services'  real-time
reservoir solutions.  To acquire the remaining 74% of PES, we issued 1.2 million
shares of  Halliburton  common stock.  We also issued rights that will result in
the issuance of between 850,000 and 2.1 million additional shares of Halliburton
common stock between February 2001 and February 2003. We issued 1 million shares
in February 2001 under the rights. We have  preliminarily  recorded,  subject to
the final  valuation  of  intangible  assets and other  costs,  $115  million of
goodwill  which  will be  amortized  over 20  years.  PES is part of the  Energy
Services Group.
     Dresser  merger.  On September  29, 1998 we completed  the  acquisition  of
Dresser Industries, Inc. by converting the outstanding Dresser common stock into
approximately  176  million  shares  of  our  common  stock.  We  also  reserved
approximately  7 million  shares of common stock for  outstanding  Dresser stock
options and other  employee  and  directors  plans.  The merger  qualified  as a
tax-free exchange to Dresser's shareholders for United States federal income tax
purposes  and was  accounted  for  using  the  pooling  of  interests  method of
accounting for business combinations. Financial statements have been restated to
include the results of these Dresser operations for all periods presented.
     Combined and separate  company  results of Halliburton  Company and Dresser
Industries, Inc. for the period preceding the merger are as follows:


     Other acquisitions. We acquired other businesses in 2000, 1999 and 1998 for
$10 million, $13 million and $42 million, respectively. These businesses did not
have a significant effect on revenues or earnings.
     Joint venture divestitures.  In October 1999, we announced the sales of our
49% interest in the Ingersoll-Dresser Pump joint venture and our 51% interest in
the  Dresser-Rand  joint venture to  Ingersoll-Rand.  See Note 3. The sales were
triggered by  Ingersoll-Rand's  exercise of its option  under the joint  venture
agreements  to cause us to either buy their  interests or sell ours.  Both joint
ventures were part of the Dresser Equipment Group segment. Our Ingersoll-Dresser



Pump  interest was sold in December  1999 for  approximately  $515  million.  We
recorded a gain on disposition of discontinued operations of $253 million before
tax, or $159  million  after-tax,  for a net gain of $0.36 per diluted  share in
1999 from the sale of  Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump.  Proceeds  from the sale,  after
payment of our intercompany balance, were received in the form of a $377 million
promissory  note with an annual  interest  rate of 3.5% which was  collected  on
January 14, 2000.  On February 2, 2000 we completed the sale of our 51% interest
in Dresser-Rand  for a price of  approximately  $579 million.  Proceeds from the
sale,  net of  intercompany  amounts  payable  to the joint  venture,  were $536
million,  resulting in a gain on disposition of discontinued  operations of $356
million  before  tax,  or $215  million  after-tax,  for a net gain of $0.48 per
diluted share in the first  quarter of 2000.  The proceeds from these sales were
used to repay short-term borrowings and for other general corporate purposes.
     LWD divestiture.  In March 1999, in connection with the Dresser merger,  we
sold the majority of our pre-merger  worldwide  logging-while-drilling  business
and a portion of the pre-merger  measurement-while-drilling  business.  The sale
was in accordance  with a consent  decree with the United  States  Department of
Justice.  The  financial  impact of the sale was  reflected in the third quarter
1998  special  charge.  See Note 12. This  business was  previously  part of the
Energy Services Group.  We continue to provide  separate  logging-while-drilling
services  through our  Sperry-Sun  Drilling  Systems  business  line,  which was
acquired  as part of the  merger  with  Dresser  and is now  part of the  Energy
Services   Group.   In   addition,   we   will   continue   to   provide   sonic
logging-while-drilling services using technologies we had before the merger with
Dresser.
     M-I L.L.C. drilling  divestiture.  In August 1998, we sold our 36% interest
in M-I L.L.C. to Smith International,  Inc. for $265 million.  Payment was  made
in the form of a  non-interest-bearing  promissory  note which was  collected in
April 1999. The sale completed our commitment to the United States Department of
Justice to sell our M-I interest in connection with our merger with Dresser. M-I
was previously  part of the Energy Services Group. We continue to offer drilling
fluid products and services  through our Baroid  Drilling  Fluids  business line
which was  acquired  as part of the merger  with  Dresser and is now part of the
Energy Services Group.

Note 3.  Discontinued Operations
     The  Dresser  Equipment  Group  in  1999  was  comprised  of six  operating
divisions and two joint  ventures that  manufacture  and market  equipment  used
primarily in the energy, petrochemical,  power and transportation industries. In
late 1999 we announced our intentions to sell, and have  subsequently  sold, our
interests in the two joint  ventures  within this segment.  These joint ventures
represented  nearly half of the group's  revenues and operating  profit in 1999.
See Note 2. The sale of our interests in the segment's joint ventures prompted a
strategic review of the remaining  businesses within the Dresser Equipment Group
segment.  As a result of this review, we determined that these businesses do not
closely fit with our core businesses,  long-term goals and strategic objectives.
In April 2000,  our Board of Directors  approved plans to sell all the remaining
businesses  within our Dresser  Equipment  Group  segment.  In January  2001, we
signed a definitive  agreement and expect to close the sale of these  businesses
in the second quarter of 2001. Total  consideration under the agreement is $1.55
billion in cash, less  assumed  liabilities, and is subject  to  adjustments  at
closing for changes in net assets.  As part of the terms of the transaction,  we
will retain a 5% equity interest in Dresser Equipment Group after closing.
     The financial  results of the Dresser Equipment Group segment are presented
as  discontinued  operations  in our  financial  statements.  Prior  periods are
restated to reflect this presentation.




     Gain on disposal of discontinued  operations  reflects the gain on the sale
of Dresser-Rand  in February 2000 and the gain on the sale of  Ingersoll-Dresser
Pump in December 1999.


     Net assets of  discontinued  operations  at December  31, 2000 and 1999 are
composed of the following items:


     Revenues,  assets, and liabilities  declined from 1999 primarily due to the
sales of Dresser-Rand and Ingersoll-Dresser Pump joint ventures.

Note 4.  Business Segment Information
     We have two business  segments.  These  segments are  organized  around the
products and services  provided to the customers  they serve.  See the following
tables for information on our business segments.
     The Energy Services Group segment provides  pressure pumping  equipment and
services,  logging and  perforating,  drilling  systems and  services,  drilling
fluids systems,  drill bits, specialized completion and production equipment and
services, well control,  integrated solutions,  and reservoir description.  Also
included in the Energy  Services  Group are  upstream  oil and gas  engineering,
construction  and  maintenance  services,  specialty  pipecoating,   insulation,
underwater   engineering   services,   integrated   exploration  and  production
information  systems, and professional  services to the petroleum industry.  The
Energy Services Group has three business  units:  Halliburton  Energy  Services,
Brown & Root Energy Services and Landmark  Graphics.  The long-term  performance
for these business units is linked to the long-term  demand for oil and gas. The
products and services the group provides are designed to help discover,  develop
and produce oil and gas. The customers for this segment are major oil companies,
national oil companies and independent oil and gas companies.
     The  Engineering  and  Construction  Group  segment  provides  engineering,
procurement,  construction,  project  management,  and facilities  operation and
maintenance for  hydrocarbon  processing and other  industrial and  governmental
customers.  The  Engineering  and  Construction  Group has two  business  units:
Kellogg Brown & Root and Brown & Root Services.  Both business units are engaged
in the delivery of engineering and construction services.



     Our equity in pretax income or losses for unconsolidated  related companies
that are  accounted  for on the  equity  method  is  included  in  revenues  and
operating income of the applicable  segment.  Intersegment  revenues included in
the revenues of the other business  segments and sales between  geographic areas
are immaterial.  General corporate assets not included in a business segment are
primarily composed of receivables, deferred  tax assets and other shared assets,
including the investment in an enterprise-wide information system.
     The tables below present information on our continuing  operations business
segments.

Operations by Business Segment




Operations by Business Segment (continued)


Operations by Geographic Area


Note 5.  Inventories
     Inventories to support continuing  operations at December 31, 2000 and 1999
are composed of the following:


     Inventories on the last-in,  first-out  method were $66 million at December
31, 2000 and 1999. If the average cost method had been used,  total  inventories
would have been about $28 million higher than reported at December 31, 2000, and
$35 million higher than reported at December 31, 1999.

Note 6.  Property, Plant and Equipment
     Property,  plant and equipment to support continuing operations at December
31, 2000 and 1999 are composed of the following:


     At December  31, 2000 and 1999,  machinery,  equipment  and other  property
includes oil and gas investments of approximately $363 million and $309 million,
respectively,  and software  developed for an information system of $223 million
and $197 million, respectively.

Note 7.  Related Companies
     We conduct some of our operations  through various joint ventures which are
in  partnership,  corporate  and  other  business  forms,  and  are  principally
accounted for  using  the  equity  method.  Information  pertaining  to  related
companies for our continuing operations is set out below.



     The larger  unconsolidated  entities include  European Marine  Contractors,
Limited, and  Bredero-Shaw  which are both part of the  Energy  Services  Group.
European  Marine  Contractors,   Limited, which  is  50%-owned,  specializes  in
engineering,  procurement and  construction of marine  pipelines.  Bredero-Shaw,
which is 50%-owned, specializes in pipecoating.
     We sold our 36% ownership interest in M-I to Smith  International,  Inc. on
August 31, 1998. This transaction  completed our commitment to the United States
Department  of Justice to sell our M-I  interest in  connection  with our merger
with Dresser Industries,  Inc. See Note 2 for further information on the sale of
M-I.  Prior to the sale of our interest, we accounted for our interest in M-I on
the equity method.
     Combined summarized financial information for all jointly owned  operations
which are not consolidated is as follows:




Note 8.  Lines of Credit, Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt
     At December 31, 2000, we had committed  short-term lines of credit totaling
$1.85 billion. There were no borrowings outstanding under these lines of credit.
Fees for committed lines of credit were immaterial.
     Short-term  debt consists  primarily of $1.54  billion in commercial  paper
with an effective interest rate of 6.6% and $30 million of other facilities with
varying rates of interest.
     Long-term debt at the end of 2000 and 1999 consists of the following:




     We repaid $300 million on our 6.25% notes which came due in June 2000.  The
7.6%  debentures  due 2096,  8.75%  debentures due 2021, and 8% senior notes due
2003  may not be  redeemed  prior  to  maturity  and do not  have  sinking  fund
requirements.
     At December 31, 2000, we have outstanding  notes under our medium-term note
program as follows:


     Each holder of the 6.75%  medium-term  notes has the right to require us to
repay the holder's notes in whole or in part, on February 1, 2007. We may redeem
the 5.63%  medium-term notes in whole or in part at any time. Other notes issued
under the  medium-term  note program may not be redeemed prior to maturity.  The
medium-term notes do not have sinking fund requirements.
     Our debt matures as follows:  $8 million in 2001; $84 million in 2002; $139
million in 2003; none in 2004 and 2005; and $826 million thereafter.

Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies
     Leases. At year end 2000, we were obligated under  noncancelable  operating
leases, expiring on various dates through 2021, principally for the use of land,
offices,  equipment, field facilities, and warehouses.  Total rentals charged to
continuing  operations for  noncancelable  leases in 2000, 1999 and 1998 were as
follows:


     Future total rentals on noncancelable  operating leases are as follows: $94
million in 2001;  $80 million in 2002; $66 million in 2003; $45 million in 2004;
$32 million in 2005; and $84 million thereafter.
     Asbestos litigation.  Since 1976, our subsidiary,  Dresser Industries, Inc.
and its former  divisions  or  subsidiaries  have been  involved  in  litigation
alleging some products they manufactured contained asbestos that injured persons
that inhaled the fibers.
     Dresser has entered into agreements with insurance carriers, that cover, in
whole or in part,  indemnity  payments,  legal fees and  expenses  for  specific
categories  of claims.  Dresser  is  negotiating  with  insurance  carriers  for
coverage for the remaining  categories of claims.  Because these  agreements are
governed by exposure dates,  payment type and the product involved,  the covered
amount  varies by claim.  In  addition,  lawsuits  are pending  against  several
carriers seeking to recover additional amounts related to these claims.
     Our  Engineering  and  Construction  Group  is also  involved  in  asbestos
litigation.  Third parties allege they sustained injuries from the inhalation of
asbestos fibers contained in some of the materials used in various  construction
and renovation projects involving our Brown & Root subsidiary, now named Kellogg
Brown & Root,  Inc.  The  insurance  coverage  for Kellogg  Brown & Root for the
applicable periods was written by Highlands  Insurance Company.  Highlands was a
subsidiary of  Halliburton  prior to its spin-off to our  shareholders  in early
1996.  Our  negotiations  with  Highlands  have not produced an agreement on the
amount of insurance  coverage for asbestos and defense costs.  On April 5, 2000,
Highlands  filed suit in Delaware  Chancery  Court alleging that, as part of the
spin-off in 1996,  Halliburton  assumed  liability for all asbestos claims filed
against Halliburton after the spin-off. Highlands also alleges that  Halliburton
did  not  adequately  disclose  to  Highlands  the  existence  of  Halliburton's
subsidiaries'  potential asbestos liability. On August 23, 2000 Highlands issued
a letter denying coverage under the policies based on the claims asserted in the
Delaware action. We believe that Highlands is contractually obligated to provide
insurance  coverage for the asbestos  claims filed against  Kellogg Brown & Root
and that  Highlands'  lawsuit and its denial of coverage are without  merit.  We
intend to assert our right to the insurance  coverage  vigorously.  On April 24,
2000, Halliburton filed suit against Highlands in Harris County, Texas, claiming
that  Highlands  breached  its  contractual   obligation  to  provide  insurance
coverage.  We have asked the court to order  Highlands  to provide  coverage for
asbestos  claims  under the  guaranteed  cost  policies  issued by  Highlands to
Kellogg Brown & Root.


     On March 21, 2001 the Delaware  Chancery  Court ruled that Highlands is not
obligated  to provide  insurance  coverage for  asbestos  claims  filed  against
Kellogg Brown & Root because,  in the court's  opinion,  the agreements  entered
into by Highlands and  Halliburton  at the time of the spin-off  terminated  the
policies previously written by Highlands that would otherwise cover such claims.
This  ruling,  if it is not  reversed  on appeal,  would  eliminate  our primary
insurance  covering  asbestos  claims  against  Kellogg Brown & Root for periods
prior to the  spin-off.  Most claims filed  against  Kellogg Brown & Root allege
exposure to asbestos prior to the spin-off and are disposed of for less than the
limits of the Highlands policies.  However,  we and our legal counsel,  Vinson &
Elkins  L.L.P.,  believe  the court's  ruling is wrong.  We intend to appeal the
ruling to the Delaware  Supreme  Court as soon as possible.  Vinson & Elkins has
opined to us that it is very likely that the ruling of the  Chancery  Court will
be  reversed  because  the ruling  clearly  contravenes  the  provisions  of the
applicable  agreements  between  Highlands and Halliburton.  Vinson & Elkins has
also  opined to us that it is likely  that we will  ultimately  prevail  in this
ligitation.
     Since 1976,  approximately  282,000 claims have been filed against  various
current and former  divisions  and  subsidiaries.  About  25,000 of these claims
relate  to  Kellogg  Brown & Root and the  balance  of these  claims  relate  to
Dresser, its former divisions and subsidiaries.  Approximately  165,000 of these
claims have been  settled or disposed of at a gross cost of  approximately  $124
million,  with  insurance  carriers  paying all but  approximately  $32 million.
Claims  continue to be filed,  with about 45,000  claims filed in 2000.  We have
established an accrual  estimating our liability for known asbestos claims.  Our
estimate  is based on our  historical  litigation  experience,  settlements  and
expected recoveries from insurance carriers.  Our expected insurance  recoveries
are based on  agreements  with  carriers  or, where  agreements  are still under
negotiation  or  litigation,  our  estimate of  recoveries.  We believe that the
insurance  carriers  with which we have signed  agreements  will be able to meet
their share of future  obligations  under the agreements.  Prior to the Chancery
Court's  ruling,  Highlands  Insurance  Group,  Inc.,  the  parent of  Highlands
Insurance  Company,  stated in its SEC filings  that if it lost  the  litigation
with us and is required to pay the asbestos claims against Kellogg Brown & Root,
there  could  be a  material  adverse  impact  on  Highlands  Insurance  Group's
financial  position.  Highlands  Incurance  Company reported  statutory  capital
surplus  of $152  million to the Texas  Insurance  Commission  in its  Quarterly
Statement as of  September  30, 2000.  On March 12,  2001,  Highlands  Insurance
Group,  Inc.  announced  that it expected to report a  significant  loss for the
fourth  quarter of 2000 and for the full year 2000.  Although we do not know the
extent of the impact of this loss on  Highlands  Insurance  Company,  we believe
that Highlands has the ability to pay substantially all of these asbestos claims
when this litigation is resolved in our favor.
     At December 31, 2000, there were about 117,000 open claims, including about
23,000  associated  with  recoveries  we expect from  Highlands.  Open claims at
December  31, 2000 also include  9,000 for which  settlements  are pending.  The
number of open claims at the end of 2000  compares  with  approximately  107,700
open claims at the end of the prior  year.  The  accrued  liabilities  for these
claims and  corresponding  billed and estimated  recoveries from carriers are as
follows:



As of December 31, 2000, we have accounts  receivable  from Highlands  Insurance
Company of $11 million for  payments  we have made on  asbestos  claims.  If our
appeal  of  the  Chancery   Court's  ruling  in  the  Highlands   litigation  is
unsuccessful,  we will be unable to collect this account  receivable  or the $39
million estimated accrued recovery from Highlands for asbestos claims.  This may
have a  material  adverse  impact  on the  results  of our  operations  and  our
financial position at that time.



     Accounts  receivable for billings to other insurance  carriers for payments
made on claims were $13 million at December  31, 2000 and $9 million at December
31, 1999.
     We recognize the  uncertainties  of litigation and the  possibility  that a
series  of  adverse  court  rulings  or new  legislation  affecting  the  claims
settlement  process could materially impact the expected  resolution of asbestos
related claims. However, based upon:
         -   our historical experience with similar claims;
         -   the  time  elapsed  since  Dresser  and  its  former  divisions  or
             subsidiaries discontinued sale of products containing asbestos;
         -   the time  elapsed since  Kellogg Brown  & Root used asbestos in any
             construction process; and
         -   our understanding of the facts and  circumstances that gave rise to
             asbestos claims,
we believe that the pending  asbestos claims will be resolved  without  material
effect on our financial position or results of operations.
     Resolution  of  dispute  with  Global  Industrial  Technologies,   Inc.  We
previously  reported  that under an  agreement  entered  into at the time of the
spin-off of Global Industrial Technologies,  Inc., formerly INDRESCO, Inc., from
Dresser  Industries,  Inc.,  Global assumed  liability for all asbestos  related
claims filed against Dresser after July 31, 1992 relating to refractory products
manufactured or marketed by the former Harbison-Walker  Refractories division of
Dresser.  Those business  operations were transferred to Global in the spin-off.
These  asbestos  claims  are  subject to  agreements  with  Dresser's  insurance
carriers  that cover  expense and  indemnity  payments.  However,  the insurance
coverage is  incomplete  and Global has to-date  paid the  uncovered  portion of
asbestos claims with its own funds.
     We  also  reported  that a  dispute  arose  with  Global  concerning  those
agreements,  which led to arbitration  and litigation  proceedings.  We have now
resolved the dispute and agreed with Global that:
         -   the arbitration, and all related litigation, is dismissed;
         -   Global acknowledges its obligation to assume responsibility for new
             asbestos claims filed after the date of the spin-off;
         -   Global agrees  to continue  to cooperate  with Dresser on Dresser's
             remaining refractory claims; and
         -   Dresser continues to make available its direct insurance program
             for the Global assumed asbestos liabilities.
     Fort  Ord  litigation.  Brown  & Root  Services  is a  defendant  in  civil
litigation  pending in federal  court in  Sacramento,  California.  The  lawsuit
alleges that Brown & Root Services  violated  provisions of the False Claims Act
while performing work for the United States Army at Fort Ord in California. This
lawsuit was filed by a former employee in 1997. Brown & Root Services has denied
the allegations and is preparing to defend itself at trial.  Further proceedings
in this civil  lawsuit have been stayed while the  investigation  referred to in
the next  paragraph  is  ongoing.  We believe  that it is remote that this civil
litigation will result in any material amount of damages being assessed  against
the  company,  although  the cost of our  defense  could well  exceed $1 million
before the matter is brought to a conclusion.
     Although in 1998 the United States  Department of Justice  declined to join
this litigation, it has advised us that Brown & Root Services is the target of a
federal grand jury investigation  regarding the contract  administration  issues
raised in the civil litigation. Brown & Root Services has been served with grand
jury subpoenas,  which required the production of documents relating to the Fort
Ord  contract  and  similar  contracts  at other  locations.  We have  also been
informed  that several  current and former  employees  will be called to testify
before the grand jury. We have retained independent counsel for these employees.
We are  cooperating  in this  investigation.  The United  States  Department  of
Justice has not made any specific allegations against Brown & Root Services.
     Environmental.   We  are  subject  to  numerous   environmental  legal  and
regulatory requirements related to our operations worldwide. We take a proactive
approach  to  evaluating  and  addressing  the   environmental   impact  of  our
operations.  Each year we assess and remediate contaminated  properties in order
to avoid future  liabilities and comply with legal and regulatory  requirements.
On occasion we are  involved in specific  environmental  litigation  and claims,
including  the clean-up of properties we own or have operated as well as efforts
to meet or correct compliance-related matters.



     Some of our subsidiaries  and former  operating  entities are involved as a
potentially  responsible party or PRP in remedial activities to clean-up several
"Superfund"  sites under United States  federal law and  comparable  state laws.
Kellogg Brown & Root, Inc., one of our  subsidiaries,  is one of nine PRPs named
at the Tri-State  Mining  District  "Superfund"  Site,  also known as the Jasper
County  "Superfund"  Site,  which we have  reported  in the  past.  Based on our
negotiations  with federal  regulatory  authorities  and our  evaluation  of our
responsibility for remediation at small portions of this site, we do not believe
we will be compelled  to make  expenditures  which will have a material  adverse
effect on our financial position or results of operations.  However,  the United
States  Department of the Interior and the State of Missouri have indicated that
they  might make a  separate  claim  against  Kellogg  Brown & Root for  natural
resource  damages.  Discussions  with  them have not been  concluded  and we are
unable to make a judgement about the amount of damages they may seek.
     We also incur costs related to compliance with ever-changing  environmental
legal and regulatory  requirements in the jurisdictions  where we operate. It is
very  difficult to quantify the  potential  liabilities.  We do not expect these
expenditures  to have a material  adverse effect on our  consolidated  financial
position or our results of operations.
     Our accrued  liabilities for  environmental  matters were $31 million as of
December 31, 2000 and $29 million as of December 31, 1999.
     Other.  We are a party to various other legal  proceedings.  We expense the
cost of legal fees related to these  proceedings.  We believe any liabilities we
may have arising from these proceedings will not be material to our consolidated
financial position or our results of operations.

Note 10.  Income Per Share


     Income  per share from  discontinued  operations  includes  $0.49 and $0.36
basic  and $0.48 and  $0.36  diluted  from the gain on the sale of  discontinued
operations in 2000 and 1999, respectively.
     Basic  income per share is based on the weighted  average  number of common
shares  outstanding  during  the  period.  Diluted  income  per  share  includes
additional  common shares that would have been  outstanding if potential  common
shares with a dilutive  effect had been issued.  Included in the  computation of
diluted  income  per share are  rights  we  issued  in  connection  with the PES
acquisition  for between  850,000 and 2.1 million shares of  Halliburton  common
stock.  Excluded from the computation of diluted income per share are options to
purchase 1 million shares of common stock in 2000; 2 million shares in 1999; and
1 million shares in 1998. These options were outstanding during these respective
years,  but were excluded because the option exercise price was greater than the
average  market  price of the common  shares.  Since we incurred a loss in 1998,
diluted  earnings per share for that year  excludes 3 million  potential  common
shares which were antidilutive for earnings per share purposes.



Note 11.  Engineering and Construction Reorganization
     The table below  summarizes  non-recurring  charges of  $36 million  pretax
recorded in December 2000 related to the  reorganization  of our engineering and
construction businesses.


     These charges were reflected in the following  captions of the consolidated
statements of income:


     Asset Related Charges
     As a result  of the  reorganization  of the  engineering  and  construction
businesses,  we  took  actions  to  rationalize  our  cost  structure  including
write-offs of equipment, engineering reference designs and capitalized software.
Cost of services  includes  $20 million of charges for  equipment,  licenses and
engineering   reference   designs   related  to  specific   projects  that  were
discontinued  as a result of the  reorganization.  Equipment and licenses with a
net book value of $10 million  were  abandoned.  Engineering  reference  designs
specific  to a project  with a net book value of $4 million  were  written  off.
Software developed for internal use with a net book value of $6 million which we
no longer plan to use due to standardization of systems was also written off.
     Personnel Charges
     Personnel  charges of $16  million  include  severance  and  related  costs
incurred  for the  planned  reduction  of  approximately  30  senior  management
positions,  most of which will  be  terminated  in the first quarter of 2001. We
expect payments under the severance arrangements to be completed by mid-2001.

Note 12.  Special Charges and Credits
     The table below  summarizes the 1998  pretax  expenses for special  charges
and the accrued amounts utilized and adjusted through December 31, 2000.





     Our 1998  results of  operations  reflect  special  charges  totaling  $980
million to provide for costs associated with the Dresser Industries, Inc. merger
and industry  downturn due to declining  oil and gas prices.  These charges were
reflected in the following captions of the consolidated statements of income:


     Most restructuring  activities accrued for in the 1998 special charges were
completed  and expended by the end of 1999.  We utilized $63 million in 2000 for
sales of  facilities  and other  actions  that were  initiated  in 1999 but were
concluded in 2000.  From  inception  through  December  31,  2000,  we used $368
million  in cash  for  items  associated  with  the 1998  special  charges.  The
unutilized  special charge  reserve  balance at December 31, 2000 is expected to
result  in  future  cash  outlays  of $6  million.  At  December  31,  2000,  no
adjustments or reversals to the remaining accrued special charges are planned.
     During the second  quarter of 1999,  we  reversed  $47  million of the 1998
special  charge  based on our  reassessment  of total  costs to be  incurred  to
complete  the actions  covered in our special  charges.  The  components  of the
reversal are as follows:
         -   $30 million  in personnel charges  primarily due to  a reduction in
             estimated legal costs associated with  employee layoffs, lower than
             anticipated  average severance  per person and fewer  than expected
             terminations due to voluntary employee resignations;
          -  $16 million  in facility consolidation  charges due to  fewer than
             initially  estimated facility exits,  resulting in an  estimated $7
             million reduction  in facilities consolidation costs, combined with
             other   factors    including   more   favorable  exit   costs  than
             anticipated; and
         -   $1 million  of merger  transaction costs  primarily as a result  of
             lower than previously estimated legal and other professional costs.



Asset Related Charges
     Asset related  charges  include  impairments  and  write-offs of intangible
assets  and  excess  and/or  duplicate  machinery,   equipment,  inventory,  and
capitalized  software.  Charges also include  write-offs and lease  cancellation
costs related to acquired  information  technology  equipment  replaced with our
standard common office equipment and exit costs on other leased assets.
     As a result of the merger,  Halliburton  Company's and Dresser  Industries,
Inc.'s completion products operations and formation  evaluation  businesses have
been combined. Excluded is Halliburton's  logging-while-drilling  business and a
portion of our  measurement-while-drilling  business  which were  required to be
disposed of in connection  with the United States  Department of Justice consent
decree.  See Note 2. We recorded  impairments based upon anticipated future cash
flows in accordance  with Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 121.
This was  based on the  change  in  strategic  direction,  the  outlook  for the
industry,  the  decision to  standardize  equipment  product  offerings  and the
expected loss on the  disposition of the  logging-while-drilling  business.  The
following table summarizes the resulting  write-downs of excess of cost over net
assets acquired and long-lived assets associated with:
         -   the  directional  drilling  and   formation  evaluation  businesses
             acquired in 1993 from Smith International, Inc.;
         -   the formation evaluation business acquired in  the 1988 acquisition
             of Gearhart Industries, Inc.; and
         -   Mono Pumps and AVA acquired in 1990 and 1992.


     As  discussed  below,  the  merger  caused  management  to  reevaluate  the
realizability  of excess cost over net assets  acquired  and related  long-lived
assets of these  product  service  lines.  Each  business was  considered  to be
impaired under SFAS No. 121 guidance.
     The overall market  assumptions on which the impairment  computations  were
made assumed that 1999 calendar year drilling  activity as measured by worldwide
rig count  would be 1,900  rigs  which was up from the 1,700  level in the third
quarter of 1998.  Rig count for  calendar  year 2000 and  beyond was  assumed to
increase  about 3% per year based upon estimated  long-term  growth in worldwide
demand for oil and gas. These assumptions were based on market data available at
the time of the merger.
     In addition to these assumptions,  management  utilized a 10-year timeframe
for future  projected cash flows, a discount rate that  approximates its average
cost of capital,  and specific  assumptions  for the future  performance of each
product service line. The most  significant  assumptions are discussed below. In
each case,  these  analyses  represented  management's  best  estimate of future
results for these product service lines.
     Drilling  operations  of  pre-merger   Halliburton  Energy  Services.   Our
pre-merger    drilling    business    consisted    of    logging-while-drilling,
measurement-while-drilling  and directional  drilling services.  The majority of
the pre-merger  logging-while-drilling  business and a portion of the pre-merger
measurement-while-drilling  business  were  required to be sold under the United
States  Department of Justice consent  decree.  We have integrated the remaining
drilling  business  with the  Sperry-Sun  operations  of Dresser.  Our  strategy
focuses generally on operating under the Sperry-Sun name and using  Sperry-Sun's
superior  technology,  tools and industry  reputation.  Our remaining pre-merger
drilling  assets  and  technology  are being  de-emphasized  as they wear out or
become  obsolete.  These tools will not be  replaced  resulting  in  significant
decreases in future cash flows and an  impairment of the excess of cost over net
assets and related long-lived assets.



     Significant   forecast  assumptions  included  a  revenue  decline  in  the
remaining  pre-merger  drilling  business due to the  measurement-while-drilling
sale in the first year.  Related revenue and operating income over the following
10 years  were  projected  to  decline  due to  reduced  business  opportunities
resulting from our shift in focus toward Sperry-Sun's tools and technologies. We
determined  that there was a $125 million  impairment of excess of cost over net
assets acquired. In addition,  related long-lived asset impairments consisted of
$61 million of property and  equipment  and $14 million of related  spare parts,
the value of which was  estimated  using the  "held for use"  model  during  the
forecast  period.  An impairment of $3 million was recorded  related to property
and  equipment  and $18  million of spare  parts using the "held for sale" model
sold in accordance with the consent decree with the United States  Department of
Justice. See Note 2.
     Logging operations of pre-merger Halliburton Energy Services. The merger of
Halliburton Company and Dresser  Industries,  Inc. enabled the acceleration of a
formation  evaluation  strategy.  This strategy takes  advantage of Sperry-Sun's
logging-while-drilling  competitive  position  and  reputation  for  reliability
combined  with our  Magnetic  Resonance  Imaging  Logging  (MRIL(R))  technology
acquired  with the  NUMAR  acquisition  in 1997.  Prior to the  merger,  we were
focused on  growing  the  traditional  logging  business  while  working  toward
development  of new  systems to  maximize  the  MRIL(R)  technology.  The merger
allowed us to  implement  the new  strategy  and place the  traditional  logging
business in a sustaining  mode. This change in focus and strategy  resulted in a
shift of operating cash flows away from our traditional  logging business.  This
created  an  impairment  of  the  excess of cost  over net  assets  and  related
long-lived assets related to our logging business.
     Significant  forecast  assumptions included revenues decreasing slowly over
the 10-year period,  reflecting the decline in the traditional  logging markets.
Operating  income  initially  was  forecasted  to increase  due to cost  cutting
activity,  and then decline as revenue  decreased due to the  significant  fixed
costs in this product service line. We calculated $51 million  impairment of the
excess of cost over net assets acquired.  In addition,  related long-lived asset
impairments  consisted of $22 million of property and  equipment and $32 million
of spare parts which management  estimated using the "held for use" model during
the forecast period.
     Mono Pump operations of pre-merger Dresser. The amount of the impairment is
$43 million,  all of which  represents  excess of cost over net assets  acquired
associated with the business.
     Our strategy for Mono Pump is to focus  primarily on the oilfield  business
including  manufacturing  power sections for drilling motors. The prior strategy
included  emphasis  on  non-oilfield   related  applications  of  their  pumping
technology  and the majority of Mono Pump revenues were related to  non-oilfield
sales. The change in strategy will result in reduced future cash flows resulting
in an impairment of the excess of costs over net assets acquired.
     Significant  forecast assumptions included stable revenue for several years
and then  slowly  declining  due to  decreasing  emphasis of  industrial  market
applications.  Operating income was forecasted to initially be even with current
levels but then decline over the period as revenues declined and fixed costs per
unit increased.
     AVA  operations of Dresser Oil Tools.  The amount of the  impairment is $37
million  of which  $34  million  relates  to  excess  of costs  over net  assets
acquired.
     The plan for Dresser's AVA business line (which supplies  subsurface safety
valves and other  completion  equipment) was to rationalize  product lines which
overlap with our  pre-existing  completion  equipment  business  line.  The vast
majority of the AVA product lines were  de-emphasized  except for supporting the
installed  base of AVA  equipment  and  specific  special  order  requests  from
customers.  AVA products were generally aimed at the high-end custom  completion
products  market.  Our strategy was to focus on standardized  high-end  products
based upon  pre-merger  Halliburton  designs thus reducing future AVA cash flows
and impairing its assets and related excess of costs over net assets acquired.
     Additional asset related charges. Additional asset related charges include:
         -   $37 million  for various excess fixed assets as a result of merging
             similar product lines.  We have  no future use for these assets and
             they have been scrapped;
         -   $33 million for other assets related to capitalized software, which
             became  redundant  with  the  merger.   Major  components  included
             redundant  computer  aided design  systems  and  capitalized  costs
             related  to a  portion of  our enterprise-wide  information  system
             abandoned due to  changed  requirements of the post merger company.
             The redundant computer aided  design systems  were used in both the
             Energy Services  Group and the  Engineering and  Construction Group



             and were immediately abandoned  and replaced  by  superior  systems
             required to meet the needs of the merged company;
         -   $26 million for the inventory charge relates to excess inventory as
             a result of merging similar product lines and/or industry downturn.
             This included  approximately $17  million  related  to  overlapping
             product  lines  and excess  inventory  in the  completion  products
             business and $9 million related to various Dresser Equipment  Group
             divisions  due to excess  inventory related  to industry  downturn.
             Inventory that was overlapping due to the merger was segregated and
             has been scrapped.  Inventory reserves were increased to cover  the
             estimated  write-down  to  market  for  inventory  with  future use
             determined to be excess as a result of the industry  downturn.  Any
             future  sales are  expected to  approximate the new  lower carrying
             value of the inventory;
         -   $5 million for  the impairment of  excess of cost  over net  assets
             acquired  related  to  well  construction  technology  that  became
             redundant once  the merger was complete due to similar but superior
             technology  offered by Sperry-Sun.  This technology will no  longer
             be used as part of  our integrated service offerings, thus reducing
             future  cash flows.  We  will, however,  continue  to  market  this
             technology individually to third parties.  An impairment based on a
             "held  for use" model  was calculated  using a  10-year  discounted
             cash flow model with a discount rate which approximates our average
             cost of capital; and
         -   $1 million  write-off of excess of  cost over  net assets  acquired
             related to  the Steamford  product line  in  the  Dresser Equipment
             Group  valve and  control  division.  Management made the strategic
             decision to exit this product line.
     Asset  related  charges  have been  reflected as direct  reductions  of the
associated asset balances.

Personnel Charges
     Personnel   charges  include  severance  and  related  costs  incurred  for
announced  employee  reductions  of  10,850  affecting  all  business  segments,
corporate and shared service functions. Personnel charges also include personnel
costs related to change of control. In June 1999, management revised the planned
employee  reductions  to 10,100  due in large  part to higher  than  anticipated
voluntary  employee  resignations.  As of December  31,  2000,  terminations  of
employees, consultants and contract personnel related to the 1998 special charge
have been completed.

Facility Consolidation Charges
     Facility consolidation charges include costs to dispose of owned properties
or exit  leased  facilities.  As a result of the  merger  with  Dresser  and the
industry  downturn,  we  recorded a charge  for costs to  vacate,  sell or close
excess  and  redundant  service,  manufacturing  and  administrative  facilities
throughout  the world.  The majority of these  facilities  are within the Energy
Services Group. Expenses of $126 million included:
         -   $85 million  write-down of owned facilities  for anticipated losses
             on planned disposals based upon the difference between the  assets'
             net book values and anticipated  future net realizable value  based
             upon the "to be disposed of" method;
         -   $37 million  lease buyout  costs or  early lease  termination  cost
             including:
             -   estimated costs to buy out leases;
             -   facility refurbishment/restoration  expenses as required by the
                 lease in order to exit property;
             -   sublease differentials, as applicable; and
             -   related broker/agent fees to negotiate and close buyouts;
         -   $4  million  facility  maintenance   costs  to   maintain   vacated
             facilities   between   the  abandonment   date  and  the   expected
             disposition   date.   Maintenance  costs  include  lease   expense,
             depreciation,    maintenance,    utilities,     and     third-party
             administrative costs.
     As of  December  31,  2000,  we have  substantially  completed  the work to
vacate, sell or close the service,  manufacturing and administrative  facilities
related to the 1998  special  charge.  The  majority  of the sold,  returned  or
vacated  properties are located in North America and have been  eliminated  from
the  Energy  Services  Group.  The  remaining  expenditures  will be made as the
remaining properties are vacated and sold.



Merger Transaction Charges
     Merger transaction costs include investment banking, filing fees, legal and
professional  fees and other  merger  related  costs.  We  estimated  our merger
transaction costs to be $64 million.

Other Charges
     Other  charges of $46 million  include the  estimated  contract  exit costs
associated  with the  elimination  of duplicate  agents and suppliers in various
countries  throughout  the world.  Through  December 31, 2000,  we have utilized
substantially all of the estimated amount of other special charge costs.

Note 13.  Change in Accounting Method
     In April 1998,  the  American  Institute of  Certified  Public  Accountants
issued   Statement  of  Position  98-5  "Reporting  on  the  Costs  of  Start-Up
Activities."   This  Statement   requires  costs  of  start-up   activities  and
organization costs to be expensed as incurred.  We adopted Statement of Position
98-5 effective January 1, 1999 and recorded expense of $30 million pretax or $19
million  after-tax or $0.04 per diluted share. The components of the $30 million
pretax  cost,  all  contained  within  the  Energy  Services  Group,  that  were
previously deferred include:
         -   $23  million  for  mobilization  costs  associated   with  specific
             contracts and for installation of offshore cementing equipment onto
             third party marine drilling rigs or vessels; and
         -   $7 million for  costs incurred opening a new manufacturing facility
             in the United Kingdom.

Note 14.  Income Taxes
     The components of the (provision) benefit for income taxes are:


     Included in federal  income taxes for continuing operations are foreign tax
credits of $113  million in 2000,  $52  million in 1999 and $94 million in 1998.
The United  States and  foreign  components  of income  (loss)  from  continuing
operations before income taxes and minority interests are as follows:


     The primary  components of our deferred tax assets and  liabilities and the
related valuation allowances are as follows:





     We have accrued for the potential repatriation of undistributed earnings of
our foreign  subsidiaries  and consider  earnings above the amounts on which tax
has been provided to be permanently reinvested.  While these additional earnings
could become  subject to  additional  tax if  repatriated,  repatriation  is not
anticipated. Any additional amount of tax is not practicable to estimate.
     We have net  operating  loss  carryforwards  of $44 million which expire in
2001 through 2005. We also have net operating loss  carryforwards of $75 million
with indefinite expiration dates.  Reconciliations  between the actual provision
for income taxes and that computed by applying the United States  statutory rate
to income from continuing  operations  before income taxes and minority interest
are as follows:




Note 15.  Common Stock
     On June  25,  1998,  our  shareholders  voted to  increase  the  number  of
authorized shares from 400 million to 600 million.
     Our 1993 Stock and Long-Term  Incentive  Plan provides for the grant of any
or all of the following types of awards:
         -   stock options, including incentive  stock options and non-qualified
             stock options;
         -   stock  appreciation  rights,  in  tandem   with  stock  options  or
             freestanding;
         -   restricted stock;
         -   performance share awards; and
         -   stock value equivalent awards.
Under the terms of the 1993 Stock and Long-Term  Incentive  Plan as amended,  49
million shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance to key employees.
The plan  specifies  that no more  than 16  million  shares  can be  awarded  as
restricted  stock.  At December 31, 2000, 27 million  shares were  available for
future  grants  under the 1993  Stock  and  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan with 12.7
million shares remaining available for restricted stock awards.
     In  connection  with the  acquisition  of Dresser in 1998,  we assumed  the
outstanding  stock options  under the stock option plans  maintained by Dresser.
See Note 2. Stock option  transactions  summarized below include amounts for the
1993 Stock and  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan and stock  plans of Dresser and other
acquired  companies.  No further  awards are being made under the stock plans of
acquired companies.





     Options outstanding at December 31, 2000 are composed of the following:


     There were 9.5 million options exercisable with a weighted average exercise
price of $28.96 at December 31, 1999, and 7.8 million options exercisable with a
weighted average exercise price of $25.72 at December 31, 1998.
     All stock  options  under  the 1993  Stock and  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
including  options  granted to employees of Dresser since its  acquisition,  are
granted at the fair market value of the common stock at the grant date.
     The fair  value of  options  at the date of grant was  estimated  using the
Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model.  The  weighted  average  assumptions  and
resulting fair values of options granted are as follows:


     Stock options  generally expire 10 years from the grant date. Stock options
under the 1993 Stock and Long-Term Incentive Plan vest over a three-year period,
with one-third of the shares becoming  exercisable on each of the first,  second
and third  anniversaries  of the grant date.  Other plans have  vesting  periods
ranging from three to 10 years.  Options under the Non-Employee  Directors' Plan
vest after six months.
     We account for the option plans in accordance  with  Accounting  Principles
Board Opinion No. 25, under which no  compensation  cost has been recognized for
stock option awards.  Compensation cost for the stock option programs calculated
consistent with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation," is set forth on a pro forma basis below:





     Restricted shares awarded under the 1993 Stock and Long-Term Incentive Plan
were 695,692 in 2000,  352,267 in 1999 and 414,510 in 1998.  The shares  awarded
are net of  forfeitures  of 69,402 in 2000,  72,483 in 1999 and 136,540 in 1998.
The weighted  average fair market value per share at the date of grant of shares
granted was $42.25 in 2000, $43.41 in 1999 and $34.77 in 1998.
     Our  Restricted  Stock  Plan for  Non-Employee  Directors  allows  for each
non-employee  director to receive an annual  award of 400  restricted  shares of
common stock as a part of  compensation.  We reserved  100,000  shares of common
stock for issuance to  non-employee  directors.  Under this plan we issued 3,600
restricted  shares in 2000, 4,800 restricted shares in 1999 and 3,200 restricted
shares in 1998.  At  December  31,  2000,  28,800  shares  have  been  issued to
non-employee  directors under this plan. The weighted  average fair market value
per share at the date of grant of shares  granted was $46.81 in 2000,  $46.13 in
1999 and $36.31 in 1998.
     Our Employees'  Restricted Stock Plan was established for employees who are
not officers,  for which 200,000 shares of common stock have been  reserved.  At
December 31, 2000,  152,850  shares (net of 42,550 shares  forfeited)  have been
issued.  Forfeitures  were  7,450 in 2000,  8,400 in 1999 and 1,900 in 1998.  No
further grants are being made under this plan.
     Under the terms of our Career  Executive  Incentive  Stock Plan, 15 million
shares of our common  stock were  reserved  for  issuance  to  officers  and key
employees  at a purchase  price not to exceed  par value of $2.50 per share.  At
December 31, 2000,  11.7 million  shares (net of 2.2 million  shares  forfeited)
have been issued under the plan. No further grants will be made under the Career
Executive Incentive Stock Plan.
     Restricted shares issued under the 1993 Stock and Long-Term Incentive Plan,
Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee  Directors,  Employees'  Restricted Stock
Plan and the Career  Executive  Incentive  Stock Plan are  limited as to sale or
disposition.  These  restrictions  lapse periodically over an extended period of
time not exceeding ten years.  Restrictions  may also lapse for early retirement
and other  conditions  in accordance  with our  established  policies.  The fair
market  value of the stock,  on the date of  issuance,  is being  amortized  and
charged to income  (with  similar  credits  to paid-in  capital in excess of par
value) generally over the average period during which the restrictions lapse. At
December  31,  2000,  the  unamortized  amount  is $63  million.  We  recognized
compensation  costs in income of $18 million in 2000, $11 million in 1999 and $8
million in 1998.

Note 16.  Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
     We previously  declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right on
each outstanding  share of common stock. The dividend is also applicable to each
share of our common stock that was issued  subsequent  to adoption of the Rights
Agreement  entered into with Mellon Investor  Services LLC. Each preferred stock
purchase  right entitles its holder to buy one  two-hundredth  of a share of our
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, without par value, at an exercise
price of $75. These  preferred stock purchase rights are subject to antidilution
adjustments,  which are  described  in the Rights  Agreement  entered  into with
Mellon.  The preferred  stock purchase  rights do not have any voting rights and
are not entitled to dividends.
     The  preferred  stock  purchase   rights  become   exercisable  in  limited
circumstances  involving a potential business  combination.  After the preferred
stock purchase  rights become  exercisable,  each preferred stock purchase right
will  entitle  its  holder  to an  amount  of  our  common  stock,  or  in  some
circumstances,  securities of the acquirer, having a total market value equal to
two  times  the  exercise  price of the  preferred  stock  purchase  right.  The
preferred  stock purchase rights are redeemable at our option at any time before
they become exercisable.  The preferred stock purchase rights expire on December
15,  2005.  No event  during  2000  made the  preferred  stock  purchase  rights
exercisable.

Note 17.  Financial Instruments and Risk Management
     Foreign  exchange  risk.  Techniques  in  managing  foreign  exchange  risk
include,  but are not limited to, foreign  currency  borrowing and investing and
the use of currency  derivative  instruments.  We selectively  hedge significant
exposures  to potential  foreign  exchange  losses  considering  current  market
conditions,  future operating activities and the cost of hedging the exposure in
relation to the  perceived  risk of loss.  The  purpose of our foreign  currency
hedging  activities is to protect us from the risk that the eventual dollar cash
flows  resulting  from the sale and purchase of products and services in foreign
currencies  will be adversely  affected by changes in exchange  rates. We do not
hold or issue  derivative  financial  instruments  for  trading  or  speculative
purposes.



     We  hedge  our  currency  exposure  through the use of currency  derivative
instruments.  These contracts  generally have an expiration date of two years or
less.  Forward  exchange  contracts,  which  are  commitments  to buy or  sell a
specified  amount of a  foreign  currency  at a  specified  price and time,  are
generally used to hedge identifiable foreign currency commitments.  Losses of $1
million for identifiable  foreign currency commitments were deferred at December
31, 2000.  Forward  exchange  contracts and foreign  exchange option  contracts,
which  convey  the right,  but not the  obligation,  to sell or buy a  specified
amount of foreign  currency at a specified  price,  are generally  used to hedge
foreign currency  commitments with an indeterminable  maturity date. None of the
forward or option contracts are exchange traded.
     While  hedging  instruments  are  subject  to  fluctuations  in value,  the
fluctuations are generally offset by the value of the underlying exposures being
hedged.  The use of some  contracts  may  limit  our  ability  to  benefit  from
favorable  fluctuations in foreign  exchange rates. The notional amounts of open
forward  contracts and options for continuing  operations  were $281 million and
$297  million  at  year-end  2000 and 1999,  respectively.  Amounts  related  to
discontinued  operations  were $61 million and $96 million at December  31, 2000
and 1999,  respectively.  The notional amounts of our foreign exchange contracts
do not generally represent amounts exchanged by the parties, and thus, are not a
measure of our exposure or of the cash requirements relating to these contracts.
The amounts exchanged are calculated by reference to the notional amounts and by
other terms of the derivatives,  such as exchange rates. We actively monitor our
foreign currency exposure and adjust the amounts hedged as appropriate.
     Exposures  to  some  currencies  are generally  not hedged due primarily to
the lack of available markets or cost considerations (non-traded currencies). We
attempt to manage our working  capital  position to  minimize  foreign  currency
commitments in non-traded currencies and recognize that pricing for the services
and products  offered in these countries  should cover the cost of exchange rate
devaluations.  We have historically  incurred  transaction  losses in non-traded
currencies.
     Credit  risk.   Financial   instruments  that  potentially  subject  us  to
concentrations  of credit risk are primarily cash  equivalents,  investments and
trade  receivables.  It is our  practice  to  place  our  cash  equivalents  and
investments in high-quality securities with various investment institutions.  We
derive  the  majority  of  our  revenues  from  sales  and  services,  including
engineering   and  construction, to  the  energy  industry.  Within  the  energy
industry,  trade  receivables  are  generated  from a broad and diverse group of
customers.  There are concentrations of receivables in the United States and the
United  Kingdom.  We maintain an  allowance  for losses  based upon the expected
collectibility of all trade accounts receivable.
     There  are  no   significant  concentrations   of  credit  risk  with   any
individual  counterparty or groups of  counterparties  related to our derivative
contracts.  We  select  counterparties  based  on  creditworthiness,   which  we
continually  monitor,  and on  the  counterparties'  ability  to  perform  their
obligations  under  the  terms  of  the  transactions.  We  do  not  expect  any
counterparties  to fail to meet their  obligations  under these  contracts given
their high credit  ratings.  Therefore,  we consider the credit risk  associated
with our derivative contracts to be minimal.
     Fair market  value of  financial  instruments.  The  estimated  fair market
value of long-term  debt at year-end 2000 and 1999 was $1,066 million and $1,352
million,  respectively,  as compared to the carrying amount of $1,057 million at
year-end  2000 and $1,364  million at year-end  1999.  The fair market  value of
fixed rate  long-term debt is based on quoted market prices for those or similar
instruments.  The carrying  amount of variable rate long-term debt  approximates
fair market value because these  instruments  reflect market changes to interest
rates. See Note 8. The carrying amount of short-term financial instruments, cash
and equivalents,  receivables, short-term notes payable and accounts payable, as
reflected in the consolidated  balance sheets approximates fair market value due
to the short maturities of these instruments.  The fair market value of currency
derivative instruments,  generally approximates their carrying amount based upon
third-party quotes.  The fair market values of derivative  instruments  used for
fair value hedging and cash flow hedging were immaterial.

Note 18.  Retirement Plans
     Our  company  and  subsidiaries   have   various  plans   which   cover   a
significant number of their employees.  These plans include defined contribution
plans, which provide  retirement  contributions in return for services rendered,
provide an individual  account for each  participant and have terms that specify
how contributions to the participant's  account are to be determined rather than
the amount of pension  benefits the participant is to receive.  Contributions to
these plans are based on pretax income and/or  discretionary  amounts determined



on an annual  basis.  Our expense for the  defined  contribution  plans for both
continuing and discontinued  operations totaled $182 million,  $146 million, and
$152  million  in 2000,  1999 and 1998,  respectively.  Other  retirement  plans
include defined  benefit plans,  which define an amount of pension benefit to be
provided, usually as a function of age, years of service or compensation.  These
plans are funded to operate  on an  actuarially  sound  basis.  Plan  assets are
primarily  invested in cash,  short-term  investments,  real estate,  equity and
fixed  income  securities  of  entities  domiciled  in the country of the plan's
operation.  Plan assets,  expenses and obligations  for retirement  plans in the
following tables include both continuing and discontinued operations.





     We  recognized   an  additional   minimum   pension   liability   for   the
underfunded  defined benefit plans. The additional minimum liability is equal to
the excess of the  accumulated  benefit  obligation over plan assets and accrued
liabilities.  A corresponding amount is recognized as either an intangible asset
or a reduction of shareholders' equity.





     Assumed  long-term  rates  of  return  on plan assets,  discount rates  for
estimating benefit obligations and rates of compensation  increases vary for the
different plans according to the local economic  conditions.  The rates used are
as follows:





     The  projected  benefit obligation,  accumulated  benefit  obligation,  and
fair  value of plan  assets  for the  pension  plans  with  accumulated  benefit
obligations  in excess of plan assets were $172 million,  $154 million,  and $82
million,  respectively,  as of December 31, 2000.  They were $205 million,  $199
million, and $183 million, respectively, as of December 31, 1999.
     Postretirement  medical  plan.  We  offer  postretirement  medical plans to
specific eligible employees. For some plans, our liability is limited to a fixed
contribution  amount for each  participant or dependent.  The plan  participants
share the total cost for all benefits provided above our fixed  contribution and
participants'  contributions are adjusted as required to cover benefit payments.
We have made no commitment to adjust the amount of our contributions; therefore,
the  computed  accumulated  postretirement  benefit  obligation  amount  is  not
affected by the expected future health care cost inflation rate.



     Other  postretirement  medical  plans  are  contributory  but  we generally
absorb  the  majority  of the  costs.  We may elect to adjust  the amount of our
contributions for these plans. As a result, the expected future health care cost
inflation rate affects the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation amount.
These plans have assumed health care trend rates  (weighted based on the current
year benefit  obligation) for 2000 of 10% which are expected to decline to 5% by
2005.
     Obligations   and   expenses  for   postretirement  medical  plans  in  the
following tables include both continuing and discontinued operations.










     Assumed  health  care cost  trend rates  have a  significant  effect on the
amounts reported for the total of the health care plans. A  one-percentage-point
change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:


Note 19.  Subsequent Event
     In March  2001 our offer to acquire  the PGS Data  Management  division  of
Petroleum Geo-Services ASA (PGS) was accepted by the PGS shareholders.  PGS Data
Management has developed cost effective  internet enabled storage,  browsing and
retrieval of large volumes of exploration and production  data and  information.
Terms of the agreement  include a cash transfer of $175 million prior to working
capital  contribution  and a contract  where  Landmark  will  manage the seismic
library of  PGS for three  years.  PGS Data  Management will become  part of the
Landmark Graphics business that is included in the Energy Services Group.

Note 20. Dresser Financial Information
     Since  becoming a wholly owned  subsidiary,  Dresser  Industries,  Inc. has
ceased filing  periodic  reports with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission.
Dresser's 8% guaranteed  senior  notes,  which were  initially  issued by Baroid
Corporation,  remain outstanding and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by
Halliburton.  In January  1999, as part of the legal  reorganization  associated
with the merger,  Halliburton  Delaware,  Inc.,  a  first-tier  holding  company
subsidiary,  was merged into Dresser.  The majority of our operating  assets and
activities  are included in Dresser and its  subsidiaries.  In August 2000,  the
Securities and Exchange  Commission  released a new rule governing the financial
statements of guarantors and issuers of guaranteed  securities  registered  with
the SEC. The following condensed  consolidating  financial  information presents
Halliburton and our subsidiaries on a stand-alone  basis using the equity method
and as if our  current  organizational  structure  were in place for all periods
presented.

































                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
                             Selected Financial Data
                                  (Unaudited)

We have restated our prior year  information to display Dresser  Equipment Group
as discontinued operations.





                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
                             Selected Financial Data
                                  (Unaudited)
                                  (continued)

We have restated our prior year  information to display Dresser  Equipment Group
as discontinued operations.




                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
                   Quarterly Data and Market Price Information
                                   (Unaudited)





PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of Registrant.
     The  information  required   for  the   directors  of   the  Registrant  is
incorporated by reference to the Halliburton Company Proxy Statement dated March
20, 2001,  under the caption  "Election of Directors." The information  required
for the executive officers of the Registrant is included under Part I on pages 8
and 9 of this annual report.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.
     This   information   is  incorporated  by  reference  to   the  Halliburton
Company Proxy Statement dated March 20, 2001,  under the captions  "Compensation
Committee Report on Executive Compensation," "Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative
Total  Return,"  "Summary  Compensation  Table,"  "Option  Grants in Last Fiscal
Year,"  "Aggregated  Option  Exercises  in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal  Year-End
Option Values,"  "Retirement  Plans,"  "Employment  Contracts and Termination of
Employment and  Change-in-Control  Arrangements"  and "Directors'  Compensation,
Restricted Stock Plan and Retirement Plan."

Item 12(a). Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.
     This   information  is   incorporated  by  reference  to   the  Halliburton
Company Proxy Statement dated March 20, 2001, under the caption "Stock Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management."

Item 12(b). Security Ownership of Management.
     This  information  is  incorporated   by  reference   to   the  Halliburton
Company Proxy Statement dated March 20, 2001, under the caption "Stock Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management."

Item 12(c). Changes in Control.
     Not applicable.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
     This  information   is   incorporated  by  reference  to   the  Halliburton
Company  Proxy  Statement  dated  March 20,  2001,  under the  caption  "Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions."



PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a)   1.     Financial Statements:
             The report of Arthur Andersen LLP,  Independent Public Accountants,
             and the financial statements of the Company as required by Part II,
             Item 8, are included on  pages 21 through 60 and pages 64 and 65 of
             this annual report. See index on page 11.

      2.     Financial Statement Schedules:                             Page No.

             Report on supplemental schedule of Arthur
                 Andersen LLP                                              75

             Schedule II - Valuation and qualifying accounts
                 for the three years ended December 31, 2000               76

             Note:  All  schedules  not  filed  with  this  report  required  by
             Regulation  S-X have been omitted as not applicable or not required
             or the  information  required  has been  included  in the  notes to
             financial statements.

      3.     Exhibits:

      Exhibit
      Number          Exhibits

      3.1             Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of   Halliburton
                      Company filed with  the Secretary of State of  Delaware on
                      July 23, 1998  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 3(a)
                      to  Halliburton's  Form  10-Q  for the  quarter ended June
                      30, 1998).

      3.2             By-laws  of  Halliburton  revised  effective  May 16, 2000
                      (incorporated  by reference to  Exhibit 3 to Halliburton's
                      Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2000).

      4.1             Form of debt security of 8.75% Debentures due February 12,
                      2021  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  4(a) to the
                      Predecessor's Form 8-K dated as of February 20, 1991).

      4.2             Senior  Indenture  dated as of January 2, 1991 between the
                      Predecessor and Texas Commerce Bank National  Association,
                      as trustee  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to
                      the Predecessor's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File
                      No.  33-38394)  originally  filed with the  Securities and
                      Exchange Commission on December 21, 1990), as supplemented
                      and amended by the First  Supplemental  Indenture dated as
                      of December  12, 1996 among the  Predecessor,  Halliburton
                      and the Trustee  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
                      of Halliburton's  Registration Statement on Form 8-B dated
                      December 12, 1996, File No. 1-03492).

      4.3             Resolutions  of   the  Predecessor's  Board  of  Directors
                      adopted at a meeting held on  February 11, 1991 and of the
                      special pricing committee of the Board of Directors of the
                      predecessor adopted at a meeting held on February 11, 1991
                      and the  special pricing  committee's consent  in lieu  of
                      meeting   dated   February   12,  1991  (incorporated   by
                      reference to  Exhibit 4(c)  to the  Predecessor's Form 8-K
                      dated as of February 20, 1991).

      4.4             Form of debt  security of 6.75% Notes due February 1, 2027
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Halliburton's
                      Form 8-K dated as of February 11, 1997).



      4.5             Second  Senior  Indenture  dated as of  December  1,  1996
                      between the  Predecessor  and Texas Commerce Bank National
                      Association,  as Trustee,  as supplemented  and amended by
                      the First  Supplemental  Indenture dated as of December 5,
                      1996  between  the  Predecessor  and the  Trustee  and the
                      Second  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of December  12,
                      1996 among the  Predecessor,  Halliburton  and the Trustee
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of Halliburton's
                      Registration  Statement  on Form 8-B  dated  December  12,
                      1996, File No. 1-03492).

      4.6             Third  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of August 1, 1997
                      between  Halliburton  and  Texas  Commerce  Bank  National
                      Association,  as Trustee,  to the Second Senior  Indenture
                      dated as of December 1, 1996 (incorporated by reference to
                      Exhibit 4.7 to Halliburton's  Form 10-K for the year ended
                      December 31, 1998).

      4.7             Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of September 29,
                      1998 between Halliburton and Chase Bank of Texas, National
                      Association   (formerly   Texas   Commerce  Bank  National
                      Association),  as Trustee,  to the Second Senior Indenture
                      dated as of December 1, 1996 (incorporated by reference to
                      Exhibit 4.8 to Halliburton's  Form 10-K for the year ended
                      December 31, 1998).

      4.8             Resolutions of Halliburton's Board of Directors adopted by
                      unanimous consent dated December 5, 1996  (incorporated by
                      reference to Exhibit 4(g) of  Halliburton's  Form 10-K for
                      the year ended December 31, 1996).

      4.9             Resolutions of Halliburton's Board of Directors adopted at
                      a special meeting held on September 28, 1998 (incorporated
                      by reference to Exhibit  4.10 to  Halliburton's  Form 10-K
                      for the year ended December 31, 1998).

      4.10            Restated  Rights Agreement  dated as  of  December 1, 1996
                      between  Halliburton  and  Mellon  Investor  Services  LLC
                      (formerly   ChaseMellon  Shareholder   Services,   L.L.C.)
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Company's
                      Registration  Statement  on  Form  8-B  dated December 12,
                      1996, File No. 1-03492).

      4.11            Copies of instruments that define the rights of holders of
                      miscellaneous  long-term  notes  of  Halliburton  and  its
                      subsidiaries,  totaling  $18  million  in the aggregate at
                      December  31,  2000,  have   not  been   filed  with   the
                      Commission.  Halliburton agrees to furnish copies of these
                      instruments upon request.

      4.12            Form of  debt security  of 7.53%  Notes due  May 12,  2017
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Halliburton's
                      Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1997).

      4.13            Form of  debt security  of 6.30%  Notes due August 5, 2002
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Halliburton's
                      Form 8-K dated as of August 5, 1997).

      4.14            Form of debt  security of 5.63% Notes due December 1, 2008
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Halliburton's
                      Form 8-K dated as of November 24, 1998).



      4.15            Form of Indenture,  between Baroid  Corporation  and Texas
                      Commerce Bank  National  Association,  as Trustee,  for 8%
                      Senior  Notes  due  2003  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                      Exhibit  4.01 to the  Registration  Statement  on Form S-3
                      filed by Baroid  Corporation,  Registration No. 33-60174),
                      as  supplemented  and  amended  by  Form  of  Supplemental
                      Indenture,  between Dresser,  Baroid Corporation and Texas
                      Commerce Bank N.A. as Trustee,  for 8%  Guaranteed  Senior
                      Notes due 2003  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.3
                      to  Registration  Statement  on Form S-4  filed by  Baroid
                      Corporation, Registration No. 33-53077).

      4.16            Second  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  October  30,  1997
                      between   Dresser  and  Texas   Commerce   Bank   National
                      Association,  as  Trustee,  for 8%  Senior  Notes due 2003
                      (incorporated    by   reference   to   Exhibit   4.19   to
                      Halliburton's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                      1998).

      4.17            Third  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  September  29, 1998
                      between Dresser, Halliburton, as Guarantor, and Chase Bank
                      of Texas, National Association,  as Trustee, for 8% Senior
                      Notes due 2003  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.20
                      to Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                      1998).

      4.18            Form of Indenture, between Dresser and Texas Commerce Bank
                      National Association, as Trustee, for 7.60% Debentures due
                      2096  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4 to  the
                      Registration   Statement   on   Form   S-3   as   amended,
                      Registration No.  333-01303),  as supplemented and amended
                      by Form of  Supplemental  Indenture,  between  Dresser and
                      Texas  Commerce Bank National  Association,  Trustee,  for
                      7.60%  Debentures due 2096  (incorporated  by reference to
                      Exhibit  4.1 to  Dresser's  Form 8-K  filed on  August  9,
                      1996).

      10.1            Halliburton  Company Career Executive Incentive Stock Plan
                      as amended November 15, 1990 (incorporated by reference to
                      Exhibit 10(a) to the Predecessor's  Form 10-K for the year
                      ended December 31, 1992).

      10.2            Retirement  Plan for the Directors of Halliburton  Company
                      as  amended   and   restated   effective   May  16,   2000
                      (incorporated    by   reference   to   Exhibit   10.2   to
                      Halliburton's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended  September
                      30, 2000).

  *   10.3            Halliburton Company  Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan
                      as amended and restated effective February 1, 2001.

      10.4            Halliburton  Company  1993 Stock and  Long-Term  Incentive
                      Plan,  as amended  and  restated  effective  May 16,  2000
                      (incorporated    by   reference   to   Exhibit   10.3   to
                      Halliburton's  Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  June 30,
                      2000).

      10.5            Halliburton Company Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee
                      Directors (incorporated  by reference to Appendix B of the
                      Predecessor's proxy statement dated March 23, 1993).

      10.6            Halliburton   Elective   Deferral  Plan,  as  amended  and
                      restated   effective  January  1,  2000  (incorporated  by
                      reference to Exhibit 10.1 to  Halliburton's  Form 10-Q for
                      the quarter ended March 31, 2000).

      10.7            First   Amendment   to   the    Elective   Deferral   Plan
                      (incorporated   by   reference    to   Exhibit   10.4   to
                      Halliburton's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
                      30, 2000).



      10.8            Employment agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10 to the  Predecessor's Form 10-Q  for the quarter  ended
                      September 30, 1995).

      10.9            Halliburton    Company   Senior    Executives'    Deferred
                      Compensation  Plan,  as  amended  and  restated  effective
                      January 1, 1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8
                      to Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                      1998).

      10.10           Halliburton   Company  Annual  Performance  Pay  Plan,  as
                      amended   and   restated   effective   January   1,   1997
                      (incorporated   by   reference   to   Exhibit   10(k)   to
                      Halliburton's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                      1996).

      10.11           Employment agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10(n) to the  Predecessor's  Form 10-K for  the year ended
                      December 31, 1995).

      10.12           Employment  agreement and amendment  thereto (incorporated
                      by reference to  Exhibit 10(b) to Halliburton's  Form 10-Q
                      for the quarter ended September 30, 1998).

      10.13           Employment agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10.16  to  Halliburton's  Form  10-K  for  the  year ended
                      December 31, 1998).

      10.14           Employment agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10.17  to  Halliburton's Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended
                      December 31, 1998).

      10.15           Employment agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10.19  to  Halliburton's  Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
                      December 31, 1998).

  *   10.16           Dresser Industries,  Inc. Deferred  Compensation  Plan  as
                      amended and restated effective January 1, 2000.

      10.17           Dresser   Industries,  Inc.   1982   Stock   Option   Plan
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Dresser's Proxy
                      Statement  dated  February  12,  1982,  filed  pursuant to
                      Regulation 14A, File No. 1-4003).

      10.18           ERISA Excess Benefit  Plan for Dresser Industries, Inc. as
                      amended and restated effective  June 1, 1995 (incorporated
                      by reference  to Exhibit 10.7  to Dresser's  Form 10-K for
                      the year ended October 31, 1995).

      10.19           ERISA   Compensation  Limit   Benefit  Plan   for  Dresser
                      Industries,  Inc., as amended  and restated effective June
                      1,  1995 (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  10.8  to
                      Dresser's Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 1995).

      10.20           Supplemental   Executive   Retirement  Plan   of   Dresser
                      Industries,  Inc.,  as  amended  and   restated  effective
                      January 1, 1998 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9
                      to  Dresser's  Form 10-K  for the  year ended  October 31,
                      1997).

      10.21           Stock  Based  Compensation   Arrangement  of  Non-Employee
                      Directors  (incorporated by reference  to Exhibit  4.4  to
                      Dresser's Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration
                      No. 333-40829).

      10.22           Dresser Industries,  Inc. Deferred  Compensation Plan  for
                      Non-employee Directors, as restated and amended  effective
                      November 1, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5
                      to   Dresser's   Registration  Statement   on  Form   S-8,
                      Registration No. 333-40829).



  *   10.23           Long-Term Performance  Plan for Selected  Employees of The
                      M. W. Kellogg Company, as  amended and  restated effective
                      September 1, 1999.

      10.24           Dresser  Industries, Inc.  1992  Stock  Compensation  Plan
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Dresser's Proxy
                      Statement  dated  February  7,  1992,  filed  pursuant  to
                      Regulation 14A, File No. 1-4003).

      10.25           Amendments  No. 1 and 2 to  Dresser Industries, Inc.  1992
                      Stock  Compensation Plan  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                      Exhibit A to  Dresser's Proxy  Statement dated February 6,
                      1995, filed pursuant to Regulation 14A, File No. 1-4003).

      10.26           Dresser   Industries,   Inc.  1995   Executive   Incentive
                      Compensation Plan (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit B
                      to Dresser's Proxy Statement dated February 6, 1995, filed
                      pursuant to Regulation 14A, File No. 1-4003).

      10.27           Special   1997    Restricted   Incentive    Stock    Grant
                      (incorporated  by reference to  Exhibit 10.26 to Dresser's
                      Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 1996).

      10.28           Form of Executive  Life Insurance Agreement (individual as
                      beneficiary) (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit 10.22
                      to  Dresser's Form  10-K for the  year ended  October  31,
                      1997).

      10.29           Form  of Executive  Life  Insurance  Agreement  (trust  as
                      beneficiary) (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit  10.23
                      to  Dresser's  Form 10-K  for the  year ended  October 31,
                      1997).

      10.30           Amendment No. 3 to the Dresser Industries, Inc. 1992 Stock
                      Compensation  Plan (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit
                      10.25 to Dresser's  Form 10-K for the  year ended  October
                      31, 1997).

      10.31           Dresser   Industries,  Inc.   1998   Executive   Incentive
                      Compensation Plan (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit B
                      to  Dresser's  Proxy Statement  dated  February  10, 1998,
                      filed pursuant to Regulation 14A, File No. 1-4003).

      10.32           Form of  Waiver of Rights  Under the  Dresser  Industries,
                      Inc. Long-Term  Incentive and Retention Plan (incorporated
                      by reference  to Exhibit  10.5 to Dresser's  Form 10-Q for
                      the quarter ended January 31, 1998).

      10.33           Amendment  No. 1 to the  Supplemental Executive Retirement
                      Plan  of   Dresser  Industries,   Inc.  (incorporated   by
                      reference to  Exhibit 10.1 to Dresser's Form  10-Q for the
                      quarter ended April 30, 1998).

      10.34           Halliburton  Executive Performance  Plan effective January
                      1, 2000  (incorporated by reference  to  Exhibit  10.2  to
                      Halliburton's  Form 10-Q for  the quarter  ended March 31,
                      2000).

      10.35           Employment agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10.1 to Halliburton's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
                      30, 2000).

      10.36           Employment agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10.2 to Halliburton's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
                      30, 2000).

      10.37           Employment agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10.1  to  Halliburton's  Form 10-Q  for the  quarter ended
                      September 30, 2000).



      10.38           Form   of  Nonstatutory   Stock   Option   Agreement   for
                      Non-Employee   Directors  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                      Exhibit  10.3 to  Halliburton's  Form 10-Q for the quarter
                      ended September 30, 2000).

  *   10.39           Employment agreement.

      10.40           Agreement and Plan of Recapitalization dated as of January
                      30, 2001 (incorporated  by reference to Halliburton's Form
                      8-K/A dated as of March 6, 2001).

  *   21              Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

  *   23              Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

      24.1            Powers of  attorney for the  following directors signed in
                      February, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 24 to
                      Halliburton's Form 10-K for  the year  ended  December 31,
                      1996):

                      Lord Clitheroe
                      Robert L. Crandall
                      W. R. Howell
                      C. J. Silas

      24.2            Power of  attorney signed in December, 1997 for Charles J.
                      DiBona  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  24(b)  to
                      Halliburton's  Form 10-K  for the  year ended December 31,
                      1997).

      24.3            Powers of  attorney for the  following directors signed in
                      October, 1998 (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 24.3
                      to Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                      1998):

                      Lawrence S. Eagleburger
                      Ray L. Hunt
                      J. Landis Martin
                      Jay A. Precourt

  *                   Filed with this Form 10-K.

(b)   Reports on Form 8-K:





REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
ON SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
Halliburton Company:

We have audited in accordance with generally  accepted auditing  standards,  the
consolidated  financial  statements  included in this Form 10-K, and have issued
our report  thereon  dated  January 30, 2001 (except with respect to the matters
discussed in Notes 9 and 19, as to which the date is March 23, 200l). Our audits
were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those  statements  taken as a
whole.  The  supplemental  schedule  (Schedule  II)  is  the  responsibility  of
Halliburton Company's management and is presented for purposes of complying with
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission's  rules and is not part of the basic
financial  statements.   This  schedule  has  been  subjected  to  the  auditing
procedures  applied in the audits of the basic financial  statements and, in our
opinion,  is fairly  stated in all  material  respects  in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.





                                          /s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
                                          ---------------------------
                                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Dallas, Texas,
    January 30, 2001 (Except  with respect to  the matters  discussed in Notes 9
and 19, as to which the date is March 23, 2001.)



                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
                 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                              (Millions of Dollars)

     The table below presents  valuation and qualifying  accounts for continuing
operations.




SIGNATURES
As required by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant  has  authorized  this  report  to be  signed  on its  behalf  by the
undersigned authorized individuals, on this 27th day of March, 2001.

                                       HALLIBURTON COMPANY




                               By      /s/  David J. Lesar
                                 --------------------------------------
                                            David J. Lesar
                                        Chairman of the Board,
                                 President and Chief Executive Officer

As required by the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by  the following persons  in the  capacities  indicated on  this 27th day
of March, 2001.

Signature                                   Title
- ---------                                   -----




  /s/  David J. Lesar
- ---------------------------------------     Chairman of the Board, President and
       David J. Lesar                       Chief Executive Officer




  /s/  Gary V. Morris
- ---------------------------------------     Executive Vice President and
       Gary V. Morris                       Chief Financial Officer




  /s/  R. Charles Muchmore, Jr.
- ---------------------------------------     Vice President and Controller and
       R. Charles Muchmore, Jr.             Principal Accounting Officer



Signature                                   Title
- ---------                                   -----

* LORD CLITHEROE                            Director
- ---------------------------------------
Lord Clitheroe

*ROBERT L. CRANDALL                         Director
- ---------------------------------------
Robert L. Crandall

* CHARLES J. DIBONA                         Director
- ---------------------------------------
Charles J. DiBona

* LAWRENCE S. EAGLEBURGER                   Director
- ---------------------------------------
Lawrence S. Eagleburger

* W. R. HOWELL                              Director
- ---------------------------------------
W. R. Howell

* RAY L. HUNT                               Director
- ---------------------------------------
Ray L. Hunt

* J. LANDIS MARTIN                          Director
- ---------------------------------------
J. Landis Martin

* JAY A. PRECOURT                           Director
- ---------------------------------------
Jay A. Precourt

* C. J. SILAS                               Director
- ---------------------------------------
C. J. Silas




* /s/  SUSAN S. KEITH
- ---------------------------------------
       Susan S. Keith, Attorney-in-fact




