
10-K



                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
[X] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

[ ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934
For the transition period from      to
                               ----    ----

Commission File Number 1-3492

                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              Delaware                                     75-2677995
    (State or other jurisdiction of                     (I.R.S. Employer
    incorporation of organization)                      Identification No.)

            3600 Lincoln Plaza, 500 N. Akard St., Dallas, Texas 75201
                    (Address of principal executive offices)
                   Telephone Number - Area code (214) 978-2600

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                        Name of each Exchange on
         Title of each class                               which registered
         -------------------                               ----------------
Common Stock par value $2.50 per share                  New York Stock Exchange
Baroid Corporation 8% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2003  New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No
                                           ------

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of Common Stock held by nonaffiliates on February 29,
2000,  determined  using  the per  share  closing  price on the New  York  Stock
Exchange   Composite   tape  of   $38.1875  on  that   date  was   approximately
$16,896,000,000.

As of February 29, 2000, there were  443,582,904  shares of Halliburton  Company
Common Stock $2.50 par value per share outstanding.

Portions of  the Halliburton Company  Proxy Statement dated March 23, 2000,  are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.



PART I

Item 1. Business.
         General development of business.  Halliburton Company's predecessor was
established in 1919 and incorporated  under the laws of the State of Delaware in
1924.   Halliburton   Company   provides  a  variety  of  services,   equipment,
maintenance,   and  engineering  and  construction  to  energy,  industrial  and
governmental customers.  Information related to acquisitions and dispositions is
set forth in Note 2 to the financial statements of this annual report.
         Financial information  about business  segments.  We  operate in  three
business segments:
              o   Energy Services Group;
              o   Engineering and Construction Group; and
              o   Dresser Equipment Group.
         See  Note 3  to the  financial statements  of this  annual  report  for
financial information about these three business segments.
         Description of  services and  products.  Our ability  to mix, bundle or
integrate products and services to meet the varied needs of our  customers is of
increasing importance in the highly competitive environment in which we operate.
We believe that, based upon our customers' requirements, our future success will
depend, in part, upon our ability to offer total  capabilities  and solutions on
a global, industry-encompassing scale as well as discrete services and products.
Our business strategy is focused on continuing to maintain global  leadership in
providing   our   customers   integrated   services,   equipment,   engineering,
construction and maintenance.  This strategy is dependent upon four key goals:
              o   technological leadership;
              o   operational excellence;
              o   innovative business relationships; and
              o   a dynamic workforce.
         We offer a broad suite of products and services  through three business
segments  operating  globally  as six  business  units.  The  following  summary
describes our services and products for each business segment and unit.
         ENERGY SERVICES GROUP
         The Energy  Services  Group  segment  consists  of  Halliburton  Energy
Services,  Brown & Root Energy  Services,  and Landmark  Graphics.  This segment
provides a wide range of discrete services and products and integrated solutions
to customers in the exploration,  development and production of oil and gas. The
segment serves independent, integrated, and national oil companies.
         Halliburton Energy Services provides discrete products and services and
integrated  solutions for oil and gas  exploration,  development  and production
throughout the world. Products and services range from the initial evaluation of
producing  formations to drilling,  completion,  production and well maintenance
for a single well or an entire field.  Major product and service line  offerings
include:
              o   pressure pumping, including:
                  - zonal isolation (cementing);
                  - production enhancement (fracturing and acidizing); and
                  - tools and testing;
              o   logging and perforating;
              o   drilling systems;
              o   drilling fluid systems;
              o   drill bits; and
              o   specialized  completion and production equipment and services,
                  and well control products and services.
         Zonal isolation  is the process  used to bond the well  and well casing
while  isolating  fluid   zones  and  maximizing  wellbore  stability.  This  is
accomplished by pumping cement  and chemical additives to fill the space between
the  casing  and the  side of  the wellbore.  Our  zonal  isolation service line
also provides casing equipment and services.
         Production enhancement encompasses the technologies and capabilities to
optimize oil and gas reservoirs  through a variety of pressure pumping services,
including:  fracturing and acidizing, sand control, coiled tubing, well control,



nitrogen services,  and specialty services.  These services are commonly used to
clean out a formation or to fracture  formations to allow  increased oil and gas
production.
         Tools and testing  includes  tubing-conveyed  perforating  products and
services, including drill stem and other well testing  tools,  data  acquisition
services and production applications.
         Logging  products and services include our Magnetic  Resonance  Imaging
Logging (MRIL(R)), high-temperature logging as well as traditional open-hole and
cased-hole  logging  tools.  MRIL(R)  tools apply  medical  diagnostic  magnetic
resonance imaging  technology to the evaluation of subsurface rock formations in
newly  drilled oil and gas wells.  Our high  temperature  logging  tools combine
advanced  electronic  and  mechanical  tool  designs,  quality  materials  and a
telemetry  system to  operate in high  temperature  and high  pressure  downhole
environments.   Open-hole  tools  provide  information  on  well  visualization,
formation   evaluation   (including   resistivity,   porosity,   lithology   and
temperature),  rock mechanics and sampling.  Cased-hole tools provide  cementing
evaluation,   reservoir   monitoring,   pipe   evaluation,   pipe  recovery  and
perforating.
         Drilling  systems  and  services  are  marketed  under  the  Sperry-Sun
Drilling  Systems  name.  These  services  include  directional  and  horizontal
drilling, measurement-while-drilling, logging-while-drilling, multilateral wells
and completion systems, and rig site information systems.
         Drilling and completion  fluids are marketed under the Baroid  Drilling
Fluids name. These services provide fluid systems and performance  additives for
oil and gas drilling,  completion and workover operations.  In addition,  Baroid
maintains and markets products for a wide variety of industrial customers.
         Drill  bits,  marketed  under the trade name of Security  DBS,  provide
roller cone rock bits,  fixed cutter bits,  coring  equipment and services,  and
other downhole tools used to drill wells.
         Completion  products include  subsurface safety valves and flow control
equipment,  surface safety systems,  packers and specialty completion equipment,
production automation, well screens, and slickline equipment and services.
         Halliburton Energy Services, through its solutions group, also provides
fully integrated  oilfield  management and technical  expertise in the following
areas:
              o   integrated solutions; and
              o   reservoir description.
         Integrated  solutions  provides  value-added  oilfield  management  and
solutions to  independent,  integrated,  and national oil companies.  Integrated
solutions  enhance field  deliverability  and maximize the customer's  return on
investment.  These  services  leverage the entire  Halliburton  Energy  Services
product service groups and technologies as well as overall project management.
         Reservoir  description  is  composed  of two  groups -  geoscience  and
engineering and computed products. The geoscience and engineering group provides
a comprehensive suite of products including  opportunity  assessment,  reservoir
characterization,  field development planning, production enhancement, reservoir
surveillance,  and reservoir  management.  The computed  products group provides
interpretation  for  wellbore  imaging,   waveform  sonics,  cement  evaluation,
production, and a variety of open and cased-hole information evaluation logs. By
combining reservoir  description with field service capabilities and technology,
Halliburton Energy Services provides complete reservoir solutions.
         Brown  &  Root  Energy  Services  provides  worldwide  engineering  and
construction  services  to the  upstream  oil and  gas  industry.  Projects  are
on a  cost reimbursable  or lump  sum, turnkey  basis.  Many  field  development
projects  also  involve services  of  Halliburton Energy  Services and  Landmark
Graphics.  Brown &  Root Energy Services' primary product service lines include:
              o   deepwater and floating production, including subsea;
              o   general offshore operations; and
              o   land operations.
         The deepwater and floating  production  group provides  deepwater riser
solutions,  floating  production  technologies  and project  management  systems
tailored to the specific  demands of our customers.  The group  integrates these
capabilities  with our subsea group to optimize customer  solutions.  The subsea
product  service group  provides  construction  and  installation  capabilities,
including a comprehensive fleet of semi-submersibles, remotely-operated vehicles
and support  vessels.  These  vehicles  and  vessels are used to install  subsea
manifolds,   templates,   spools,  fixed  risers,  dynamic  risers,   mechanical
connections,  pilings and flexible  pipelines.  The subsea product service group



also provides  trenching and repair  operations  and  manufactures  and supplies
flexible  pipe.  Flexible  pipe is used  primarily  in the  offshore oil and gas
industry for both topside and subsea applications.
         The general  offshore group integrates  capabilities  required to plan,
engineer,  construct  and  operate  offshore  production  facilities.  The group
includes  front-end  engineering,   detailed  engineering,  project  management,
procurement and construction, fabrication, and production services. Capabilities
include the engineering,  procurement and construction of offshore  drilling and
production  platforms,  process  skids and modules,  subsea  components,  turret
mooring   systems   and   production   manifolds,    structural   pipe/caissons,
semi-drilling rig components and prefabricated components.  Fabrication products
and services  are  provided by Brown & Root Energy  Services at one facility and
Brown & Root  Energy  Services  and a joint  venture  partner at two  additional
facilities.  Pipeline services provide full turnkey pipeline services to onshore
and offshore customers through a joint venture.
         The  land  operations  group  combines  the  distinctive   capabilities
required to plan, engineer,  construct and operate onshore plants and pipelines.
Capabilities include front-end engineering,  detailed engineering,  procurement,
construction, operations and project management.
         Landmark  Graphics  provides  integrated   exploration  and  production
software  information  systems and professional  services.  Landmark's  software
transforms  vast  quantities  of seismic,  well log and other data into detailed
computer models of petroleum reservoirs to optimize exploration, development and
production decisions.  Landmark's products and services integrate data workflows
and operational  processes across  disciplines  including  geophysics,  geology,
drilling,  engineering,  production,  economics, finance and corporate planning,
and key partners and suppliers.
         ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION GROUP
         The Engineering and Construction  Group segment,  consisting of Kellogg
Brown & Root and Brown & Root  Services,  provides a wide range of  services  to
energy and industrial customers and government entities worldwide.
         Kellogg  Brown  &  Root  is  a  global  provider  of   technology-based
engineering and  construction  services using  proprietary  processes  including
project development,  technology licensing and development,  consulting, project
management, engineering,  procurement,  construction, operations and maintenance
services.  Projects for our customers are often executed on a lump-sum,  turnkey
basis, including:
              o   engineering, procurement and construction services for:
                  - liquefied natural gas and gas processing facilities;
                  - ammonia plant design and technology;
                  - olefins, polymer and phenol plants;
                  - forest products facilities; and
                  - mineral processing;
              o   industrial maintenance services to private sector customers;
                  and
              o   planning,  process  technologies and engineering,  procurement
                  and  construction  services in the  construction of refineries
                  utilizing proprietary  techniques in fluid catalytic cracking,
                  hydroprocessing, and residuum processing.
         Brown & Root  Services is a global  provider to the private  (primarily
non-energy) and government  sectors  offering  planning,  design,  construction,
operations, maintenance, asset management and decommissioning of infrastructure,
facilities  and  installations.  The following  summarizes  the business  unit's
product service lines and their distinctive capabilities:
              o   management and engineering - consulting and civil  engineering
                  services  providing  master planning and  consulting,  design,
                  engineering, project and construction management, and facility
                  start-up;
              o   construction - management of large projects including prisons,
                  stadiums  and  highways.   Other  services   include   on-call
                  construction and facilities modification and repair;



              o   operations,   maintenance   and   logistics  -  operation   of
                  government  facilities and  installations,  providing food and
                  housing  services for the life-cycle of large scale  projects,
                  weapons demilitarization,  aircraft servicing,  fuels handling
                  and management,  refuse collection,  equipment maintenance and
                  operations, public works support, and transportation services;
                  and
              o   investment management - participation in the design, building,
                  financing and  operation and ownership of toll roads,  marine,
                  and other public sector facilities.
         DRESSER EQUIPMENT GROUP
         The Dresser  Equipment Group segment designs,  manufactures and markets
highly  engineered  products and systems for  customers in the energy  industry,
although  power,  chemical and  transportation  industries are also  significant
customers for its products and services.  Product  service lines in this segment
include:
              o   compression and pumping;
              o   measurement;
              o   flow control; and
              o   power systems.
          The  compression  and pumping  product service line included two joint
ventures: Dresser-Rand and Ingersoll-Dresser Pump. Dresser-Rand manufactures and
services gas turbines;  centrifugal,  reciprocating and axial compressors; steam
turbines; electric motors and generators. Ingersoll-Dresser Pump provides a wide
range  of  pumps  for  use  in  process  and  petrochemical  industries,   power
generation,  pulp and paper, water resources,  mining, pipeline, marine, general
industry  and  agriculture.  On October 4, 1999,  we announced we would sell our
interests  in  Dresser-Rand  and   Ingersoll-Dresser   Pump  to  Ingersoll-Rand.
Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump was sold on December 30, 1999.  Dresser-Rand was sold on
February 2, 2000.  See Note 2 and Note 18 to the  financial  statements  of this
annual report for  additional  information on the sale of our interests in these
joint ventures.
         The measurement  product service line includes the DMD,  Instrument and
Wayne divisions.  DMD produces gas meters,  electronic products for gas systems,
pipe  fittings,  couplings  and repair  devices for gas and water  utilities and
other industries.  We are  in the  process of  consolidating the  DMD and  Roots
divisions  within  the  measurement product service  line.  Instrument  products
include gauges, thermometers, switches, transducers, transmitters and instrument
isolators  for   pressure  and  temperature   measurement  and  control.   Wayne
manufactures and supplies  retail automation control and fuel dispensing systems
worldwide.
         The flow  control  product  service  line  includes  the Dresser  Valve
division which manufactures ball, gate, check,  butterfly,  plug, safety relief,
automated globe, rotary control and specialty valves;  chemical injection pumps;
regulators; surge relievers and actuators.
         The power  systems  product  service line  includes  Roots and Waukesha
Engine  divisions.  Roots  manufactures  rotary-lobe and centrifugal air and gas
handling  blowers as well as vacuum pumps.  Waukesha Engine  manufactures  spark
ignited gaseous fueled engines and packaged engine-driven generator sets used in
field gas compression.
         Markets and competition.  We are one of the world's largest diversified
energy  services  and  engineering  and  construction  services  companies.  Our
services and  products are sold in highly  competitive  markets  throughout  the
world.  Competitive  factors  impacting  sales of our services and products are:
price, service (including the ability to deliver services and products on an "as
needed,   where  needed"  basis),   product  quality,   warranty  and  technical
proficiency.  While we provide a wide range of discrete services and products, a
number of customers  have  indicated a preference  for  integrated  services and
solutions.  In the case of the Energy  Services Group,  integrated  services and
solutions relate to all phases of exploration, development and production of oil
and gas.  In the case of the  Engineering  and  Construction  Group,  integrated
services and solutions relate to all phases of design, procurement, construction
project  management  and  maintenance  of a facility.  Demand for these types of
integrated  services and solutions is based  primarily  upon quality of service,
technical proficiency and value created.
         We conduct business worldwide in over 120 countries.  Since the markets
for our services and products are so large and crosses so many geographic lines,
a  meaningful  estimate  of the  number  of  competitors  cannot  be  made.  The
industries  we  serve  are  highly  competitive  and we  have  many  substantial
competitors.  Generally,  our services and products are marketed through our own
servicing  and sales  organizations.  A small  percentage of sales of the Energy
Service Group's and Dresser  Equipment  Group's  products is made through supply
stores and third-party representatives.



         Operations  in some  countries  may be adversely  affected by unsettled
political conditions,  expropriation or other governmental actions, and exchange
control and currency problems. We believe the geographic  diversification of our
business  activities reduces the risk that loss of operations in any one country
would be material to the conduct of our operations taken as a whole. Information
regarding our exposures to foreign currency  fluctuations,  risk  concentration,
and financial instruments used to minimize risk is included on page 21 under the
caption  "Financial Instrument  Market Risk"  and in  Note 16  to the  financial
statements of this annual report.
         Customers and backlog. In 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively,  79%, 85%
and 84% of our  revenues  were derived from the sale of products and services to
the energy industry. Approximately 10% of the total backlog at December 31, 1999
was for equipment manufacturing contracts. The following schedule summarizes the
backlog of engineering  and  construction  projects and equipment  manufacturing
contracts at December 31, 1999 and 1998:


         We estimate that 50% of the backlog  existing at December 31, 1999 will
be  completed   during  2000.  Total  backlog  at  December  31,  1999  includes
Dresser-Rand's  backlog of $704  million.  At December  31, 1998  Dresser-Rand's
backlog was $795 million.  Dresser-Rand was sold in February, 2000. See Note 18.
Our backlog excludes contracts for recurring  hardware and software  maintenance
and support  services.  Backlog does not indicate what future operating  results
will be  because  backlog  figures  are  subject  to  substantial  fluctuations.
Arrangements  included  in  backlog  are in many  instances  extremely  complex,
nonrepetitive  in nature and may fluctuate in contract value.  Many contracts do
not  provide  for a fixed  amount of work to be  performed  and are  subject  to
modification  or  termination  by the  customer.  Due to the  size  of  specific
contracts,  the  termination or modification of any one or more contracts or the
addition of other  contracts  may have a  substantial  and  immediate  effect on
backlog.
         Raw  materials.  Raw  materials  essential to our business are normally
readily  available.  Where we are  dependent on a single  supplier for materials
essential to our  business,  we are  confident  that we could make  satisfactory
alternative  arrangements  in the event of an  interruption in the supply of the
materials.
         Research,  development and patents.  We maintain an active research and
development  program.  The program  improves  existing  products and  processes,
develops new products and  processes  and  improves  engineering  standards  and
practices that serve the changing needs of our customers.  Information  relating
to our  expenditures for research and development is included in Note 1 and Note
3 to the financial statements of this annual report.
         We own a large number of patents and have pending a substantial  number
of patent  applications  covering  various  products and processes.  We are also
licensed under patents owned by others.  We do not consider a particular  patent
or group of patents to be material to our business.
         Seasonality.  Weather and natural phenomena can temporarily  affect the
performance of our services.  Winter months in the Northern  Hemisphere  tend to
affect operations negatively,  but the widespread  geographical locations of our
operations serve to mitigate the seasonal nature of our business.
         Employees.  At  December 31, 1999, we  employed  approximately  103,000
people worldwide.
         Environmental  regulation. We are subject to various environmental laws
and  regulations.  Compliance  with  these  requirements  has not  substantially
increased capital  expenditures,  adversely affected our competitive position or
materially  affected our earnings.  We do not  anticipate  any material  adverse
effects in the foreseeable future as a result of existing environmental laws and
regulations.  Note 9 to the financial statements of this annual report discusses
our involvement as a potentially responsible party in the remedial activities to
clean up several "Superfund" sites.



Item 2. Properties.
         We own or lease  hundreds  of  properties  throughout  the  world.  The
following are the locations of our principal facilities,  the facility types and
their square footage for each of our industry segments:










         In addition to the above listed properties, we own or lease:
              o   marine fabrication facilities covering approximately 750 acres
                  in Texas, Louisiana, England, and Scotland;
              o   mineral  grinding  facilities  in  Wyoming  and  South America
                  covering approximately 660 acres;
              o   160 acre employee recreational facility in Oklahoma;
              o   outdoor storage and undeveloped land covering 136 acres;
              o   service   centers,  sales  offices  and  field  warehouses  at
                  approximately 320 locations in  the United States,  almost all
                  of which are owned, and at approximately 290 locations outside
                  the United States in both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres.
         We also have  mineral  rights to proven  and  prospective  reserves  of
barite  and  bentonite.  These  rights  include  leaseholds,  mining  claims and
property owned in fee. Based on the number of tons of each of the above minerals
consumed in fiscal 1999,  we estimate our proven  reserves  are  sufficient  for
operations for the foreseeable  future.  All properties that we currently occupy
are deemed suitable for their intended use.
         The above properties do not include properties sold in conjunction with
the  sale  of  Dresser-Rand  on  February  2,  2000.  These  properties  include
manufacturing,  administrative and other facilities  covering  approximately 4.7
million square feet as well as undeveloped land covering  approximately 30 acres
and 45  sales  offices.  See  Note 18 to the  annual  financial  statements  for
information on the sale of Dresser-Rand.
         As a result of the merger with Dresser Industries, Inc. and, due to the
oil and gas  industry  downturn,  we  initiated  in late 1998 and  early  1999 a
program to exit  approximately  500 properties  throughout the world,  including
fabricating, engineering and design, manufacturing, warehouse and administrative
centers. We believe we have appropriately  accrued the costs for our obligations
on these facilities.



         Among the  properties listed  in the tables  above that  are  currently
vacant:
              o   160 acre marine fabrication facility in Nigg, Scotland;
              o   151  acre   marine  fabrication  facility   in  Belle  Chasse,
                  Louisiana;
              o   224,000  square  foot   engineering  and  design  facility  in
                  Alhambra, California;
              o   408,000  square foot  manufacturing facility  in  Fort  Worth,
                  Texas;
              o   185,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Amarillo, Texas;
              o   98,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico;
              o   84,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Garland, Texas;
              o   54,000 square foot office facility in Arlington, Texas; and
              o   204,000 square foot administrative facility in Dallas, Texas.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.
         Information  relating  to  various  commitments  and  contingencies  is
described in Note 9 to the financial statements of this annual report.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
         There were no matters  submitted to a vote of security  holders  during
the fourth quarter of 1999.



Executive Officers of the Registrant.

         The  following  table  indicates  the names  and ages of the  executive
officers of the  registrant as of February 1, 2000,  along with a listing of all
offices held by each during the past five years:

Name and Age                   Offices Held and Term of Office
- ------------                   -------------------------------
     Jerry H. Blurton          Vice President and Treasurer, since July 1996
     (Age 55)                  Vice President - Finance & Administration of
                                   Halliburton Energy Services, August 1995 to
                                   July 1996
                               Vice President - Finance, 1991 to August 1995

*    Richard B. Cheney         Chairman of the Board, since February 2000
     (Age 59)                  Chief Executive Officer, since October 1995
                               Director of Registrant, since October 1995
                               Chairman  of  the  Board,  January  1996  to
                                   September 1998
                               President, October 1995 to May 1997
                               Senior Fellow, American Enterprise Institute,
                                   1993 to October 1995

     Lester L. Coleman         Executive Vice President and General Counsel,
     (Age 57)                      since May 1993

*    David J. Lesar            President and Chief Operating Officer, since
     (Age 46)                      May 1997
                               Chairman of the Board and Director of Kellogg
                                   Brown & Root, Inc., since January 1999
                               President and Chief Executive Officer and
                                   Director of Kellogg Brown & Root, Inc.,
                                   September 1996 to January 1999
                               Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
                                   Officer, August 1995 to May 1997
                               Executive Vice President of Finance and
                                   Administration of Halliburton Energy
                                   Services, November 1993 to August 1995

     Gary V. Morris            Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
     (Age 46)                      Officer, since May 1997
                               Senior Vice President - Finance, February 1997 to
                                   May 1997
                               Senior Vice President, May 1996 to February 1997
                               Vice President - Finance of Brown & Root, Inc.,
                                   June 1995 to May 1996
                               Vice President - Finance of Halliburton Energy
                                   Services, December 1993 to June 1995


     R. Charles Muchmore, Jr.  Vice President and Controller, since August 1996
     (Age 46)                  Finance & Administration Director - Europe/Africa
                                   of Halliburton Energy Services,
                                   September 1995 to August 1996
                               Regional Finance & Administration Manager -
                                   Europe/Africa of Halliburton Energy Services,
                                   December 1989 to September 1995



Executive Officers of the Registrant (continued).


Name and Age                   Offices Held and Term of Office
- ------------                   -------------------------------
     Lewis W. Powers           Senior Vice President, since May 1996
     (Age 53)                  Vice President - Europe/Africa of Halliburton
                                   Energy Services, April 1993 to May 1996

     Louis A. Raspino          Shared Services Vice President - Finance, since
     (Age 47)                      March 1999
                               Senior Vice President - Strategic Planning &
                                   Business Development, Burlington Resources,
                                   Inc. (oil and gas exploration and
                                   production), October 1997 to June 1998
                               Senior  Vice   President   and  Chief   Financial
                                   Officer, Louisiana Land & Exploration Company
                                   (oil  and  gas  exploration,  production  and
                                   refining), September 1995 to October 1997
                               Treasurer, Louisiana Land & Exploration Company,
                                   1992 to September 1995

*    Donald C. Vaughn          Vice Chairman, since September 1998
     (Age 63)                  President and Chief Operating Officer of Dresser
                                   Industries, Inc., December 1996 to
                                   September 1998
                               Executive Vice President, Dresser Industries,
                                   Inc., November 1995 to December 1996
                               Senior Vice President - Operations, Dresser
                                   Industries, Inc., January 1992 to
                                   November 1995
                               Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
                                   of M. W. Kellogg, Inc., June 1995
                                   to June 1996
                               Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The M. W.
                                   Kellogg Company, September 1986 to June 1996
                               President of The M. W. Kellogg Company,
                                   November 1983 to June 1995



* Members of the Executive Committee of the registrant.
There  are  no  family  relationships  between  the  executive  officers  of the
registrant.



PART II

Item 5. Market  for  the  Registrant's  Common  Stock  and  Related  Stockholder
Matters.
         Halliburton  Company's  common  stock is traded  on the New York  Stock
Exchange and the Swiss Exchange. Information relating to market prices of common
stock and quarterly  dividend  payment is included under the caption  "Quarterly
Data and  Market Price  Information"  on  page 64 of  this annual  report.  Cash
dividends on common stock for 1999 and 1998 were paid in March, June,  September
and  December  of each year.  Our board of  directors  intends to  consider  the
payment of quarterly  dividends on the outstanding shares of our common stock in
the future. The declaration and payment of future dividends, however, will be at
the  discretion  of the board of  directors  and will depend  upon,  among other
things, our future earnings, our general financial condition, the success of our
business  activities,  our capital requirements and general business conditions.
At December 31, 1999, there were approximately 27,300 shareholders of record. In
calculating  the number of  shareholders,  we  consider  clearing  agencies  and
security position listings as one shareholder for each agency or listing.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data.
         Information  relating to selected  financial  data is included on pages
61 through 63 of this annual report.

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations.
         Information  relating  to  management's   discussion  and  analysis  of
financial  condition   and  results  of  operations  is  included  on  pages  13
through 26 of this annual report.

Item 7(a). Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
         Information  relating  to  market  risk  is  included  in  management's
discussion and analysis of financial  condition and results of operations  under
the  caption "Financial  Instrument  Market Risk" on pages 21 through 22 of this
annual report.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.




                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
          Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
                           and Results of Operations

         In this section, we discuss the operating results and general financial
condition of Halliburton Company and its subsidiaries. We explain:
              o   what factors impact our business;
              o   why our  earnings and expenses  for the year  1999 differ from
                  the years 1998 and 1997;
              o   what our capital  expenditures were;
              o   what factors impacted our cash flows; and
              o   other items  that materially affect our financial condition or
                  earnings.

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
         The Private  Securities  Litigation  Reform Act of 1995  provides  safe
harbor provisions for  forward-looking  statements.  Forward-looking  statements
involve  risks  and  uncertainties   that  may  impact  our  actual  results  of
operations.   Statements  in  this  annual  report  and  elsewhere,   which  are
forward-looking  and which provide other than  historical  information,  involve
those risks and uncertainties. Our forward-looking information reflects our best
judgement  based on current  information.  From time to time we may also provide
oral or written forward-looking  statements in other materials we release to the
public.   We  draw  your   attention  to  the  fact  that  any  or  all  of  our
forward-looking  statements in this report and in any other materials we release
to the  public  may turn out to be  different.  Our  forward-looking  statements
involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  In addition,  our  forward-looking
statements  can be affected by inaccurate  assumptions we might make or by known
or unknown risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance that other factors
will not affect the accuracy of our forward-looking information. As a result, no
forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual results may vary materially.
         While it is not possible to identify  all factors,  we continue to face
many risks and  uncertainties  that could  cause  actual  results to differ from
those forward-looking statements including:
         Geopolitical and legal.
              o   trade  restrictions  and  economic  embargoes  imposed  by the
                  United States and other countries;
              o   unsettled  political  conditions, war, civil unrest,  currency
                  controls and governmental actions in the numerous countries in
                  which we operate;
              o   operations in countries with significant  amounts of political
                  risk,  for  example,   Nigeria,  Angola,  Russia,  Libya,  and
                  Algeria;
              o   changes in foreign exchange rates;
              o   changes in governmental  regulations in the numerous countries
                  in which we operate  including, for example, regulations that:
                  -  encourage  or mandate  the hiring of local contractors; and
                  -  require foreign  contractors  to  employ  citizens  of,  or
                     purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction;
              o   litigation, including, for example, asbestosis litigation and
                  environmental litigation; and
              o   environmental laws,  including  those  that  require  emission
                  performance standards for new and existing facilities;
         Weather related.
              o   the effects of severe weather conditions, including hurricanes
                  and tornadoes, on operations and facilities;
              o   the impact of prolonged mild weather conditions on the demand
                  for and price of oil and natural gas;
         Customers and vendors.
              o   the magnitude  of  governmental   spending  for  military  and
                  logistical support of the type that we provide;
              o   changes in capital  spending by  customers  in the oil and gas
                  industry for exploration, development, production, processing,
                  refining, and pipeline delivery networks;
              o   changes in capital spending by governments for  infrastructure
                  projects of the sort that we perform;



              o   changes in capital spending by  customers in the wood pulp and
                  paper industries for plants and equipment;
              o   consolidation of customers in the oil and gas industry;
              o   claim negotiations with engineering and construction customers
                  on cost variances and change orders on major projects;
              o   computer  software,  hardware  and  other  equipment utilizing
                  computer  technology used  by governmental  entities,  service
                  providers,  vendors, customers and Halliburton Company may not
                  be compatible;
         Industry.
              o   technological and structural changes in the industries that we
                  serve;
              o   changes in the price of oil and natural gas, including;
                  -  OPEC's  ability to  set and maintain  production levels and
                     prices for oil;
                  -  the level of oil production by non-OPEC countries;
                  -  the policies  of governments  regarding exploration for and
                     production  and development  of their  oil and  natural gas
                     reserves; and
                  -  the level of demand for oil and natural gas;
              o   changes in the price of commodity chemicals that we use;
              o   risks that result from  entering  into fixed fee  engineering,
                  procurement  and  construction  projects  of the types that we
                  provide where  failure to meet  schedules,  cost  estimates or
                  performance  targets  could result in  non-reimbursable  costs
                  which  cause  the  project  not to meet  our  expected  profit
                  margins;
              o   the risk inherent in the use of derivative  instruments of the
                  sort  that we use which  could  cause a change in value of the
                  derivative  instruments  as a result of adverse  movements  in
                  foreign exchange rates,  interest rates, or commodity  prices,
                  or the value and time period of the derivative being different
                  than the exposures or cash flows being hedged;
         Personnel and mergers.
              o   increased competition in the hiring and retention of employees
                  in specific areas,  for example,  energy services  operations,
                  accounting and treasury;
              o   integration   of  acquired   businesses,   including   Dresser
                  Industries,  Inc.  and  its  subsidiaries,  into  Halliburton,
                  including;
                  -  maintaining  uniform  standards,  controls, procedures  and
                     policies; and
                  -  combining  operations and personnel  of acquired businesses
                     with ours.
         In  addition,   future  trends  for  pricing,   margins,  revenues  and
profitability  remain difficult to predict in the industries we serve. We do not
assume  any  responsibility  to  publicly  update  any  of  our  forward-looking
statements  regardless of whether factors change as a result of new information,
future events or for any other reason. We do advise you to review any additional
disclosures  we make in our 10-Q,  8-K and 10-K  reports to the  Securities  and
Exchange  Commission.  We also suggest that you listen to our  quarterly earings
release conference  calls with financial analysts.  You may  find information on
how to access those calls at our web site www.halliburton.com.

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
         Our business is organized around three business segments:
              o   Energy Services Group;
              o   Engineering and Construction Group; and
              o   Dresser Equipment Group.
         The  majority of our revenues are derived from the sale of services and
products,  including  construction  activities,  to the oil and gas industry. We
conduct  business  in over 120  countries  to  provide  a variety  of  services,
equipment,  maintenance,  and engineering and construction to energy, industrial
and  governmental  customers.  We offer a comprehensive  range of integrated and
discrete services and products as well as project management for oil and natural
gas activities throughout the world. These services and products are used in the
earliest  phases of  exploration  and  development  of oil and gas  reserves and
continue through the refining and distribution  process. The industries we serve
are  highly  competitive  and we have many  substantial  competitors.  Unsettled
political  conditions,  expropriation or other  governmental  actions,  exchange
controls and currency devaluations may result in increased business risk in some



countries in which we operate. Those countries include,  among others,  Nigeria,
Angola,   Russia,  Libya, and  Algeria.   However,  we  believe  the  geographic
diversification of our business activities helps to reduce the risk that loss of
business in any one country  would be  material to our  consolidated  results of
operations.
         Energy Services Group
         Decrease in demand for the group's oilfield services and products began
in 1998 and  continued in 1999.  However,  the impact on our  business  from the
decrease in demand was different in North America than it was in the rest of the
world. In the United States and Canada oil and gas activity  started 1999 at low
levels. The rotary rig count, which is an indicator of activity, hit record lows
in the United  States  during the second  quarter.  Drilling  activity  in North
America  slowly  increased  during the second  half of the year in  reaction  to
higher oil and gas prices and  finished the year higher than at the end of 1998.
However,  the percentage  increase in activity was  substantially  less than the
increase in oil prices.  Our customers in North America  appear to be waiting to
see whether high oil prices are persistent  before making decisions on any major
field developments or substantially  increasing overall oil drilling activity in
North America.
         Drilling for natural gas,  however,  recovered in North America  during
1999 in part due to  increased  use of gas for the  generation  of  electricity.
Demand for gas was also increased by high oil prices, which makes switching from
oil to gas for power generation economically attractive.  Thus, in North America
the demand for our services and products associated with natural gas development
was more robust than demand  related to oil drilling.  Although we expect to see
improvement in oil  exploration  and  development in 2000, we do not believe the
increase  will occur  until the second half of the year.  We expect  natural gas
development  activity will continue in North America at current  improved levels
as our  customers  seek  to  meet  increased  demand  and to  replace  depleting
reserves.
         Outside  North  America,   drilling   activity   continued  to  decline
throughout  1999.  The  international  rig  count  ended  the year 14% below the
beginning of the year.  This decline  occurred in all geographic  regions,  with
Latin America  experiencing the smallest decrease of 6%. The decline in activity
was in response to very low oil prices at the  beginning of 1999 that  continued
well into the year.  Large oil development  projects are expensive and have long
lead times before production begins.  Thus, our customers have been reluctant to
begin new  projects  while there is  significant  uncertainty  about  future oil
prices.  We expect our  customers to continue to be slow to respond to increases
in oil prices until they have  confidence  that future  prices will  approximate
those used in their investment assumptions. During the last months of 1999 there
was  virtually no increase in drilling  activity  outside of North  America even
though the average  price of oil was nearly double the price at the beginning of
the year. The decline in  international  drilling  activity reduced our revenues
and put pressure on profit  margins as price  competition  increased.  There are
some  indications  that  our  customers  will  increase  their  spending  on oil
development  projects as 2000 progresses.  However,  we do not expect to see any
significant increase in larger capital-intensive  projects outside North America
until the second half of 2000.
         The merger and  consolidation of a number of our large customers during
1999,  which  continues into 2000, also affected the demand for our products and
services.  Combined oil companies are sorting out their oil and gas  properties,
refining and distribution facilities, and organizations.  The combined companies
have, in general,  been less willing to commence new substantial  investments in
oil and gas projects or large  downstream  facilities  including  refineries  or
petrochemical  plants.  This  reluctance  to begin new  investments  has further
aggravated the lower demand for our products and services.
         Improvement   in  demand  for  our  oilfield   services  and  products,
particularly  outside  the  United  States,  will  depend  in large  part on the
sustained  price of oil.  Thus,  oil  production  levels of the members of OPEC,
Mexico,  Norway and other  countries in the coming  months will be a significant
factor  affecting  demand for our products and services  during 2000. We believe
that oil prices will remain at levels that will support  increased  drilling for
oil in many areas of the world  during  2000,  particularly  in  deepwater  West
Africa and Brazil.
         Engineering and Construction Group
         Most of the factors that adversely  affected the Energy  Services Group
during 1999, and which  continue into 2000,  also affected the  Engineering  and
Construction  Group since about  two-thirds  of the group's  revenues  come from
customers in the oil and gas  industry.  Thus, we expect the  sustainability  of
higher  oil  prices  to have a  significant  impact on  demand  for the  group's
services.  However,  since the group's large projects for customers tend to have
long completion periods,  customers seldom stop projects in progress in response
to sudden shifts in oil prices.  Customers of the group are also more  reluctant



to start large capital projects,  including refineries and petrochemical plants,
during periods of uncertain oil prices.  In 1999 the group's revenues  decreased
because there were fewer new projects  starting  during 1999 than older projects
being  completed.  The  group  has seen a number  of  large  potential  projects
deferred or cancelled because of uncertain prices for petroleum products.  Also,
the  consolidation  of some of the group's  large  customers  has had a negative
effect on capital  spending  similar to that  experienced by the Energy Services
Group.  During 1999, the group bid and won several large  liquefied  natural gas
projects that will begin construction in 2000. Liquefied natural gas projects do
not rely as directly on the price of oil as do other  projects.  A great deal of
natural gas is flared or  re-injected  because  there is no local market for the
gas and  transportation by pipeline is unavailable.  The group is increasing its
focus on  technologies  to find markets for flared and  re-injected  gas through
liquefaction or use in power generation.
         The  Engineering  and  Construction  Group has  continued to expand its
services to the United States military.  The group sees improving  opportunities
to provide  similar  support  services to other  United  States  agencies and to
government agencies of other countries, including the United Kingdom. The demand
for these  services  is expected  to grow as  governments  at all levels seek to
control costs and improve services by outsourcing various functions.
         Dresser Equipment Group
         Dresser Equipment Group's business is primarily  affected by the demand
from  customers  in  the  energy  industry  -  although   power,   chemical  and
transportation  industries are also  significant  customers for its products and
services.  The group  designs,  manufactures  and  markets  equipment  including
valves,  natural  gas fueled  engines,  generators,  instruments,  meters,  fuel
dispensing  systems,  blowers and power systems.  Equipment  manufactured by the
group is used by the energy  industry  to find,  extract,  process  and  deliver
petroleum  and its  related  products.  Demand for these  products  is  directly
affected by global economic activities which influence demand for transportation
fuels, petrochemicals,  plastics, fertilizers, chemicals, and by-products of oil
and gas.  Current  conditions  for  sales of the  group's  products  are  highly
competitive.  Sales and earnings can be affected by change in competitive prices
and overall general economic conditions. Sales and earnings are also affected by
fluctuations  in the level of  activity  and capital  spending  by  independent,
integrated,   national  oil  companies;  gas  distribution  companies;  pipeline
companies;  and power generation and processing  plants. The group strives to be
the low-cost provider in this competitive environment.
         All of these  activities  are affected by the  stability of oil and gas
prices that ultimately produce cash flow for our customers.  The downturn in oil
and gas prices in 1998 and early 1999 had a negative effect on customer spending
that, in turn, severely impacted the group.  Customer mergers and consolidations
further inhibited the industry as projects were cancelled or postponed.
         Some of these issues  factored  into our decision to sell our interests
in   Dresser-Rand   and   Ingersoll-Dresser   Pump  -  joint  ventures   between
Ingersoll-Rand and Dresser  Industries.  The joint ventures  manufacture gas and
steam turbine  generators;  centrifugal,  reciprocating  and axial  compressors;
electric motors; generators; and liquid centrifugal,  reciprocating,  rotary and
turbine  pumps.  These  joint  ventures  represented  nearly half of the group's
revenues and operating profit in 1999.
         Because  of the  impact  of  economic  and  political  conditions,  and
uncertainty  in many parts of the world,  during 1999 the group took  additional
steps to reduce  manufacturing  and overhead costs in order to improve operating
performance and remain a low cost provider.  The group  consolidated a number of
manufacturing,  distribution  and support  facilities and  rationalized  certain
product lines and channels to our customers.  Furthermore,  the group is working
to leverage  off the  products  and  services  offered by the other  Halliburton
companies and to create greater  awareness of its products and services by other
Halliburton customers.
         We believe  strong  demand still exists for Dresser  Equipment  Group's
products and services,  although its business environment is highly competitive.
An increase in  demand in 2000 will  depend on many of the same industry factors
affecting our other  business  segments.  Longer  term,  we believe  the  demand
for  Dresser Equipment  Group  products and services  will  increase  because of
an expanding global industrial base and rising demand for natural gas.
         Halliburton Company
         While the results of operations  have been  negatively  impacted by the
lower  activity  levels in the oil and gas  industry,  we believe the  long-term
fundamentals  of  the  oil  and  gas  industry  remain  sound.  Steadily  rising
population  and  greater  industrialization  efforts  should  continue to propel



worldwide economic expansion,  especially in developing  nations.  These factors
should  cause  increasing  demand for oil and gas to produce  refined  products,
petrochemicals, fertilizers and power.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS IN 1999 COMPARED TO 1998 AND 1997
REVENUES


         Revenues  for 1999 were  $14,898  million,  a decrease of 14% from 1998
revenues of $17,353  million and a decrease of 8% from 1997  revenues of $16,272
million.  Approximately  68% of our  consolidated  revenues  were  derived  from
international activities in 1999, compared with 65% in 1998 and 60% in 1997. All
groups had lower revenues in 1999 compared to 1998 as a result of lower activity
in the  oil  and  gas  industry  due  to  oil  price  uncertainty  and  customer
consolidation.
         Energy Services Group revenues were $6,999 million for 1999, a decrease
of 22% from 1998  revenues  of $9,009  million  and a decrease  of 18% from 1997
revenues of $8,505 million.  Approximately  71% of the Energy  Services  Group's
revenues were derived from international  activities in 1999,  compared with 67%
in 1998 and 1997.  Revenues for the group were  negatively  impacted in 1998 and
1999 by declines in the worldwide  average rotary rig count.  The yearly average
worldwide  rotary  rig  count  declined  21% in 1999  compared  to 1998  and 31%
compared to 1997.  Comparative declines were most significant in the second half
of 1998 and the first half of 1999 as our  customers  reacted to reduced  prices
for their  products.  Declines  in the United  States  average  rotary rig count
reached  record lows in the second quarter of 1999.  North American  average rig
counts began to recover during the second half of 1999, while  international rig
counts have lagged the recovery in North America. Our revenues in all geographic
areas  except  Asia  Pacific  declined in 1999  compared  to 1998,  particularly
Europe/Africa  and the  Middle  East which each  declined  about 30%,  and North
America which declined  about 22%. In the third quarter of 1999 activity  levels
began to improve in North  America,  although  other  areas have been  slower to
recover.  The revenue  declines in 1998 compared to 1997 were more pronounced in
North America,  including the Gulf of Mexico shelf, which declined about 6%, and
Venezuela  which declined about 25%.  Revenues for pressure  pumping  activities
were  about 24% lower in 1999  compared  to 1998 and about 28% lower  than 1997.
Revenues from logging,  drilling systems, drilling fluids and completion product
service  lines all  declined  between  22% to 30%  during  1999.  Revenues  from
upstream oil and gas engineering and construction  services declined 18% in 1999
compared to 1998 and were level with 1997. The decrease in 1999 reflects the oil
and gas industry  downturn  caused by  uncertainty in oil prices or decisions by
customers to delay projects while  reevaluating their needs following merger and
consolidation activity.  Reduced activity levels in the United Kingdom sector of
the North Sea were partially offset by increases in Asia Pacific.  Revenues from
upstream oil and gas engineering and construction services continue to shift out
of the  North Sea and into  Latin  America,  Africa  and Asia  Pacific.  In 1998
revenues  from  upstream  oil  and  gas  engineering   services  benefited  from
activities  in the subsea  product  lines and from large  engineering  projects.
Revenues  from  integrated   exploration  and  production   information  systems
decreased  nearly 11% in 1999 compared to 1998 and about 4% compared to 1997. In
1999 many  customers for our  information  system product lines put off software
purchases due to customers'  consolidations,  lower activity levels and internal
focus on Year 2000 issues.  Revenues for integrated  exploration  and production
information systems reached record high levels in 1998.
         Engineering  and  Construction  Group  revenues were $5,314 million for
1999, a decrease of 3% from 1998  revenues of $5,495  million and an increase of
6% over 1997 revenues of $4,993 million.  In 1999 the group increased  logistics
support services to military  peacekeeping  efforts in the Balkans and increased
activities  at the Devonport  Dockyard in the United  Kingdom.  These  increases
partially  offset lower revenues from  engineering  and  construction  projects,
particularly  major  projects in Europe and Africa which were winding down.  New
awards anticipated in the first half of 1999 were delayed by customers until the
second half of the year due to  uncertainty  in long-term  oil prices and merger
activities.  The awards  received  during the second half of 1999 will primarily
benefit the second half of 2000 as procurement  and  construction  phases begin.
Revenues for the group in 1998 reflect higher  liquefied  natural gas activities



in Asia and Africa,  an enhanced  oil  recovery  project in Africa,  and a major
ethylene  project in  Singapore.  In 1997  revenues  for the group  included the
environmental  services business,  which was sold in December 1997, and revenues
in Asia Pacific from Kinhill Holdings  Limited,  which was acquired in the third
quarter of 1997. See Note 2.
         Dresser  Equipment  Group  revenues  were  $2,585  million  in 1999,  a
decrease of 9% from 1998 revenues of $2,849  million,  and a decrease of 7% from
1997 revenues of $2,774 million.  Revenues  declined in all product lines during
1999  reflecting  reduced  demand.  The compression and pumping product line had
approximately  6% lower  revenues in 1999 compared to 1998 due to lower complete
unit sales and revenues were about even compared to 1997  revenues.  During 1999
the lower  volume on  complete  unit  sales was  partially  offset by  increased
product  service  volume.  As  discussed in Note 2 and Note 18, we have sold our
interests in two joint  ventures  that  comprised  the  compression  and pumping
product service line. This product line contributed  revenues of $1.2 billion to
$1.3 billion each year in 1999,  1998 and 1997 to the Dresser  Equipment  Group.
Excluding the  compression  and pumping  product  line,  1999 revenues were down
between 10% and 11%  compared to 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  The  measurement
product  line's  revenues  were  about 7% lower in 1999 than the prior  year and
about 10% lower than 1997 due to lower spending  levels and delayed  maintenance
spending  by oil  companies  and  other  customers.  Revenues  in 1999 from flow
control  products  were down about 10%  compared to 1998 and about 7% lower than
1997 due to lower  activity  levels in both the upstream and  downstream oil and
gas industry.  Power  systems'  revenues were 13% lower in 1999 than in 1998 and
were 16% lower than in 1997. The decrease in power systems' revenues in 1999 was
due to reductions in original  equipment  sales related to lower gas production,
higher gas storage levels and decreased equipment utilization.

OPERATING INCOME


         Operating income was $650 million for 1999 compared to $397 million for
1998 and $1,399 million for 1997.  Excluding  special  credits of $47 million in
1999 and net special  charges of $980  million  and $16 million  during 1998 and
1997, respectively, operating income for 1999 decreased by 56% from 1998 and 57%
from 1997. See Note 11 to our annual financial  statements for information about
special charges and credits.
         Energy  Services  Group  operating  income in 1999 was $222 million,  a
decrease of 77% from 1998 operating income of $971 million and a decrease of 78%
from 1997 operating  income of $1,019  million.  Operating  margins were 3.2% in
1999  compared  with 10.8% in 1998 and 12.0% in 1997.  Approximately  54% of the
Energy  Services  Group's  operating  income  was  derived  from   international
activities  for 1999 and 1998  compared  with  59% in  1997.  Lower  rig  counts
resulted in excess capacity in the oilfield services sector which in turn placed
severe  pressure on pricing,  especially  in the United  States.  As a result of
pricing  pressures,  average  discounts in the United States for energy  service
product service lines increased five percentage points in the first half of 1999
compared to the first half of 1998.  For the year of 1999  average  discounts in
the United States were about four percentage  points over 1998. During the third
quarter of 1999,  increased  activity in some areas of the United States allowed
prices  to  stabilize  and in  some  instances  to  increase  slightly  for  the
production enhancement,  completion products and drilling fluids product service
lines.  Operating  income  for  pressure  pumping  in 1999 was  about  70% lower



compared  to  1998  and  1997.   Other  energy  service  product  service  lines
experienced  similar  reductions  in  operating  income.  In  spite  of  pricing
pressures and increased  discounting in the United States,  all product  service
lines,  except  logging and  drilling  systems,  were able to maintain  positive
operating income in 1999.
         Operating  income  in 1999 for  upstream  oil and gas  engineering  and
construction  activities  declined  about 70% compared to 1998 and 1997.  Due to
lower levels of business activity,  particularly in the United Kingdom sector of
the  North  Sea,  operating  income  in 1999 was  negatively  impacted  by lower
utilization  of  engineering   staff  and   under-utilization   of  vessels  and
manufacturing  facilities,  which carry large fixed costs.  Given the number and
technical complexity of engineering and construction  projects we perform,  some
project losses are normal occurrences. However, the environment for negotiations
with customers on claims and change orders has become more difficult in the past
few years.  This environment  combined with  performance  issues on a few large,
technically  complex  jobs  contributed  to  unusually  high job losses on major
projects of $77 million in 1999 and $99 million in 1998.
         Operating income from integrated exploration and production information
systems in 1999 was lower than 1998 and 1997. The reduction of operating  income
in 1999 was due to lower software sales volumes and the impact of recent changes
in  accounting  for software  license  agreements  combined  with changes in the
product mix from perpetual license sales to annual access licenses.
         Engineering and  Construction  Group operating  income for 1999 of $203
million decreased about 15% from 1998 and about 7% from 1997.  Operating margins
were  3.8% in 1999  compared  with  4.3% for 1998 and 4.4% for  1997.  Operating
income in 1998 includes a favorable  settlement  of a claim on a Middle  Eastern
construction project. Excluding this settlement, operating margins for 1998 were
4.0%.  Operating income in 1999 benefited from higher activity levels supporting
United States military  peacekeeping  efforts in the Balkans,  offset by reduced
engineering and construction project profits due to the timing of project awards
and  revenue  recognition.  New  project  awards in the latter half of 1999 will
primarily benefit operating income in the latter part of 2000.  Operating income
in 1998  benefited from several large  projects,  offset by losses in the fourth
quarter on selected  projects  which were  impacted by the economic  downturn in
Asia. Both 1999 and 1998 were negatively impacted by losses in the United States
highway and paving businesses which we are exiting.
         Dresser  Equipment Group  operating  income in 1999 was $249 million or
almost unchanged  compared to operating income of $248 million in 1998 and 1997.
Operating  margins for flow  control  increased in 1999 over 1998 and 1997 while
operating  margins  for  measurement  and power  systems  decreased  in the same
period.  Although  revenues  for  the  group  declined  in  1999,  cost  control
initiatives  resulted in reduced  cycle times and  capacity  costs which in turn
maintained  operating  income  at a  consistent  level  with  prior  years.  The
compression  and pumping  product line will be  discontinued in 2000. See Note 2
and Note 18.  Operating  income  from  compression  and  pumping  was about $115
million  in 1999  compared  to $121  million  in 1998 and $92  million  in 1997.
Excluding  compression  and  pumping,  operating  income  for the  group in 1999
increased  about 5% over  1998  due in part to  restructuring  and cost  control
initiatives  begun in late 1998 and during 1999. In addition,  operating  income
was negatively impacted in 1998 by $17 million of fourth quarter  merger-related
expenses.  Compared to 1997,  operating income in 1999 for the group,  excluding
compression and pumping,  declined about 14% due to lower activity levels across
all product lines.
         Special  credits in 1999 are the result of a change in estimate on some
components of the 1998 special charges. We continuously monitor the actual costs
incurred and reexamine our estimates of future costs.  In the second  quarter of
1999,  we concluded  that total costs,  particularly  for severance and facility
exit costs,  were lower than previously  estimated.  Therefore,  we reversed $47
million of the $980 million  special  charge that was originally  recorded.  See
Note 11 and  the restructuring  activities  discussion  beginning on page 22 for
additional information on special charges and credits.
         General corporate  expenses for 1999 were $71 million.  In 1998 general
corporate  expenses of $79 million  included  expenses for  operating  Dresser's
corporate offices as well as our corporate offices. As a percent of consolidated
revenues,  general  corporate  expenses  were  0.5% in 1999 and 1998 and 0.4% in
1997.

NONOPERATING ITEMS
         Interest  expense was $144 million for 1999 compared to $137 million in
1998 and $111 million in 1997. The increase in 1999 over 1998 and 1997 is due to
the increased  level of total  borrowings  outstanding  during the year. Our net
short-term  borrowings of $433 million in 1999 carry a lower  interest rate than



our  long-term  debt.  We used the proceeds  from these  borrowings  for working
capital,  capital  expenditures,  acquisitions  and to repay $61  million of our
long-term debt that matured in 1999.
         Interest  income  increased  to $76  million  in 1999  compared  to $28
million in 1998 and $22 million in 1997. The increase in interest income in 1999
is primarily  from the  settlement of income tax issues in the United States and
United  Kingdom.  Also in 1999, we earned  imputed  interest  income on the note
receivable from the sale of our interest in M-I L.L.C.
         Foreign  currency gains (losses) netted to a loss of $8 million in 1999
compared  to losses of $12  million in 1998 and $1 million in 1997.  Most of the
losses in 1999  were  incurred  in the  second  half of the year  from  currency
exposures in Russian and Latin American currencies.  The losses in 1998 occurred
mainly in Asia Pacific currencies.
         Other  nonoperating,  net in 1999 includes a $26 million  charge in the
second  quarter  relating  to  an  impairment  of  Kellogg  Brown  & Root's  net
investment  in Bufete Industriale, S.A. de C.V., a  large specialty engineering,
procurement and  construction  company in Mexico.  This investment  is accounted
for using the cost method and reported on the "Equity in and advances to related
companies"  line   of  our  consolidated  balance  sheets.   Bufete's  financial
condition deteriorated during 1999. On July  13, 1999, Bufete announced it would
default  on  $100  million  in  Eurobonds  due  July  15, 1999.  We  believe our
investment  was impaired and consequently wrote off the entire amount.
         Provision  for income  taxes was $214  million in 1999 for an effective
tax rate of 38.6%.  Excluding the reversal of special charges and applicable tax
provision in 1999,  the effective  tax rate was 39.3%.  The provision for income
taxes of $245  million in 1998  includes a benefit of $234  million  for special
charge items that are tax deductible. Nondeductible special charge items of $109
million include merger  transaction costs and  nondeductible  goodwill which was
determined  to be impaired.  Excluding  the special  charge and  applicable  tax
benefits in 1998,  the effective  tax rate was 38.0%.  The effective tax rate in
1997, excluding special charges and related tax benefits, was 37.2%.
         Minority  interest in net income of consolidated  subsidiaries  was $43
million in 1999 compared to $49 million in 1998 and 1997. The Dresser-Rand joint
venture is the largest component of minority interest expense. Minority interest
in net income of the Dresser-Rand joint venture was $26 million in 1999 compared
to $27 million in 1998 and $19 million in 1997.  This joint  venture was sold in
the first quarter of 2000. See Note 18.
         Extraordinary  gain,  net resulted from the sale of our 49% interest in
Ingersoll-Dresser Pump. We recorded an extraordinary gain of $253 million before
tax, or $159 million  after-tax,  for a net gain of $0.36 per diluted share.  We
expect to record an extraordinary  gain of approximately  $215 million after-tax
or $0.48 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2000 from the sale of our 51%
interest in Dresser-Rand.  See Note 2 and Note 18 for additional  information on
the sales of these joint ventures.
         Cumulative  effect  of  change  in  accounting  method  of $19  million
after-tax,  or 4 cents per diluted share,  reflects our adoption of Statement of
Position 98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up Activities." Estimated annual
expense for 1999 under Statement of Position 98-5 after recording the cumulative
effect of the change is not  expected to be  materially  different  from amounts
expensed  under  the  prior  accounting  treatment.  See  Note 12 to our  annual
financial statements for additional information.
         Net income in 1999 was $438  million  or $0.99 per  diluted  share.  In
1998, the net loss of $15 million resulted in $0.03 diluted loss per share while
1997 net income of $772 million yielded $1.77 diluted income per share.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
         We ended 1999 with cash and  equivalents of $466 million  compared with
$203  million in 1998 and $384 million in 1997.  Beginning  in 1998,  we changed
Dresser's fiscal year-end of October 31 to our calendar year-end. Dresser's cash
flows in 1998 are measured from December 31, 1997,  rather than from the October
31, 1997 balances included in our 1997 year-end balance sheets.
         Cash  flows  from  operating  activities  were  $233  million  for 1999
compared to $454  million for 1998 and $833  million for 1997.  Working  capital
items,  which  include  receivables,  inventories,  accounts  payable  and other
working capital, net, used $351 million of cash in 1999 compared to $534 million
in 1998 and $535 million in 1997.  Working  capital  requirements  were lower in
1999  than in the prior two  years  due to lower  levels of  business  activity.





Included in the 1999  changes to working  capital and other net changes are cash
outflows for special  charges for personnel  reductions,  facility  closures and
integration costs which required  approximately $217 million during the year. In
1998,  we used cash of $112 million for items  associated  with the 1998 special
charges.
         Cash flows used in  investing  activities  were $159  million for 1999,
$846 million for 1998 and $873 million for 1997.  Capital  expenditures  of $593
million  in 1999 were  about 35% lower  than in 1998 and about 33% lower than in
1997.  The  decrease  in  capital  spending  primarily  reflects  the  operating
environment that existed throughout most of 1999.  Although reduced,  we believe
that our level of capital  spending is appropriate  and will position us to meet
opportunities  as  activity  levels  improve.  Capital  spending  was mostly for
equipment and  infrastructure  for the Energy  Services Group. We also continued
our planned  investments in our  enterprise-wide  information system. Cash flows
from  investing  activities  in 1999  includes  $254 million of the $265 million
receivable from the sale of our 36% interest in M-I L.L.C. that was collected in
the second  quarter.  Imputed  interest  on this  receivable  of $11  million is
included  in  operating  cash  flows.  In  1998,  net cash  used  for  investing
activities  includes  various  acquisitions of businesses of  approximately  $40
million.  Cash used in investing activities in 1997 includes the acquisitions of
OGC of approximately $118 million, and Kinhill of approximately $34 million, and
an interest in PES (International)  Limited of approximately $34 million.  These
uses  were  offset  by the sale of our  environmental  business  for  about  $32
million.
         Cash flows from  financing  activities  provided  $184 million in 1999,
$254 million in 1998 and used $21 million in 1997.  We repaid $61 million on our
long-term debt and borrowed $433 million, net of repayments, in short-term funds
consisting of commercial  paper and bank loans in 1999.  Proceeds from exercises
of stock  options  provided  cash flows of $49  million in 1999.  We issued $150
million of long-term debt under our  medium-term  note program in 1998.  Also in
1998, we had net borrowings of short-term debt of $370 million and proceeds from
exercise of stock options of $49 million.  Dividends to  shareholders  used $221
million of cash in 1999 compared to $254 million in 1998.  During 1997,  cash of
$300  million was provided by proceeds  from debt issued  under our  medium-term
note  program,  $3 million from other  long-term  borrowings  and $71 million of
proceeds  from the  exercise of stock  options.  Offsetting  these  inflows were
payments  on  long-term  debt  of $18  million,  net  repayments  on  short-term
borrowings  of $86 million,  payments to reacquire  common stock of $44 million,
and dividend payments of $250 million. Our combined short-term notes payable and
long-term debt was 35%, 32% and 24% of total  capitalization at the end of 1999,
1998 and 1997,  respectively.  In the first  quarter  of 2000,  we  reduced  our
short-term  debt  with  proceeds  from the sales of  Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump and
Dresser-Rand joint ventures.
         We have the ability to borrow additional short-term and long-term funds
if  necessary.  See Note 7 to our  annual  financial  statements  regarding  our
short-term lines of credit, notes payable and long-term debt.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MARKET RISK
         We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange
rates,  interest  rates and  commodity  prices.  To  mitigate  market  risk,  we
selectively  hedged our foreign  currency  exposure  through the use of currency
derivative  instruments.  The  objective  of our  hedging is to protect our cash
flows  related to sales or purchases of goods or services from  fluctuations  in
currency rates. The use of derivative  instruments  includes the following types
of market risk:
              o   volatility of the currency rates;
              o   time horizon of the derivative instruments;
              o   market cycles; and
              o   the type of derivative instruments used.
         We do not use derivative  instruments for trading purposes.  See Note 1
to our annual financial statements for additional  information on our accounting
policies  on  derivative  instruments.  See  Note  16 to  our  annual  financial
statements for additional disclosures related to derivative instruments.
         Foreign  exchange risk. We operate in over 120 countries.  However,  we
hedge  only  foreign  currencies  that are highly  liquid and select  derivative
instruments or a combination of instruments whose fluctuation in value is offset
by the fluctuation in value of the underlying  exposure.  These hedges generally
have  expiration  dates  that do not exceed  two  years.  We manage our  foreign
exchange hedging activities through a control system that includes monitoring of
cash balances in traded  currencies  and uses  analytical  techniques  including
value-at-risk estimations, and other procedures.



         Value-at-risk.  We use a  statistical  model to estimate the  potential
loss  related to  derivative  instruments  used to hedge the market  risk of our
foreign exchange  exposure.  The model utilizes  historical price and volatility
patterns to estimate the change in value of the derivative instruments.  Changes
in value could occur from  adverse  movements  in foreign  exchange  rates for a
specified  time  period  at a  specified  confidence  interval.  The  model is a
calculation based on the diversified  variance-covariance  statistical  modeling
technique and includes all foreign exchange derivative  instruments  outstanding
at December 31, 1999. The resulting value-at-risk of $2 million estimates,  with
a 95% confidence interval, the potential loss we could incur in a one-day period
from foreign  exchange  derivative  instruments due to adverse foreign  exchange
rate changes.
         Interest  rate risk.  We have  exposure to interest  rate risk from our
short-term  commercial  paper  debt  and our  long-term  debt in  British  pound
sterling that was incurred to acquire the Royal  Dockyard in Plymouth,  England.
The  long-term  debt interest  rate risk is partially  offset by a  compensating
balance of  approximately  one-half of the  outstanding  debt amount which earns
interest at the same rate. Our use of the compensating  balance for the Dockyard
Loans  is  restricted,  and the  balance  is  included  in other  assets  on our
consolidated  balance sheets. See Note 7 to our annual financial  statements for
additional discussion of the Dockyard Loans.
         Interest rate  exposures.  The  following  table  represents  principal
amounts at December 31, 1999,  and related  weighted  average  interest rates by
year of maturity for our restricted cash and long-term debt obligations.

         Weighted  average  variable rates are based on implied forward rates in
the yield curve at December 31, 1999.  These implied forward rates should not be
viewed as predictions of actual future interest  rates.  Restricted cash and the
Dockyard  Loans earn  interest at LIBOR for British  pound  sterling plus 0.75%.
Instruments  that are  denominated  in  currencies  other than the United States
dollar  reporting  currency are subject to foreign exchange rate risk as well as
interest rate risk.

RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES
         During the third and  fourth  quarters  of 1998,  we  incurred  special
charges  totaling  $980  million  related to the  Dresser  merger  and  industry
downturn. During the second quarter of 1999, we reversed $47 million of our 1998
special  charges  based on our  reassessment  of total  costs to be  incurred to
complete the actions covered in the charges.
         The 1998 special charges were incurred for the cost of actions required
to more  efficiently  meet the needs of our  customers,  to eliminate  duplicate
capabilities  and excess  capacity  and to  position  us for the  future.  These
actions  were  also  taken to  integrate  our  operations  into  three  business
segments, supported by a shared services organization across the entire company.
         All business segments,  shared services and corporate offices have been
impacted since the Dresser merger by the restructuring activities, including:
              o   integration of two corporate offices;
              o   integration of operational  and shared  services  officers and
                  management teams;
              o   personnel reductions  necessary  to  match  the  new  business
                  structure and industry environment;



              o   integration   of   businesses  and   product   service  lines,
                  including:
                  -  Halliburton  Energy  Services'  drilling   operations  into
                     Sperry-Sun   Drilling  Systems;
                  -  Dresser   Oil   Tools   into  Halliburton  Energy  Services
                     completion products;
                  -  SubSea,  Rockwater  and  Wellstream  within  Brown  &  Root
                     Energy Services; and
                  -  M.W.   Kellogg   and   Brown   &   Root   Engineering   and
                     Construction into Kellogg Brown & Root.
              o   integration of facilities across business units and the entire
                  company;
              o   impairments or  write-offs of  duplicate intangible assets and
                  software;
              o   impairments  or write-offs  of excess or  duplicate machinery,
                  equipment, and inventory; and
              o   integration of shared service support functions.
         At the time of the merger,  our senior management was selected from the
senior  officers  of Dresser and  Halliburton.  Operational  and shared  service
managers were then similarly  selected.  We believe the management and employees
have  remained  focused on the needs of our customers  during this  transitional
period,  although  transitional  demands have required  considerable  amounts of
time, energy and resources.
         Most  restructuring  activities accrued for in the 1998 special charges
were  completed  and expended by the end of 1999.  The amounts that remain to be
expended relate to severance payments not yet disbursed,  sales of facilities to
be  disposed  of, and any other  actions  which may  require  negotiations  with
outside parties extending past the end of the year.  Cumulative through December
31,  1999,  we used  $328  million  in cash for items  associated  with the 1998
special charges.  The unutilized  special charge reserve balance at December 31,
1999 is expected to result in future cash outlays of $69 million during 2000.
         The 1998 charges  included  $509 million of asset  related  write-offs,
write-downs and charges; $235 million of personnel related charges; $126 million
of facility  consolidation charges; $64 million of merger transaction costs; and
$46 million of other  related  charges.  During the second  quarter of 1999,  we
concluded  that the  total  estimated  costs of items  included  in the  special
charges,  particularly  severance  and  facility  exit  costs,  were  lower than
previously  estimated.  Therefore,  we reversed  $47 million of the 1998 special
charges.
         The $509  million  of asset  related  charges  related  to  impairments
created by both the merger  with  Dresser  and market  conditions.  We  reviewed
assets by product service line to determine if impairments  existed due to these
major events as required by  Statements  of Financial  Accounting  Standards No.
121.
         The overall market  assumptions  on which the  impairment  computations
were made  assumed  that 1999  calendar  year  drilling  activity as measured by
worldwide rig count would be 1,900 rigs, an increase from the 1,700 level in the
third  quarter of 1998.  Rig count for calendar year 2000 and beyond was assumed
to increase about 3% per year based upon estimated long-term growth in worldwide
demand for oil and gas.  These  assumptions  represented  our best estimates and
were based on market data available at the time of the merger.
         Approximately  $326 million of the asset related charges related to two
product service lines,  drilling and logging.
         Our pre-merger  drilling business consisted  of logging-while-drilling,
measurement-while-drilling and  directional drilling  services.  The majority of
our pre-merger  logging-while-drilling  business and a portion of the pre-merger
measurement-while-drilling  business were  required to  be sold  under a  United
States Department of Justice  consent  decree.  We have integrated the remaining
drilling  business with  the  Sperry-Sun  operations  of  Dresser.  Our strategy
focuses  generally on operating under the Sperry-Sun name and using Sperry-Sun's
superior  technology,  tools and industry reputation.  Our remaining  pre-merger
drilling  assets and technology  are being  de-emphasized  as they  wear  out or
become obsolete.  These tools  will not  be replaced,  resulting in  significant
decreases in future cash flows and an  impairment of the excess of cost over net
assets and related long-lived assets.
         Significant  forecast  assumptions  included  a revenue  decline in the
remaining  pre-merger  drilling  business due to the  measurement-while-drilling
sale in the first year.  Related revenue and operating income over the following
ten years were  projected  to  decline  due to  reduced  business  opportunities
resulting from our shift in focus toward Sperry-Sun's tools and technologies. In
addition  to the $125  million  impairment  of excess  of cost  over net  assets
acquired,  related  long-lived  asset  impairments  consisted  of $61 million of
property and  equipment  and $14 million of related  spare  parts,  the value of
which was estimated  using the "held for use" model during the forecast  period.
In addition,  an impairment  of $3 million was recorded  related to property and
equipment and $18 million of spare parts sold in the  measurement-while-drilling
sale using the "held for sale" model.



         The merger of Halliburton  and Dresser  enabled the  acceleration  of a
formation  evaluation  strategy.  This strategy takes  advantage of Sperry-Sun's
logging-while-drilling  competitive  position  and  reputation  for  reliability
combined with our Magnetic  Resonance Imaging Logging  technology  acquired with
the NUMAR  acquisition in 1997. Prior to the merger,  we were focused on growing
the traditional logging business while working toward development of new systems
to maximize the Magnetic  Resonance  Imaging Logging (MRIL(R))  technology.  The
merger allows us to implement the new strategy and place the traditional logging
business in a sustaining  mode. This change in focus and strategy will result in
a shift of  operating  cash flows away from our  traditional  logging  business,
creating  an  impairment  of the  excess of cost  over net  assets  and  related
long-lived assets related to our logging business.
         Significant  forecast  assumptions  included revenues decreasing slowly
over the ten-year  period,  reflecting  the decline in the  traditional  logging
business.  Operating  income  initially  was  forecasted to increase due to cost
cutting  activity,  and  then  to  decline  as  revenue  decreased  due  to  the
significant  fixed costs in this product  service  line.  In addition to the $51
million  impairment  of the  excess of cost over net  assets  acquired,  related
long-lived asset impairments  consisted of $22 million of property and equipment
and $32 million  of spare parts which management estimated  using the  "held for
use" model during the forecast period.
         Other significant  Energy Services Group product service lines included
in asset related  charges were  Mono Pump of $43 million and Ackerman, Vasquez &
Associates (AVA) of $37 million.
         Our 1998 special charges included planned headcount  reductions of over
10,000.  Excluding  personnel  added to a significant  project  during 1999, net
headcount  reductions of 13,000 were achieved during 1999,  including reductions
related to the 1998 special charge.
         We have in  process a program  to exit  approximately  500  properties,
including  service,  administrative  and  manufacturing  facilities.  We accrued
expenses  to exit  approximately  400 of these  properties  in the 1998  special
charges.  Most of these properties are within the Energy Services Group. Through
December 31, 1999 we have vacated 452 of the approximate  500 total  facilities.
We have sold or returned to the owner 343 of the vacated properties.
         We feel the  benefits  of the  Dresser  merger and other  restructuring
activities  are  evidenced  by our  ability  to  profitably  operate in spite of
depressed  oil and gas industry  conditions  that have existed  since the second
half of 1998. As a result of the  initiatives  discussed  above, we feel we will
ultimately  reduce our costs by an estimated $500 million on an annual basis. We
are  accomplishing  these  reductions  primarily  through reduced  personnel and
facility  requirements,  enhanced  technologies  and the  efficiencies of common
shared services, for example, procurement, treasury, legal, tax, and accounting.
         See Note 11 to our  annual  financial  statements  for  information  on
accrued special charges incurred in 1998.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
         We  are  subject  to  numerous   environmental   legal  and  regulatory
requirements  related  to  our  operations  worldwide.  As  a  result  of  those
obligations,  we are involved in specific  environmental  litigation and claims,
the clean-up of  properties  we own or have  operated,  and  efforts  to meet or
correct  compliance-related  matters.  Except  as noted in Note 9 to the  annual
financial statements related to one site, none of these expenditures is expected
by  our  management  to  have a  material  adverse  effect  on  our  results  of
operations.

YEAR 2000 ISSUE
         The Year  2000  (Y2K)  issue is the risk  that  systems,  products  and
equipment  utilizing  date-sensitive  software or computer  chips with two-digit
date fields will fail to properly  recognize the Year 2000. Such failures by our
software  and  hardware  or  that of  government  entities,  service  providers,
suppliers  and customers  could result in  interruptions  of our business  which
could have a material adverse impact on the results of our operations.
         We implemented  an  enterprise-wide  Y2K program  designed to identify,
assess and  address significant  Y2K issues.
         As  of  December 31,  1999, we  assess  our  Y2K issue  tasks as  being
substantially  complete.  We spent 7% of our 1999 information technology  budget
on our Y2K program.  All expenditures were funded from  operations  and expensed
in  the year  incurred.  As of December  31,  1999,  the cumulative amount spent
on our Y2K program of $44 million was as follows:





         That amount does not include costs associated with:
              o   initiatives   that   are  independent  of   our  Y2K  program,
                  including:
                  -  our global  implementation  of an enterprise-wide  business
                     information  system  which  is  replacing  many of  our key
                     finance,  administrative  and  marketing  software systems;
                     and
                  -  costs associated  with our replacement and  standardization
                     of desktop computing  equipment and information  technology
                     infrastructure.
         Based on our experience  through the filing date of this report,  we do
not believe our Y2K  liability to third  parties to be material to our business,
results of operations or financial condition. We have more than 20,000 suppliers
worldwide. We have not suffered any significant supplier problems related to Y2K
and do not expect any material impact on our business,  results of operations or
financial condition. We have more than 7,000 customers in over 120 countries. We
have not identified any customer that has suffered a significant Y2K problem and
do not expect any material  impact on our  business,  results of  operations  or
financial  condition.  We conducted global business  continuity planning for our
operations.  We believed our worst case  scenario  for Y2K issues was  increased
risk of  infrastructure  failures in less  developed  areas of Africa,  Asia and
Latin America.  We have not identified any significant  Y2K business  continuity
problems or infrastructure failures and do not expect any material impact on our
business, results of operations or financial condition.  However, it is possible
that  the full  impact  of the Y2K  issue  has not been  fully  recognized.  For
example,  it is possible  that Y2K or similar  issues such as leap  year-related
problems  may occur with  billing,  payroll,  or  financial  closings  at month,
quarterly,  or year-end.  We believe that these  problems are likely to be minor
and correctable. In addition, our business could still be negatively affected if
our customers or suppliers are adversely affected by the Y2K or similar issues.
         Forward-looking  statements  relating to the Year 2000.  Our discussion
related to the Y2K issue includes a number of  forward-looking  statements  that
are based on our best  assumptions  and  estimates as of the filing date of this
report.  Assumptions  and  estimates,  which  are  not  necessarily  all  of the
assumptions and estimates, include our statements concerning:
              o   assessments as to which systems are significant;
              o   identification of potential failures related to Y2K issues;
              o   assessments  of  the  risk  of  our  relationships  with third
                  parties; and
              o   implementation of our business continuity plans.
         Year  2000  risk  factors.  The work  that we have  done  under our Y2K
program is focused on risk identification and mitigation, most likely worst case
analyses,  and  business  continuity  plans  involving  significant  systems and
relationships with third parties.  There are, however, an almost infinite number
of additional  risks which are simply not assessable  and for which  contingency
plans cannot be established. There are risks of failure, for Y2K reasons, of one
or more  systems  or  third  party  relationships  which  we do not  judge to be
individually  significant.  These  failures  could  cause  a  cascade  of  other
failures,  which  could have a  material  impact on our  results of  operations.
Actual  results of our Y2K effort could  differ  materially  from the  estimates
expressed  in our  forward-looking  statements,  due  to a  number  of  factors.
Factors, which are not necessarily all of the factors that could cause different
results, include:
              o   our failure  to  accurately  judge which  of our  systems  and
                  relationships are significant;
              o   our ability to locate and correct or replace computer code and
                  systems  embedded in equipment  that  controls or monitors our
                  operating assets;
              o   our  inability or failure  to identify  significant Y2K issues
                  not now contemplated or understood; and
              o   the  failure,  including  infrastructure  failures,  of  third
                  parties to achieve Y2K readiness.



ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
         In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of  Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  133,   "Accounting  for  Derivative
Instruments  and for Hedging  Activities."  This standard  requires  entities to
recognize all  derivatives  on the statement of financial  position as assets or
liabilities and to measure the  instruments at fair value.  Accounting for gains
and losses  from  changes in those fair  values are  specified  in the  standard
depending on the intended use of the derivative and other criteria. Statement of
Financial  Accounting Standards No. 133 is effective for us beginning January 1,
2001. We are currently  evaluating  Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards
No. 133 to identify  implementation  and compliance  methods and we have not yet
determined  the  effect,  if any,  on our  results of  operations  or  financial
position.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
Halliburton Company:



         We have audited the accompanying  balance sheets of Halliburton Company
(a Delaware  corporation)  and subsidiary  companies as of December 31, 1999 and
1998,  and the  related  consolidated  statements  of income,  cash  flows,  and
shareholders'  equity for each of the three years in the period  ended  December
31, 1999. We did not audit the related  consolidated  statements of income, cash
flows and shareholders'  equity of Dresser Industries,  Inc., a company acquired
during 1998 in a  transaction  accounted  for as a pooling of  interests,  as of
December 31, 1997, as discussed in Note 2. Such  statements  are included in the
consolidated  financial  statements  of  Halliburton  Company and reflect  total
revenue of 46% for the year ended December 31, 1997, of the related consolidated
total.  These  statements  were audited by other  auditors whose report has been
furnished to us, and our opinion,  insofar as it relates to amounts included for
Dresser Industries,  Inc. is based solely upon the report of the other auditors.
These financial  statements are the responsibility of the Company's  management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based
on our audits.
         We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates  made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.
         In our opinion, based upon our audits and the report of other auditors,
the consolidated  financial  statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects,  the financial position of Halliburton Company and subsidiary
companies  as of December 31, 1999 and 1998,  and the results of its  operations
and its cash flows for each of the three  years  ended  December  31,  1999,  in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.



                                            /s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
                                            -----------------------
                                                ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Dallas, Texas,
     January 27, 2000  (Except with respect to the matters discussed in Note 18,
     as to which the date is February 16, 2000.)



RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING


         We are  responsible  for the preparation and integrity of our published
financial statements.  The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with  accounting  principles  generally  accepted  in  the  United  States  and,
accordingly,  include  amounts  based on  judgments  and  estimates  made by our
management. We also prepared the other information included in the annual report
and  are  responsible  for its  accuracy  and  consistency  with  the  financial
statements.
         The  financial   statements   have  been  audited  by  the  independent
accounting  firm,  Arthur Andersen LLP.  Arthur Andersen was given  unrestricted
access to all  financial  records and  related  data,  including  minutes of all
meetings of stockholders, the Board of Directors and committees of the Board.
         We  maintain a system of internal  control  over  financial  reporting,
which is intended to provide reasonable assurance to our management and Board of
Directors  regarding the  reliability  of our financial  statements.  The system
includes:
              o   a   documented  organizational   structure  and   division  of
                  responsibility;
              o   established  policies  and  procedures,  including  a code  of
                  conduct  to  foster  a  strong   ethical   climate   which  is
                  communicated throughout the company; and
              o   the careful selection, training and development of our people.
Internal  auditors  monitor the  operation  of the internal  control  system and
report  findings and  recommendations  to management and the Board of Directors.
Corrective  actions  are  taken  to  address  control   deficiencies  and  other
opportunities  for  improving  the  system as they are  identified.  The  Board,
operating  through its Audit Committee,  which is composed entirely of Directors
who are not current or former  officers or employees  of the  company,  provides
oversight to the financial reporting process.
         There are inherent  limitations in the  effectiveness  of any system of
internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention
or  overriding  of controls.  Accordingly,  even an effective  internal  control
system can provide only reasonable  assurance with respect to the reliability of
our financial statements.  Also, the effectiveness of an internal control system
may change over time.
         We have  assessed our internal  control  system in relation to criteria
for effective internal control over financial  reporting  described in "Internal
Control-Integrated   Framework"   issued   by  the   Committee   of   Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon that assessment, we believe
that,  as of December 31, 1999,  our system of internal  control over  financial
reporting met those criteria.



Halliburton Company

by



   /s/ RICHARD B. CHENEY                            /s/   GARY V. MORRIS
   ------------------------                         -------------------------
       Richard B. Cheney                                  Gary V. Morris
   Chairman of the Board and                       Executive Vice President and
    Chief Executive Officer                           Chief Financial Officer




                               Halliburton Company
                        Consolidated Statements of Income
             (Millions of dollars and shares except per share data)





                               Halliburton Company
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
             (Millions of dollars and shares except per share data)




                               Halliburton Company
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                              (Millions of dollars)





                               Halliburton Company
                 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
                        (Millions of dollars and shares)





                               Halliburton Company
                 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
                                   (continued)
                        (Millions of dollars and shares)





                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
                      Notes to Annual Financial Statements

Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies
         We employ  accounting  policies that are in accordance  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles  in  the  United  States.  The  preparation  of
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect:
              o   the reported  amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure
                  of  contingent  assets  and  liabilities  at the  date  of the
                  financial statements; and
              o   the reported amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the
                  reporting period.
Ultimate results could differ from those estimates.
         Principles of  consolidation.  The  consolidated  financial  statements
include the  accounts of our company and all  majority-owned  subsidiaries.  All
material intercompany  accounts and transactions are eliminated.  Investments in
other  companies in which we own between a 20% to 50% interest are accounted for
using the equity method.  Specific prior year amounts have been  reclassified to
conform with the current year presentation.
         Revenues and income recognition.  We recognize revenues as services are
rendered or products are shipped.  The distinction  between services and product
sales is based upon the overall activity of the particular  business  operation.
Revenues  from  engineering  and  construction  contracts  are  reported  on the
percentage of completion  method of accounting  using  measurements  of progress
towards completion appropriate for the work performed.  All known or anticipated
losses on contracts are provided for currently.  Claims and change orders  which
are in the process of being negotiated with customers, for extra work or changes
in the scope of  work  are included  in  revenue  when   collection   is  deemed
probable.  Post-contract  customer support agreements  are recorded  as deferred
revenues and recognized as revenue ratably over the contract period of generally
one year's duration.  Training and consulting service revenues are recognized as
the services are performed.
         Research and development. Research and development expenses are charged
to income as  incurred.  See Note 3 for  research  and  development  expense  by
business segment.
         Software  development costs. Costs of developing  software for sale are
charged  to  expense  when  incurred,   as  research  and   development,   until
technological   feasibility  has  been   established   for  the  product.   Once
technological  feasibility  is  established,   software  development  costs  are
capitalized  until the software is ready for general  release to  customers.  We
capitalized  costs  related to software  developed  for resale of $12 million in
1999,  $13  million  in 1998 and $15  million in 1997.  Amortization  expense of
software  development  costs was $15 million for 1999,  $18 million for 1998 and
$15 million for 1997.  Once the software is ready for release,  amortization  of
the software  development costs begins.  Capitalized  software development costs
are amortized over periods which do not exceed three years.
         Income  per share.  Basic  income  per share  amounts  are based on the
weighted average number of common shares  outstanding  during the year.  Diluted
income  per  share  includes  additional  common  shares  that  would  have been
outstanding if potential  common shares with a dilutive  effect had been issued.
See Note 10 for a  reconciliation  of basic and  diluted  income  per share from
continuing operations.
         Cash  equivalents.  We consider all highly liquid  investments  with an
original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
         Receivables. Our receivables are generally not collateralized. With the
exception  of claims  and  change  orders  which  are  in the  process of  being
negotiated  with customers,  unbilled  work on  uncompleted contracts  generally
represents work currently billable and this work is usually billed during normal
billing processes in  the next month.  These claims and  change orders, included
in unbilled receivables, amounted to $98 million and $89 million at December 31,
1999 and  1998,  respectively and are generally  expected to be collected in the
following year.
         Included  in notes  and  accounts  receivable  are notes  with  varying
interest  rates.  At December  31, 1999 notes  receivable  totaled  $424 million
including  a  note  receivable  of  $377  million   generated  by  the  sale  of
Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump.  See Note 2. At  December  31,  1998  notes  receivable
totaled $296 million  including a note receivable  generated by the sale of M-I.
See Note 2.
         Inventories.  Inventories  are  stated at the lower of cost or  market.
Cost represents  invoice or production cost for new items and original cost less
allowance for condition for used  material  returned to stock.  Production  cost
includes  material,   labor  and  manufacturing   overhead.  The  cost  of  most
inventories  is determined  using either the first-in,  first-out  method or the



average cost method,  although the cost of most United States  manufacturing and
field service  inventories is determined  using the last-in,  first-out  method.
Inventories  of sales items owned by foreign  subsidiaries  and  inventories  of
operating supplies and parts are generally valued at average cost.
         Property,  plant  and  equipment.  Property,  plant  and  equipment  is
reported at cost less accumulated  depreciation,  which is generally provided on
the  straight-line  method over the estimated  useful lives of the assets.  Some
assets are depreciated on accelerated methods.  Accelerated depreciation methods
are also used for tax purposes, wherever permitted. Expenditures for maintenance
and repairs  are  expensed;  expenditures  for  renewals  and  improvements  are
generally  capitalized.  Upon sale or retirement of an asset,  the related costs
and accumulated  depreciation are removed from the accounts and any gain or loss
is recognized.  When events or changes in circumstances indicate that assets may
be impaired, an evaluation is performed.  The estimated future undiscounted cash
flows  associated with the asset are compared to the asset's  carrying amount to
determine  if a  write-down  to market  value or  discounted  cash flow value is
required.  We follow the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas
properties.  We are implementing an enterprise-wide information system. External
direct costs of materials  and services and  payroll-related  costs of employees
working solely on development of the software  system portion of the project are
capitalized.  Capitalized  costs of the project are  amortized  over  periods of
three to ten years  beginning  when the  system is placed in  service.  Training
costs and costs to reengineer business processes are expensed as incurred.
         Excess of cost over net  assets  acquired.  The excess of cost over net
assets acquired is amortized on a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding
40 years.  The excess of cost over net assets acquired is continually  monitored
for potential  impairment.  When negative conditions such as significant current
or projected  operating  losses exist, a review is performed to determine if the
projected  undiscounted future cash flows indicate that an impairment exists. If
an  impairment  exists,  the excess of cost over net assets  acquired,  and,  if
appropriate,  the  associated  assets  are  reduced  to  reflect  the  estimated
discounted  cash flows to be generated by the  underlying  business,  consistent
with  methodologies  in  Statement  of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 121
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-lived Assets and for Long-lived Assets to
be Disposed of."
         Income taxes. A valuation allowance is provided for deferred tax assets
if it is more likely than not these items will either  expire before we are able
to realize their benefit,  or that future  deductibility is uncertain.  Deferred
tax  assets  and   liabilities  are  recognized  for  the  expected  future  tax
consequences  of events that have been realized in the  financial  statements or
tax returns.
         Derivative  instruments.  We primarily enter into derivative  financial
transactions  to hedge  existing or  projected  exposures  to  changing  foreign
exchange rates.  From time to time we enter into  derivatives to hedge exposures
to  interest  rates  or  commodity  prices.  We do  not  enter  into  derivative
transactions  for  speculative  or  trading   purposes.   Derivative   financial
instruments to hedge exposure with an indeterminable maturity date are generally
carried at fair  value with the  resulting  gains and  losses  reflected  in the
results of operations. Gains or losses on hedges of identifiable commitments are
deferred  and  recognized  when the  offsetting  gains or losses on the  related
hedged  items are  recognized.  Deferred  gains or losses for  hedges  which are
terminated  prior to the  transaction  date are  recognized  when the underlying
hedged transactions are recognized.  In the event an identifiable  commitment is
no  longer  expected  to be  realized,  any  deferred  gains or losses on hedges
associated with the commitment are recognized  currently.  Costs associated with
entering into these  contracts are  presented in other  assets,  while  deferred
gains or losses are included in other liabilities or other assets, respectively,
on the  consolidated  balance sheets.  Recognized gains or losses on derivatives
entered into to manage  foreign  exchange risk are included in foreign  currency
gains and losses on the  consolidated  statements of income.  Gains or losses on
interest rate  derivatives  and commodity  derivatives  are included in interest
expense and operating income, respectively.  During the years ended December 31,
1999, 1998 and 1997, we did not enter into any significant transactions to hedge
interest rates or commodity prices.
         Foreign  currency   translation.   Foreign  entities  whose  functional
currency is the United States dollar  translate  monetary assets and liabilities
at year-end  exchange rates and non-monetary  items are translated at historical
rates. Income and expense accounts are translated at the average rates in effect
during the year,  except for  depreciation  and cost of product  sales which are
translated at historical  rates.  Gains or losses from changes in exchange rates
are  recognized  in  consolidated  income  in the  year of  occurrence.  Foreign
entities whose functional currency is the local currency translate net assets at
year-end  rates and income and  expense  accounts  at  average  exchange  rates.
Adjustments  resulting from these translations are reflected in the consolidated
statements of shareholders' equity titled "cumulative translation adjustment."



Note 2. Acquisitions and Dispositions
         Joint venture divestitures.  In October 1999, we announced the sales of
our  49%  interest  in the  Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump  joint  venture  and our 51%
interest in the Dresser-Rand joint venture to  Ingersoll-Rand.  See Note 18. The
sales were triggered by Ingersoll-Rand's  exercise of its option under the joint
venture  agreements to cause us to either buy their  interests or sell ours. Our
Ingersoll-Dresser Pump interest was sold in December 1999 for approximately $515
million.  We recorded an extraordinary  gain of $253 million before tax, or $159
million after-tax,  for a net gain of $0.36 per diluted share in 1999.  Proceeds
from the sale, after payment of our intercompany  balance,  were received in the
form of a $377 million  promissory note with an annual interest rate of 3.5% due
January 14, 2000.  The note was  collected on the due date and the cash from the
sale was used to repay short-term debt and for other general corporate purposes.
Our  interest in  Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump was  previously  a part of the Dresser
Equipment Group.
         Dresser  merger.  On September 29, 1998 we completed the acquisition of
Dresser Industries, Inc. by converting the outstanding Dresser common stock into
approximately  176  million  shares  of  our  common  stock.  We  also  reserved
approximately  7 million  shares of common stock for  outstanding  Dresser stock
options and other  employee  and  directors  plans.  The merger  qualified  as a
tax-free exchange to Dresser's shareholders for United States federal income tax
purposes  and was  accounted  for  using  the  pooling  of  interests  method of
accounting  for  business  combinations.  Our  financial  statements  have  been
restated to include the results of Dresser for all periods presented.  Beginning
in 1998,  Dresser's  year-end of October 31 has been  conformed  to our calendar
year-end.  Periods through December 1997 contain Dresser information on a fiscal
year-end basis combined with our information on a calendar year-end basis.
         For the two months ended  December  31,  1997,  Dresser had revenues of
$1,110 million,  operating  income of $53 million and net income of $36 million.
Operating  income for the two-month  period  includes a pretax special charge of
$30 million ($12 million  after-tax and minority  interest) related to Dresser's
share   of   profit   improvement    initiatives   at   the   Dresser-Rand   and
Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump joint ventures. The $30 million pretax special charge is
comprised of $23 million for Dresser-Rand  and $7 million for  Ingersoll-Dresser
Pump.  Results for the two-month period have been included in retained earnings,
and  dividends  of $33 million  paid in December  1997 have been  deducted  from
retained  earnings in the  consolidated  statements of  shareholders'  equity at
December 31, 1998 as conforming fiscal years. The change to Dresser's cumulative
translation  adjustment  account  for the period  between  October  31, 1997 and
December 31, 1997 of $15 million is also included in the consolidated statements
of  shareholders'  equity as  conforming  fiscal  years.  There were no material
transactions between us and Dresser prior to the merger.
         Combined and  separate  company  results  of  Halliburton  Company  and
Dresser Industries, Inc. for the periods preceding the merger are as follows:




         LWD divestiture.  In March 1999, in connection with the Dresser merger,
we sold the majority of our pre-merger  worldwide  logging-while-drilling  and a
portion of the pre-merger  measurement-while-drilling  business. The sale was in
accordance  with a consent decree with the United States  Department of Justice.
The financial impact of the sale was reflected in the third quarter 1998 special
charge.  See Note 11. This business was previously  part of the Energy  Services
Group. We continue to provide separate  logging-while-drilling  services through
our Sperry-Sun Drilling Systems business line, which was acquired as part of the
merger with Dresser and is now part of the Energy  Services  Group. In addition,
we  will  continue  to  provide  sonic  logging-while-drilling   services  using
technologies we had before the merger with Dresser.
         M-I  L.L.C.  drilling  divestiture.  In  August  1998,  we sold our 36%
interest in M-I L.L.C. to Smith International,  Inc., for $265 million.  Payment
was  made in the  form of a  non-interest  bearing  promissory  note  which  was
collected in April 1999.  The sale completed our commitment to the United States
Department  of Justice to sell our M-I  interest in  connection  with our merger
with Dresser.  M-I was previously part of the Energy Services Group. We continue
to offer drilling fluid products and services through our Baroid Drilling Fluids
business  line which was  acquired as part of the merger with Dresser and is now
part of the Energy Services Group.
         Acquisition  of  Devonport  Royal  Dockyard  plc.  During  March  1997,
Devonport  Management  Limited  completed  the  acquisition  of Devonport  Royal
Dockyard plc,  which owns and operates the  Government  of the United  Kingdom's
Royal Dockyard in Plymouth,  England, for approximately $65 million.  Concurrent
with the acquisition of the Royal Dockyard,  our ownership interest in Devonport
Management Limited, a management consortium, increased from about 30% to 51% and
Devonport Management Limited borrowed $56 million under term loans. The dockyard
principally  provides repair and refitting services for the British Royal Navy's
fleet of submarines and surface ships. Devonport Management Limited is a part of
the Engineering and Construction Group.
         Acquisition  of OGC  International  plc and Kinhill  Holdings  Limited.
During April 1997, we acquired the outstanding common stock of OGC International
plc for  approximately  $118  million.  OGC is engaged in providing a variety of
engineering, operations and maintenance services, primarily to the North Sea oil
and gas production industry and is part of the Energy Services Group.
         During  July  1997,  we  acquired  the  outstanding  common  stock  and
convertible  debentures  of  Kinhill  Holdings  Limited  for  approximately  $34
million. Kinhill, headquartered in Australia, provides engineering in mining and
minerals   processing,   petroleum   and   chemicals,   water  and   wastewater,
transportation,  and commercial and civil  infrastructure.  Kinhill  markets its
services primarily in Australia,  Indonesia,  Thailand, Singapore, India and the
Philippines. Kinhill is part of the Engineering and Construction Group.
         In 1997, we recorded  approximately $99 million excess of cost over net
assets  acquired  primarily  related  to the  purchase  acquisitions  of OGC and
Kinhill.
         Acquisition  of  NUMAR.   On  September  30,  1997,  we  completed  the
acquisition  of NUMAR  Corporation by converting  the  outstanding  NUMAR common
stock into  approximately  eight  million  shares of our common  stock.  We also
reserved  approximately  one million  shares of common stock for the exercise of
outstanding NUMAR stock options. The merger qualified as a tax-free exchange and



was  accounted  for using the  pooling of  interests  method of  accounting  for
business  combinations.  Our financial  statements  were not restated to include
historical NUMAR operating results because they had no material impact.
         NUMAR's  assets and  liabilities on September 30, 1997 were included in
the Company's accounts of the same date,  resulting in an increase in net assets
of  $21  million.  Headquartered  in  Malvern,   Pennsylvania,   NUMAR  designs,
manufactures and markets the Magnetic  Resonance  Imaging Logging (MRIL(R)) tool
which utilizes magnetic resonance imaging technology to evaluate subsurface rock
formations  in newly  drilled  oil and gas  wells.  NUMAR is part of the  Energy
Services Group.
         SubSea asset sale. In 1997, we sold a portion of our SubSea operation's
assets to Global  Industries,  Ltd. for $102 million and recognized a loss of $9
million  (net of tax of $4  million)  on the sale.  SubSea is part of the Energy
Services Group.
         Environmental  services divestiture.  On December 31, 1997, we sold our
environmental  services  business  to Tetra Tech,  Inc.  for  approximately  $32
million.  The sale was prompted by our desire to divest non-core  businesses and
had no significant effect on net income for the year. The environmental services
business was previously part of the Engineering and Construction Group.
         We acquired  other  businesses in 1999,  1998 and 1997 for $13 million,
$42  million  and $4  million,  respectively.  These  businesses  did not have a
significant effect on revenues or earnings.

Note 3. Business Segment Information
         We have three business  segments.  These segments are organized  around
the products and services  provided to the customers  they serve.  See the table
below for information on our business segments.
         The Energy Services Group segment provides  pressure pumping  equipment
and services, logging and perforating,  drilling systems and services,  drilling
fluids systems,  drill bits, specialized completion and production equipment and
services, well control,  integrated solutions,  and reservoir description.  Also
included in the Energy  Services  Group are  upstream  oil and gas  engineering,
construction  and  maintenance  services,  specialty  pipe coating,  insulation,
underwater   engineering   services,   integrated   exploration  and  production
information  systems, and professional  services to the petroleum industry.  The
Energy Services Group has three business  units:  Halliburton  Energy  Services,
Brown & Root Energy Services and Landmark  Graphics.  The long-term  performance
for these business units is linked to the long-term  demand for oil and gas. The
products and services the group provides are designed to help discover,  develop
and produce oil and gas. The customers for this segment are major oil companies,
national oil companies and independent oil and gas companies.
         The Engineering and Construction  Group segment  provides  engineering,
procurement,  construction,  project  management,  and facilities  operation and
maintenance for  hydrocarbon  processing and other  industrial and  governmental
customers.  The  Engineering  and  Construction  Group has two  business  units:
Kellogg Brown & Root and Brown & Root Services.  Both business units are engaged
in the delivery of engineering and construction services.
         The Dresser  Equipment Group segment designs,  manufactures and markets
highly engineered products and systems for oil and gas producers,  transporters,
processors,  distributors  and petroleum users throughout the world. The group's
products  are also used in  industries  serving  various  other  sectors  of the
economy.  Dresser  Equipment Group operates as one business unit. See Note 2 and
Note 18 for  information on the sales of two joint  ventures  within the Dresser
Equipment Group.
         Our equity in pretax income or losses of related  companies is included
in  revenues  and  operating  income  of the  applicable  segment.  Intersegment
revenues  included in the  revenues  of the other  business  segments  and sales
between  geographic areas are immaterial.  General corporate assets not included
in a business  segment are  primarily  comprised  of  receivables,  deferred tax
assets and other  investments  including the  investment in our  enterprise-wide
information system which we are implementing.



         The tables below present information on our business segments.

Operations by Business Segment





Operations by Geographic Area

Note 4. Inventories
         Inventories  at  December  31,  1999  and  1998  are  comprised  of the
following:

         The  cost  of  most  United  States  manufacturing  and  field  service
inventories is determined using the last-in,  first-out  method.  Inventories on
the last-in, first-out method were $136 million and $168 million at December 31,
1999 and December 31, 1998, respectively.  If the last-in,  first-out method had
not been used, the cost of total  inventories would have been about $108 million
higher than reported at December 31, 1999, and $111 million higher than reported
at December 31, 1998.

Note 5. Property, Plant and Equipment
         Property,  plant  and  equipment  at  December  31,  1999  and  1998 is
comprised of the following:

         At December 31, 1999 and 1998, machinery,  equipment and other property
includes oil and gas investments of approximately $309 million and $224 million,
respectively,  and software developed for our enterprise-wide information system
of $197 million and $133 million, respectively.

Note 6. Related Companies
         We conduct some of our operations  through various joint ventures which
are in  partnership,  corporate and other business  forms,  and are  principally
accounted for using the equity method.
         The larger unconsolidated entities include European Marine Contractors,
Limited;  Bredero-Shaw and Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump. European Marine Contractors,
Limited which is 50% owned and part of the Energy Services Group, specializes in
engineering,  procurement and  construction of marine  pipelines.  Bredero-Shaw,



which is 50% owned and part of the Energy  Services  Group,  specializes in pipe
coating.  From the formation of the Bredero-Shaw joint venture in 1996 until the
fourth  quarter of 1997,  we fully  consolidated  Bredero-Shaw  as our ownership
interest in this joint venture  exceeded 50%. During the fourth quarter of 1997,
we signed an agreement for a long-term  extension of the joint venture with Shaw
Industries  Ltd. and decreased  our interest to 50%. In connection  with the new
agreement,  Shaw agreed to pay us $50  million  over a  four-year  period.  This
transaction  resulted in a fourth  quarter 1997 pretax gain of $42 million which
is reported in the  consolidated  statements  of income in the caption  "special
charges  and  credits."  For  balance  sheet  purposes,   at  year-end  1997  we
deconsolidated  Bredero-Shaw  and  accounted  for our 50%  interest in the joint
venture as an equity  investment.  We include our share of equity in earnings in
the results of  operations  beginning  January 1, 1998 using the equity  method.
Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump,  49%-owned  and part of the  Dresser  Equipment  Group,
manufactures  a broad range of pump products and services.  We sold our interest
in  Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump on  December  30,  1999.  See  Note 2 to the  annual
financial  statements for further  information on the sale of  Ingersoll-Dresser
Pump.
         We sold our 36% ownership interest in M-I to Smith International,  Inc.
on  August  31,  1998.   This  transaction  completed  our  commitment   to  the
United States Department of Justice to sell our M-I interest in connection  with
our merger  with Dresser  Industries,  Inc.  See Note  2 to the annual financial
statements for further information on the sale of M-I.  Prior to the sale of our
interest, we accounted for our interest in Ingersoll-Dresser Pump and M-I on the
equity method.
         Summarized   financial   statements  for  all  combined   jointly-owned
operations which are not consolidated are as follows:



Note 7. Lines of Credit, Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt
         At December  31,  1999,  we had  committed  short-term  lines of credit
totaling $650 million available and unused, and other short-term lines of credit
totaling  $215  million.  There  were  no  borrowings  outstanding  under  these
facilities.  Short-term  debt  consists  primarily of $926 million in commercial
paper with an effective  interest  rate of 6.61% and $23 million in foreign bank
loans and overdraft facilities with varying rates of interest.



         Long-term debt at the end of 1999 and 1998 consists of the following:


         At December 31, 1999, we have  outstanding  notes under our medium-term
note program as follows:


         The 6.25% notes due 2000,  7.6% debentures due 2096,  8.75%  debentures
due 2021, and 8% senior notes due 2003 may not be redeemed prior to maturity and
do not have  sinking  fund  requirements.  Each holder of the 6.75%  medium-term
notes has the right to require us to repay  such  holder's  notes in whole or in
part, on February 1, 2007. We may redeem the 5.63% medium-term notes in whole or
in part at any time.  Other notes issued under the medium-term  note program may
not be redeemed  prior to maturity.  The  medium-term  notes do not have sinking
fund requirements. In 1999, we redeemed $50 million 6.27% medium-term notes that
matured.
         The term loans at LIBOR  (GBP) plus  0.75% are  denominated  in British
pound sterling and are payable in semi-annual  installments through March, 2002.
In connection  with the term loans,  we are required to maintain a  compensating
balance which decreases in proportion to the outstanding  loans. At December 31,
1999, the compensating  balance was $10 million and was included in other assets
in our consolidated balance sheets.
         Our long-term debt matures as follows:

Note 8. Dresser Financial Information
         Since becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary,  Dresser Industries, Inc. has
ceased filing  periodic  reports with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission.
Dresser's 8% guaranteed  senior  notes,  which were  initially  issued by Baroid
Corporation,  remain outstanding and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by
Halliburton.  As long as these notes remain  outstanding,  summarized  financial
information  of Dresser will be presented in our periodic  reports filed on Form
10-K and Form 10-Q.  We have not presented  separate  financial  statements  and



other disclosures  concerning  Dresser because we determined such information is
not material to the holders of these notes.
         In January 1999, as part of a legal reorganization  associated with the
merger, Halliburton Delaware, Inc., a first tier holding company subsidiary, was
merged into Dresser. The majority of our operating assets and activities are now
included within Dresser and its subsidiaries.



Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies
         Leases.  At year  end  1999,  we  were  obligated  under  noncancelable
operating  leases,  expiring on various dates through 2021,  principally for the
use of land, offices, equipment, field facilities, and warehouses. Total rentals
charged to operations for such leases totaled $150 million in 1999, $207 million
in 1998,  and $203  million  in 1997.  Future  total  rentals  on  noncancelable
operating leases are as follows:  2000, $133 million;  2001, $114 million; 2002,
$94 million; 2003, $66 million; 2004, $39 million and thereafter, $114 million.
         Asbestosis  litigation.  Since 1976, Dresser  Industries,  Inc. and its
former divisions or subsidiaries have been involved in litigation resulting from
allegations that third parties sustained injuries and damage from the inhalation
of asbestos  fibers  contained in some  products  manufactured  by Dresser,  its
former  divisions  or  subsidiaries  or by  companies  acquired by  Dresser.  In
addition,  the  Engineering  and  Construction  Group is involved in  litigation
resulting from allegations that third parties sustained injuries and damage from
the inhalation of asbestos fibers  contained in some of the materials which were
used in various construction and renovation projects in the past.
         Dresser and its former  divisions  or  subsidiaries  have  entered into
agreements with insurance  carriers which cover, in whole or in part,  indemnity
payments, legal fees and expenses for specific categories of claims. Dresser and
its former divisions or subsidiaries are in negotiation with insurance  carriers
over coverage for the remaining  categories of claims.  Because these agreements
are  governed by exposure  dates,  payment  type and the product  involved,  the
covered  amount varies by individual  claim.  In addition,  lawsuits are pending



against several carriers seeking to recover  additional amounts related to these
claims.  The Engineering and Construction Group is also involved in negotiations
with their  insurance  carriers  concerning  the scope of coverage  for asbestos
claims.
         Since  1976,  approximately  237,300  claims  have been  filed  against
various  current and former  divisions  and  subsidiaries.  Most of these claims
relate to  Dresser  and its  former  divisions  or  subsidiaries.  Approximately
129,650 of these  claims  have been  settled or  disposed  of at a gross cost of
approximately  $99  million  with  insurance  carriers  responsible  for all but
approximately  $23  million.  Claims  continue to be filed with about 46,400 new
claims filed in 1999. We have established a reserve estimating our liability for
asbestos claims. Our estimate is based on our historical litigation  experience,
settlements  and  expected  recoveries  from  insurance  carriers.  Our expected
insurance  recoveries are based on agreements with insurance  carriers or, where
agreements are still under negotiation,  estimated  recoveries.  We believe that
the insurance  carriers  will be able to meet their share of future  obligations
under the agreements.  At the end of 1999, there were about 107,650 open claims,
including  19,000 for which  settlements are pending.  This compares with 70,500
open claims at the end of 1998.  The accrued  liabilities  for these  claims and
corresponding receivables from carriers were as follows:

         We recognize the uncertainties of litigation and the possibility that a
series of adverse court rulings could materially impact the expected  resolution
of asbestos related claims.  However,  based upon our historical experience with
similar  claims,  the time  elapsed  since  Dresser and its former  divisions or
subsidiaries   discontinued  sale  of  products  containing  asbestos,  and  our
understanding of the facts and  circumstances  that gave rise to such claims, we
believe  that the pending  asbestos  claims will be  resolved  without  material
effect on our financial position or results of operations.
         Dispute with Global  Industrial  Technologies,  Inc. Under an agreement
entered  into at the time of the  spin-off  of Global  Industrial  Technologies,
Inc.,  formerly INDRESCO,  Inc., from Dresser  Industries,  Inc., Global assumed
liability for all asbestos  related claims filed against  Dresser after July 31,
1992  relating to  refractory  products  manufactured  or marketed by the former
Harbison-Walker Refractories division of Dresser. Those business operations were
transferred  to Global in the  spin-off.  These  asbestos  claims are subject to
agreements  with Dresser  insurance  carriers  that cover  expense and indemnity
payments.  However,  the insurance coverage is incomplete and Global has to date
paid the uncovered portion of those asbestos claims with its own funds.
         Global now disputes that it assumed liability for any of these asbestos
claims which  were based upon Dresser's negligence,  the acts of Harbison-Walker
prior to its merger with Dresser in 1967, or punitive damages.
         In order to resolve this dispute, Global invoked the dispute resolution
provisions of the 1992 agreement, which require binding arbitration.  Global has
not claimed a specific  amount of damages.  We expect  that  Global's  claim for
reimbursement will be in excess of $40 million.  In addition,  Global is seeking
relief from  responsibility for pending claims based upon Dresser's  negligence,
the pre-1967  acts of  Harbison-Walker,  punitive  damages,  and for all similar
future claims. On February 25, 2000, the arbitrator ruled that Global did assume
responsibility  for  claims  based  on  Dresser's  negligence  and for  punitive
damages.   The   arbitrator   did  not  decide   whether   Global  also  assumed
responsibility  for the  pre-1967  acts of  Harbison-Walker,  but  reserved  his
decision  pending further  proceedings,  although no timetable was set for those
proceedings.
         In 1999 Dresser  brought  suit  against  Global to enjoin it from suing
Dresser's  insurance  carrier,   Continental  Insurance  Company,  for  specific
asbestos  claims.   Although  a  Texas  court  in  Dallas  entered  a  temporary
injunction,  a Texas  appellate  court  reversed  that  decision  and the matter
remains  pending before the trial court.  Since then, in late 1999,  Global sued
Continental  in federal court in  Pennsylvania  seeking  coverage  under Dresser
insurance policies for claims we believe are covered by the pending arbitration.
Dresser was not named in the lawsuit, and Continental has responded to Global by
moving to dismiss that lawsuit because Dresser was not included. We believe that
the issues involving  Continental should be resolved in the pending arbitration.
We believe that all of Global's  claims and  assertions are without merit and we
intend to vigorously defend against them.



         Environmental.  We are  subject  to  numerous  environmental  legal and
regulatory  requirements  related to our  operations  worldwide.  As a result of
those  obligations,  we are involved in specific  environmental  litigation  and
claims,  the clean-up of  properties we own or have operated and efforts to meet
or correct compliance-related matters.
         Some of our subsidiaries and former operating  entities are involved as
a  potentially  responsible  party or PRP in  remedial  activities  to  clean-up
several  "Superfund" sites under federal law and comparable state laws.  Kellogg
Brown & Root,  Inc., one of our  subsidiaries,  is one of nine PRPs named at the
Tri-State  Mining District  "Superfund"  Site, which is also known as the Jasper
County  "Superfund" Site. The site contains lead and zinc mine tailings produced
from mining activities that occurred from the 1800s through the mid-1950s in the
southwestern  portion of  Missouri.  The PRPs have  agreed to perform a Remedial
Investigation/Feasibility  study at this site.  Kellogg  Brown & Root's share of
the cost of this  study is not  expected  to be  material.  In  addition  to the
"Superfund"  issues,  the State of  Missouri  has  indicated  that it may pursue
natural  resource  damage claims  against the PRPs. At present,  Kellogg Brown &
Root cannot determine the extent of its liability, if any, for remediation costs
or natural resource damages.
         We  take  a  proactive   approach  in  evaluating  and  addressing  the
environmental  impact  of  sites  where  we are  operating  or  have  maintained
operations.  As a result we spend  money  each year  assessing  and  remediating
contaminated  properties to avoid future  liabilities,  to comply with legal and
regulatory requirements or to respond to claims by third parties.
         Finally,  we incur  costs  related  to  compliance  with  ever-changing
environmental  legal and regulatory  requirements in the jurisdictions  where we
operate. It is very difficult to quantify the potential liabilities.  Except for
our  potential  liability at the site  described  above,  we do not expect these
expenditures  to have a material  adverse effect on our  consolidated  financial
position or our results of operations.
         Our accrued  liabilities for environmental  matters were $30 million as
of December 31, 1999 and $29 million as of December 31, 1998. Amounts accrued in
1999 were $6 million and amounts paid out were $5 million.
         Other. We are a party to various other legal proceedings.  However,  we
believe any liabilities we may have arising from these  proceedings  will not be
material to our consolidated financial position and results of operations.

Note 10. Income Per Share

         Basic income per share amounts are based on the weighted average number
of common  shares  outstanding  during  the  period.  Diluted  income  per share
includes  additional common shares that would have been outstanding if potential
common  shares  with a  dilutive  effect  had  been  issued.  Excluded  from the
computation  of diluted  earnings  per share are  options to  purchase 2 million
shares of common stock in 1999; 1 million  shares in 1998;  and 1 million shares
in 1997. These options were outstanding  during these respective years, but were



excluded  because the option  exercise price was greater than the average market
price of the common shares. Also, diluted earnings per share for 1998 excludes 3
million  potential common shares which were  antidilutive for earnings per share
purposes.

Note 11. Special Charges and Credits
         Our  special  charges  and  credits  consist of  various  non-recurring
transactions  resulting  from  acquisitions,  profit  initiatives,  and industry
downturns as set forth below.

1998 SPECIAL CHARGES AND 1999 CREDITS
         The table below summarizes the 1998 pretax expenses for special charges
and the accrued amounts utilized and adjusted through December 31, 1999.

         Our 1998 results of operations  reflect special  charges  totaling $980
million to provide for costs associated with the Dresser Industries, Inc. merger
and industry  downturn due to declining  oil and gas prices.  These charges were
reflected in the following captions of the consolidated statements of income:

         Most  restructuring  activities accrued for in the 1998 special charges
were  completed  and expended by the end of 1999.  The amounts that remain to be
expended relate to severance payments not yet disbursed,  sales of facilities to
be  disposed  of,  and  other  actions  which  may  require   negotiations  with
outside parties  extending into 2000. From inception  through December 31, 1999,
we used $328 million in cash for items associated with the 1998 special charges.
The unutilized  special charge reserve  balance at December 31, 1999 is expected
to result in future cash  outlays of $69 million  during  2000.  At December 31,
1999, no adjustments or reversals to the remaining  accrued  special charges are
planned.
         During the second  quarter of 1999, we reversed $47 million of the 1998
special  charge  based on our  reassessment  of total  costs to be  incurred  to
complete  the actions  covered in our special  charges.  The  components  of the
reversal are as follows:
              o   $30 million in personnel  charges primarily due to a reduction
                  in estimated  legal costs  associated  with employee  layoffs,
                  lower than anticipated  average severance per person and fewer
                  than   expected   terminations   due  to  voluntary   employee
                  resignations;



              o   $16  million in  facility  consolidation  charges due to fewer
                  than  initially  estimated  facility  exits,  resulting  in an
                  estimated  $7 million  reduction in  facilities  consolidation
                  costs,  combined with other factors  including  more favorable
                  exit costs than anticipated; and
              o   $1 million of the estimated merger transaction costs primarily
                  as a result of lower than previously estimated legal and other
                  professional costs.

Asset Related Charges
         Asset related charges include  impairments and write-offs of intangible
assets  and  excess  and/or  duplicate  machinery,   equipment,  inventory,  and
capitalized  software.  Charges also include  write-offs and lease  cancellation
costs related to acquired  information  technology  equipment  replaced with our
standard common office equipment and exit costs on other leased assets.
         As  a  result  of  the  merger,   Halliburton   Company's  and  Dresser
Industries,  Inc.'s  completion  products  operations  and formation  evaluation
businesses have been combined. Excluded is Halliburton's  logging-while-drilling
business  and a portion of our  measurement-while-drilling  business  which were
required to be disposed of in connection  with the United  States  Department of
Justice  consent  decree.  See  Note  2.  We  recorded  impairments  based  upon
anticipated  future  cash  flows  in  accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards  No.  121.  This was  based  on the  change  in  strategic
direction,  the outlook for the industry,  the decision to standardize equipment
product   offerings   and  the  expected   loss  on  the   disposition   of  the
logging-while-drilling  business.  The resulting  write-downs  of excess of cost
over net assets acquired and long-lived assets associated with:
              o   the directional drilling and formation  evaluation  businesses
                  acquired in 1993 from Smith International, Inc.;
              o   the  formation  evaluation  business   acquired  in  the  1988
                  acquisition of Gearhart Industries, Inc.; and
              o   Mono Pumps and AVA acquired in 1990 and 1992, are as follows:

         As discussed  below,  the merger caused  management  to reevaluate  the
realizability  of excess cost over net assets  acquired  and related  long-lived
assets of these  product  service  lines.  Each  business was  considered  to be
impaired under SFAS No. 121 guidance.
         The overall market  assumptions  on which the  impairment  computations
were made  assumed  that 1999  calendar  year  drilling  activity as measured by
worldwide rig count would be 1,900 rigs which was up from the 1,700 level in the
third  quarter of 1998.  Rig count for calendar year 2000 and beyond was assumed
to increase about 3% per year based upon estimated long-term growth in worldwide
demand for oil and gas. These assumptions were based on market data available at
the time of the merger.
         In  addition  to  these  assumptions,  management  utilized  a 10  year
timeframe for future projected cash flows, a discount rate that approximates its
average cost of capital,  and specific assumptions for the future performance of
each product service line. The most significant assumptions are discussed below.
In each case, these analyses  represented  management's  best estimate of future
results for these product service lines.
         Drilling  operations of pre-merger  Halliburton  Energy  Services.  Our
pre-merger    drilling    business    consisted    of    logging-while-drilling,
measurement-while-drilling  and directional  drilling services.  The majority of
the pre-merger  logging-while-drilling  business and a portion of the pre-merger
measurement-while-drilling  business  were  required to be sold under the United
States  Department of Justice consent  decree.  We have integrated the remaining



drilling  business  with the  Sperry-Sun  operations  of Dresser.  Our  strategy
focuses generally on operating under the Sperry-Sun name and using  Sperry-Sun's
superior  technology,  tools and industry  reputation.  Our remaining pre-merger
drilling  assets  and  technology  are being  de-emphasized  as they wear out or
become  obsolete.  These tools will not be  replaced  resulting  in  significant
decreases in future cash flows and an  impairment of the excess of cost over net
assets and related long-lived assets.
         Significant  forecast  assumptions  included  a revenue  decline in the
remaining  pre-merger  drilling  business due to the  measurement-while-drilling
sale in the first year.  Related revenue and operating income over the following
ten years were  projected  to  decline  due to  reduced  business  opportunities
resulting from our shift in focus toward Sperry-Sun's tools and technologies. We
determined  that there was a $125 million  impairment of excess of cost over net
assets acquired. In addition,  related long-lived asset impairments consisted of
$61 million of property and  equipment  and $14 million of related  spare parts,
the value of which was  estimated  using the  "held for use"  model  during  the
forecast  period.  An impairment of $3 million was recorded  related to property
and  equipment  and $18  million of spare  parts using the "held for sale" model
sold in accordance with the consent decree with the United States  Department of
Justice. See Note 2.
         Logging  operations  of pre-merger  Halliburton  Energy  Services.  The
merger  of  Halliburton  Company  and  Dresser  Industries,   Inc.  enabled  the
acceleration of a formation evaluation  strategy.  This strategy takes advantage
of Sperry-Sun's  logging-while-drilling  competitive position and reputation for
reliability  combined with our Magnetic  Resonance  Imaging  Logging  technology
acquired  with the  NUMAR  acquisition  in 1997.  Prior to the  merger,  we were
focused on  growing  the  traditional  logging  business  while  working  toward
development of new systems to maximize the Magnetic  Resonance  Imaging  Logging
technology.  The merger  allows us to  implement  the new strategy and place the
traditional  logging  business in a  sustaining  mode.  This change in focus and
strategy  will  result  in a  shift  of  operating  cash  flows  away  from  our
traditional  logging business.  This creates an impairment of the excess of cost
over net assets and related long-lived assets related to our logging business.
         Significant  forecast  assumptions  included revenues decreasing slowly
over the ten-year  period,  reflecting  the decline in the  traditional  logging
markets.  Operating  income  initially  was  forecasted  to increase due to cost
cutting  activity,  and then decline as revenue decreased due to the significant
fixed costs in this product  service line. We calculated $51 million  impairment
of the excess of cost over net assets acquired. In addition,  related long-lived
asset  impairments  consisted of $22 million of property and  equipment  and $32
million of spare parts which management estimated using the "held for use" model
during the forecast period.
         Mono  Pump  operations  of  pre-merger  Dresser.   The  amount  of  the
impairment  is $43  million,  all of which  represents  excess  of cost over net
assets acquired associated with the business.
         Our  strategy  for Mono  Pump is to  focus  primarily  on the  oilfield
business including  manufacturing  power sections for drilling motors. The prior
strategy included emphasis on non-oilfield related applications of their pumping
technology  and the majority of Mono Pump revenues were related to  non-oilfield
sales. The change in strategy will result in reduced future cash flows resulting
in an impairment of the excess of costs over net assets acquired.
         Significant  forecast  assumptions  included stable revenue for several
years and then slowly declining due to decreasing  emphasis of industrial market
applications.  Operating income was forecasted to initially be even with current
levels but then decline over the period as revenues declined and fixed costs per
unit increased.
         AVA operations  of Dresser Oil Tools.  The  amount of the impairment is
$37 million  of which $34  million relates to  excess of  costs over  net assets
acquired.
         The plan for  Dresser's AVA business  line (which  supplies  subsurface
safety valves and other  completion  equipment) is to rationalize  product lines
which overlap with our pre-existing completion equipment business line. The vast
majority of the AVA product lines will be  de-emphasized  except for  supporting
the installed  base of AVA equipment  and specific  special order  requests from
customers.  AVA products are generally aimed at the high-end  custom  completion
products market. Our strategy will be to focus on standardized high-end products
based upon  pre-merger  Halliburton  designs thus reducing future AVA cash flows
and impairing its assets and related excess of costs over net assets acquired.
         Additional  asset related  charges.  Additional  asset related  charges
include:
              o   $37  million for various  excess  fixed  assets as a result of
                  merging similar product lines. We have no future use for these
                  assets and they have been scrapped;



              o   $33 million for other assets related to capitalized  software,
                  which  became  redundant  with the  merger.  Major  components
                  included   redundant   computer   aided  design   systems  and
                  capitalized costs related to a portion of our  enterprise-wide
                  information  system  abandoned due to changed  requirements of
                  the post merger company.  The redundant  computer aided design
                  systems  were  in  both  the  Energy  Services  Group  and the
                  Engineering  and  Construction   Group  and  were  immediately
                  abandoned  and replaced by superior  systems  required to meet
                  the needs of the merged company;
              o   $26  million  for  the  inventory  charge  relates  to  excess
                  inventory as a result of merging  similar product lines and/or
                  industry  downturn.  This included  approximately  $17 million
                  related to overlapping  product lines and excess  inventory in
                  the  completion  products  business and $9 million  related to
                  various  Dresser  Equipment  Group  divisions  due  to  excess
                  inventory  related to industry  downturn.  Inventory  that was
                  overlapping  due to the  merger  was  segregated  and has been
                  scrapped.  Inventory  reserves  were  increased  to cover  the
                  estimated  write-down to market for inventory determined to be
                  excess as a result of the  industry  downturn.  The  inventory
                  will be used in the future.  Any future  sales are expected to
                  approximate the new lower carrying value of the inventory;
              o   $5  million  for the  impairment  of  excess  of cost over net
                  assets acquired related to well  construction  technology that
                  became  redundant  once the merger was complete due to similar
                  but superior technology offered by Sperry-Sun. This technology
                  will no  longer  be used  as  part of our  integrated  service
                  offerings,  thus reducing future cash flows. We will, however,
                  continue  to  market  this  technology  individually  to third
                  parties.  An  impairment  based on a "held for use"  model was
                  calculated using a ten-year  discounted cash flow model with a
                  discount rate which  approximates our average cost of capital;
                  and
              o   $1  million  write-off  of  excess  of cost  over  net  assets
                  acquired related to the Steamford  product line in the Dresser
                  Equipment  Group valve and control  division.  Management made
                  the strategic decision to exit this product line.
         Asset related  charges have been reflected as direct  reductions of the
associated asset balances.

Personnel Charges
         Personnel  charges  include  severance and related  costs  incurred for
announced  employee  reductions  of  10,850  affecting  all  business  segments,
corporate and shared service functions. Personnel charges also include personnel
costs related to change of control. In June 1999, management revised the planned
employee  reductions  to 10,100  due in large  part to higher  than  anticipated
voluntary  employee  resignations.  As of December  31,  1999,  terminations  of
employees, consultants and contract personnel related to the 1998 special charge
have been substantially  completed.  The remaining severance payments will occur
as affected projects are completed and facilities are closed.

Facility Consolidation Charges
         Facility  consolidation  charges  include  costs  to  dispose  of owned
properties or exit leased facilities. As a result of the merger with Dresser and
the industry downturn,  we recorded a charge for costs to vacate,  sell or close
excess  and  redundant  service,  manufacturing  and  administrative  facilities
throughout  the world.  The majority of these  facilities  are within the Energy
Services Group. Expenses of $126 million included:
              o   $85 million  write-down of owned  facilities  for  anticipated
                  losses on planned disposals based upon the difference  between
                  the  assets'  net  book  values  and  anticipated  future  net
                  realizable value based upon the "to be disposed of" method;
              o   $37 million lease buyout costs or early lease termination cost
                  including:
                  -  estimated costs to buy out leases;
                  -  facility  refurbishment/restoration expenses as required by
                     the lease in order to exit property;
                  -  sublease differentials, as applicable; and
                  -  related broker/agent fees to negotiate and close buyouts;



              o   $4 million  facility  maintenance  costs to  maintain  vacated
                  facilities  between  the  abandonment  date  and the  expected
                  disposition  date.  Maintenance  costs include lease  expense,
                  depreciation,   maintenance,   utilities,   and  third   party
                  administrative costs.
         Through December 31, 1999, we have vacated 88%, and sold or returned to
the  owner  63% of the  service,  manufacturing  and  administrative  facilities
related to the 1998  special  charge.  The  majority  of the sold,  returned  or
vacated  properties are located in North America and have been  eliminated  from
the  Energy  Services  Group.  The  remaining  expenditures  will be made as the
remaining properties are vacated and sold.

Merger Transaction Charges
         Merger transaction costs include investment banking, filing fees, legal
and  professional  fees and other merger related costs.  We estimated our merger
transaction costs to be $64 million.

Other Charges
         Other charges of $46 million include the estimated  contract exit costs
associated  with the  elimination  of duplicate  agents and suppliers in various
countries  throughout  the world.  During 1999, we utilized $15 million in other
special  charge costs.  The balance will be utilized  during 2000, in connection
with our renegotiations of agency  agreements,  supplier and other contracts and
elimination of other duplicate capabilities.

1997 SPECIAL CHARGES AND CREDITS
         During 1997 our results of  operations  reflect  various  non-recurring
transactions  resulting from acquisitions and restructuring  activities incurred
by Dresser Industries,  Inc., NUMAR Corporation,  Landmark Graphics Corporation,
and us as follows:

The above charges were reflected in the following  captions of the  consolidated
statements of income:

         Net  special  charges  for  1997  of $16  million  related  to  various
acquisition and restructuring activities consisted of the following:
              o   other  credits  include  a $42  million  pretax  gain  paid to
                  Dresser by Shaw  Industries  as  consideration  to terminate a
                  call option  provision held by Dresser under the  Bredero-Shaw
                  pipe-coating joint venture agreement;
              o   $13 million for  restructuring  activities at  Dresser-Rand to
                  close a European  manufacturing  facility  and  discontinue  a
                  product  line along with  associated  support  locations.  The
                  total  includes  $7 million of asset  related  charges  and $6
                  million in facility related charges;
              o   facility  charges  include $5  million  for our 49% share of a
                  facility  restructuring  at  Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump,  a joint
                  venture accounted for on the equity basis;



              o   asset charges, including:
                  -  $6 million  write-off of  an investment  in  an oil and gas
                     field   in  the  former   Soviet  Union  which  was  deemed
                     worthless;
                  -  $6  million  write-off  of excess  of cost over net  assets
                     acquired  associated  with a United  Kingdom  manufacturing
                     operation which was substantially reduced in scope; and
                  -  $13  million  loss  on  the  sale  of  specific  assets  of
                     Dresser's SubSea operation to Global Industries,  Ltd.
              o   merger  transaction costs  include $9  million of professional
                  fees associated with the acquisition of NUMAR; and
              o   personnel  charges include  a $6 million charge for negotiated
                  early retirement incentives for two Dresser executives.
Additionally,  we  recorded  our share of  personnel  reduction  charges  of $30
million during the two-month period ended December 31, 1997 to reduce employment
levels by approximately  1,000 at Dresser-Rand and  Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump. The
$30  million of  personnel  reduction  charges is  comprised  of $23 million for
Dresser-Rand  and $7 million for  Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump. These costs have been
recorded  in the  consolidated  statements  of  shareholders'  equity as part of
conforming the fiscal year of Dresser to our calendar year. See Note 2.

Note 12. Change in Accounting Method
         In April 1998, the American  Institute of Certified Public  Accountants
issued   Statement  of  Position  98-5  "Reporting  on  the  Costs  of  Start-Up
Activities."   This  Statement   requires  costs  of  start-up   activities  and
organization costs to be expensed as incurred.  We adopted Statement of Position
98-5 effective January 1, 1999 and recorded expense of $30 million pretax or $19
million  after-tax or $0.04 per diluted share. The components of the $30 million
pretax  cost,  all  contained  within  the  Energy  Services  Group,  that  were
previously deferred include:
              o   $23 million for  mobilization  costs  associated with specific
                  contracts and for installation of offshore cementing equipment
                  onto third party marine drilling rigs or vessels; and
              o   $7 million for  costs  incurred  opening  a new  manufacturing
                  facility in the United Kingdom.

Note 13. Income Taxes
         The components of the (provision) benefit for income taxes are:

         Included in federal income taxes are foreign tax credits of $80 million
in 1999,  $182 million in 1998 and $154 million in 1997.  The United  States and
foreign  components of income (loss) before income taxes and minority  interests
are as follows:




         The primary  components of our deferred tax assets and  liabilities and
the related valuation allowances are as follows:

         We  have  accrued  for  the  potential  repatriation  of  undistributed
earnings of our foreign  subsidiaries and consider earnings above the amounts on
which tax has been provided to be permanently reinvested. While these additional
earnings could become subject to additional tax if repatriated,  repatriation is
not anticipated. Any additional amount of tax is not practicable to estimate.
         We have net operating loss carryforwards which expire as follows:  2000
through  2004,  $34 million;  2004 through  2009,  $4 million.  We also have net
operating loss  carryforwards of $54 million with indefinite  expiration  dates.
Reconciliations  between the actual provision for income taxes and that computed
by  applying  the  United  States  statutory  rate  to  income  from  continuing
operations before income taxes and minority interest are as follows:




Note 14. Common Stock
         On June 25,  1998,  our  shareholders  voted to increase  the number of
authorized shares from 400.0 million to 600.0 million.
         On  May 20, 1997,  our shareholders  voted to  increase the  number  of
authorized shares from 200.0 million shares to 400.0 million shares.  On June 9,
1997, our Board of Directors  approved a two-for-one stock split effected in the
form of a stock dividend distributed on July 21, 1997 to shareholders  of record
on June 26, 1997.  The par value of the common stock of $2.50 per share remained
unchanged.  As a result of the stock  split, $556 million was  transferred  from
paid-in  capital in excess  of par value  to common stock.  Historical share and
per  share  amounts  prior  to  1997  presented  in our  annual report have been
restated to reflect the stock split.
         Our  1993 Stock and Long-Term  Incentive Plan provides for the grant of
any or all of the following types of awards:
              o   stock   options,   including  incentive   stock  options   and
                  non-qualified stock options;
              o   stock appreciation rights,  in tandem  with  stock  options or
                  freestanding;
              o   restricted stock;
              o   performance share awards; and
              o   stock value equivalent awards.
Under the terms of the 1993 Stock and Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended,  27.0
million shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance to key employees.
At December 31, 1999,  6.9 million shares were available for future grants under
the 1993 Stock and Long-Term Incentive Plan.
         In  connection  with the  acquisitions  of Dresser in 1998 and NUMAR in
1997 (see Note 2), we assumed  the  outstanding  stock  options  under the stock
option  plans  maintained  by  Dresser  and  NUMAR.  Stock  option  transactions
summarized below include amounts for:
              o   the 1993 Stock and Long-Term Incentive Plan;
              o   the Dresser  plans using  the acquisition  exchange rate  of 1
                  share for each Dresser share; and
              o   the NUMAR plans using  the acquisition exchange rate of 0.9664
                  shares for each NUMAR share.
The period from December 1997 to December 1998 includes Dresser  activities from
its  fiscal  year-end  of  October  1997 to  December  1997 in order to  conform
Dresser's fiscal year-end to our calendar year-end.




         Options outstanding at December 31, 1999 are composed of the following:

         There were 7.8  million  options  exercisable  with a weighted  average
exercise  price  of  $25.72  at  December  31,  1998,  and 6.9  million  options
exercisable  with a weighted  average  exercise  price of $21.17 at December 31,
1997.
         All stock options under the 1993 Stock and  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
including   options  granted  to  employees  of  Dresser  and  NUMAR  since  the
acquisition  of these  companies,  are granted at the fair  market  value of the
common stock at the grant date.
         The fair value of options at the date of grant was estimated  using the
Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model.  The  weighted  average  assumptions  and
resulting fair values of options granted are as follows:





         Stock  options  generally  expire ten years from the grant date.  Stock
options vest over a three-year  period,  with  one-third of the shares  becoming
exercisable on each of the first,  second and third  anniversaries  of the grant
date.
         We  account  for  the  option  plans  in  accordance   with  Accounting
Principles  Board  Opinion  No. 25,  under which no  compensation  cost has been
recognized  for stock  option  awards.  Compensation  cost for the stock  option
programs calculated  consistent with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation," is set forth on a pro forma
basis below:

         Restricted shares awarded under the 1993 Stock and Long-Term  Incentive
Plan for 1999, 1998 and 1997 were 352,267 and 414,510 and 515,650, respectively.
The shares awarded are net of forfeitures of 72,483;  136,540; and 34,900 shares
in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The weighted average fair market value per
share at the date of grant of shares granted in 1999,  1998 and 1997 was $43.41,
$34.77 and $45.29, respectively.
         Our Restricted  Stock Plan for  Non-Employee  Directors allows for each
non-employee  director to receive an annual  award of 400  restricted  shares of
common stock as a part of  compensation.  We reserved  100,000  shares of common
stock for issuance to non-employee  directors. We issued 4,800; 3,200; and 3,200
restricted  shares in 1999,  1998 and 1997,  respectively,  under this plan.  At
December  31, 1999,  25,200  shares have been issued to  non-employee  directors
under this plan. The weighted average fair market value per share at the date of
grant of shares  granted in 1999,  1998 and 1997 was $43.33,  $36.31 and $46.06,
respectively.
         Our Employees'  Restricted Stock Plan was established for employees who
are not officers,  for which 200,000  shares of common stock have been reserved.
At December 31, 1999,  160,300 shares (net of 36,700 shares forfeited) have been
issued.  Forfeitures  were  8,400;  1,900;  and  14,600 in 1999,  1998 and 1997,
respectively, and no further grants are being made under this plan.
         Under the terms of our Career  Executive  Incentive  Stock  Plan,  15.0
million  shares of our common  stock were  reserved for issuance to officers and
key employees at a purchase price not to exceed par value of $2.50 per share. At
December 31, 1999,  11.7 million  shares (net of 2.2 million  shares  forfeited)
have been issued under the plan. No further grants will be made under the Career
Executive Incentive Stock Plan.
         Restricted  shares issued under the 1993 Stock and Long-Term  Incentive
Plan,  Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee  Directors,  Employees' Restricted
Stock Plan and the Career Executive  Incentive Stock Plan are limited as to sale
or disposition. These restrictions lapse periodically over an extended period of
time not exceeding ten years. The fair market value of the stock, on the date of
issuance,  is being  amortized  and charged to income (with  similar  credits to
paid-in capital in excess of par value) generally over the average period during
which the  restrictions  lapse. At December 31, 1999, the unamortized  amount is
$51 million.  Compensation  costs  recognized in income for 1999,  1998 and 1997
were $11 million, $8 million and $7 million, respectively.

Note 15. Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
         We previously declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right
on each  outstanding  share of common stock.  The dividend is also applicable to
each share of our common  stock that was issued  subsequent  to  adoption of the
Rights Agreement entered into with ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C. Each
preferred stock purchase right entitles its holder to buy one two-hundredth of a
share of our Series A Junior  Participating  Preferred Stock, without par value,
at an exercise price of $75. These  preferred  stock purchase rights are subject
to antidilution adjustments, which are described in the Rights Agreement entered
into with  ChaseMellon.  The  preferred  stock  purchase  rights do not have any
voting rights and are not entitled to dividends.



         The  preferred  stock  purchase  rights become  exercisable  in limited
circumstances  involving a potential business  combination.  After the preferred
stock purchase  rights become  exercisable,  each preferred stock purchase right
will  entitle  its  holder  to an  amount  of  our  common  stock,  or  in  some
circumstances,  securities of the acquirer, having a total market value equal to
two  times  the  exercise  price of the  preferred  stock  purchase  right.  The
preferred  stock purchase rights are redeemable at our option at any time before
they become exercisable.  The preferred stock purchase rights expire on December
15,  2005.  No event  during  1999  made the  preferred  stock  purchase  rights
exercisable.

Note 16. Financial Instruments and Risk Management
         Foreign  exchange risk.  Techniques in managing  foreign  exchange risk
include,  but are not limited to, foreign  currency  borrowing and investing and
the use of currency  derivative  instruments.  We selectively  hedge significant
exposures  to potential  foreign  exchange  losses  considering  current  market
conditions,  future operating activities and the cost of hedging the exposure in
relation to the  perceived  risk of loss.  The  purpose of our foreign  currency
hedging  activities is to protect us from the risk that the eventual dollar cash
flows  resulting  from the sale and purchase of products and services in foreign
currencies  will be adversely  affected by changes in exchange  rates. We do not
hold or issue  derivative  financial  instruments  for  trading  or  speculative
purposes.
         We hedge our currency  exposure through the use of currency  derivative
instruments.  These contracts  generally have an expiration date of two years or
less.  Forward  exchange  contracts,  which  are  commitments  to buy or  sell a
specified  amount of a  foreign  currency  at a  specified  price and time,  are
generally used to hedge identifiable foreign currency commitments.  Losses of $6
million for identifiable  foreign currency commitments were deferred at December
31, 1999.  Forward  exchange  contracts and foreign  exchange option  contracts,
which  convey  the right,  but not the  obligation,  to sell or buy a  specified
amount of foreign  currency at a specified  price,  are generally  used to hedge
foreign currency  commitments with an indeterminable  maturity date. None of the
forward or option contracts are exchange traded.
         While hedging  instruments are subject to  fluctuations  in value,  the
fluctuations are generally offset by the value of the underlying exposures being
hedged.  The use of some  contracts  may  limit  our  ability  to  benefit  from
favorable  fluctuations in foreign  exchange rates. The notional amounts of open
forward  contracts  and options  were $393  million and $596 million at year-end
1999 and 1998,  respectively.  The  notional  amounts  of our  foreign  exchange
contracts do not generally represent amounts exchanged by the parties, and thus,
are not a measure of our exposure or of the cash requirements  relating to these
contracts.  The amounts  exchanged  are  calculated by reference to the notional
amounts  and by other  terms of the  derivatives,  such as  exchange  rates.  We
actively monitor our foreign currency  exposure and adjust the amounts hedged as
appropriate.
         Exposures to some  currencies are generally not hedged due primarily to
the lack of available markets or cost considerations (non-traded currencies). We
attempt to manage our working  capital  position to  minimize  foreign  currency
commitments in non-traded currencies and recognize that pricing for the services
and products  offered in these countries  should cover the cost of exchange rate
devaluations.  We have historically  incurred  transaction  losses in non-traded
currencies.
         Credit  risk.  Financial  instruments  that  potentially  subject us to
concentrations  of credit risk are primarily cash  equivalents,  investments and
trade  receivables.  It is our  practice  to  place  our  cash  equivalents  and
investments in high quality securities with various investment institutions.  We
derive the  majority  of our  revenues  from sales and  services  to,  including
engineering  and  construction  for,  the  energy  industry.  Within  the energy
industry,  trade  receivables  are  generated  from a broad and diverse group of
customers.  There are concentrations of receivables in the United States and the
United  Kingdom.  We maintain an  allowance  for losses  based upon the expected
collectibility of all trade accounts receivable.
         There  are no  significant  concentrations  of  credit  risk  with  any
individual  counterparty or groups of  counterparties  related to our derivative
contracts.  We  select  counterparties  based  on  creditworthiness,   which  we
continually  monitor,  and on  the  counterparties'  ability  to  perform  their
obligations  under  the  terms  of  the  transactions.  We  do  not  expect  any
counterparties  to fail to meet their  obligations  under these  contracts given
their high credit  ratings.  Therefore,  we consider the credit risk  associated
with our derivative contracts to be minimal.
         Fair  value of  financial  instruments.  The  estimated  fair  value of
long-term debt at year-end 1999 and 1998 was $1,352 million and $1,578  million,
respectively,  as compared to the carrying  amount of $1,364 million at year-end
1999 and $1,429 million at year-end 1998. The fair value of fixed rate long-term
debt is based on quoted  market  prices  for those or similar  instruments.  The



carrying amount of variable rate long-term debt and restricted cash (see Note 7)
approximates  fair value because these  instruments  reflect  market  changes to
interest rates. The carrying amount of short-term  financial  instruments,  cash
and equivalents,  receivables, short-term notes payable and accounts payable, as
reflected in the consolidated  balance sheets approximates fair value due to the
short  maturities of these  instruments.  The fair value of currency  derivative
instruments, which generally approximates their carrying amount based upon third
party quotes,  was $6 million  receivable and $5 million payable at December 31,
1999.

Note 17. Retirement Plans
         Our  company  and  subsidiaries   have  various  plans  which  cover  a
significant number of their employees.  These plans include defined contribution
plans, which provide  retirement  contributions in return for services rendered,
provide an individual  account for each  participant and have terms that specify
how contributions to the participant's  account are to be determined rather than
the amount of pension  benefits the participant is to receive.  Contributions to
these plans are based on pre-tax income and/or discretionary  amounts determined
on an annual basis. Our expense for the defined  contribution plans totaled $146
million,  $152 million,  and $213 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.
Other retirement plans include defined benefit plans,  which define an amount of
pension  benefit to be provided,  usually as a function of age, years of service
or  compensation.  These  plans are funded to operate  on an  actuarially  sound
basis. Plan assets are primarily invested in cash, short-term investments,  real
estate,  equity and fixed income securities of entities domiciled in the country
of the plan's operation.

         We   recognized  an   additional  minimum  pension  liability  for  the
underfunded  defined benefit plans. The additional minimum liability is equal to
the excess of the  accumulated  benefit  obligation over plan assets and accrued
liabilities.  A corresponding amount is recognized as either an intangible asset
or a reduction of shareholders' equity.




         Assumed long-term  rates of  return on  plan assets, discount rates for
estimating benefit obligations  and rates of compensation increases vary for the
different plans  according to the local economic conditions.  The rates used are
as follows:



         The projected benefit obligation,  accumulated benefit obligation,  and
fair  value of plan  assets  for the  pension  plans  with  accumulated  benefit
obligations in excess of plan assets were $205 million,  $199 million,  and $183
million,  respectively,  as of December 31, 1999.  They were $201 million,  $193
million, and $123 million, respectively, as of December 31, 1998.
         Postretirement  medical plan. We offer postretirement  medical plans to
specific eligible employees. For some plans, our liability is limited to a fixed
contribution  amount for each  participant or dependent.  The plan  participants
share the total cost for all benefits provided above our fixed  contribution and
participants'  contributions are adjusted as required to cover benefit payments.
We have made no commitment to adjust the amount of our contributions; therefore,
the  computed  accumulated  postretirement  benefit  obligation  amount  is  not
affected by the expected future health care cost inflation rate.



         Other  postretirement  medical plans are  contributory but we generally
absorb  the  majority  of the  costs.  We may elect to adjust  the amount of our
contributions for these plans. As a result, the expected future health care cost
inflation rate affects the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation amount.
These plans have assumed health care trend rates  (weighted based on the current
year benefit  obligation) for 1999 of 7.0% which are expected to decline to 5.5%
by 2002.
         During  1997,  we  adopted   amendments   to  eliminate   some  of  the
postretirement  medical  benefit  programs.   These  amendments  resulted  in  a
curtailment gain of $11 million.










         Assumed  health care cost trend rates have a significant  effect on the
amounts reported for the total of the health care plans. A  one-percentage-point
change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:


Note 18. Subsequent Events
         On  February  2,  2000 we  completed  the sale of our 51%  interest  in
Dresser-Rand to our joint venture partner,  Ingersoll-Rand  Company, for a price
of approximately $579 million.  The sale was made based upon elections triggered
by Ingersoll-Rand.  Proceeds from the sale, net of intercompany  amounts payable
to the joint  venture,  were $536 million,  resulting in an estimated  after-tax
extraordinary  gain of $215  million  or $0.48  per  diluted  share in the first
quarter of 2000. The proceeds from this sale, along with $378 million  collected
on January  14,  2000 for the note  related  to the  December  30,  1999 sale of
Ingersoll-Dresser  Pump, were used to reduce short-term borrowings and for other
general corporate purposes. See Note 2.
         In February 2000, our offer to acquire the  approximately 74% shares of
PES  (International)  Ltd.  that we did not  already  own  was  accepted  by PES
shareholders.  PES is based in Aberdeen,  Scotland, and has developed technology
that complements  Halliburton Energy Services' real-time reservoir solutions. To
buy the  remaining  74%  shares  of PES,  we will  issue 1.2  million  shares of
Halliburton common stock and rights for additional consideration between 850,000
to 2.1 million shares of Halliburton common stock over the next 30 to 36 months.
We  expect to record  an  estimated  $120  million  of  goodwill  which  will be
amortized over 20 years. PES is part of the Energy Services Group.



                               Halliburton Company
                             Selected Financial Data

We  have  restated  our  prior  year  information  for  the  merger  of  Dresser
Industries,  Inc. Beginning in 1998, we changed Dresser's year-end of October 31
to our calendar  year-end.  Periods  through  December  1997  contain  Dresser's
information  on a fiscal  year-end  basis  combined  with our  information  on a
calendar year-end basis.





                               Halliburton Company
                             Selected Financial Data

We  have  restated  our  prior  year  information  for  the  merger  of  Dresser
Industries,  Inc. Beginning in 1998, we changed Dresser's year-end of October 31
to our calendar  year-end.  Periods  through  December  1997  contain  Dresser's
information  on a fiscal  year-end  basis  combined  with our  information  on a
calendar year-end basis.








PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of Registrant.
         The  information  required  for  the  directors  of the  Registrant  is
incorporated  by reference to the  Halliburton  Company  Proxy  Statement  dated
March  23, 2000,  under  the  caption "Election of Directors."  The  information
required for the executive  officers of the  Registrant is included under Part I
on pages 9 and 10 of this annual report.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.
         This  information  is  incorporated  by  reference  to the  Halliburton
Company Proxy Statement  dated March 23, 2000, under the captions  "Compensation
Committee Report on Executive Compensation," "Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative
Total  Return,"  "Summary  Compensation  Table,"  "Option  Grants in Last Fiscal
Year,"  "Aggregated  Option  Exercises  in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal  Year-End
Option Values,"  "Retirement  Plans,"  "Employment  Contracts and Termination of
Employment and  Change-in-Control  Arrangements"  and "Directors'  Compensation,
Restricted Stock Plan and Retirement Plan."

Item 12(a). Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.
         This  information  is  incorporated  by  reference  to the  Halliburton
Company Proxy Statement dated March 23, 2000, under the caption "Stock Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management."

Item 12(b). Security Ownership of Management.
         This  information  is  incorporated  by  reference  to the  Halliburton
Company Proxy Statement dated March 23, 2000, under the caption "Stock Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management."

Item 12(c). Changes in Control.
         Not applicable.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
         This  information  is  incorporated  by  reference  to the  Halliburton
Company  Proxy  Statement  dated  March 23, 2000,  under  the  caption  "Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions."



PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a)   1.     Financial Statements:
             The report of Arthur Andersen LLP,  Independent Public Accountants,
             and the financial statements of the Company as required by Part II,
             Item 8, are included on pages 27 through 64 of this  annual report.
             See index on page 12.

      2.     Financial Statement Schedules:                            Page No.

             Report on supplemental schedule of Arthur Andersen LLP      76

             Schedule II - Valuation and qualifying accounts for the
             three years ended December 31, 1999                         77

             Note:  All  schedules  not  filed  with  this  report  required  by
             Regulation  S-X have been omitted as not applicable or not required
             or the  information  required  has been  included  in the  notes to
             financial statements.

      3.     Exhibits:

      Exhibit
      Number          Exhibits

      3.1             Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company filed
                      with  the Secretary of State of  Delaware on July 23, 1998
                      (incorporated   by  reference   to  Exhibit  3(a)  to  the
                      Company's Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q for the quarterly
                      period ended June 30, 1998).

      3.2             By-laws of the Company,  as amended and restated effective
                      September 29, 1998 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3
                      to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the
                      quarterly period ended September 30, 1998).

      4.1             Form of debt security of 8.75% Debentures due February 12,
                      2021 (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 4(a)  to  the
                      Predecessor's Form 8-K dated as of February 20, 1991).

      4.2             Senior  Indenture  dated as of January 2, 1991 between the
                      Predecessor and Texas Commerce Bank National  Association,
                      as trustee  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to
                      the Predecessor's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File
                      No.  33-38394)  originally  filed with the  Securities and
                      Exchange Commission on December 21, 1990), as supplemented
                      and amended by the First  Supplemental  Indenture dated as
                      of December  12, 1996 among the  Predecessor,  the Company
                      and the Trustee  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
                      of the Company's  Registration Statement on Form 8-B dated
                      December 12, 1996, File No. 1-03492).

      4.3             Resolutions  of  the  Predecessor's   Board  of  Directors
                      adopted at a meeting  held on February 11, 1991 and of the
                      special pricing committee of the Board of Directors of the
                      predecessor adopted at a meeting held on February 11, 1991
                      and the  special  pricing  committee's  consent in lieu of
                      meeting dated February 12, 1991 (incorporated by reference
                      to Exhibit 4(c) to the Predecessor's  Form 8-K dated as of
                      February 20, 1991).



      4.4             Form of debt security of 6.75% Notes due February 1,  2027
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
                      Form 8-K dated as of February 11, 1997).

      4.5             Second  Senior  Indenture  dated as of  December  1,  1996
                      between the  Predecessor  and Texas Commerce Bank National
                      Association,  as Trustee,  as supplemented  and amended by
                      the First  Supplemental  Indenture dated as of December 5,
                      1996  between  the  Predecessor  and the  Trustee  and the
                      Second  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of December  12,
                      1996 among the  Predecessor,  the  Company and the Trustee
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Company's
                      Registration  Statement  on Form 8-B  dated  December  12,
                      1996, File No. 1-03492).

      4.6             Third  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of August 1, 1997
                      between  the  Company  and Texas  Commerce  Bank  National
                      Association,  as Trustee,  to the Second Senior  Indenture
                      dated as of December 1, 1996 (incorporated by reference to
                      Exhibit 4.7 to the Company's  Form 10-K for the year ended
                      December 31, 1998).

      4.7             Fourth Supplemental  Indenture dated  as of  September 29,
                      1998  between  the  Company   and  Chase  Bank  of  Texas,
                      National   Association   (formerly  Texas   Commerce  Bank
                      National  Association), as  Trustee, to  the Second Senior
                      Indenture dated as  of December 1,  1996 (incorporated  by
                      reference to Exhibit  4.8 to the  Company's Form  10-K for
                      the year ended December 31, 1998).

      4.8             Resolutions of the Company's Board of Directors adopted by
                      unanimous consent  dated December 5, 1996 (incorporated by
                      reference to  Exhibit 4(g) of the  Company's Annual Report
                      on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996).

      4.9             Resolutions of the Company's Board of Directors adopted at
                      a special meeting held on September 28, 1998 (incorporated
                      by reference to Exhibit  4.10 to the  Company's  Form 10-K
                      for the year ended December 31, 1998).

      4.10            Restated  Rights  Agreement  dated  as of December 1, 1996
                      between the Company and  ChaseMellon Shareholder Services,
                      L.L.C. (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  4.4 of the
                      Company's   Registration  Statement   on  Form  8-B  dated
                      December 12, 1996, File No. 1-03492).

      4.11            Copies of instruments that define the rights of holders of
                      miscellaneous  long-term  notes  of  the  Company  and its
                      subsidiaries, totaling  $25 million  in the  aggregate at
                      December   31,  1999,   have  not  been   filed  with  the
                      Commission.  The Company agrees herewith to furnish copies
                      of such instruments upon request.

      4.12            Form  of  debt  security of  7.53%  Notes due May 12, 2017
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company's
                      Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 1997).

      4.13            Form of  debt security  of 6.27%  Notes due  July 8,  1999
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
                      Form 8-K dated as of July 8, 1997).

      4.14            Form of  debt security  of 6.30%  Notes due August 5, 2002
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
                      Form 8-K dated as of August 5, 1997).

      4.15            Form of debt security of  5.63% Notes due December 1, 2008
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
                      Form 8-K dated as of November 24, 1998).



      4.16            Form  of  Indenture,   between  Dresser  Industries,  Inc.
                      ("Dresser")  and  NationsBank of Texas,  N.A., as Trustee,
                      for  unsecured  debentures,  notes and other  evidences of
                      indebtedness  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
                      Dresser's Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration
                      No. 33-59562).

      4.17            Form of Indenture,  between Baroid  Corporation  and Texas
                      Commerce Bank  National  Association,  as trustee,  for 8%
                      Senior  Notes  due  2003  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                      Exhibit  4.01 to the  Registration  Statement on Form S-3,
                      Registration No. 33-60174), as supplemented and amended by
                      Form of Supplemental  Indenture,  between Dresser,  Baroid
                      Corporation  and Texas Commerce Bank N.A. as Trustee,  for
                      8%  Guaranteed  Senior  Notes  due 2003  (incorporated  by
                      reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Registration Statement on Form
                      S-4  filed  by  Baroid   Corporation,   Registration   No.
                      33-53077).

      4.18            Second  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  October  30,  1997
                      between   Dresser  and  Texas   Commerce   Bank   National
                      Association,  as  Trustee,  for 8%  Senior  Notes due 2003
                      (incorporated   by   reference  to  Exhibit  4.19  to  the
                      Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998).

      4.19            Third  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  September  29, 1998
                      between Dresser, the Company, as Guarantor, and Chase Bank
                      of Texas, National Association,  as Trustee, for 8% Senior
                      Notes due 2003  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.20
                      to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                      1998).

      4.20            Form of Indenture, between Dresser and Texas Commerce Bank
                      National Association, as Trustee, for 7.60% Debentures due
                      2096  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4 to  the
                      Registration   Statement   on   Form   S-3   as   amended,
                      Registration No.  333-01303),  as supplemented and amended
                      by Form of  Supplemental  Indenture,  between  Dresser and
                      Texas  Commerce Bank National  Association,  Trustee,  for
                      7.60%  Debentures due 2096  (incorporated  by reference to
                      Exhibit  4.1 to  Dresser's  Form 8-K  filed on  August  9,
                      1996).

      10.1            Halliburton Company Career Executive Incentive  Stock Plan
                      as amended November 15, 1990 (incorporated by reference to
                      Exhibit 10(a) to  the Predecessor's Annual Report on  Form
                      10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992).

      10.2            Retirement Plan  for the  Directors of Halliburton Company
                      adopted and  effective January  1, 1990  (incorporated  by
                      reference  to Exhibit  10(c)  to the  Predecessor's Annual
                      Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992).

      10.3            Halliburton Company  Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan
                      as   amended   and   restated   effective  May   1,   1994
                      (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10(c)   to  the
                      Company's  Annual Report on  Form 10-K for  the year ended
                      December 31, 1996).

      10.4            Halliburton  Company  1993 Stock and  Long-Term  Incentive
                      Plan,   as  amended  and   restated   February   19,  1998
                      (incorporated   by   reference  to  Exhibit  10.4  to  the
                      Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998).

      10.5            Halliburton Company Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee
                      Directors (incorporated by reference to Appendix B  of the
                      Predecessor's proxy statement dated March 23, 1993).

      10.6            Halliburton Company Elective Deferral Plan, as amended and
                      restated effective June 1, 1999 (incorporated by reference
                      to Exhibit 10 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly
                      period ended June 30, 1999).



      10.7            Employment agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10 to the Predecessor's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period
                      ended September 30, 1995).

      10.8            Halliburton   Company    Senior    Executives'    Deferred
                      Compensation  Plan,  as  amended  and  restated  effective
                      January 1, 1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8
                      to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                      1998).

      10.9            Halliburton  Company   Annual  Performance  Pay  Plan,  as
                      amended   and   restated   effective   January   1,   1997
                      (incorporated  by  reference   to  Exhibit  10(k)  to  the
                      Company's Annual  Report on Form  10-K for the  year ended
                      December 31, 1996).

      10.10           Employment agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10(n) to  the Predecessor's  Form 10-K  for the year ended
                      December 31, 1995).

      10.11           Employment  agreement and amendment thereto  (incorporated
                      by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the  Company's  Quarterly
                      Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarterly  period  ended
                      September 30, 1998).

  *   10.12           Supplement to executive employment agreement.

      10.13           Employment  agreement and amendment thereto  (incorporated
                      by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the  Company's  Quarterly
                      Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarterly  period  ended
                      September 30, 1998).

      10.14           Employment agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10.16 to  the  Company's  Form  10-K  for  the  year ended
                      December 31, 1998).

      10.15           Employment agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      10.19 to  the  Company's  Form  10-K  for  the  year ended
                      December 31, 1998).

      10.16           Dresser   Industries,  Inc.   Deferred  Compensation  Plan
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Dresser's Proxy
                      Statement  dated  February  11,  1966,  filed  pursuant to
                      Regulation 14A, File No. 1-4003).

      10.17           Dresser   Industries,   Inc.   1982   Stock  Option   Plan
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Dresser's Proxy
                      Statement  dated  February  12,  1982,  filed  pursuant to
                      Regulation 14A, File No. 1-4003).

      10.18           ERISA Excess  Benefit Plan for Dresser Industries, Inc. as
                      amended and  restated effective June 1, 1995 (incorporated
                      by reference  to Exhibit  10.7 to  Dresser's Form 10-K for
                      the year ended October 31, 1995).

      10.19           ERISA   Compensation   Limit   Benefit  Plan  for  Dresser
                      Industries,  Inc., as amended and restated  effective June
                      1, 1995  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.8 to
                      Dresser's Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 1995).

      10.20           Supplemental   Executive   Retirement   Plan   of  Dresser
                      Industries,  Inc.,  as  amended   and  restated  effective
                      January 1, 1998 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9
                      to Dresser's  Form 10-K  for the  period ended October 31,
                      1997).



      10.21           Stock  Based   Compensation  Arrangement  of  Non-Employee
                      Directors  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  4.4 to
                      Dresser's Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration
                      No. 333-40829).

      10.22           Dresser Industries,  Inc. Deferred  Compensation  Plan for
                      Non-employee   Directors,   as    restated   and   amended
                      effective  November 1, 1997  (incorporated by reference to
                      Exhibit  4.5  to   Dresser's  Registration   Statement  on
                      Form S-8, Registration No. 333-40829).

      10.23           Dresser Industries,  Inc. 1989  Restricted Incentive Stock
                      Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit  A to Dresser's
                      Proxy Statement dated February 10, 1989, filed pursuant to
                      Regulation 14A, File No. 1-4003).

      10.24           Long-Term  Performance Plan for  Selected Employees of The
                      M.  W.  Kellogg  Company  (incorporated  by  reference  to
                      Exhibit  10(r) to Dresser's  Form 10-K for  the year ended
                      October 31, 1991).

      10.25           Dresser  Industries,  Inc.  1992 Stock  Compensation  Plan
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Dresser's Proxy
                      Statement  dated  February  7,  1992,  filed  pursuant  to
                      Regulation 14A, File No. 1-4003).

      10.26           Amendments  No. 1 and 2 to Dresser  Industries,  Inc. 1992
                      Stock  Compensation  Plan  (incorporated  by  reference to
                      Exhibit A to Dresser's  Proxy  Statement dated February 6,
                      1995, filed pursuant to Regulation 14A, File No.
                      1-4003).

      10.27           Dresser   Industries,   Inc.   1995  Executive   Incentive
                      Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit B
                      to Dresser's Proxy Statement dated February 6, 1995, filed
                      pursuant to Regulation 14A, File No. 1-4003).

      10.28           Special    1997    Restricted   Incentive    Stock   Grant
                      (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 10.26 to Dresser's
                      Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 1996).

      10.29           Form of Executive  Life Insurance Agreement (individual as
                      beneficiary) (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit 10.22
                      to  Dresser's Form  10-K for the  period ended October 31,
                      1997).

      10.30           Form  of  Executive  Life  Insurance  Agreement  (trust as
                      beneficiary) (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit 10.23
                      to Dresser's Form  10-K for  the period  ended October 31,
                      1997).

      10.31           Amendment No. 3 to the Dresser Industries, Inc. 1992 Stock
                      Compensation Plan  (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit
                      10.25 to Dresser's Form 10-K for the period ended  October
                      31, 1997).

      10.32           The  Dresser  Industries, Inc.  1998  Executive  Incentive
                      Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit B
                      to Dresser's  Proxy Statement  dated  February  10,  1998,
                      filed pursuant to Regulation 14A, File No. 1-4003).

      10.33           Form of  Waiver of Rights  Under the  Dresser  Industries,
                      Inc. Long-Term  Incentive and Retention Plan (incorporated
                      by reference  to Exhibit  10.5 to Dresser's  Form 10-Q for
                      the period ended January 31, 1998).

      10.34           Amendment No. 1 to  the Supplemental Executive  Retirement
                      Plan  of  Dresser   Industries,  Inc.   (incorporated   by
                      reference to Exhibit  10.1 to Dresser's  Form 10-Q for the
                      period ended April 30, 1998).



  *   21              Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

  *   23.1            Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

  *   23.2            Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

      24.1            Powers of attorney for the  following directors  signed in
                      February, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 24 to
                      our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
                      31, 1996):

                      Anne L. Armstrong
                      Richard B. Cheney
                      Lord Clitheroe
                      Robert L. Crandall
                      W. R. Howell
                      C. J. Silas
                      Richard J. Stegemeier

      24.2            Power of  attorney signed in December, 1997 for Charles J.
                      DiBona (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 24(b) to our
                      annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                      1997).

      24.3            Powers of  attorney for the  following directors signed in
                      October, 1998  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 24.3
                      to  our annual  report  on  Form  10-K for  the year ended
                      December 31, 1998):

                      Lawrence S. Eagleburger
                      Ray L. Hunt
                      J. Landis Martin
                      Jay A. Precourt

  *   27              Financial   data   schedule  for   the  Registrant  (filed
                      electronically) for  the twelve months  ended December 31,
                      1999.

  *   99.1            Report of independent  accountants, PricewaterhouseCoopers
                      LLP.



  (b) Reports on Form 8-K:







REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS ON SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE



To Halliburton Company:

         We  have  audited  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards, the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K, and
have issued  our report  thereon dated  January 27, 2000 (except with respect to
the matters discussed  in Note  18, as to which  the date is February 16, 2000).
Our  audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those  statements
taken as a whole. The supplemental schedule (Schedule II) is the  responsibility
of Halliburton Company's management and is presented for purposes  of  complying
with the Securities and  Exchange Commission's  rules  and is  not  part  of the
basic financial statements.  This schedule has been subjected  to  the  auditing
procedures  applied in the audits of the basic financial  statements and, in our
opinion,  fairly states in all material  respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic  financial  statements  taken as a
whole.







                                                 /s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
                                                 ------------------------
                                                     ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


Dallas, Texas,
     January 27, 2000 (Except with respect to the  matters discussed in Note 18,
     as to which the date is February 16, 2000.)




                               HALLIBURTON COMPANY
                 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                              (Millions of Dollars)






SIGNATURES

As required by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant  has  authorized  this  report  to be  signed  on its  behalf  by the
undersigned authorized individuals, on this 13th day of March, 2000.

                                            HALLIBURTON COMPANY




                                            By  /s/  Richard B. Cheney
                                                --------------------------
                                                     Richard B. Cheney
                                                 Chairman of the Board and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer


As required by the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by  the following persons  in the capacities indicated on this 13th day of
March, 2000.

Signature                                   Title
- ---------                                   -----

  /s/  Richard B. Cheney                    Chairman of the Board and
- --------------------------------            Chief Executive Officer
       Richard B. Cheney



  /s/  Gary V. Morris                       Executive Vice President and
- --------------------------------            Chief Financial Officer
       Gary V. Morris



  /s/  R. Charles Muchmore, Jr.             Vice President and Controller and
- --------------------------------            Principal Accounting officer
       R. Charles Muchmore, Jr.



Signature                                         Title
- ---------                                         -----

* ANNE L. ARMSTRONG                               Director
- ---------------------------------------
Anne L. Armstrong

* LORD CLITHEROE                                  Director
- ---------------------------------------
Lord Clitheroe

*ROBERT L. CRANDALL                               Director
- ---------------------------------------
Robert L. Crandall

* CHARLES J. DIBONA                               Director
- ---------------------------------------
Charles J. DiBona

* LAWRENCE S. EAGLEBURGER                         Director
- ---------------------------------------
Lawrence S. Eagleburger

* W. R. HOWELL                                    Director
- ---------------------------------------
W. R. Howell

* RAY L. HUNT                                     Director
- ---------------------------------------
Ray L. Hunt

* J. LANDIS MARTIN                                Director
- ---------------------------------------
J. Landis Martin

* JAY A. PRECOURT                                 Director
- ---------------------------------------
Jay A. Precourt

* C. J. SILAS                                     Director
- ---------------------------------------
C. J. Silas

* RICHARD J. STEGEMEIER                           Director
- ---------------------------------------
Richard J. Stegemeier




* /s/  SUSAN S. KEITH
- ---------------------------------------
       Susan S. Keith, Attorney-in-fact


