
10-K
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    FORM 10-K
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Mark One)

/X/  ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

                     For the fiscal year ended May 30, 1999

/ /  TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO  SECTION  13 OR  15(d)  OF THE  SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

     For the transition period from __________________ to _________________

                       Commission File Number 1-13666

                            DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                 Florida                                  59-3305930
     (State or other jurisdiction of        (IRS Employer Identification Number)
      incorporation or organization)

        5900 Lake Ellenor Drive                              32809
           Orlando, Florida                                (Zip Code)
(Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (407) 245-4000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                    Name of each exchange
           Title of each class                       On which registered
     Common stock, without par value               New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act: None

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  Registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  X     No
                                                -----      -----

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by Reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

     Aggregate  market  value of  Common  Stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant,  based on the closing  price of $21.125 per share as reported on the
New York Stock Exchange on July 26, 1999: $2,708 million.

     Number  of  shares  of  Common  Stock  outstanding  as of  July  26,  1999:
132,717,134 (excluding 32,625,961 shares held in the treasury).

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions  of  Registrant's  Proxy  Statement  dated  August  10,  1999  are
incorporated  by  reference  into Part III, and  portions of  Registrant's  1999
Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and
IV.






                                     PART I

Item 1.  BUSINESS OF DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.

Introduction

     Darden  Restaurants,  Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Darden")
is the world's  largest  full-service  restaurant  organization.*  In the United
States,  as of May 30, 1999,  it operated  1,106  restaurants  in 49 states (the
exception being Alaska),  including 635 Red Lobster(R), 459 Olive Garden(R), six
Olive Garden  Cafe(R) and six Bahama  Breeze(R)  restaurants.  In addition,  the
Company  operated 39 restaurants  in Canada,  including 34 Red Lobster units and
five  Olive  Garden  units.   All  of  its  restaurants  in  North  America  are
Company-operated.  In Japan, as of May 30, 1999, Red Lobster Japan  Partners,  a
Japanese retailer unaffiliated with Darden,  operated 38 Red Lobster restaurants
pursuant to an Area Development and Franchise Agreement.

     The Company,  a Florida  corporation  incorporated in March of 1995, is the
parent company of GMRI,  Inc., a Florida  corporation  ("GMRI").  GMRI and other
Darden  subsidiaries  own the  operating  assets  of the  restaurants.  GMRI was
originally incorporated on March 27, 1968, as Red Lobster Inns of America, Inc.

     The Company's principal executive offices and restaurant support center are
located at 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive,  Orlando,  Florida 32809  (telephone  number
(407)  245-4000).  Unless the context  indicates  otherwise,  all  references to
Darden or the Company include Darden, GMRI and their respective subsidiaries.

Background

     The  Company  opened its first  restaurant,  a Red  Lobster,  in  Lakeland,
Florida in January of 1968.  Red Lobster was founded by William B.  Darden,  for
whom the  Company is named.  The Company was  acquired  by General  Mills,  Inc.
("General  Mills") in 1970. In May of 1995,  the Company  became an  independent
publicly  held company when General Mills  distributed  all  outstanding  Darden
stock to General Mills stockholders (the "Distribution").

     While the  expansion of the  Company's  two largest  restaurant  chains has
historically  been steady,  the number of  restaurants  for both Red Lobster and
Olive Garden has  declined in recent  years due to an increased  focus on market
optimization  and the closing of  under-performing  units. Red Lobster has grown
from three restaurants in operation in 1970 to 669 units in North America by the
end of fiscal year 1999. Olive Garden, an internally  developed concept,  opened
its first restaurant in December of 1982, and expanded to 459 restaurants in the
United  States and five  restaurants  in Canada by the end of fiscal  year 1999.
Additionally, at the end of fiscal year 1999, Olive Garden operated six cafes in
food courts located in regional shopping malls within the United States.

     The Company's  newest  restaurant  concept is Bahama Breeze,  an internally
developed  concept with a Caribbean theme. At the end of fiscal year 1999, there
were six  Bahama  Breeze  restaurants.  They are  located in  Orlando,  Florida;
Altamonte Springs, Florida; Memphis,  Tennessee;  Tampa, Florida; Raleigh, North
Carolina; and Atlanta, Georgia.

Strategy

     The  Company is a leader in the  casual-dining  segment  of the  restaurant
industry and is committed to the following key strategies.

     o Developing and operating distinctive  restaurant concepts,  each with its
own culture,  operating  practices,  physical  environment,  menu and  marketing
approach.

     o Expanding its current  portfolio of restaurant  concepts,  and internally
developing or acquiring additional concepts which can be expanded profitably.


- ------------------------
*    Source:  Nation's  Restaurant  News,  "Top  100," June 28,  1999  (based on
     numbers of company-owned restaurants).




     o Attracting, developing and retaining experienced management and personnel
committed to providing customer satisfaction and business results.

     o  Achieving  operating   efficiencies  by  sharing  support  services  and
infrastructure among its restaurant concepts.

     o  Maintaining   consumer   awareness  through   advertising  and  consumer
promotions.

     The following table lists the number of restaurants and total sales by year
of the Red Lobster,  Olive  Garden and Bahama  Breeze  concepts.  The table also
includes information about the now closed China Coast concept, as its operations
are reflected in the Company's  Five Year  Financial  Summary (see Part II, Item
6).

              Company-Operated Restaurants Open at Fiscal Year-End


- ------------------------
(a)  These  numbers do not include the six Olive Garden Cafes in operation as of
     May 30, 1999.
(b)  In August  1995,  the  Company  approved  the  closing  of all China  Coast
     restaurants.




Industry Overview

     In the United States, the restaurant industry generates  approximately $242
billion in annual sales,  or roughly 36% of total  consumer food  expenditures.*
Expenditures for restaurant  dining and other meals prepared away from home have
increased  from 25% of the food dollar in 1955 to 44% in 1999.* Over the past 20
years,  restaurant  sales  have  grown  at an  annual  rate  that  is one to two
percentage points faster than the growth of food-at-home  sales.* The restaurant
industry is highly  fragmented and is characterized by the presence of thousands
of independent  operators and small chains. While chain restaurants dominate the
fast-food  segment with a combined  market share of 61%, chains account for just
22% in the full-service segment.* The Company believes that capable operators of
strong  multi-unit  concepts  will  continue  to  increase  their  share  of the
full-service restaurant market.

     Casual dining is the fastest growing segment of the full-service restaurant
market, with sales increasing at a 6.5% annual compound growth rate since 1992.*
Today,  casual dining  represents 37% of full-service  restaurant  sales, or $41
billion.* Darden is a leader in the casual-dining segment, with approximately an
eight percent market share.*  Management  believes that  casual-dining  concepts
will  benefit  from  favorable  demographic  trends,  most  notably the maturing
population.   Forty  to  sixty  year  olds  are  the  most  frequent   users  of
casual-dining restaurants,  and through this decade and the next, the population
aged forty-five or older is projected to increase by  approximately  34 million.
In addition,  "baby-boomers" (i.e.,  thirty-four to fifty-two year olds) tend to
eat out more than generations  before them, so, as they age, their casual dining
frequency may become even higher. Finally, this group includes a high proportion
of two-income families, which the Company believes could increase the demand for
food-away-from-home  due to a combination of more discretionary  income and less
discretionary time.

     Restaurants face growing competition from the supermarket industry which is
offering  improved entrees and side dishes from the deli section.  Supermarkets'
renewed emphasis on such "convenient meals" may have the most impact on segments
of the restaurant industry in which the meals fulfill a primarily  physiological
objective,  such as in the "quick serve" and "midscale" segments.  Casual dining
offers a more  significant  social  component  with the meal, a feature that the
supermarkets' "convenient meals" do not readily confer.

Restaurant Concepts

Red Lobster

     Red Lobster is the largest full-service, seafood-specialty restaurant group
in the United States. It offers an extensive menu featuring fresh fish,  shrimp,
crab,  lobster,  scallops,  and other seafood in a casual  atmosphere.  The menu
includes a variety of specialty seafood and non-seafood appetizers and desserts.
For the eleventh  consecutive  year, Red Lobster was named Best Seafood Chain in
America  in the  1999  America's  Choice  In  Chains  national  consumer  survey
published in the March 1, 1999 issue of Restaurants & Institutions magazine.

     Dinner  entree  prices  range  from  $6.99 to  $18.99,  with fresh fish and
certain lobster items available at market price.  Lunch entree prices range from
$4.99 to $7.99.  During  fiscal  year  1999,  the  average  check per person was
between $14.00 and $15.00, with alcoholic beverages accounting for approximately
eight percent of sales. Red Lobster also offers a lower-priced  children's menu.
The Company maintains  approximately  100 different menus to reflect  geographic
differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections in its trade areas.

     Fiscal  1999  was a year of  consistent  profitable  sales  growth  for Red
Lobster. As of the close of fiscal 1999, Red Lobster had enjoyed six consecutive
quarters of same-restaurant sales increases. For the year, same-restaurant sales
at Red Lobster increased 7.4 percent.

- ------------------------
*    Sources:  United  States  Department  of  Commerce  Census of Retail  Trade
     (1997); National Restaurant Association Annual Foodservice Forecast (1998);
     and CREST Annual Household Summary (1998).




Olive Garden

     Olive Garden is the market share leader in the Italian casual, full-service
dining segment in North America with 18% of the  full-service  Italian  category
and 35% of total casual  dining  Italian  sales at the end of fiscal year 1998.*
Olive Garden's focus on Hospitaliano!, which the Company defines as "Our Passion
for 100% Guest Delight",  has  contributed to its best-ever  guest  satisfaction
feedback and 19 consecutive  quarters of same-restaurant  sales growth as of the
close of fiscal year 1999.

     Olive  Garden's  menu  includes  a  variety  of  authentic  Italian  foods,
featuring fresh ingredients,  and an expanded wine list with imported wines from
Italy.  The menu  includes  antipasti  (appetizers);  soups,  salad  and  garlic
breadsticks;  baked pastas; sauteed specialties with chicken,  seafood and fresh
vegetables;  grilled  meats;  and a variety of desserts.  Olive Garden also uses
imported coffee from Italy for its espresso and cappuccino.

     Dinner  entree  prices  range from $6.95 to $16.95,  and most lunch  entree
prices range from $4.75 to $7.95. The price of each entree also includes as much
fresh salad or soup as a guest  desires.  During  fiscal year 1999,  the average
check per person was $11.50 to $12.50, with alcoholic  beverages  accounting for
slightly more than eight percent of sales.

     Olive  Garden  considers  itself a family of local  restaurants  focused on
delighting every guest with an authentic Italian dining experience. Olive Garden
places  importance  on  high  standards,  mutual  respect,  training  and  brand
building.  Its annual investment in front-line  training has increased five-fold
in the past  four  years.  Olive  Garden  strives  to apply  the  spirit  of its
advertising campaign,  "When You're Here, You're Family," to both its guests and
employees.   RevItalia(TM),   a  major   revitalization  of  each  Olive  Garden
restaurant,  is  expected  to take  place  over the next  several  years  and is
designed to provide the environment for an authentic  Italian dining  experience
for both guests and employees.  The Company  believes that  investments  such as
these have contributed to Olive Garden's success and continued  profitable sales
growth.

     Same-restaurant  sales at Olive Garden  increased 9.0 percent during fiscal
year 1999. As previously noted, Olive Garden has had 19 consecutive  quarters of
same-restaurant sales increases.

Expansion Strategy

     During fiscal year 1999,  the Company  opened five  restaurants  (excluding
pre-existing   restaurants   relocated  to  other  sites).   It  plans  to  open
approximately  16 new Red Lobster,  Olive Garden and Bahama  Breeze  restaurants
during  fiscal  year  2000  (excluding  relocations).  The  Company's  new store
openings by concept are shown below.

                                            Actual             Projected
                                          Fiscal 1999          Fiscal 2000
                                          -----------          -----------
     Red Lobster.......................        2                     5
     Olive Garden......................        0                     5
     Bahama Breeze.....................        3                     6
                                             ---                   ---

          Totals.......................        5                    16
                                             ===                   ===

     The Company's  objective is to continue to expand its current  portfolio of
restaurant  concepts,  and to develop internally or acquire additional  concepts
which can be expanded.  It is currently testing new ideas and concepts,  as well
as  expanding  its  testing  of  Bahama  Breeze in light of  favorable  consumer
response.  The Company also regularly evaluates potential acquisition candidates
to assess  whether they would  satisfy the  Company's  strategic  and  financial
objectives.   At  present,   the  Company  has  not   identified   any  specific
acquisitions.

     The Company  will  continue to focus on  improving  operational  returns at
Olive  Garden  and Red  Lobster,  and  limit  new  restaurant  expansion  to the
highest-potential  sites. In addition, the Company plans to expand Bahama Breeze
at a pace that will enable each new  restaurant  to capture the  concept's  full
potential.  The  specific  number of openings  will also depend upon a number of
factors,  including the Company's ability to locate appropriate sites,

- ------------------------
*    Sources:  United States Department of Commerce Census of Retail Trade (Dec.
     1997 - Nov.  1998);  Nation's  Restaurant  News (June 22, 1998);  and CREST
     Annual Household Summary (1998).




negotiate   acceptable   purchase  or  lease  terms,   obtain   necessary  local
governmental permits,  complete  construction,  and recruit and train restaurant
management and hourly personnel.

     Darden  considers  location  to  be a  critical  factor  in  determining  a
restaurant's  long-term success,  and the Company devotes  significant effort to
the site  selection  process for new  locations.  Prior to entering a market,  a
thorough  study is conducted to determine  the optimal  number and  placement of
restaurants.  The  Company's  site  selection  process  utilizes  a  variety  of
analytical  techniques to evaluate a number of important factors.  These factors
include trade area demographics, such as target population density and household
income levels;  competitive influences in the trade area; the site's visibility,
accessibility,  and traffic  volume;  and proximity to activity  centers such as
shopping malls,  hotel/motel  complexes,  offices and  universities.  Members of
senior  management  evaluate,  inspect and approve each restaurant site prior to
its  acquisition.  After site  acquisition and receipt of permits,  it typically
takes 120 to 180 days to construct and open a new restaurant.

     The following table illustrates the approximate  capital  investment,  size
and dining capacity of the two Red Lobster  openings  (excluding  relocations of
existing restaurants) that occurred during fiscal year 1999.

                                  Capital       Square     Dining     Dining
                                 Investment      Feet      Seats      Tables
                                 ----------     ------     ------     ------

     Red Lobster.............    $2,722,000      6,370      194          50

Red Lobster plans to open five new restaurants  during fiscal year 2000, but the
actual number of openings may vary due to factors previously discussed.

     Olive Garden did not open new  restaurants  during fiscal 1999. The Company
has  developed  a  new  "Tuscan  Farmhouse"  design  with  a  building  size  of
approximately 8,100 square feet and seating for approximately 250 people.  Olive
Garden plans to open up to five new restaurants during fiscal year 2000, but the
actual number of openings may vary.

     Bahama Breeze opened three restaurants in fiscal 1999. The Company plans to
open at least six additional Bahama Breeze  restaurants during fiscal year 2000,
but the  actual  number  of  openings  may  vary due to the  factors  previously
discussed.

     The Company  systematically reviews the performance of its restaurant sites
to ensure that each unit meets its  standards.  When a unit falls below  minimum
standards,  a thorough  analysis is  completed  to  determine  the  causes,  and
marketing  and  operational   plans  are  implemented  to  improve  that  unit's
performance.  If performance does not improve to acceptable  levels, the site is
evaluated for  relocation,  closing or conversion to one of the Company's  other
concepts.

     In  fiscal  year  1999,  the  Company  permanently  closed  15 Red  Lobster
restaurants  in the United States.  One  additional  Red Lobster  restaurant was
closed in the United States during fiscal 1999, but is scheduled to relocate and
re-open in fiscal year 2000.  During the same period,  Olive Garden  permanently
closed two  restaurants  in the United  States.  No  restaurants  were closed in
Canada during fiscal 1999.

     During fiscal 1999, Red Lobster  relocated  three  restaurants  and rebuilt
another  restaurant  that had been  temporarily  closed  in fiscal  1998.  These
actions  repositioned older Red Lobster restaurants to better locations and more
contemporary buildings. These restaurants are not included in the numbers of new
restaurant openings or permanent closings described above.

     For a discussion of restructuring  and asset  impairment  expense or credit
related  to  restaurant  closings,  see  Management's  Discussion  of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition and Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements on pages 22 and 34, respectively, of the Company's 1999 Annual Report
to Stockholders.




Restaurant Operations

     The Company believes that high-quality restaurant management is critical to
its long-term  success.  It also believes that its leadership  position,  strong
success-oriented   culture  and  various  short-term  and  long-term   incentive
programs,  including  stock  options,  help attract and retain  highly-motivated
restaurant  managers committed to providing  superior customer  satisfaction and
outstanding business results.

     The  Company's  restaurant  management  structure  varies  by  concept  and
restaurant  size.  Each  restaurant is led by a general  manager and one to four
additional  managers,  depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of
the  restaurant.  Each restaurant  also employs  approximately  65 to 140 hourly
employees,  most of whom work part-time.  The Company issues detailed operations
manuals  covering  all  aspects  of  restaurant  operations  as well as food and
beverage  manuals  which  detail the  preparation  procedures  of the  Company's
formulated  recipes.  The restaurant  management  teams are  responsible for the
day-to-day  operation of each  restaurant and for ensuring  compliance  with the
Company's operating  standards.  Restaurant general managers report to directors
at Red Lobster and Olive Garden,  and each director is responsible  for seven to
14 restaurants.  Restaurants are visited  regularly by all levels of supervision
to ensure strict adherence to all aspects of the Company's standards.

     Each concept's vice president or director of training, together with senior
operations  executives,  is  responsible  for developing  and  maintaining  that
concept's  operational training programs.  These efforts include a 12-to-15 week
training program for management  trainees,  and continuing  development programs
for  managers,  supervisors  and  directors.  The  emphasis of the  training and
development  programs  varies by restaurant  concept,  but includes  leadership,
restaurant  business management and culinary skills. The Company also utilizes a
highly structured  training program to open new restaurants,  including training
teams consisting of groups of employees experienced in all aspects of restaurant
operations. The opening training teams typically begin on-site training one week
prior to opening and remain on location one week following the opening. They are
phased out when  appropriate to ensure a smooth  transition to the  restaurant's
operating staff.

Quality Assurance

     The  Company's   Quality   Assurance   Department  helps  ensure  that  all
restaurants provide  high-quality food products in a clean and safe environment.
Through rigorous physical  evaluation and testing,  the Company ensures that all
seafood purchased meets or exceeds its  specifications.  Since 1976, the Company
has  maintained  a  microbiological  laboratory  to  routinely  test seafood and
commodity  products for quality.  In addition,  quality assurance managers visit
each restaurant periodically throughout the year to ensure that food is properly
handled,  and to provide  education and training in food safety and  sanitation.
The quality assurance managers also serve as a liaison to regulatory agencies on
issues  relating  to food  safety.  The  Company  uses  independent  third party
auditors to inspect and evaluate  vendors of commodity  food  products.  In this
manner,  the  Company  can  ensure  that  its  suppliers  are  maintaining  good
manufacturing  practices  and are  operating  with  the  comprehensive  industry
standard Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points programs in place.

Purchasing and Distribution

     The Company's  ability to ensure a consistent  supply of high-quality  food
and supplies at  competitive  prices to all of its restaurant  concepts  depends
upon procurement from reliable sources.  The Company's purchasing staff sources,
negotiates  and buys food and  supplies  from more than  1,400  suppliers  in 44
countries. To ensure the quality of all food products, suppliers are required to
meet strict quality control  standards in the  development,  harvest,  catch and
production of food products. Competitive bids, long-term contracts and long-term
vendor  relationships are routinely used to ensure  availability of products and
stability of costs.

     The  Company  believes  that  its  seafood  purchasing  capabilities  are a
significant  competitive  advantage.  The Company's  purchasing  staff routinely
travels  within  the  United  States  and  internationally  to  source  over 100
varieties of top-quality  seafood at competitive  prices.  The Company  believes
that it has  established  excellent  long-term  relationships  with key  seafood
vendors,  and sources  product  directly  from the vendors  when  possible.  The
Company operates a procurement  office in Singapore to source products  directly
from Asia. While the supply of certain seafood species is volatile,  the Company
believes that it has  demonstrated the ability to identify  alternative  seafood
products and to adjust its menus as required.  All other essential food products
are  available,  or can be made available  upon short notice,  from  alternative
qualified suppliers. Because of the relatively rapid turnover of perishable food
products, inventories in the restaurants have a modest aggregate dollar value in
relation  to  revenues.




Controlled  inventories of specified products are distributed to all restaurants
through a national  distribution  company.  See Note 2 of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements  on  page  33 of  the  Company's  1999  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders.

Advertising and Marketing

     The  Company  believes  that it has  developed  significant  marketing  and
advertising  capabilities.  The  Company's  size  enables it to be the  dominant
advertiser in the full-service segment of the restaurant  industry.  The Company
leverages  the  efficiency  of  national  network  television   advertising  and
supplements  it  with  local  market  television   advertising.   The  Company's
restaurants  appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers and it uses advertising and
product  promotions  to  attract  customers.  The  Company  implements  periodic
promotions  as  appropriate  to maintain and increase its sales and profits.  It
also relies on radio and newspaper advertising,  as well as newspaper and direct
mail  couponing  programs to attract  customers.  The Company has  developed and
consistently  utilizes  sophisticated  consumer marketing research techniques to
monitor customer satisfaction and customers' evolving expectations.

Employees

     At the end of fiscal year 1999, the Company employed  approximately 116,700
persons.  Of  these  employees,  1,054  were  corporate  personnel,  5,058  were
restaurant  management  personnel,  and the  remainder  were  hourly  restaurant
personnel. Of the 1,054 corporate employees, 584 were in management and 470 were
administrative or office employees. The operating executives of the Company have
an average of more than 16 years of experience with the Company.  The restaurant
general  managers  average  more than ten years with the  Company.  The  Company
believes  that it provides  working  conditions  and  compensation  that compare
favorably with those of its competition.  Most employees,  other than restaurant
management and corporate  management,  are paid on an hourly basis.  None of the
Company's  employees  are  covered by a  collective  bargaining  agreement.  The
Company considers its employee relations to be good.

Management Information Systems

     The Company strives for leadership in the restaurant  business by utilizing
technology  as a competitive  advantage.  Since 1975,  computers  located in the
restaurants have been used to assist in the management of the  restaurants.  The
Company has implemented  systems targeted at improved  financial  control,  cost
management,   enhanced  guest  service  and  improved  employee   effectiveness.
Management  information  systems  are  designed  to be  used  across  restaurant
concepts,  yet are  flexible  enough to meet the unique  needs of each  specific
restaurant concept.

     Restaurant  support  is  provided  from the  restaurant  support  center in
Orlando,  Florida,  seven days a week, 24 hours a day. A communications  network
sends and  receives  critical  business  data to and from the  restaurants  each
night,  providing  timely and  extensive  information  each  morning on business
activity in every location.  The restaurant  support center houses the Company's
data center,  which contains  sufficient  computing power to process information
from all  restaurants  quickly and  efficiently.  The Company's  information  is
processed  in a secured  environment  to protect  both the  actual  data and the
physical assets. The Company guards against business interruption by maintaining
a disaster recovery plan, which includes storing critical  business  information
off-site  and testing the disaster  recovery  plan at a hot-site  facility.  The
Company uses internally  developed  proprietary  software,  as well as purchased
software, with proven, non-proprietary hardware. This allows processing power in
terms of hardware  and  software to be  distributed  effectively  to each of the
Company's restaurant locations.

     The Company's  management  believes these systems have well  positioned the
Company  to  support  current  needs as well as future  growth.  The  Company is
committed to maintaining an industry  leadership position in information systems
and computing  technology.  The Company utilizes a strategic information systems
plan that is prepared  internally and reviewed with senior management.  The plan
is a result of projects approved by the Executive  Information  Systems Steering
Committee.  This  plan  prioritizes  information  systems  projects  based  upon
strategic, financial, regulatory and other business advantage criteria.

     The  Company  has  committed  the  resources  necessary  to ensure that its
critical information systems and technology are "Year 2000 compliant" in advance
of the next millennium.  "Year 2000 compliant" refers to information systems and
technology  that  accurately  process  date/time  data  (including  calculating,
comparing and




sequencing) from, into and between the twentieth and twenty-first centuries and,
in particular, the years 1999 and 2000. As of May 30, 1999, virtually all of the
Company's  systems  either have been modified to be Year 2000  compliant or have
been eliminated due to changes in business  requirements.  The total cost to the
Company of  achieving  Year 2000  compliant  systems is not  expected  to have a
material impact on the Company's  financial  condition or results of operations.
For additional  discussion of the Year 2000 issue,  see the subsection  entitled
"Impact of Year 2000" in  Management's  Discussion of Results of Operations  and
Financial Condition on page 24 of the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders.

Competition

     The  restaurant  industry is  intensely  competitive  with  respect to food
quality,  price,  service,  restaurant location,  concept, the attractiveness of
facilities,  and the  effectiveness of advertising and marketing  programs.  The
restaurant  business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes;  national,
regional or local economic conditions; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the
type, number and location of competing restaurants; and consumers' discretionary
purchasing  power.  The Company  competes  within each market with  national and
regional chains as well as locally-owned restaurants, not only for customers but
also for  management  and hourly  personnel  and  suitable  real  estate  sites.
Restaurants  face growing  competition from the supermarket  industry,  which is
offering "convenient meals" in the form of improved entrees and side dishes from
the deli section.  The Company expects intense competition to continue in all of
these areas.

     Other  factors  pertaining  to the  Company's  competitive  position in the
industry  are   addressed   under  the   sections   entitled   "Purchasing   and
Distribution,"   "Advertising   and  Marketing,"  and  "Management   Information
Systems," and elsewhere in this report.

Trademarks and Related Agreements

     The  Company  regards  its  Red  Lobster(R),  Olive  Garden(R)  and  Bahama
Breeze(R)  servicemarks  as having  significant  value and as being important in
marketing the restaurants. The Company's policy is to pursue registration of its
important servicemarks and trademarks whenever possible and to oppose vigorously
any infringement of them.

     The only restaurant  operations outside of North America  historically have
been conducted  through Red Lobster Japan Partners,  a partnership  venture with
the  Japanese  retailer  JUSCO  that was  established  in 1982.  The  historical
financial results of Darden exclude the results of such operations. On April 26,
1995, the Darden  subsidiary,  GMRI, Inc.,  entered into an Area Development and
Franchise  Agreement  with Red Lobster  Japan  Partners,  which  operated 38 Red
Lobster  restaurants  in  Japan  as of May 30,  1999.  Darden  does  not have an
ownership interest in Red Lobster Japan Partners. Royalty income is not expected
to be material.

Seasonality

     The Company's sales volumes fluctuate seasonally,  and are generally higher
in the spring and summer months, and lower in the fall and winter months. Severe
weather,  storms and similar  conditions may impact sales volumes  seasonally in
some operating regions.

Government Regulation

     The Company is subject to various  federal,  state and local laws affecting
its  business.  Each of the  Company's  restaurants  must comply with  licensing
requirements  and  regulations by a number of  governmental  authorities,  which
include  health,  safety and fire agencies in the state or municipality in which
the restaurant is located.  The development and operation of restaurants  depend
on selecting and acquiring  suitable  sites,  which are subject to zoning,  land
use, environmental,  traffic and other regulations. To date, the Company has not
been  significantly  affected  by any  difficulty,  delay or  failure  to obtain
required licenses or approvals.

     Presently about 8.2% of total  restaurant  revenues are attributable to the
sale of alcoholic beverages.  Regulations governing their sale require licensure
by each site (in most cases,  on an annual basis) and licenses may be revoked or
suspended  for cause at any time.  These  regulations  relate to many aspects of
restaurant operation,  including the minimum age of patrons and employees, hours
of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling,
storage and  dispensing of alcoholic  beverages.  The failure of a restaurant to
obtain




or retain these licenses would adversely affect the restaurant's operations. The
Company  is also  subject  in  certain  states to  "dram-shop"  statutes,  which
generally  provide an injured party with recourse against an establishment  that
wrongfully  serves  alcoholic  beverages to an  intoxicated  person  causing the
injury.   The  Company  carries  liquor  liability   coverage  as  part  of  its
comprehensive general liability insurance.

     The  Company is also  subject to federal  and state  minimum  wage laws and
other laws governing such matters as overtime, tip credits,  working conditions,
safety  standards,  and hiring and employment  practices.  Changes in these laws
during the fiscal year ended May 30, 1999, have not had a material effect on the
Company's operations.

     The Company is currently operating under a Tip Rate Alternative  Commitment
("TRAC")  agreement  with  the  Internal  Revenue  Service.   Through  increased
educational and other efforts in the restaurants, the TRAC agreement reduces the
likelihood of potential chain-wide employer-only FICA assessments for unreported
tips.

     The Company is subject to federal and state environmental regulations,  but
these rules have not had a material effect on the Company's operations.

     The Company  continues to monitor its facilities  for  compliance  with the
Federal  Americans With  Disabilities  Act ("ADA") and related state statutes in
order to conform to their  requirements.  Under the ADA and related  state laws,
the Company could be required to expend funds to modify its  restaurants to make
them more readily  accessible to disabled persons,  to better provide service to
disabled  persons,  or to make  reasonable  accommodation  for the employment of
disabled persons.

Executive Officers

     The executive  officers of the Company as of the date of this report are as
follows.

     Joe R. Lee, age 58, is Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of
Darden. Mr. Lee joined Red Lobster in 1967 as a member of its opening management
team,  and was named its President in 1975.  He was elected a Vice  President of
General  Mills in 1976, a Group Vice  President in 1979,  and an Executive  Vice
President in 1981, was named Executive Vice President, Finance and International
Restaurants  in 1991,  and was elected a Vice  Chairman of General Mills in 1992
with  responsibility  for various  consumer foods businesses and corporate staff
functions. Mr. Lee was elected a director of General Mills in 1985. He was named
Chief Executive Officer of Darden in December of 1994.

     Blaine Sweatt, III, age 51, is President,  New Business  Development and an
Executive Vice  President of Darden.  He joined General Mills in 1976 in the Red
Lobster   organization  and  was  named  Director  of  New  Restaurant   Concept
Development  in 1981.  Mr. Sweatt led the teams that  developed the Olive Garden
and Bahama Breeze  concepts,  among others.  He was named Vice President in 1985
and Senior Vice  President in 1994. Mr. Sweatt has been Executive Vice President
and a director of Darden since 1995.

     Bradley D. Blum, age 45, is President of Olive Garden and an Executive Vice
President  of  Darden.  Mr.  Blum  joined  General  Mills in 1978.  He was named
Director of Marketing in 1984, responsible for Big G Cereals, and he became Vice
President of Big G New Enterprises in 1989. In 1990, he was named Vice President
of Marketing for Cereal  Partners  Worldwide,  General Mills' joint venture with
Nestle,  headquartered  in Switzerland.  He joined the Company in 1994 as Senior
Vice  President of Marketing  for Olive Garden and was named  President of Olive
Garden in December of 1994.  He was named  Senior  Vice  President  of Darden in
September of 1995 and has been Executive Vice President and a director of Darden
since September of 1997.

     Richard E. Rivera, age 52, was named President of Red Lobster and Executive
Vice  President of Darden in December of 1997.  Mr. Rivera began his career with
Steak and Ale  Restaurants  of America  and has held many  management  positions
within the industry over the past 25 years.  Prior to joining Red Lobster,  from
1994 to 1996, Mr. Rivera served as President and Chief Executive Officer of RARE
Hospitality International,  Inc., owner of LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants.  Mr.
Rivera has been a director  of Darden  since  joining the Company in December of
1997.

     Linda J. Dimopoulos, age 48, is Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller
and  Business  Information  Systems of Darden with  overall  responsibility  for
corporate  reporting,  accounting,  information services and internal




audit.  Ms.  Dimopoulos  joined  the  Company in 1982.  She was named  Director,
Corporate  Analysis in 1985. In 1986, she was named Vice  President,  Controller
for Red Lobster, and then Vice President,  Information System Services.  She was
named Senior Vice  President,  Financial  Operations in August 1993, and assumed
her present position in July 1998.

     Gary  Heckel,  age 46,  is  President  of Bahama  Breeze  and  Senior  Vice
President of Darden.  Mr.  Heckel's career in the restaurant  industry  includes
employment  with  several  major  quick-service  and  casual  dining  restaurant
companies,  such as Burger King Corporation,  Taco Bell Corp., and TGI Friday's,
Inc. Mr.  Heckel  joined  Darden in 1995 as Vice  President,  Operations  in the
Company's New Business Development division. He was named Senior Vice President,
Operations for Bahama Breeze in August of 1997.  Mr. Heckel was named  President
of Bahama Breeze in July of 1998 and was elected Senior Vice President of Darden
in June of 1999.

     Daniel M. Lyons,  age 46, is Senior Vice President,  Human Resources of the
Company with overall responsibility for human resources, including compensation,
benefits,  management  development,   staffing,  corporate  security,  diversity
management  and  aviation.  Mr.  Lyons joined the Company in 1993 as Senior Vice
President of Personnel for Olive Garden.  He was elected to his present position
in January of 1997. Prior to joining Olive Garden, Mr. Lyons spent 18 years with
the Quaker Oats Company.

     Robert W. Mock,  age 47, is Executive Vice  President,  Operations of Olive
Garden and Senior Vice President of Darden.  Mr. Mock joined the Company in 1969
and,  through  the years,  held  management  positions  in various  areas of the
Company.  In 1992,  Mr.  Mock was named  Executive  Vice  President  and General
Manager of Red  Lobster  Canada.  In 1994,  Mr.  Mock was named  Executive  Vice
President,  Operations for Olive Garden. He was named to the additional position
of Senior Vice President of Darden in July 1998.

     Barry Moullet, age 41, is Senior Vice President,  Purchasing,  Distribution
and Food  Safety for the  Company.  He joined  Darden in July of 1996.  Prior to
joining  Darden,  Mr.  Moullet  spent  15 years in the  purchasing  field,  most
recently with Restaurant Services,  Inc., a Burger King purchasing co-operative.
Prior to Burger King, he gained  experience  with Kentucky Fried Chicken and the
Pillsbury  Company.  Mr. Moullet  became an executive  officer of Darden in June
1999.

     Clarence Otis, Jr., age 43, is Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer
of the  Company.  Mr.  Otis  joined the  Company in 1995 as Vice  President  and
Treasurer. In July of 1997, he assumed responsibility for investor relations and
was named Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasurer. In July 1998,
Mr.  Otis  assumed  additional  responsibilities  in the area of finance and was
named to his  present  position.  Prior to joining  the  Company,  Mr.  Otis was
employed by  Chemical  Securities,  Inc. in New York where he had been  Managing
Director and Manager of Public Finance since 1991. Prior to his work at Chemical
Securities, Mr. Otis was employed by Siebert Municipal Capital Group as Managing
Director and Principal.

     Paula J. Shives, age 48, was elected Senior Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary of Darden in June of 1999. In that capacity,  Ms. Shives  succeeds
Clifford L.  Whitehill,  who is retiring.  Ms.  Shives began her legal career in
1979 as  Corporate  Counsel for  Jerrico,  Inc.,  the  predecessor  to Long John
Silver's  Restaurants,  Inc. After spending several  additional years in private
practice  with  the law  firm  of  Greenebaum,  Doll &  McDonald  in  Lexington,
Kentucky,  Ms. Shives rejoined Long John Silver's  Restaurants,  Inc. in 1985 as
Associate General Counsel, and became its Senior Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary in 1995. Ms. Shives joined Darden in May of 1999.

     James D. Smith, age 56, is Senior Vice President,  Real Estate,  Design and
Construction  of the Company.  Mr. Smith  joined  General  Mills in 1982 and was
named Senior Vice President and Controller of the restaurant operations in 1988.
In  December  1994,  Mr.  Smith  was  named  Senior  Vice  President,   Finance.
Subsequently,  he assumed  increasing  responsibilities  in connection  with the
Company's  real  estate  development  activities  and was  named to his  present
position in July of 1998.

     Richard J. Walsh,  age 47, is Senior Vice President,  Corporate  Relations,
with responsibility for all corporate  communications,  environmental relations,
creative  and  print  services,  media  and  government,  public  and  community
relations,  including the Darden Restaurants,  Inc. Foundation. Mr. Walsh joined
General Mills in 1984 as Manager of Government  Affairs for Red Lobster.  He was
named Vice  President  of  Government  Relations in 1987 and was promoted to his
present position in December of 1994.




     Clifford L.  Whitehill,  age 68, was named Senior Vice  President,  General
Counsel and Secretary of the Company in December of 1994. Mr.  Whitehill  joined
General  Mills in 1962 as an attorney in the Law  Department.  He was  appointed
Assistant General Counsel in 1968, elected Vice President in 1971, named General
Counsel in 1975,  elected Senior Vice President in 1981 and elected Secretary of
General Mills in 1983. In April of 1999, Mr. Whitehill  announced his retirement
from  Darden,  effective  June 21, 1999,  but  continues to serve the Company to
facilitate his successor's transition.

Available Information

     Darden is a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended,  and files reports,  proxy  statements and other  information  with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the  "Commission").  The public may read and
copy any Company filings at the Commission's  Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth
Street NW,  Washington,  DC 20549.  Information  on the  operation of the Public
Reference  Room may be  obtained by calling the  Commission  at  1-800-SEC-0330.
Because  the  Company  makes  filings  to the  Commission  electronically,  this
information   may  be  accessed   through   the   Commission's   Internet   site
(http://www.sec.gov). The site contains reports, proxies, information statements
and  other  information  regarding  issuers  that file  electronically  with the
Commission.

Forward-Looking Statements

     Certain information included in this report and other materials filed or to
be filed by the Company with the Commission (as well as information  included in
oral  statements  or written  statements  made or to be made by the Company) may
contain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of
the  Securities  Act of 1933,  as amended,  and  Section  21E of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Such statements include information  relating
to  current  expansion  plans and Year  2000  compliance.  Such  forward-looking
information is based on assumptions concerning important risks and uncertainties
that  could  significantly   affect  anticipated  results  in  the  future  and,
accordingly, such results may differ from those expressed in any forward-looking
statements  made by or on behalf of the Company.  These risks and  uncertainties
include,  but are not limited to, those relating to restaurant  development  and
the Year 2000 readiness of suppliers,  banks, vendors and others having a direct
or indirect business relationship with the Company.




Item 2.  PROPERTIES

     As of May 30, 1999, the Company operated 1,145  restaurants,  including 669
Red  Lobster,  464 Olive  Garden,  six Olive  Garden Cafe and six Bahama  Breeze
restaurants in the following locations:



     Of the Company's 1,145  restaurants open on May 30, 1999, 730 were on owned
sites and 415 were on leased sites. The 415 leases are classified as follows:

     Land-Only Leases (Darden owns buildings and equipment)...........    283
     Ground and Building Leases.......................................     75
     Space/In-Line/Other Leases.......................................     57
                                                                         ----

          Total.......................................................    415
                                                                         ====

     During fiscal year 1999, the Company  formed two  subsidiary  corporations,
each of which  elected to be taxed as a Real Estate  Investment  Trust  ("REIT")
under  Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal  Revenue Code.  These  elections
limit the  activities  for both  corporations  to holding  certain  real  estate
assets.  The  formation  of these two REITs is designed  primarily to assist the
Company in managing its real estate  portfolio and possibly to provide a vehicle
to access future capital markets.

     Both REITs are non-public REITs. Through its subsidiary  companies,  Darden
indirectly  owns 100% of all voting  stock and  greater  than 99.5% of the total
value of each REIT. For financial reporting purposes, both REITs are included in
Darden's consolidated group.

     The  Company  owns its  executive  offices,  culinary  center and  training
facilities  in Orlando,  Florida.  Except in limited  instances,  the  Company's
restaurant   sites  and  other  facilities  are  not  subject  to  mortgages  or
encumbrances securing money borrowed by the Company from outside sources.

     See also Notes 5 and 13 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements on
pages 35 and 37, respectively, of the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders.


Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is from time to time made a party to legal proceedings  arising
in the  ordinary  course of  business.  The Company  does not  believe  that the
results of such legal proceedings, even if unfavorable to the Company, will have
a materially  adverse  impact on its  financial  condition or the results of its
operations. See the section entitled "Government Regulation" for a discussion of
various federal, state and local regulatory matters.


Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.




                                     PART II

Item 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The Company's common stock (no par value) has been registered and is traded
on the New York  Stock  Exchange.  As of July 26,  1999,  the  number  of record
holders of common stock was 36,168.  Trading of the Company's common stock began
on a "when  issued"  basis on May 9, 1995,  at a price per share of $9.375.  The
following  table  sets  forth the high and low sales  prices  for the  Company's
common stock for each full quarterly  period from the Distribution to the end of
fiscal year 1999.

                      Per Share Sales Price of Common Stock


     During fiscal year 1999, the Company declared two semi-annual  dividends of
four cents per share each. The first semi-annual dividend (four cents per share)
was paid on November 1, 1998, to stockholders of record on October 10, 1998. The
second  semi-annual  dividend (four cents per share) was paid on May 1, 1999, to
stockholders of record on April 10, 1999.

Item 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     The information  for fiscal years 1995 through 1999,  contained in the Five
Year  Financial  Summary  on page 43 of the  Company's  1999  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The information set forth in the section entitled "Management's  Discussion
of Results of Operations and Financial  Condition" on pages 22 through 25 of the
Company's  1999  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  is  incorporated   herein  by
reference.

Item 7a.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The Company is exposed to a variety of market risks, including fluctuations
in interest rates,  foreign  currency  exchange rates and commodity  prices.  To
manage this exposure,  Darden  periodically  enters into interest rate,  foreign
currency exchange and commodity instruments for other than trading purposes.




     The Company uses the  variance/covariance  method to measure value at risk,
over time  horizons  ranging  from one week to one year,  at the 99%  confidence
level. As of May 30, 1999, the Company's potential losses in future net earnings
resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates,  commodity prices and
floating rate debt interest rate  exposures were  individually  not more than $1
million  over a period of one year.  The value at risk from an  increase  in the
fair  value of  long-term  fixed  rate  debt,  over a period  of one  year,  was
approximately $48 million. The Company's interest rate risk management objective
is to limit the impact of interest  rate  changes on earnings  and cash flows by
targeting an appropriate  mix of variable and fixed rate debt approved by senior
management.

Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The  Independent  Auditors'  Report,  Consolidated  Statements  of Earnings
(Loss),  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets,  Consolidated  Statements  of Changes in
Stockholders'  Equity,  Consolidated  Statements  of Cash  Flows,  and  Notes to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements on pages 26 through 43 of the Company's 1999
Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.  CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.


                                    PART III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information contained in the sections entitled "Information  Concerning
Nominees" on pages 4 through 6,  "Committees of the Board" on pages 7 through 8,
and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting  Compliance" on page 24 of the
Company's  definitive  proxy  materials  dated August 10, 1999, is  incorporated
herein  by  reference.  Certain  information  regarding  executive  officers  is
contained in Part I above.


Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information  contained in the sections entitled "Board Compensation and
Benefits" on page 7,  "Summary  Compensation  Table" on pages 16 through 17, and
"Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year" on page 18 of the Company's definitive proxy
materials dated August 10, 1999, is  incorporated by reference.  The information
appearing  in such proxy  materials  under the heading  "Report of  Compensation
Committee on Executive Compensation" is not incorporated herein.


Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The  information  contained in the  sections  entitled  "Certain  Owners of
Common Stock" on page 3 and "Share  Ownership of Directors and Officers" on page
9 of the  Company's  definitive  proxy  materials  dated  August  10,  1999,  is
incorporated herein by reference.


Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information  contained in the section entitled  "Certain  Relationships
and Related Transactions" on page 10 of the Company's definitive proxy materials
dated August 10, 1999, is incorporated herein by reference.




                                     PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1. Financial Statements:

     Consolidated  Statements of Earnings  (Loss) for the fiscal years ended May
30, 1999, May 31, 1998 and May 25, 1997 (incorporated by reference to page 27 of
the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     Consolidated  Balance Sheets at May 30, 1999 and May 31, 1998 (incorporated
by reference to page 28 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     Consolidated  Statements of Changes in Stockholders'  Equity for the fiscal
years  ended  May 30,  1999,  May 31,  1998 and May 25,  1997  (incorporated  by
reference to page 29 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows for the fiscal  years ended May 30,
1999, May 31, 1998 and May 25, 1997 (incorporated by reference to page 30 of the
Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements  (incorporated by reference to
pages 31 through 43 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     2.   Financial Statements Schedules:

     Not applicable.

     3.   Exhibits:

     Pursuant  to Item  601(b)(4)(iii)  of  Regulation  S-K,  copies of  certain
instruments  defining  the rights of holders  of certain  long-term  debt of the
Company are not filed, and in lieu thereof, the Company agrees to furnish copies
thereof to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

     Exhibit Number                           Title

          3(a)      Articles of Incorporation  (incorporated herein by reference
                    to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company's  Registration  Statement on
                    Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

          3(b)      Bylaws  (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to
                    the  Company's  Registration  Statement on Form 10 effective
                    May 5, 1995)

          4(a)      Rights  Agreement  dated  as of May  28,  1995  between  the
                    Company and Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., as amended May 23,
                    1996,  assigned  to First  Union  National  Bank,  as Rights
                    Agent, as of September 29, 1997  (incorporated  by reference
                    to Exhibit 4(a) to the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                    for the fiscal year ended May 31, 1998)

          4(b)      Indenture  dated as of January 1, 1996,  between the Company
                    and Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee
                    (incorporated  herein by reference to the Company's  Current
                    Report on Form 8-K filed February 9, 1996)

        *10(a)      Darden   Restaurants,   Inc.   Stock  Option  and  Long-Term
                    Incentive  Plan of 1995,  as amended May 23, 1996,  June 17,
                    1997, June 26, 1998, and May 24, 1999

- ------------------------
*    Items that are management  contracts or compensatory  plans or arrangements
     required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.








        *10(b)      Darden Restaurants,  Inc. FlexComp Plan (incorporated herein
                    by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's  Registration
                    Statement on Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

        *10(c)      Darden   Restaurants,   Inc.   Stock  Option  and  Long-Term
                    Incentive  Conversion Plan, as amended  (incorporated herein
                    by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company's Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 26, 1996)

        *10(d)      Supplemental  Pension  Plan  of  Darden  Restaurants,   Inc.
                    (incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit  10(d) to the
                    Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May 5,
                    1995)

        *10(e)      Executive   Health   Plan  of   Darden   Restaurants,   Inc.
                    (incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit  10(e) to the
                    Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May 5,
                    1995)

        *10(f)      Stock Plan for  Directors of Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.,  as
                    amended  December 10, 1996, and June 26, 1998  (incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company's Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 1998)

        *10(g)      Compensation  Plan  for  Non-Employee  Directors  of  Darden
                    Restaurants, Inc., as amended June 17, 1997 (incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Company's Annual Report on
                    Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 1998)

        *10(h)      Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.  Management  Incentive  Plan,  as
                    amended to June 21, 1999

        *10(i)      Benefits  Trust  Agreement  dated  as of  October  3,  1995,
                    between the Company and Norwest  Bank  Minnesota,  N.A.,  as
                    Trustee  (incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10(i)
                    to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                    year ended May 25, 1997)

        *10(j)      Form of Management Continuity Agreement, as amended, between
                    the   Company  and   certain  of  its   executive   officers
                    (incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit  10(j) to the
                    Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                    ended May 25, 1997)

         12         Computation  of  Ratio  of  Consolidated  Earnings  to Fixed
                    Charges

         13         Portions of 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders (incorporated
                    by reference herein)

         21         Subsidiaries of Darden Restaurants, Inc.

         23         Independent Accountants' Consent

         24         Powers of Attorney

         27         Financial Data Schedule

- ------------------------
*    Items that are management  contracts or compensatory  plans or arrangements
     required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.




(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.  During the last quarter  covered by this report,  the
     Company filed the following three current reports on Form 8-K:

     (i)  Current  report on Form 8-K dated March 25,  1999,  reporting  certain
          financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 1999;

     (ii) Current report on Form 8-K dated April 20, 1999, announcing the hiring
          of Paula J. Shives and the retirement of Clifford L.  Whitehill-Yarza;
          and

     (iii)Current  report  on  Form  8-K  dated  May  4,  1999,  announcing  the
          appointment of Gary Heckel to Senior Vice President.




                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

     Dated:  August 19, 1999                DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
                                            By:  /s/ Paula J. Shives
                                                Paula J. Shives
                            Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.



*BY:  Paula J. Shives, Attorney-In-Fact
      August 19, 1999




                                  EXHIBIT INDEX




                                    EXHIBITS


    Exhibit
    Number                                     Title
    -------                                    -----

      3(a)          Articles of Incorporation  (incorporated herein by reference
                    to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company's  Registration  Statement on
                    Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

      3(b)          Bylaws  (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to
                    the  Company's  Registration  Statement on Form 10 effective
                    May 5, 1995)

      4(a)          Rights  Agreement  dated  as of May  28,  1995  between  the
                    Company and Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., as amended May 23,
                    1996,  assigned  to First  Union  National  Bank,  as Rights
                    Agent, as of September 29, 1997  (incorporated  by reference
                    to Exhibit 4(a) to the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                    for the fiscal year ended May 31, 1998)

      4(b)          Indenture  dated as of January 1, 1996,  between the Company
                    and Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee
                    (incorporated  herein by reference to the Company's  Current
                    Report on Form 8-K filed February 9, 1996)

    *10(a)          Darden   Restaurants,   Inc.   Stock  Option  and  Long-Term
                    Incentive  Plan of 1995,  as amended May 23, 1996,  June 17,
                    1997, June 26, 1998, and May 24, 1999

    *10(b)          Darden Restaurants,  Inc. FlexComp Plan (incorporated herein
                    by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's  Registration
                    Statement on Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

    *10(c)          Darden   Restaurants,   Inc.   Stock  Option  and  Long-Term
                    Incentive  Conversion Plan, as amended  (incorporated herein
                    by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company's Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 26, 1996)

    *10(d)          Supplemental  Pension  Plan  of  Darden  Restaurants,   Inc.
                    (incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit  10(d) to the
                    Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May 5,
                    1995)

    *10(e)          Executive   Health   Plan  of   Darden   Restaurants,   Inc.
                    (incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit  10(e) to the
                    Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May 5,
                    1995)

    *10(f)          Stock Plan for  Directors of Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.,  as
                    amended  December 10, 1996, and June 26, 1998  (incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company's Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 1998)

- ------------------------
*    Items that are management  contracts or compensatory  plans or arrangements
     required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.




                                    EXHIBITS

    Exhibit
    Number                                     Title
    -------                                    -----

    *10(g)          Compensation  Plan  for  Non-Employee  Directors  of  Darden
                    Restaurants, Inc., as amended June 17, 1997 (incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Company's Annual Report on
                    Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 1998)

    *10(h)          Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.  Management  Incentive  Plan,  as
                    amended to June 21, 1999

    *10(i)          Benefits  Trust  Agreement  dated  as of  October  3,  1995,
                    between the Company and Norwest  Bank  Minnesota,  N.A.,  as
                    Trustee  (incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10(i)
                    to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                    year ended May 25, 1997)

     *10(j)         Form of Management Continuity Agreement, as amended, between
                    the   Company  and   certain  of  its   executive   officers
                    (incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit  10(j) to the
                    Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                    ended May 25, 1997)

      12            Computation  of  Ratio  of  Consolidated  Earnings  to Fixed
                    Charges

      13            Portions of 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders (incorporated
                    by reference herein)

      21            Subsidiaries of Darden Restaurants, Inc.

      23            Independent Accountants' Consent

      24            Powers of Attorney

      27            Financial Data Schedule

- ------------------------
*    Items that are management  contracts or compensatory  plans or arrangements
     required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.


