
10-K405
0001.txt
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    FORM 10-K
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Mark One)

/X/  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

                     For the fiscal year ended May 28, 2000

/ /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

            For the transition period from ___________ to ___________

                         Commission File Number 1-13666

                            DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                Florida                                  59-3305930
    (State or other jurisdiction of         (IRS Employer Identification Number)
     incorporation or organization)

        5900 Lake Ellenor Drive                             32809
           Orlando, Florida                              (Zip Code)
(Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (407) 245-4000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                    Name of each exchange
          Title of each class                        On which registered
    Common stock, without par value                New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act: None

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  Registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No ____

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by Reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

     Aggregate  market  value of  Common  Stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant,  based on the  closing  price of $17.00 per share as reported on the
New York Stock Exchange on July 24, 2000: $1,993 million.

     Number  of  shares  of  Common  Stock  outstanding  as of  July  24,  2000:
121,897,247 (excluding 44,292,590 shares held in the Company's treasury).

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions  of  Registrant's   Proxy  Statement  dated  August  8,  2000  are
incorporated  by  reference  into Part III, and  portions of  Registrant's  2000
Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and
IV.





                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS OF DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.

INTRODUCTION

     Darden  Restaurants,  Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Darden")
is the world's  largest casual dining  restaurant  organization.*  As of May 28,
2000, it operated 1,102  restaurants in 49 states (the exception  being Alaska),
including 622 Red Lobster(R),  464 Olive Garden(R), 14 Bahama Breeze(R), and two
Smokey Bones BBQ Sports Bar(SM) restaurants.  In addition,  the Company operated
37  restaurants  in Canada,  including  32 Red  Lobster  and five  Olive  Garden
restaurants.  The Company also  operated one Olive Garden  Cafe(R) in the United
States as of May 28,  2000.  The  Company  operates  all of its  North  American
restaurants.  In Japan,  as of May 28,  2000,  Red  Lobster  Japan  Partners,  a
Japanese retailer unaffiliated with Darden,  operated 35 Red Lobster restaurants
pursuant to an Area Development and Franchise Agreement.

     The Company,  a Florida  corporation  incorporated in March of 1995, is the
parent company of GMRI,  Inc., a Florida  corporation  ("GMRI").  GMRI and other
Darden  subsidiaries  own the  operating  assets  of the  restaurants.  GMRI was
originally incorporated on March 27, 1968, as Red Lobster Inns of America, Inc.

     The Company's principal executive offices and restaurant support center are
located at 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive,  Orlando,  Florida 32809  (telephone  number
(407)  245-4000).  Unless the context  indicates  otherwise,  all  references to
Darden or the Company include Darden, GMRI and their respective subsidiaries.

BACKGROUND

     The  Company  opened its first  restaurant,  a Red  Lobster,  in  Lakeland,
Florida in January of 1968.  Red Lobster was founded by William B.  Darden,  for
whom the  Company is named.  The Company was  acquired  by General  Mills,  Inc.
("General  Mills")  in  1970.  In May of 1995,  the  Company  became a  separate
publicly  held company when General Mills  distributed  all  outstanding  Darden
stock to General Mills stockholders (the "Distribution").

     While the  expansion of the  Company's  two largest  restaurant  chains has
historically  been steady,  the number of  restaurants  for both Red Lobster and
Olive Garden has  declined in recent  years due to an increased  focus on market
optimization  and the closing of  under-performing  units. Red Lobster has grown
from three restaurants in operation in 1970 to 654 units in North America by the
end of fiscal 2000. Olive Garden, an internally  developed  concept,  opened its
first  restaurant  in December  of 1982,  and,  by the end of fiscal  2000,  had
expanded to 469 restaurants and one food court cafe in North America.

     Bahama Breeze is an internally developed concept with a Caribbean theme. In
1996, Bahama Breeze opened its first restaurant in Orlando,  Florida. At the end
of fiscal 2000, there were 14 Bahama Breeze restaurants.

     The  Company's  newest  restaurant  concept is Smokey  Bones BBQ Sports Bar
("Smokey Bones"),  an internally  developed concept.  At the end of fiscal 2000,
there were two Smokey Bones  restaurants.  They are both located in the Orlando,
Florida area.

STRATEGY

     The  Company is a leader in the  casual  dining  segment of the  restaurant
industry and is committed to the following four strategic building blocks:

     o    day-to-day operating excellence in its restaurants;

     o    continuous leadership development throughout the Company;


- -------------------
[FN]
* Source: NATION'S RESTAURANT NEWS, "Top 100," June 26, 2000 (based on number of
company-owned restaurants).






     o    providing service and hospitality that redefines casual dining; and

     o    a continuing commitment to culinary excellence.

     The  Company's  continuing  focus on each of  these  four  building  blocks
provides a strong  foundation  for future  growth.  The Company plans to grow by
increasing  the number of  restaurants  in each of its existing  concepts and by
developing or acquiring additional concepts that can be expanded profitably.

     The  following  table  lists the  number  of  restaurants  operated  by Red
Lobster,  Olive  Garden,  Bahama  Breeze and Smokey  Bones as of the end of each
fiscal year.  The final column in the table lists the Company's  total sales for
these years,  including  sales generated by all concepts then owned and operated
by the Company.

              COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANTS OPEN AT FISCAL YEAR-END


- -------------------
[FN]
(a) These numbers do not include Olive Garden Cafe restaurants.
(b) These numbers include total  restaurants for the four concepts  operating on
May 28, 2000.






INDUSTRY OVERVIEW

     In the United States, the restaurant industry generates  approximately $257
billion  in  annual  sales,  or  roughly  35  percent  of  total  consumer  food
expenditures.*  Expenditures for restaurant dining and other meals prepared away
from  home  have  increased  from 25  percent  of the food  dollar in 1955 to 45
percent  in 2000.*  Over the past 20 years,  restaurant  sales  have grown at an
annual  rate that is one to two  percentage  points  faster  than the  growth of
food-at-home sales.*

     The  restaurant  industry is comprised  of four  segments:  quick  service,
mid-scale,  casual dining and fine dining. The industry is highly fragmented and
is characterized by the presence of thousands of independent operators and small
chains.  While  chain  restaurants  dominate  the quick  service  segment of the
restaurant  industry with a combined market share of 61 percent,  chains account
for just 22  percent  in the  other  three  segments  combined,  which  together
comprise the full-service category.* The Company believes that capable operators
of strong  multi-unit  concepts  will  continue to  increase  their share of the
casual dining segment.

     Casual dining is the fastest  growing  segment of the restaurant  industry,
with sales  increasing  at a 6.9  percent  annual  compound  growth  rate in the
1990s.* Casual dining represents about 17 percent of total restaurant sales, and
37 percent of full service  restaurant  sales,  or  approximately  $44 billion.*
Darden is a leader in the casual dining  segment,  with  approximately  an eight
percent  market  share.*  Management  believes that casual dining  concepts will
benefit from favorable demographic trends, most notably the maturing population.
Forty  to  sixty  year  olds  are the  most  frequent  users  of  casual  dining
restaurants  and,  through this decade,  the  population  aged fifty or older is
projected to increase by approximately 21 million,  or 28 percent.  In addition,
baby-boomers, or those people who are thirty-five to fifty-three years old, tend
to eat out more than  generations  before  them,  so, as they age,  their casual
dining  frequency may become even higher.  Finally,  this group  includes a high
proportion of two-income families, which the Company believes could increase the
demand for food-away-from-home due to a combination of more discretionary income
and less discretionary time.

     Restaurants face growing competition from the supermarket  industry,  which
is  offering   improved   entrees  and  side  dishes  from  the  deli   section.
Supermarkets'  renewed  emphasis  on these  convenient  meals  may have the most
impact on  segments  of the  restaurant  industry  in which the meals  fulfill a
primarily  physiological  objective,  such as in the quick service and mid-scale
segments.  Casual dining offers a more  significant  social  component  with the
meal,  a  feature  that the  supermarkets'  "convenient  meals"  do not  readily
provide.

RESTAURANT CONCEPTS

Red Lobster

     Red  Lobster is the largest  casual  dining,  seafood-specialty  restaurant
operator in the United States,  with  approximately 46% of that group's sales in
1999.* It offers an extensive menu featuring fresh fish, shrimp,  crab, lobster,
scallops, and other seafood in a casual atmosphere.  The menu includes a variety
of specialty  seafood and non-seafood  appetizers and desserts.  For the twelfth
consecutive  year,  Red Lobster was named Best  Seafood  Chain in America in the
2000 America's Choice In Chains national  consumer survey published in the March
1, 2000 issue of Restaurants & Institutions magazine.

     Dinner  entree  prices  range  from  $6.99 to  $22.50,  with fresh fish and
certain lobster items available at market price.  Lunch entree prices range from
$4.99 to $8.76.  During  fiscal 2000,  the average  check per person was between
$14.00 and $15.00,  with alcoholic  beverages  accounting for slightly more than
eight percent of Red Lobster's sales. The Company  maintains  approximately  138
different  menus to reflect  geographic  differences  in  consumer  preferences,
prices and selections in its trade areas,  as well as a lower-priced  children's
menu.

- -------------------
[FN]
* Sources:  UNITED STATES  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE CENSUS OF RETAIL TRADE (1999);
  NATIONAL RESTAURANT  ASSOCIATION ANNUAL FOODSERVICE FORECAST (2000); and CREST
  ANNUAL HOUSEHOLD SUMMARY (1999).






     Fiscal  2000  was a year of  consistent  profitable  sales  growth  for Red
Lobster.  As of the end of fiscal 2000, Red Lobster had enjoyed ten  consecutive
quarters of same-restaurant sales increases. For the year, same-restaurant sales
at Red Lobster increased 7.6 percent.

Olive Garden

     Olive  Garden is the  market  share  leader  among  casual  dining  Italian
restaurants in North America with approximately 34 percent of that group's sales
in 1999.* Olive  Garden's  menu  includes a variety of authentic  Italian  foods
featuring  fresh  ingredients,  and an expanded  wine list that includes a broad
selection  of  wines   imported  from  Italy.   The  menu   includes   antipasti
(appetizers);  soups,  salad  and  garlic  breadsticks;  baked  pastas;  sauteed
specialties  with chicken,  seafood and fresh  vegetables;  grilled meats; and a
variety of desserts.  Olive Garden also uses coffee  imported from Italy for its
espresso and cappuccino.

     Dinner  entree  prices  range from $6.95 to $16.95,  and most lunch  entree
prices range from $4.95 to $8.95. The price of each entree also includes as much
fresh salad or soup as a guest  desires.  During fiscal 2000,  the average check
per person  was  $11.50 to  $12.75,  with  alcoholic  beverages  accounting  for
slightly more than eight percent of Olive Garden's sales.

     Fiscal  2000  yielded the  highest  profits  and returns in Olive  Garden's
history.  Same-restaurant  sales at Olive Garden  increased  7.2 percent  during
fiscal 2000.  Olive Garden has had 23  consecutive  quarters of  same-restaurant
sales increases as of the end of fiscal 2000.

Bahama Breeze

     Bahama  Breeze  is a  Caribbean-themed  restaurant  which  offers  guests a
distinctive island dining experience. The first Bahama Breeze was opened in 1996
and met with strong positive  consumer  response.  The Company continued to test
the concept by opening a limited number of additional restaurants in each of the
following  years.  In fiscal  2000,  the  Company  opened  eight  Bahama  Breeze
restaurants  in six new  markets,  bringing  the total to 14  restaurants  in 11
markets.  The concept continues to be well received by guests, with strong sales
volumes and  earnings.  The Company plans to open at least ten new Bahama Breeze
restaurants in fiscal 2001,  including the first  restaurants in northern United
States markets.

Smokey Bones BBQ Sports Bar

     The  Company's  newest  casual  dining  restaurant  concept,  Smokey Bones,
combines  barbeque with a relaxed sports bar atmosphere.  The Company opened the
first Smokey  Bones in  September  1999.  There are  currently  two Smokey Bones
restaurants,  both located in Orlando,  Florida.  Initial results from the first
two  restaurants are  encouraging.  The Company plans to extend the test concept
with the opening of a third  restaurant in Columbus,  Ohio, in fiscal 2001,  and
may open more if test results continue to be favorable.

- -------------------
[FN]
* Sources:  UNITED STATES  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE CENSUS OF RETAIL TRADE (1999);
  NATIONAL RESTAURANT  ASSOCIATION ANNUAL FOODSERVICE FORECAST (2000); and CREST
  ANNUAL HOUSEHOLD SUMMARY (1999).






RECENT AND PLANNED GROWTH

     During  fiscal  2000,  the Company  opened 22  restaurants  (excluding  the
relocation of existing restaurants to new sites). It plans to open approximately
34 to 36  new  Red  Lobster,  Olive  Garden,  Bahama  Breeze  and  Smokey  Bones
restaurants during fiscal 2001 (excluding relocations). The Company's actual and
projected new openings by concept are shown below.



     The Company's  objective is to continue to expand its current  portfolio of
restaurant concepts,  and to develop or acquire additional concepts which can be
expanded profitably.  It is currently testing new ideas and concepts, as well as
expanding its testing of Smokey Bones in light of favorable  consumer  response.
The Company also regularly evaluates potential acquisition  candidates to assess
whether they would satisfy the Company's strategic and financial objectives.  At
present, the Company has not identified any specific acquisitions.

     The Company  will  continue to focus on  improving  operational  returns at
Olive  Garden  and Red  Lobster,  and limit new  restaurant  expansion  of those
concepts to the  highest-potential  sites. Olive Garden's expansion will include
its recently  developed "Tuscan Farmhouse" design, an outgrowth of the Company's
collaboration  with  Rocca del  Macie,  a  family-owned  winery in  Tuscany.  In
addition,  the Company  plans to expand Bahama Breeze at a pace that will enable
each new  restaurant  to capture the  concept's  full  potential,  and to expand
Smokey Bones if test results  continue to be favorable.  The specific  number of
openings will depend upon other factors, such as the Company's ability to locate
appropriate  sites,   negotiate  acceptable  purchase  or  lease  terms,  obtain
necessary local  governmental  permits,  complete  construction  and recruit and
train restaurant management and hourly personnel.

     Darden  considers  location  to  be a  critical  factor  in  determining  a
restaurant's  long-term success,  and the Company devotes  significant effort to
the site  selection  process for new  locations.  Prior to entering a market,  a
thorough  study is conducted to determine  the optimal  number and  placement of
restaurants.  The Company's  site  selection  process  incorporates a variety of
analytical techniques to evaluate key factors.  These factors include trade area
demographics,  such as target  population  density and household  income levels;
competitive influences in the trade area; the site's visibility,  accessibility,
and traffic  volume;  and proximity to activity  centers such as shopping malls,
hotel/motel  complexes,  offices and universities.  Members of senior management
evaluate,  inspect and approve each  restaurant  site prior to its  acquisition.
Constructing and opening a new restaurant  typically takes 120 to 180 days after
the site is acquired and permits are obtained.

     The following table illustrates the approximate average capital investment,
size and dining  capacity of the six Red Lobster and six Olive  Garden  openings
(excluding  relocations  of existing  restaurants)  that occurred  during fiscal
2000.



     The Company  systematically reviews the performance of its restaurant sites
to ensure that each  restaurant  meets its  standards.  When a restaurant  falls
below  minimum  standards,  a thorough  analysis is completed  to determine  the
causes,  and marketing and  operational  plans are  implemented  to improve that
restaurant's performance.  If performance does not improve to acceptable levels,
the site is  evaluated  for  relocation,  closing  or  conversion  to one of the
Company's other concepts.

     During  fiscal  2000,  the  Company   permanently  closed  18  Red  Lobster
restaurants in the United States and two in Canada.  During the same period, the
Company  permanently closed five Olive Garden Cafes in shopping





mall food courts in the United States. During fiscal 2000, the Company relocated
or rebuilt seven Red Lobster restaurants in the United States.

     For a discussion of restructuring  and asset  impairment  expense or credit
related  to  restaurant  closings,  see  Management's  Discussion  of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition and Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements on pages 23 and 34, respectively, of the Company's 2000 Annual Report
to Stockholders.

RESTAURANT OPERATIONS

     The Company believes that high-quality restaurant management is critical to
its long-term  success.  It also believes that its leadership  position,  strong
success-oriented   culture  and  various  short-term  and  long-term   incentive
programs,  including  stock  options,  help attract and retain  highly-motivated
restaurant managers.

     The  Company's  restaurant  management  structure  varies  by  concept  and
restaurant  size.  Each  restaurant is led by a general  manager and one to four
additional  managers,  depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of
the  restaurant.  Each restaurant  also employs  approximately  65 to 140 hourly
employees,  most of whom work part-time.  The Company issues detailed operations
manuals  covering  all  aspects  of  restaurant  operations  as well as food and
beverage  manuals  which  detail the  preparation  procedures  of the  Company's
formulated  recipes.  The restaurant  management  teams are  responsible for the
day-to-day  operation of each  restaurant and for ensuring  compliance  with the
Company's  operating  standards.  At the  Company's  two largest  concepts,  Red
Lobster and Olive Garden,  restaurant general managers report to directors,  and
each  director  is  responsible  for seven to 14  restaurants.  Restaurants  are
visited regularly by all levels of supervision to ensure strict adherence to all
aspects of the Company's standards.

     Each concept's vice president or director of training, together with senior
operations  executives,  is  responsible  for developing  and  maintaining  that
concept's  operational training programs.  These efforts include a 12-to-15 week
training program for management  trainees,  and continuing  development programs
for  managers,  supervisors  and  directors.  The  emphasis of the  training and
development  programs  varies by restaurant  concept,  but includes  leadership,
restaurant  business  management  and culinary  skills.  The Company also uses a
highly structured  training program to open new restaurants,  including training
teams consisting of groups of employees experienced in all aspects of restaurant
operations. The opening training teams typically begin on-site training one week
prior to opening and remain on location one week following the opening. They are
phased out when  appropriate to enable a smooth  transition to the  restaurant's
operating staff.

QUALITY ASSURANCE

     The  Company's   Quality   Assurance   Department  helps  ensure  that  all
restaurants provide  high-quality food products in a clean and safe environment.
Through rigorous physical evaluation and testing at the Company's North American
laboratories  and through "Point Source  Inspection" in  southeastern  Asia, the
Company ensures that all seafood purchased meets or exceeds its  specifications.
Since 1976, the Company has maintained a microbiological laboratory to routinely
test seafood and commodity products for quality and  microbiological  safety. In
addition,   quality  assurance  managers  visit  each  restaurant   periodically
throughout  the year to ensure  that food is  properly  handled,  and to provide
education  and  training in food safety and  sanitation.  The quality  assurance
managers  also serve as a liaison to regulatory  agencies on issues  relating to
food safety.  The Company uses  independent  third party auditors to inspect and
evaluate  vendors of  commodity  food  products.  In this  manner,  the  Company
attempts  to  ensure  that its  suppliers  are  maintaining  good  manufacturing
practices and are operating  with the  comprehensive  industry  standard  Hazard
Analysis Critical Control Points programs in place.

PURCHASING AND DISTRIBUTION

     The Company's  ability to ensure a consistent  supply of high-quality  food
and supplies at  competitive  prices to all of its restaurant  concepts  depends
upon procurement from reliable sources.  The Company's purchasing staff sources,
negotiates and purchases food and supplies from more than 1,850  suppliers in 45
countries.  Suppliers are required to meet strict quality  control  standards in
the  development,  harvest,  catch and production of food products.  Competitive
bids,  long-term contracts and long-term vendor relationships are routinely used
to manage availability and cost of products.





     The  Company  believes  that  its  seafood  purchasing  capabilities  are a
significant  competitive  advantage.  The Company's  purchasing  staff routinely
travels  within  the  United  States  and  internationally  to  source  over 100
varieties of top-quality  seafood at competitive  prices.  The Company  believes
that it has  established  excellent  long-term  relationships  with key  seafood
vendors,  and sources  product  directly  from the vendors  when  possible.  The
Company operates a procurement  office in Singapore to source products  directly
from Asia. While the supply of certain seafood species is volatile,  the Company
believes that it has  demonstrated the ability to identify  alternative  seafood
products and to adjust its menus as required.  All other essential food products
are  available,  or can be made available  upon short notice,  from  alternative
qualified suppliers. Because of the relatively rapid turnover of perishable food
products, inventories in the restaurants have a modest aggregate dollar value in
relation  to  revenues.   Controlled   inventories  of  specified  products  are
distributed to all restaurants through national distribution companies.

ADVERTISING AND MARKETING

     The  Company  believes  that it has  developed  significant  marketing  and
advertising  capabilities.  The  Company's  size  enables  it to  be a  dominant
advertiser in the casual dining segment of the restaurant industry.  The Company
leverages  the  efficiency  of  national  network  television   advertising  and
supplements  it  with  local  market  television   advertising.   The  Company's
restaurants  appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers and it uses advertising and
product  promotions  to  attract  customers.  The  Company  implements  periodic
promotions  as  appropriate  to maintain and increase its sales and profits.  It
also relies on radio and newspaper advertising,  as well as newspaper and direct
mail couponing programs, as appropriate,  to attract customers.  The Company has
developed  and  consistently  uses  sophisticated  consumer  marketing  research
techniques   to  monitor   customer   satisfaction   and   customers'   evolving
expectations.

EMPLOYEES

     At the end of fiscal  2000,  the  Company  employed  approximately  122,300
persons.  Of these  employees,  approximately  1,200 were  corporate  or concept
personnel  located  in the  Company's  restaurant  support  center  in  Orlando,
Florida,  approximately  5,100  were  restaurant  management  personnel  in  the
restaurants  or in field  offices,  and the  remainder  were  hourly  restaurant
personnel. Of the restaurant support center employees,  approximately 55 percent
were in management and the balance were administrative or office employees.  The
operating  executives  of the  Company  have an average of more than 16 years of
experience with the Company.  The restaurant  general  managers average 11 years
with the Company.  The Company believes that it provides working  conditions and
compensation  that  compare  favorably  with  those  of  its  competition.  Most
employees,  other than restaurant management and corporate management,  are paid
on an hourly basis. None of the Company's  employees are covered by a collective
bargaining agreement. The Company considers its employee relations to be good.

MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS

     The Company  strives for  leadership  in the  restaurant  business by using
technology  as a competitive  advantage.  Since 1975,  computers  located in the
restaurants have been used to assist in the management of the  restaurants.  The
Company has implemented  systems targeted at improved  financial  control,  cost
management,   enhanced  guest  service  and  improved  employee   effectiveness.
Management  information  systems  are  designed  to be  used  across  restaurant
concepts,  yet are  flexible  enough to meet the unique  needs of each  specific
restaurant concept.

     Restaurant  support  is  provided  from the  restaurant  support  center in
Orlando,  Florida,  seven days a week, 24 hours a day. A communications  network
sends and  receives  critical  business  data to and from the  restaurants  each
night,  providing  timely and  extensive  information  each  morning on business
activity in every location.  The restaurant  support center houses the Company's
data center,  which contains  sufficient  computing power to process information
from all  restaurants  quickly and  efficiently.  The Company's  information  is
processed  in a secured  environment  to protect  both the  actual  data and the
physical assets. The Company guards against business interruption by maintaining
a disaster recovery plan, which includes storing critical  business  information
off-site  and testing the disaster  recovery  plan at a hot-site  facility.  The
Company uses internally  developed  proprietary  software,  as well as purchased
software, with proven, non-proprietary hardware. This allows processing power in
terms of hardware  and  software to be  distributed  effectively  to each of the
Company's restaurant locations.





     The Company's  management  believes these systems have well  positioned the
Company  to  support  current  needs as well as future  growth.  The  Company is
committed to maintaining an industry  leadership position in information systems
and computing technology.  The Company uses a strategic information systems plan
that is prepared  internally and reviewed with senior management.  The plan is a
result of  projects  approved  by the  Executive  Information  Systems  Steering
Committee.  This  plan  prioritizes  information  systems  projects  based  upon
strategic, financial, regulatory and other business advantage criteria.

COMPETITION

     The  restaurant  industry is  intensely  competitive  with  respect to food
quality,  price,  service,  restaurant  location,  concept,   attractiveness  of
facilities,  and  effectiveness  of  advertising  and  marketing  programs.  The
restaurant  business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes;  national,
regional or local economic conditions; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the
type, number and location of competing restaurants; and consumers' discretionary
purchasing  power.  The Company  competes  within each market with  national and
regional chains as well as locally-owned restaurants, not only for customers but
also for  management  and hourly  personnel  and  suitable  real  estate  sites.
Restaurants  face growing  competition from the supermarket  industry,  which is
offering "convenient meals" in the form of improved entrees and side dishes from
the deli section.  The Company expects intense competition to continue in all of
these areas.

     Other  factors  pertaining  to the  Company's  competitive  position in the
industry  are   addressed   under  the   sections   entitled   "Purchasing   and
Distribution,"   "Advertising   and  Marketing,"  and  "Management   Information
Systems," and elsewhere in this report.

TRADEMARKS AND RELATED AGREEMENTS

     The Company regards its Red Lobster(R),  Olive Garden(R),  Bahama Breeze(R)
and  Smokey  Bones(SM) servicemarks as  having  significant  value  and as being
important  in  marketing  the  restaurants.  The  Company's  policy is to pursue
registration of its important  servicemarks and trademarks whenever possible and
to oppose vigorously any infringement of them.

     The only restaurant  operations outside of North America  historically have
been conducted  through Red Lobster Japan Partners,  a partnership  venture with
the  Japanese  retailer  JUSCO  that was  established  in 1982.  The  historical
financial results of Darden exclude the results of such operations. On April 26,
1995, the Darden  subsidiary,  GMRI, Inc.,  entered into an Area Development and
Franchise  Agreement  with Red Lobster  Japan  Partners,  which  operated 35 Red
Lobster  restaurants  in  Japan  as of May 28,  2000.  Darden  does  not have an
ownership interest in Red Lobster Japan Partners. Royalty income is not material
to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

SEASONALITY

     The Company's sales volumes fluctuate seasonally,  and are generally higher
in the spring and summer months, and lower in the fall and winter months. Severe
weather,  storms and similar  conditions may impact sales volumes  seasonally in
some operating regions.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

     The Company is subject to various  federal,  state and local laws affecting
its  business.  Each of the  Company's  restaurants  must comply with  licensing
requirements  and  regulations by a number of  governmental  authorities,  which
include  health,  safety and fire agencies in the state or municipality in which
the restaurant is located.  The development and operation of restaurants  depend
on selecting and acquiring  suitable  sites,  which are subject to zoning,  land
use, environmental,  traffic and other regulations. To date, the Company has not
been  significantly  affected  by any  difficulty,  delay or  failure  to obtain
required licenses or approvals.

     Presently about nine percent of total restaurant  revenues are attributable
to the sale of alcoholic  beverages.  Regulations  governing  their sale require
licensure by each site (in most cases,  on an annual  basis) and licenses may be
revoked or suspended  for cause at any time.  These  regulations  relate to many
aspects of  restaurant  operation,  including  the  minimum  age of patrons  and
employees,  hours of operation,  advertising,  wholesale  purchasing,  inventory
control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. The failure
of a restaurant to obtain





or retain these licenses would adversely affect the restaurant's operations. The
Company  is also  subject  in  certain  states to  "dram-shop"  statutes,  which
generally  provide an injured party with recourse against an establishment  that
wrongfully  serves  alcoholic  beverages to an intoxicated  person,  causing the
injury.   The  Company  carries  liquor  liability   coverage  as  part  of  its
comprehensive general liability insurance.

     The  Company is also  subject to federal  and state  minimum  wage laws and
other laws governing such matters as overtime, tip credits,  working conditions,
safety  standards,  and hiring and employment  practices.  Changes in these laws
during fiscal 2000 have not had a material effect on the Company's operations.

     The Company is currently operating under a Tip Rate Alternative  Commitment
("TRAC")  agreement  with  the  Internal  Revenue  Service.   Through  increased
educational and other efforts in the restaurants, the TRAC agreement reduces the
likelihood of potential chain-wide employer-only FICA assessments for unreported
tips.

     The Company is subject to federal and state environmental regulations,  but
these rules have not had a material effect on the Company's operations.

     The Company  continues to monitor its facilities  for  compliance  with the
Federal  Americans With  Disabilities  Act ("ADA") and related state statutes in
order to conform to their  requirements.  Under the ADA and related  state laws,
the Company could be required to expend funds to modify its  restaurants to make
them more readily  accessible to disabled persons,  to better provide service to
disabled  persons,  or to make  reasonable  accommodation  for the employment of
disabled persons.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     The executive  officers of the Company as of the date of this report are as
follows.

     Joe R. Lee, age 59, is Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of
Darden. Mr. Lee joined Red Lobster in 1967 as a member of its opening management
team,  and was named its President in 1975.  He was elected a Vice  President of
General  Mills in 1976, a Group Vice  President in 1979,  and an Executive  Vice
President  in  1981.  He  was  named  Executive  Vice  President,   Finance  and
International  Restaurants  in 1991,  and was elected a Vice Chairman of General
Mills in 1992 with  responsibility  for various  consumer  foods  businesses and
corporate  staff  functions.  Mr. Lee was elected a director of General Mills in
1985. He was named Chief Executive Officer of Darden in December of 1994.

     Blaine Sweatt, III, age 52, is President,  New Business  Development and an
Executive Vice  President of Darden.  He joined General Mills in 1976 in the Red
Lobster   organization  and  was  named  Director  of  New  Restaurant   Concept
Development  in 1981.  He was named Vice  President of General Mills in 1985 and
Senior Vice  President in 1994. Mr. Sweatt has been Executive Vice President and
a director of Darden since 1995.  Mr.  Sweatt led the teams that  developed  the
Olive Garden, Bahama Breeze and Smokey Bones concepts, among others.

     Bradley D. Blum, age 46, is President of Olive Garden and an Executive Vice
President  of  Darden.  Mr.  Blum  joined  General  Mills in 1978.  He was named
Director of Marketing in 1984, responsible for Big G Cereals, and he became Vice
President of Big G New Enterprises in 1989. In 1990, he was named Vice President
of Marketing for Cereal  Partners  Worldwide,  General Mills' joint venture with
Nestle,  headquartered  in Switzerland.  He joined the Company in 1994 as Senior
Vice  President of Marketing  for Olive Garden and was named  President of Olive
Garden in December of 1994.  He was named  Senior  Vice  President  of Darden in
September of 1995 and has been Executive Vice President and a director of Darden
since September of 1997.

     Richard E. Rivera, age 53, was named President of Red Lobster and Executive
Vice  President of Darden in December of 1997.  Mr. Rivera began his career with
Steak and Ale  Restaurants  of America.  He has held many  management  positions
within the industry during a career of more than 25 years.  Prior to joining Red
Lobster,  from 1994 to 1996, Mr. Rivera served as President and Chief  Executive
Officer of RARE Hospitality  International,  Inc., owner of LongHorn  Steakhouse
restaurants.  Mr. Rivera has been a director of Darden since joining the Company
in December of 1997.

     Linda J. Dimopoulos,  age 49, is Senior Vice President,  Chief  Information
Officer of Darden with  overall  responsibility  for  information  services  and
systems.  Ms.  Dimopoulos  joined the Company in 1982.  She was named  Director,
Corporate  Analysis in 1985. In 1986, she was named Vice  President,  Controller
for Red Lobster, and then





Vice  President,   Information  System  Services.  She  was  named  Senior  Vice
President,  Financial  Operations  in August  1993,  and Senior Vice  President,
Corporate  Controller and Business Information Systems in July 1998. She assumed
her present position in December of 1999.

     Gary  Heckel,  age 47,  is  President  of Bahama  Breeze  and  Senior  Vice
President of Darden.  Mr.  Heckel's career in the restaurant  industry  includes
employment  with  several  major  quick  service  and casual  dining  restaurant
companies,  such as Burger King Corporation,  Taco Bell Corp., and TGI Friday's,
Inc. Mr.  Heckel  joined  Darden in 1995 as Vice  President,  Operations  in the
Company's New Business Development division. He was named Senior Vice President,
Operations for Bahama Breeze in August of 1997.  Mr. Heckel was named  President
of Bahama Breeze in July of 1998 and was elected Senior Vice President of Darden
in June of 1999.

     Stephen Helsel, age 55, is Senior Vice President,  Corporate  Controller of
Darden. He joined the Company in 1973 as an accountant with Red Lobster, and has
been  promoted to  increasingly  responsible  positions  throughout  the Company
during his  career.  In 1989,  he was named Vice  President,  Controller  of Red
Lobster.  He was named Vice President,  Controller,  Accounting  Services of the
Company in 1991. In 1996, he was promoted to Senior Vice President,  Information
Services of Darden. Mr. Helsel assumed his present position in December of 1999.

     Daniel M. Lyons,  age 47, is Senior Vice President,  Human Resources of the
Company with overall responsibility for human resources, including compensation,
benefits,  management  development,   staffing,  corporate  security,  diversity
management  and  aviation.  Mr.  Lyons joined the Company in 1993 as Senior Vice
President of Personnel for Olive Garden.  He was elected to his present position
in January of 1997. Prior to joining Olive Garden, Mr. Lyons spent 18 years with
the Quaker Oats Company.

     Robert W. Mock, age 48, was named President of Smokey Bones in September of
1999.  Mr.  Mock  joined  the  Company  in 1969 and,  through  the  years,  held
management  positions  in various  areas of the Company.  In 1992,  Mr. Mock was
named  Executive Vice President and General  Manager of Red Lobster  Canada.  In
1994, Mr. Mock was named Executive Vice President,  Operations for Olive Garden.
In July 1998,  he was named  Senior  Vice  President  of Darden,  a position  he
continues to hold.

     Barry Moullet, age 42, is Senior Vice President,  Purchasing,  Distribution
and Food  Safety for the  Company.  He joined  Darden in July of 1996.  Prior to
joining  Darden,  Mr.  Moullet  spent  15 years in the  purchasing  field,  most
recently with Restaurant Services,  Inc., a Burger King purchasing co-operative.
Prior to Burger King, he gained  experience  with Kentucky Fried Chicken and the
Pillsbury  Company.  Mr. Moullet  became an executive  officer of Darden in June
1999.

     Clarence  Otis,  Jr.,  age 44, is Senior Vice  President,  Chief  Financial
Officer of the  Company.  Mr. Otis joined the Company in 1995 as Vice  President
and Treasurer. In July of 1997, he assumed responsibility for investor relations
and was named Senior Vice President,  Investor Relations and Treasurer.  In July
1998, Mr. Otis assumed  additional  responsibilities  in the area of finance and
was named Senior Vice President,  Finance and Treasurer.  He assumed his present
position in December 1999.  Prior to joining the Company,  Mr. Otis was employed
by Chemical Securities, Inc. in New York where he had been Managing Director and
Manager of Public Finance since 1991. Prior to his work at Chemical  Securities,
Mr. Otis was employed by Siebert  Municipal  Capital Group as Managing  Director
and Principal.

     Paula J. Shives, age 49, was elected Senior Vice President, General Counsel
and  Secretary of Darden in June of 1999.  Ms.  Shives began her legal career in
1979 as  Corporate  Counsel for  Jerrico,  Inc.,  the  predecessor  to Long John
Silver's  Restaurants,  Inc. After spending several  additional years in private
practice  with  the law  firm  of  Greenebaum,  Doll &  McDonald  in  Lexington,
Kentucky,  Ms. Shives rejoined Long John Silver's  Restaurants,  Inc. in 1985 as
Associate General Counsel, and became its Senior Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary in 1995. Ms. Shives joined Darden in May of 1999.

     James D. Smith, age 57, is Senior Vice President,  Real Estate,  Design and
Construction  of the Company.  Mr. Smith  joined  General  Mills in 1982 and was
named Senior Vice President and Controller of the restaurant operations in 1988.
In  December  1994,  Mr.  Smith  was  named  Senior  Vice  President,   Finance.
Subsequently,  he assumed  increasing  responsibilities  in connection  with the
Company's  real  estate  development  activities  and was  named to his  present
position in July of 1998.





     Richard J. Walsh,  age 48, is Senior Vice President,  Corporate  Relations,
with responsibility for all corporate  communications,  environmental relations,
creative  and  print  services,  media  and  government,  public  and  community
relations,  including the Darden Restaurants,  Inc. Foundation. Mr. Walsh joined
General Mills in 1984 as Manager of Government  Affairs for Red Lobster.  He was
named Vice  President  of  Government  Relations in 1987 and was promoted to his
present position in December of 1994.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Certain information included in this report and other materials filed or to
be filed by the Company with the Commission (as well as information  included in
oral  statements  or written  statements  made or to be made by the Company) may
contain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of
the  Securities  Act of 1933,  as amended,  and  Section  21E of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  This forward-looking  information is based on
assumptions   concerning   important   risks  and   uncertainties   that   could
significantly affect anticipated results in the future and,  accordingly,  could
cause the actual  results to  materially  differ  from  those  expressed  in the
forward-looking  statements.  These risks and uncertainties include competition,
economic and market conditions,  changes in food and other costs,  importance of
locations,  effects  of  government  regulations  and the  Company's  ability to
achieve its growth objectives,  each of which is more specifically  discussed in
Exhibit 99 filed with and incorporated into this report.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     As of May 28, 2000, the Company operated 1,139  restaurants  (including 654
Red  Lobster,   469  Olive  Garden,  14  Bahama  Breeze  and  two  Smokey  Bones
restaurants) and one Olive Garden Cafe in the following locations:



     Of the Company's  1,139  restaurants  and the Olive Garden Cafe open on May
28, 2000,  733 were on owned sites and 407 were on leased sites.  The 407 leases
are classified as follows:

     Land-Only Leases (Darden owns buildings and equipment)...........      287
     Ground and Building Leases.......................................       71
     Space/In-Line/Other Leases.......................................       49
                                                                           ----

          Total.......................................................      407
                                                                           ====

     During fiscal 1999, the Company formed two subsidiary corporations, each of
which  elected to be taxed as a Real  Estate  Investment  Trust  ("REIT")  under
Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. These elections limit the
activities for both  corporations  to holding  certain real estate  assets.  The
formation  of these two REITs is  designed  primarily  to assist the  Company in
managing its real estate  portfolio  and possibly to provide a vehicle to access
future capital markets.

     Both REITs are non-public REITs. Through its subsidiary  companies,  Darden
indirectly  owns 100% of all voting  stock and  greater  than 99.5% of the total
value of each REIT. For financial reporting purposes, both REITs are included in
Darden's consolidated group.





     The  Company  owns its  executive  offices,  culinary  center and  training
facilities  in Orlando,  Florida.  Except in limited  instances,  the  Company's
restaurant   sites  and  other  facilities  are  not  subject  to  mortgages  or
encumbrances securing money borrowed by the Company from outside sources.

     See also Notes 5 and 13 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements on
pages  36  and  38,  respectively,  of  the  Company's  2000  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     From time to time, the Company is made a party to legal proceedings arising
in the  ordinary  course of  business.  The Company  does not  believe  that the
results of such legal proceedings, even if unfavorable to the Company, will have
a materially adverse impact on its financial position,  results of operations or
cash flows. See the section entitled "Government Regulation" for a discussion of
various federal, state and local regulatory matters.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.





                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The Company's common stock (no par value) has been registered and is traded
on the New York  Stock  Exchange.  As of July 24,  2000,  the  number  of record
holders of common stock was 31,896.  Trading of the Company's common stock began
on a "when  issued"  basis on May 9, 1995,  at a price per share of $9.375.  The
following  table  sets  forth the high and low  intraday  sales  prices  for the
Company's  common stock for each full  quarterly  period  during fiscal 1999 and
2000.

                      PER SHARE SALES PRICE OF COMMON STOCK


     During fiscal 2000, the Company declared two semi-annual  dividends of four
cents per share each. The first semi-annual  dividend (four cents per share) was
paid on November 1, 1999,  to  stockholders  of record on October 11, 1999.  The
second  semi-annual  dividend (four cents per share) was paid on May 1, 2000, to
stockholders of record on April 10, 2000.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     The  information  for fiscal 1996 through 2000,  contained in the Five Year
Financial   Summary  on  page  44  of  the  Company's   2000  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

     The information set forth in the section entitled "Management's  Discussion
of Results of Operations and Financial  Condition" on pages 22 through 25 of the
Company's  2000  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  is  incorporated   herein  by
reference.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The Company is exposed to a variety of market risks, including fluctuations
in interest rates,  foreign  currency  exchange rates and commodity  prices.  To
manage this exposure,  Darden  periodically  enters into interest rate,  foreign
currency exchange and commodity instruments for other than trading purposes.

     The Company uses the  variance/covariance  method to measure value at risk,
over  time  horizons  ranging  from  one  week to one  year,  at the 95  percent
confidence  level. As of May 28, 2000, the Company's  potential losses in future
net  earnings  resulting  from  changes  in  foreign  currency  exchange  rates,
commodity   prices  and  floating  rate  debt  interest  rate   exposures   were
approximately  $1.5 million over a period of one year. The value at risk from an
increase in the fair value of the Company's  long-term  fixed rate debt,  over a
period  of one  year,  was  approximately  $20  million.  The fair  value of the
Company's  long-term  fixed rate debt during  fiscal 2000 averaged $234 million,
with a high of $243 million and a low of $225 million.  The  Company's  interest
rate risk  management  objective is to limit the impact of interest rate changes
on earnings and cash flows by targeting an appropriate mix of variable and fixed
rate debt.





ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The  Independent  Auditors'  Report,  Consolidated  Statements of Earnings,
Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders'
Equity,  Consolidated  Statements  of Cash  Flows,  and  Notes  to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements on pages 26 through 43 of the Company's 2000 Annual Report
to Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information contained in the sections entitled "Information  Concerning
Nominees" on pages 4 through 7,  "Committees of the Board" on pages 7 through 9,
and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting  Compliance" on page 22 of the
Company's  definitive  proxy  materials  dated August 8, 2000,  is  incorporated
herein  by  reference.  Certain  information  regarding  executive  officers  is
contained in Part I above.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information  contained in the sections entitled "Board Compensation and
Benefits" on page 7, "Summary  Compensation Table" on page 14, "Option Grants in
Last  Fiscal  Year"  on page 15 and  "Stock  Options"  on pages 16 and 17 of the
Company's  definitive  proxy  materials dated August 8, 2000, is incorporated by
reference.  The information  appearing in such proxy materials under the heading
"Report of Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation" is not incorporated
herein.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The  information  contained in the  sections  entitled  "Certain  Owners of
Common Stock" on page 3 and "Share  Ownership of Directors and Officers" on page
10 of the  Company's  definitive  proxy  materials  dated  August  8,  2000,  is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information  contained in the sections entitled "Certain  Relationships
and  Related  Transactions"  on pages 10  through  11 and  "Loans  to  Executive
Officers" on page 20 of the Company's definitive proxy materials dated August 8,
2000, is incorporated herein by reference.





                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1. Financial Statements:

     Consolidated  Statements  of  Earnings  for the fiscal  years ended May 28,
2000,  May 30, 1999, and May 31, 1998  (incorporated  by reference to page 27 of
the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     Consolidated  Balance Sheets at May 28, 2000 and May 30, 1999 (incorporated
by reference to page 28 of the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     Consolidated  Statements of Changes in Stockholders'  Equity for the fiscal
years  ended May 28,  2000,  May 30,  1999,  and May 31, 1998  (incorporated  by
reference to page 29 of the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows for the fiscal  years ended May 28,
2000,  May 30, 1999, and May 31, 1998  (incorporated  by reference to page 30 of
the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements  (incorporated by reference to
pages 31 through 43 of the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     2.  Financial Statements Schedules:

     Not applicable.

     3.  Exhibits:

     Pursuant  to Item  601(b)(4)(iii)  of  Regulation  S-K,  copies of  certain
instruments  defining  the rights of holders  of certain  long-term  debt of the
Company are not filed, and in lieu thereof, the Company agrees to furnish copies
thereof to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

     Exhibit Number                         Title

          3(a)        Articles of  Incorporation (incorporated herein by
                      reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company's Registration
                      Statement on Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

          3(b)        Bylaws (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(b)
                      to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10
                      effective May 5, 1995)

          4(a)        Rights  Agreement  dated as of May 28, 1995  between
                      the Company and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National
                      Association,   formerly   known  as   Norwest   Bank
                      Minnesota,  N.A., as amended May 23, 1996,  assigned
                      to First Union National Bank, as Rights Agent, as of
                      September  29, 1997  (incorporated  by  reference to
                      Exhibit 4(a) to the Company's  Annual Report on Form
                      10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 1998)

          4(b)        Indenture  dated as of January 1, 1996,  between the
                      Company  and Wells  Fargo Bank  Minnesota,  National
                      Association,   formerly   known  as   Norwest   Bank
                      Minnesota,  N.A., as Trustee (incorporated herein by
                      reference to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form
                      8-K filed February 9, 1996)

       * 10(a)        Darden  Restaurants,  Inc. Amended and Restated Stock
                      Option and  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan of 1995,  as
                      amended and approved at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
                      on September 23, 1999


- -------------------
[FN]
*  Items that are management  contracts or  compensatory  plans or  arrangements
   required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.






       * 10(b)        Darden Restaurants,  Inc. FlexComp Plan (incorporated
                      herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's
                      Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

       * 10(c)        Darden  Restaurants,  Inc. Stock Option and Long-Term
                      Incentive  Conversion Plan, as amended  (incorporated
                      herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company's
                      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                      May 26, 1996)

       * 10(d)        Supplemental  Pension Plan of Darden Restaurants,  Inc.
                      (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d)
                      to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10
                      effective May 5, 1995)

       * 10(e)        Executive Health Plan of Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.
                      (incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to
                      the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 effective
                      May 5, 1995)

       * 10(f)        Stock Plan for  Directors of Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.,
                      as amended  December 10, 1996,  and June 26, 1998
                      (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10(f) to the
                      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                      year ended May 31, 1998)

       * 10(g)        Compensation  Plan for  Non-Employee  Directors  of Darden
                      Restaurants,  Inc.,  as amended  June 17,  1997
                      (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10(g) to the
                      Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                      year ended May 31, 1998)

       * 10(h)        Darden Restaurants,  Inc.  Management and Professional
                      Incentive Plan, as amended and restated on June 21, 2000

       * 10(i)        Benefits Trust  Agreement  dated as of October 3, 1995,
                      between  the  Company and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota,
                      National Association,  formerly known as Norwest Bank
                      Minnesota, N.A., as Trustee (incorporated herein by
                      reference to Exhibit  10(i) to the Company's  Annual
                      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 25,
                      1997)

       * 10(j)        Form of Management  Continuity  Agreement,  as
                      amended,  between  the  Company  and  certain of its
                      executive officers (incorporated herein by reference
                      to Exhibit 10(j) to the  Company's  Annual Report on
                      Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 25, 1997)

            12        Computation of Ratio of Consolidated Earnings to Fixed
                      Charges

            13        Portions of 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders
                      (incorporated by reference herein)

            21        Subsidiaries of Darden Restaurants, Inc.

            23        Independent Accountants' Consent

            24        Powers of Attorney

            27        Financial Data Schedule

            99        Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities
                      Litigation Reform Act of 1995


- -------------------
[FN]
*  Items that are management  contracts or  compensatory  plans or  arrangements
   required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.






(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.  During the last quarter  covered by this report,  the
     Company filed the following current report on Form 8-K:

     (i)  Current  report on Form 8-K dated March 23,  2000,  reporting  certain
          financial  results for the third quarter of fiscal 2000 and announcing
          the election of Rita P. Wilson to the Board of Directors.





                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

     Dated:  August 18, 2000                         DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
                                                     By:  /s/ Paula J. Shives
                                                          Paula J. Shives
                                                       Senior Vice President,
                                                  General Counsel and Secretary

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.



*BY:  Paula J. Shives, Attorney-In-Fact
      August 18, 2000




                                  EXHIBIT INDEX



                                    EXHIBITS

 Exhibit
 Number                               Title
- --------                              -----

   3(a)       Articles of Incorporation (incorporated herein by reference
              to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company's Registration Statement on
              Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

   3(b)       Bylaws  (incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit  3(b)
              to the  Company's  Registration Statement on Form 10
              effective May 5, 1995)

   4(a)       Rights  Agreement  dated as of May 28,  1995  between  the
              Company   and  Wells   Fargo  Bank   Minnesota,   National
              Association,  formerly  known as Norwest  Bank  Minnesota,
              N.A.,  as amended  May 23,  1996,  assigned to First Union
              National  Bank, as Rights Agent,  as of September 29, 1997
              (incorporated   by   reference  to  Exhibit  4(a)  to  the
              Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
              ended May 31, 1998)

   4(b)       Indenture dated as of January 1, 1996, between the Company
              and Wells  Fargo  Bank  Minnesota,  National  Association,
              formerly known as Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., as Trustee
              (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Current
              Report on Form 8-K filed February 9, 1996)

* 10(a)       Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.  Amended and Restated Stock
              Option and Long-Term  Incentive Plan of 1995,  as amended
              and approved at the Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders  on
              September 23, 1999

* 10(b)       Darden Restaurants,  Inc. FlexComp Plan (incorporated
              herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's
              Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

* 10(c)       Darden Restaurants,  Inc. Stock Option and Long-Term
              Incentive  Conversion Plan, as amended (incorporated
              herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              May 26, 1996)

* 10(d)       Supplemental  Pension Plan of Darden Restaurants,  Inc.
              (incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to
              the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 effective
              May 5, 1995)

* 10(e)       Executive  Health Plan of Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.
              (incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to
              the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 effective
              May 5, 1995)

* 10(f)       Stock Plan for Directors of Darden  Restaurants,  Inc., as
              amended December 10, 1996, and June 26, 1998 (incorporated
              by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company's  Annual
              Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 1998)


- -------------------
[FN]
*  Items that are management  contracts or  compensatory  plans or  arrangements
   required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.






                                    EXHIBITS

 Exhibit
 Number                               Title
- --------                              -----

* 10(g)        Compensation Plan for Non-Employee  Directors of Darden
               Restaurants, Inc., as amended June 17, 1997 (incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit  10(g) to the  Company's  Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31,
               1998)

* 10(h)        Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.  Management  and  Professional
               Incentive  Plan,  as amended and restated on June 21, 2000

* 10(i)        Benefits  Trust  Agreement  dated as of  October 3, 1995,
               between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota,
               National  Association,  formerly  known  as  Norwest  Bank
               Minnesota,   N.A.,  as  Trustee  (incorporated  herein  by
               reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Company's  Annual Report
               on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 25, 1997)

* 10(j)        Form of Management Continuity Agreement, as amended,
               between the Company and certain of its executive  officers
               (incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the
               Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
               ended May 25, 1997)

     12        Computation of Ratio of Consolidated Earnings to Fixed
               Charges

     13        Portions of 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders (incorporated
               by reference herein)

     21        Subsidiaries of Darden Restaurants, Inc.

     23        Independent Accountants' Consent

     24        Powers of Attorney

     27        Financial Data Schedule

     99        Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities
               Litigation Reform Act of 1995


- -------------------
[FN]
*  Items that are management  contracts or  compensatory  plans or  arrangements
   required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.




