
10-K405
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. FISCAL 1997 FORM 10-K405



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    FORM 10-K
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Mark One)

/X/  ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE  SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

                     For the fiscal year ended May 25, 1997

/ /  TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO  SECTION  13  OR  15(D) OF THE  SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

   For the transition period from                      to
                                  --------------------    -------------------

                             Commission File Number
                                    1-13666
                             ----------------------

                            DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                FLORIDA                                  59-3305930
- ----------------------------------------    ------------------------------------
    (State or other jurisdiction of         (IRS Employer Identification Number)
     incorporation or organization)

       5900 LAKE ELLENOR DRIVE
           ORLANDO, FLORIDA                                 32809
- ----------------------------------------    ------------------------------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

                                 (407) 245-4000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

                          ---------------------------

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                                   Name of each exchange
          Title of each class                       on which registered
    COMMON STOCK, WITHOUT PAR VALUE                NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
- ----------------------------------------    ------------------------------------


        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (G) OF THE ACT: NONE

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  Registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  X   No 
                                                -----    -----

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by Reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

     Aggregate  market  value of  Common  Stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant,  based on the closing  price of $9.0625 per share as reported on the
New York Stock Exchange on July 28, 1997: $1,375 million.

     Number  of  shares  of  Common  Stock  outstanding  as of  July  28,  1997:
153,019,238 (excluding 7,124,005 shares held in the treasury).

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions  of  Registrant's  Proxy  Statement  dated  August  12,  1997  are
incorporated  by  reference  into Part III, and  portions of  Registrant's  1997
Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and
IV.



                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS OF DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.

INTRODUCTION

     Darden  Restaurants,  Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Darden")
is the world's  largest  full-service  restaurant  organization.*  In the United
States,  as of May 25, 1997,  it operated  1,122  restaurants  in 49 states (the
exception being Alaska),  including 652 Red Lobster, 461 The Olive Garden, seven
The Olive  Garden  Cafe and two Bahama  Breeze  restaurants.  In  addition,  the
Company operated 67 restaurants in Canada, including 51 Red Lobster units and 16
The  Olive  Garden  units.   All  of  its   restaurants  in  North  America  are
Company-operated. Although the Company has been investigating the possibility of
the franchising of its Canadian units, no viable  prospects exist as of the date
of the filing of this report.  In Japan,  as of May 25, 1997,  Red Lobster Japan
Partners, a Japanese retailer unaffiliated with Darden,  operated 38 Red Lobster
restaurants pursuant to an Area Development and Franchise Agreement.

     The Company,  a Florida  corporation  incorporated in March of 1995, is the
parent company of GMRI,  Inc., a Florida  corporation,  which owns the operating
assets of the restaurants.  GMRI, Inc. was originally  incorporated on March 27,
1968, as Red Lobster Inns of America, Inc.

     The Company's  principal executive offices are located at 5900 Lake Ellenor
Drive,  Orlando,  Florida 32809 (telephone  number (407)  245-4000).  Unless the
context  indicates  otherwise,  all references to Darden or the Company  include
Darden, GMRI and their subsidiaries.

BACKGROUND

     The  Company  opened its first  restaurant,  a Red  Lobster,  in  Lakeland,
Florida in January of 1968.  Red Lobster was founded by William B.  Darden,  for
whom the  Company is named.  The Company was  acquired  by General  Mills,  Inc.
("General Mills") in 1970 and became an independent publicly held company in May
of 1995 when General Mills  distributed all outstanding  Darden stock to General
Mills stockholders (the "Distribution").

     While the  expansion of the  Company's  two largest  restaurant  chains has
historically been steady, the number of restaurants for both Red Lobster and The
Olive  Garden  declined in fiscal  1997 due to the  closing of  under-performing
units and an increased focus on system optimization.  Red Lobster has grown from
three  restaurants in operation in 1970 to 703 units in North America by the end
of fiscal year 1997. The Olive Garden, an internally  developed concept,  opened
its first restaurant in December of 1982, and expanded to 461 restaurants in the
United  States  and 16  restaurants  in Canada by the end of fiscal  year  1997.
Additionally,  at the end of fiscal year 1997,  The Olive Garden  operated seven
cafes in food  courts  located  in  regional  shopping  malls  within the United
States.

     The Company's  newest  restaurant  concept is Bahama Breeze,  an internally
developed  concept with a Caribbean  theme.  The Company opened its first Bahama
Breeze in Orlando in February of 1996 and a second in May of 1997.

STRATEGY

     The  Company is a leader in the  casual-dining  segment  of the  restaurant
industry. The Company is committed to the following key strategies.

     o    Developing and operating  distinctive  restaurant concepts,  each with
          its own culture, operating practices,  physical environment,  menu and
          marketing approach.

- ------------------------------
* Source: Restaurants & Institutions Magazine, July 1, 1996 edition.



     o    Expanding its current portfolio of restaurant concepts, and internally
          developing  or  acquiring  additional  concepts  which can be expanded
          profitably.

     o    Attracting,   developing  and  retaining  experienced  management  and
          personnel  committed to providing  customer  satisfaction and business
          results.

     o    Achieving  operating  efficiencies  by sharing  support  services  and
          infrastructure among its restaurant concepts.

     o    Maintaining   consumer  awareness  through  advertising  and  consumer
          promotions.

     The  following  table  lists the number of  restaurants  by year of the Red
Lobster,  The Olive  Garden,  China Coast and Bahama  Breeze  concepts and total
sales:

              COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANTS OPEN AT FISCAL YEAR-END


- ------------------------------
(a)  These  numbers do not include the seven The Olive Garden Cafes in operation
     as of May 25, 1997.
(b)  In August  1995,  the  Company  approved  the  closing  of all China  Coast
     restaurants.




INDUSTRY OVERVIEW

     In the United States, the restaurant industry generates  approximately $211
billion  in  annual  sales,   or  roughly   one-third  of  total  consumer  food
expenditures.*  Expenditures for restaurant dining and other meals prepared away
from home have  increased  from 25% of the food  dollar in 1955 to 44% in 1996.*
Over  the  past 20  years,  restaurant  sales  have  grown  at a rate one to two
percentage points faster than the growth of food-at-home sales.* The industry is
highly  fragmented  and  is  characterized  by  the  presence  of  thousands  of
independent  operators and small chains.  While chain  restaurants  dominate the
fast-food  segment with a combined  market share of 63%, chains account for just
23% in the full-service segment.* The Company believes that capable operators of
strong  multi-unit  concepts  will  continue  to  increase  their  share  of the
full-service restaurant market.

     Casual dining is the fastest growing segment of the full-service restaurant
market, with sales increasing at a 6.5% annual compound growth rate since 1991.*
Today,  casual dining  represents 36% of full-service  restaurant  sales, or $35
billion.* Darden is a leader in the casual-dining  segment, with approximately a
nine percent market share.* Management believes that casual-dining concepts will
benefit from favorable demographic trends, most notably the maturing population.
Forty  to  sixty  year  olds  are  the  most  frequent  users  of  casual-dining
restaurants,  and  through  this  decade  and  the  next,  the  population  aged
forty-five  or older is projected to increase by  approximately  34 million.  In
addition,  "baby-boomers" (i.e.,  thirty-two to fifty year olds) tend to eat out
more than generations before them so, as they age, their casual dining frequency
may become  even  higher.  Finally,  this group  includes a high  proportion  of
two-income  families,  which the Company  believes could increase the demand for
food-away-from-home  due to a combination of more discretionary  income and less
discretionary time.

     Restaurants face growing competition from the supermarket industry which is
offering  improved entrees and side dishes from the deli section.  Supermarkets'
renewed emphasis on such "convenient meals" may have the most impact on segments
of the restaurant industry in which the meals fulfill a primarily  physiological
objective,  such as in the "quick serve" and "midscale" segments.  Casual dining
offers a more  significant  social  component  with the meal, a feature that the
supermarkets' "convenient meals" do not readily confer.

RESTAURANT CONCEPTS

RED LOBSTER(R)

     Red  Lobster  is  the  largest  chain  of  full-service,  seafood-specialty
restaurants  in the United States.  It offers an extensive menu featuring  fresh
fish, shrimp, crab, lobster, scallops, and other seafood in a casual atmosphere.
The menu includes a variety of specialty seafood and non-seafood  appetizers and
desserts.  For the ninth  consecutive  year,  Red Lobster was named Best Seafood
Chain in America in the 1997 America's Choice In Chains national consumer survey
published in the February 1, 1997 issue of Restaurants & Institutions magazine.

     Dinner  entree  prices  range  from  $6.99 to  $18.99,  with fresh fish and
certain lobster items available at market price.  Lunch entree prices range from
$4.99 to $7.99.  During  fiscal  year  1997,  the  average  check per person was
between $12.75 to $14.25, with alcoholic beverages  accounting for approximately
eight percent of sales. Red Lobster also offers a lower-priced  children's menu.
The Company maintains  approximately  100 different menus to reflect  geographic
differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections in its trade areas.

     Red Lobster is currently  remodeling  its  restaurants  with a  distinctive
wharfside look that uses weathered wood accented by nautical artifacts to create
a warm and  casual  seaside  atmosphere.  Research  indicates  strong,  positive
consumer  response.  As of May 25, 1997,  approximately 90% of total Red Lobster
units had the wharfside look. This percentage includes 496 remodeled restaurants
and 144  new or  relocated  restaurants.  Red  Lobster  plans  to  substantially
complete the wharfside remodeling project within fiscal year 1998.

- ------------------------------

*    Sources:  United  States  Department  of  Commerce  Census of Retail  Trade
     (1996); National Restaurant Association Annual Foodservice Forecast (1996);
     and CREST Annual Household Summary (1996).




THE OLIVE GARDEN(R)

     The Olive  Garden is the  largest  chain of  casual,  full-service  Italian
restaurants in the United States.  The moderately  priced menu features  recipes
from both northern and southern  Italy.  For the eighth  consecutive  year,  The
Olive Garden was named Best  Dinnerhouse  Chain in America in the 1997 America's
Choice In Chains  national  consumer  survey  published  in the February 1, 1997
issue of Restaurants & Institutions magazine.

     Dinner  entree  prices range from $6.95 to $13.95,  and lunch entree prices
range from $4.75 to $7.95. During fiscal year 1997, the average check per person
was  between  $10.00  and  $12.00,  with  alcoholic  beverages   accounting  for
approximately eight percent of sales.

     The Olive Garden places  importance on brand building and, as a result,  is
(like Red Lobster) one of the largest advertisers in the full-service restaurant
industry.  The Olive Garden Cafe concept,  which is a limited-menu  cafe in food
court settings of regional  shopping  malls,  operated in seven locations at the
end of fiscal year 1997. The Company is also  experimenting  with new restaurant
decor and additional menu improvements.

EXPANSION STRATEGY

     During  fiscal year 1997,  the  Company  opened 20  restaurants  (excluding
pre-existing restaurants relocated to other sites). It plans to open from six to
ten new Red  Lobster,  The Olive  Garden and Bahama  Breeze  restaurants  during
fiscal year 1998  (excluding  relocations).  The Company's new store openings by
concept are shown below:

                                            ACTUAL          PROJECTED
                                          FISCAL 1997      FISCAL 1998
                                          -----------      -----------
     Red Lobster.......................        13                 1
     The Olive Garden..................         6               5-6
     Bahama Breeze.....................         1               0-3
                                               --              ----
     Totals............................        20              6-10
                                               ==              ====

     The Company's  objective is to continue to expand its current  portfolio of
restaurant  concepts,  and to develop internally or acquire additional  concepts
which can be expanded.  It is currently working on test concepts,  including its
recently opened Bahama Breeze restaurant in Orlando.  The Company also regularly
evaluates potential acquisition  candidates as to whether they would satisfy the
Company's strategic and financial  objectives.  At present,  the Company has not
identified any specific acquisitions.

     The Company will  continue to focus on improving  operational  execution at
The Olive  Garden and Red  Lobster,  and limit new  restaurant  expansion to the
highest-potential sites. The specific number of openings will also depend upon a
number of factors,  including the Company's ability to locate appropriate sites,
negotiate   acceptable   purchase  or  lease  terms,   obtain   necessary  local
governmental permits,  complete  construction,  and recruit and train restaurant
management and hourly personnel.

     Darden  considers  location  to  be a  critical  factor  in  determining  a
restaurant's  long-term  success  and  devotes  significant  effort  to the site
selection  process for new  locations.  Prior to  entering a market,  a thorough
study is conducted to determine the optimal number and placement of restaurants.
The Company's site selection process utilizes a variety of analytical techniques
to evaluate a number of important  factors.  These  factors  include  trade area
demographics,  such as target  population  density and household  income levels;
competitive influences in the trade area; the site's visibility,  accessibility,
and traffic  volume;  and proximity to activity  centers such as shopping malls,
hotel/motel  complexes,  offices and universities.  Members of senior management
evaluate,  inspect and approve each  restaurant  site prior to its  acquisition.
After site  acquisition  and receipt of permits,  it typically  takes 120 to 180
days to construct and open a new restaurant.




     The following table illustrates the approximate average capital investment,
size and dining  capacity  of the  fiscal  year 1997 Red  Lobster  and The Olive
Garden openings (excluding relocations of existing restaurants):

                                   CAPITAL     SQUARE    DINING    DINING
                                 INVESTMENT     FEET     SEATS     TABLES
                                 ----------    ------    ------    ------
     Red Lobster..............   $1,846,000     5,039      162       44
     The Olive Garden.........   $2,529,000     7,092      243       47

     The Red Lobster  figures  reflect the average of three building sizes which
the Company  utilizes to expand in trade areas of varying  sizes.  The  building
sizes for new restaurants  opened in fiscal 1997 (excluding  relocations)  range
from 4,100 to 6,400 square  feet;  the numbers of dining seats range from 135 to
222; and the numbers of dining  tables range from 34 to 58.  During  fiscal year
1997, Red Lobster opened 13 restaurants  that were located  primarily in smaller
markets.

     The Olive Garden figures  reflect the average of three building sizes which
the Company  utilizes to expand in trade areas of varying  sizes.  The  building
sizes for new restaurants  opened in fiscal 1997 (excluding  relocations)  range
from 6,050 to 9,100 square  feet;  the numbers of dining seats range from 180 to
378; and the numbers of dining  tables range from 38 to 68.  During  fiscal year
1997, The Olive Garden opened six restaurants.

     Bahama Breeze opened its second restaurant in Altamonte  Springs,  Florida,
in May, 1997. The Company hopes to secure up to three  additional  Bahama Breeze
restaurant sites for potential fiscal year 1998 openings,  but the actual number
of openings may vary due to the factors previously discussed.

     The Company  systematically reviews the performance of its restaurant sites
to ensure that each unit meets its  standards.  When a unit falls below  minimum
standards,  a thorough  analysis is  completed  to  determine  the  causes,  and
marketing  and  operational   plans  are  implemented  to  improve  that  unit's
performance.  If performance does not improve to acceptable  levels, the site is
evaluated for  relocation,  closing or conversion to one of the Company's  other
concepts.  In fiscal year 1997,  the Company  permanently  closed 38 Red Lobster
restaurants  in the United  States  and one Red  Lobster  restaurant  in Canada.
During the same period,  The Olive Garden  permanently  closed 16 restaurants in
the United  States.  For a  discussion  of  restructuring  and asset  impairment
charges related to these restaurant  closings,  see  Management's  Discussion of
Results  of  Operations  and  Financial   Condition  and  Note  3  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  on  pages 12 and 19,  respectively,  of the
Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders.

     During fiscal 1997, Red Lobster  relocated or rebuilt 20  restaurants  (not
included  in the  numbers of new store  openings or  permanent  closings  stated
above).  These  actions  repositioned  older Red Lobster  restaurants  to better
locations and/or more contemporary buildings.

RESTAURANT OPERATIONS

     The Company believes that high-quality restaurant management is critical to
its long-term  success.  It also believes that its leadership  position,  strong
success-oriented   culture  and  various  short-term  and  long-term   incentive
programs,  including  stock  options,  help attract and retain  highly-motivated
restaurant  managers committed to providing  superior customer  satisfaction and
outstanding business results.

     The  Company's  restaurant  management  structure  varies  by  concept  and
restaurant  size.  Each  restaurant is led by a general  manager and one to four
additional  managers,  depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of
the  restaurant.  Each restaurant  also employs  approximately  65 to 115 hourly
employees,  most of whom work part-time.  The Company issues detailed operations
manuals  covering  all  aspects  of  restaurant  operations  as well as food and
beverage  manuals  which  detail the  preparation  procedures  of the  Company's
formulated  recipes.  The restaurant  management  teams are  responsible for the
day-to-day  operation of each  restaurant and for ensuring  compliance  with the
Company's operating  standards.  Restaurant general managers report to directors
at Red Lobster and The Olive Garden,  and each director is responsible for seven
to  14  restaurants.   Restaurants  are  visited  regularly  by  all  levels  of
supervision  to  ensure  strict  adherence  to  all  aspects  of  the  Company's
standards.




     Each concept's vice president or director of training, together with senior
operations  executives,  is  responsible  for developing  and  maintaining  that
concept's  operational training programs.  These efforts include a 12-to-15 week
training program for management  trainees,  and continuing  development programs
for  managers,  supervisors  and  directors.  The  emphasis of the  training and
development  programs  vary by  restaurant  concept but include  improvement  of
leadership, restaurant business management and culinary skills. The Company also
utilizes a highly structured training program to open new restaurants, including
training teams  consisting of groups of employees  experienced in all aspects of
restaurant  operations.  The opening  training  teams  typically  begin  on-site
training one week prior to opening and remain on location one week following the
opening.  They are phased out when appropriate to ensure a smooth  transition to
the restaurant's operating staff.

QUALITY ASSURANCE

     The  Company's   Quality   Assurance   Department  helps  ensure  that  all
restaurants provide  high-quality food products in a clean and safe environment.
The  Company   ensures  that  all  seafood   purchased   meets  or  exceeds  its
specifications through rigorous physical evaluation and testing. Since 1976, the
Company has  maintained a  microbiological  laboratory to routinely test seafood
and commodity  products for quality.  In addition,  quality  assurance  managers
visit each restaurant location  periodically  throughout the year to ensure that
food is properly  handled,  and to provide education and training in food safety
and  sanitation.  The  quality  assurance  managers  also  serve as a liaison to
regulatory  agencies  on  issues  relating  to food  safety.  The  Company  uses
independent  third party  auditors to inspect and evaluate  vendors of commodity
food  products  to  ensure  that  its   suppliers   are  operating   under  good
manufacturing practices with the comprehensive industry standard Hazard Analysis
Critical Control Points programs in place.

PURCHASING AND DISTRIBUTION

     The Company's  ability to ensure a consistent  supply of high-quality  food
and supplies at  competitive  prices to all of its restaurant  concepts  depends
upon procurement from reliable sources.  The Company's purchasing staff sources,
negotiates and buys internally  specified food and supplies from more than 1,490
suppliers in 44 countries. To ensure the quality of all food products, suppliers
are  required to meet  strict  quality  control  standards  in the  development,
harvest,  catch and/or production of food products.  Competitive bids, long-term
contracts  and  long-term  vendor  relationships  are  routinely  used to ensure
availability of products and stability of costs.

     The  Company  believes  that  its  seafood  purchasing  capabilities  are a
significant  competitive  advantage.  The Company's  purchasing  staff routinely
travels  within  the  United  States  and  internationally  to  source  over 100
varieties  of  top-quality  seafood at  competitive  prices.  Red Lobster is the
single largest buyer in the United States of many seafood products.  The Company
believes that it has  established  excellent  long-term  relationships  with key
seafood vendors, and sources product directly when possible. It employs an agent
in South America to provide  timely  information on local seafood market trends,
identify  purchasing  opportunities  and inspect product at the source.  It also
operates a  procurement  office in Singapore to source  products  directly  from
Asia.  While the supply of certain  seafood  species is  volatile,  the  Company
believes that it has  demonstrated the ability to identify  alternative  seafood
products and to adjust its menus as required.  All other essential food products
are  available,  or can be made available  upon short notice,  from  alternative
qualified suppliers. Because of the relatively rapid turnover of perishable food
products, inventories in the restaurants have a modest aggregate dollar value in
relation  to  revenues.   Controlled   inventories  of  specified  products  are
distributed to all restaurants through a national distribution company. See Note
2 of Notes to the Consolidated  Financial Statements on page 19 of the Company's
1997 Annual Report to Stockholders.

ADVERTISING AND MARKETING

     The Company  believes that it has  developed  significant  advertising  and
marketing  capabilities.  The  Company's  size  enables  it to be  the  dominant
advertiser in the full-service segment of the restaurant  industry.  The Company
leverages  the  efficiency  of  national  network  television   advertising  and
supplements  it  with  local  market  television   advertising.   The  Company's
restaurants  appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers and it uses advertising and
product  promotions  to  attract  customers.  The  Company  implements  periodic
promotions  as  appropriate  to maintain and increase its sales and profits.  It
also relies on radio and newspaper advertising,  as well as newspaper




and direct  mail  couponing  programs  to attract  customers.  The  Company  has
developed and consistently  utilizes  sophisticated  consumer marketing research
techniques   to  monitor   customer   satisfaction   and   customers'   evolving
expectations.

EMPLOYEES

     At the end of fiscal year 1997, the Company employed 114,582 persons: 1,105
corporate  personnel;  87 seafood  processing plant personnel;  5,446 restaurant
management personnel;  and the remainder,  hourly restaurant  personnel.  Of the
1,105 corporate employees, 621 were in management and 484 were administrative or
office  employees.  The  operating  executives of the Company have an average of
more than 18.1 years of  experience  with the Company.  The  restaurant  general
managers  average  9.4 years with the  Company.  The  Company  believes  that it
provides working  conditions and compensation  that compare favorably with those
of its  competition.  Most  employees,  other  than  restaurant  management  and
corporate  management,  are  paid on an  hourly  basis.  None  of the  Company's
employees  are  covered  by  a  collective  bargaining  agreement.  The  Company
considers its employee relations to be good.

MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS

     The Company strives for leadership in the restaurant  business by utilizing
technology as a competitive advantage.  Since 1975, in-store computers have been
used to assist in the management of the restaurants. The Company has implemented
systems targeted at improved financial control, cost management,  enhanced guest
service and improved employee effectiveness.  Management information systems are
designed to be used across restaurant concepts,  yet are flexible enough to meet
the unique needs of each restaurant chain.  Restaurant  support is provided from
the  corporate  office,  seven  days a week,  24 hours a day.  A  communications
network sends and receives  critical  business data to and from the  restaurants
each night,  providing timely and extensive information each morning on business
activity in every  location.  The corporate  office  houses the  Company's  Data
Center,  which contains  sufficient  computing power to process information from
all restaurants quickly and efficiently.  The Company uses internally  developed
proprietary   software,   as   well  as   purchased   software,   with   proven,
non-proprietary  hardware. This allows processing power in terms of hardware and
software  to be  distributed  effectively  to each of the  Company's  restaurant
locations.

     The Company's  management  believes these systems have well  positioned the
Company  to  support  current  needs as well as future  growth.  The  Company is
committed to maintaining an industry  leadership position in information systems
and computing technology.  The Company utilizes a long-range information systems
plan that is prepared  internally and reviewed with senior management.  The plan
is a result of projects approved by the Information  Systems Executive  Steering
Committee.  This  plan  prioritizes  information  systems  projects  based  upon
financial, regulatory and other business advantage criteria.

     The  Company  has  committed  the  resources  necessary  to ensure that its
critical information systems and technology are "Year 2000 compliant" in advance
of the next millennium.  "Year 2000 compliant" refers to information systems and
technology  that  accurately  process  date/time  data  (including  calculating,
comparing and sequencing)  from, into and between the twentieth and twenty-first
centuries  and,  in  particular,  the years 1999 and 2000.  As of May 25,  1997,
approximately  25% of the Company's systems either have been modified to be Year
2000 compliant or have been eliminated due to changes in business  requirements.
Remaining  applications are expected to be Year 2000 compliant over the next two
years. The total cost to the Company of achieving Year 2000 compliant systems is
not expected to have a material impact on the Company's  financial  condition or
results of operations.

COMPETITION

     The  restaurant  industry is  intensely  competitive  with  respect to food
quality,  price,  service,  restaurant location,  concept, the attractiveness of
facilities,  and the  effectiveness of advertising and marketing  programs.  The
restaurant  business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes;  national,
regional or local economic conditions; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the
type, number and location of competing restaurants; and consumers' discretionary
purchasing  power.  The Company  competes  within each market with  national and
regional chains as




well  as  locally-owned  restaurants,  not  only  for  customers  but  also  for
management and hourly personnel and suitable real estate sites. Restaurants face
growing competition from the supermarket industry, which is offering "convenient
meals" in the form of improved  entrees  and side dishes from the deli  section.
The Company expects intense competition to continue in all of these areas.

TRADEMARKS AND RELATED AGREEMENTS

     The Company  regards its Red  Lobster(R),  The Olive  Garden(R)  and Bahama
Breeze(SM)  servicemarks as having  significant  value and as being important in
marketing the restaurants. The Company's policy is to pursue registration of its
important servicemarks and trademarks whenever possible and to oppose vigorously
any infringement of them.

     The only restaurant  operations outside of North America  historically have
been conducted  through Red Lobster Japan Partners,  a partnership  venture with
the  Japanese  retailer  JUSCO  that was  established  in 1982.  The  historical
financial results of Darden exclude the results of such operations. On April 26,
1995, the Darden  subsidiary,  GMRI, Inc.,  entered into an Area Development and
Franchise  Agreement  with Red Lobster  Japan  Partners,  which  operated 38 Red
Lobster  restaurants  in  Japan  as of May 25,  1997.  Darden  does  not have an
ownership interest in Red Lobster Japan Partners. Royalty income is not expected
to be material.

SEASONALITY

     The Company's sales volumes fluctuate seasonally,  and are generally higher
in the spring and summer months, and lower in the fall and winter months. Severe
weather,  storms and similar  conditions may impact sales volumes  seasonally in
some operating regions.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

     The Company is subject to various  federal,  state and local laws affecting
its  business.  Each of the  Company's  restaurants  must comply with  licensing
requirements  and  regulations by a number of  governmental  authorities,  which
include  health,   sanitation,   safety  and  fire  agencies  in  the  state  or
municipality  in which the restaurant is located.  The development and operation
of  restaurants  depend on selecting and  acquiring  suitable  sites,  which are
subject to zoning, land use,  environmental,  traffic and other regulations.  To
date, the Company has not been significantly  affected by any difficulty,  delay
or failure to obtain required licenses or approvals.

     Presently  about eight percent of restaurant  revenues are  attributable to
the sale of  alcoholic  beverages.  Regulations  governing  their  sale  require
licensure by each site (in most cases,  on an annual  basis) and licenses may be
revoked or suspended  for cause at any time.  These  regulations  relate to many
aspects of  restaurant  operation,  including  the  minimum  age of patrons  and
employees,  hours of operation,  advertising,  wholesale  purchasing,  inventory
control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. The failure
of a restaurant to obtain or retain these  licenses would  adversely  affect the
restaurant's  operations.  The  Company is also  subject  in  certain  states to
"dram-shop"  statutes,  which  generally  provide an injured party with recourse
against an  establishment  that  wrongfully  serves  alcoholic  beverages  to an
intoxicated  person causing the injury.  The Company  carries  liquor  liability
coverage as part of its comprehensive general liability insurance.

     The  Company is also  subject to federal  and state  minimum  wage laws and
other laws governing such matters as overtime, tip credits,  working conditions,
safety  standards,  and hiring and employment  practices.  Changes in these laws
during the fiscal year ended May 25, 1997, have not had a material effect on the
Company's operations.

     The Company is subject to federal and state environmental regulations,  but
these rules have not had a material effect on the Company's operations.

     The Company  continues to monitor its facilities  for  compliance  with the
Federal  Americans With  Disabilities  Act ("ADA") and




related state statutes in order to conform to their requirements.  Under the ADA
and related state laws,  the Company could be required to expend funds to modify
its restaurants to better provide  service to, or make reasonable  accommodation
for the employment of, disabled persons.

     The Company is currently operating under a Tip Rate Alternative  Commitment
("TRAC")  agreement  with the Internal  Revenue  Service.  The TRAC agreement is
expected  to reduce  the  likelihood  of future  chain-wide  employer-only  FICA
assessments for previously unreported tips.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     The executive  officers of the Company as of the date of this report are as
follows.

     Joe R. Lee, age 56, is currently  Chief  Executive  Officer and Chairman of
the Board of  Darden.  Mr.  Lee  joined  Red  Lobster in 1967 as a member of its
founding  team,  and was  named its  President  in 1975.  He was  elected a Vice
President  of General  Mills in 1976,  a Group Vice  President  in 1979,  and an
Executive Vice President in 1981, was named  Executive Vice  President,  Finance
and  International  Restaurants  in 1991,  and was  elected a Vice  Chairman  of
General Mills in 1992 with  responsibility for various consumer foods businesses
and corporate staff  functions.  Mr. Lee was elected a director of General Mills
in 1985. He was named Chief Executive Officer of Darden in December of 1994.

     Blaine Sweatt, III, age 49, is President,  New Business Division. He joined
General Mills in 1976 in the Red Lobster  organization and was named Director of
New  Restaurant  Concept  Development  in 1981.  Mr.  Sweatt  led the teams that
developed the concepts for The Olive Garden,  China Coast and Bahama Breeze.  He
was named Vice President in 1985 and Senior Vice President in 1994.

     Bradley D. Blum, age 43, is President of The Olive Garden.  Mr. Blum joined
General Mills in 1978. He was named  Director of Marketing in 1984,  responsible
for Big G Cereals,  and he became Vice  President  of Big G New  Enterprises  in
1989.  In 1990,  he was named Vice  President of Marketing  for Cereal  Partners
Worldwide,   General  Mills'  joint  venture  with  Nestle,   headquartered   in
Switzerland. He joined the Company in 1994 as Senior Vice President of Marketing
for The Olive Garden and was named  President of The Olive Garden in December of
1994. He was named Senior Vice President of Darden in September of 1995.

     Clarence Otis,  Jr., age 41, is Senior Vice President,  Investor  Relations
and  Treasurer  of the  Company.  Mr.  Otis  joined the  Company in 1995 as Vice
President and Treasurer. In July of 1997, he assumed responsibility for Investor
Relations and was named to his present  position.  Prior to joining the Company,
Mr. Otis was employed by Chemical Securities, Inc. in New York where he had been
Managing Director and Manager of Public Finance since 1991. Prior to his work at
Chemical Securities, Mr. Otis was employed by Siebert Municipal Capital Group as
Managing Director and Principal.

     Daniel Lyons,  age 44, is Senior Vice  President,  Personnel of the Company
with overall  responsibility for all personnel,  including  aviation,  benefits,
compensation,  employment,  corporate security,  and diversity  management.  Mr.
Lyons joined the Company in 1993 as Senior Vice  President of Personnel  for The
Olive Garden.  He was elected to his present  position in January of 1997. Prior
to joining  The Olive  Garden,  Mr.  Lyons  spent 18 years with the Quaker  Oats
Company.

     James  D.  Smith,  age  54,  is  Senior  Vice  President,   Finance,   with
responsibility for Financial Operations,  Treasury and Information Services. Mr.
Smith  joined  General  Mills in 1982 and was named  Senior Vice  President  and
Controller  of the  restaurant  operations  in 1988. He was named to his present
position in December of 1994.

     Richard J. Walsh,  age 45, is Senior Vice President,  Corporate  Relations,
with responsibility for all corporate  communications,  environmental relations,
media and  government,  public and  community  relations,  including  the Darden
Foundation.  Mr. Walsh  joined  General  Mills in 1984 as Manager of  Government
Affairs for Red Lobster. He was named Vice President of Government  Relations in
1987 and was promoted to his present position in December of 1994.




     Clifford L.  Whitehill,  age 66, was named a Senior Vice  President  of the
Company in December of 1994.  Mr.  Whitehill  joined General Mills in 1962 as an
attorney in the Law Department.  He was appointed  Assistant  General Counsel in
1968,  elected Vice President in 1971,  named General  Counsel in 1975,  elected
Senior Vice  President in 1981 and elected  Secretary of General  Mills in 1983.
Mr. Whitehill  retired from General Mills immediately prior to the Distribution,
and on that date he  assumed  his  responsibilities  at  Darden  as Senior  Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     As of May 25, 1997, the Company operated 1,189  restaurants,  including 703
Red Lobster,  477 The Olive  Garden,  seven The Olive Garden Cafe and two Bahama
Breeze restaurants in the following locations:



     Of the Company's 1,189  restaurants open on May 25, 1997, 744 were on owned
sites and 445 were on leased sites. The 445 leases are classified as follows:

     Land-Only Leases (Darden owns buildings and equipment)      293
     Ground and Building Leases                                   81
     Space/In-Line/Other Leases                                   71
                                                                 ---
          Total                                                  445
                                                                 ===

     The  Company  owns its  executive  offices,  culinary  center and  training
facilities  in  Orlando,  Florida.  It also owns and  operates  a small  seafood
processing plant in St. Petersburg,  Florida.  Except in limited instances,  the
Company's  restaurant sites and other facilities are not subject to mortgages or
encumbrances securing money borrowed by the Company.

     See also Notes 5 and 13 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements on
pages  20  and  23,  respectively,  of  the  Company's  1997  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is from time to time made a party to legal proceedings  arising
in the  ordinary  course of  business.  The Company  does not  believe  that the
results of such legal proceedings, even if unfavorable to the Company, will have
a materially  adverse  impact on its  financial  condition or the results of its
operations. See the section entitled "Government Regulation" for a discussion of
various federal, state and local regulatory matters.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.




                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The Company's common stock (no par value) has been registered and is traded
on the New York  Stock  Exchange.  As of July 28,  1997,  the  number  of record
holders of common stock was 27,969.  Trading of the Company's common stock began
on a "when  issued"  basis on May 9, 1995,  at a price per share of $9.375.  The
following  table  sets  forth the high and low sales  prices  for the  Company's
common stock for each full quarterly  period from the Distribution to the end of
fiscal year 1997.

                      PER SHARE SALES PRICE OF COMMON STOCK

FISCAL YEAR
   1996          FIRST QUARTER   SECOND QUARTER   THIRD QUARTER   FOURTH QUARTER
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   HIGH              $11.50          $12.00          $13.25           $14.00
   LOW               $ 9.75          $10.00          $10.625          $11.50
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FISCAL YEAR
   1997          FIRST QUARTER   SECOND QUARTER   THIRD QUARTER   FOURTH QUARTER
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   HIGH             $12.125          $ 9.25          $ 9.375          $ 8.50
   LOW              $ 7.50           $ 7.75          $ 6.75           $ 6.875
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     During fiscal year 1997, the Company declared two semi-annual  dividends of
four cents per share each. The first semi-annual dividend (four cents per share)
was paid on November 1, 1996, to stockholders of record on October 10, 1996. The
second  semi-annual  dividend (four cents per share) was paid on May 1, 1997, to
stockholders of record on April 10, 1997.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     The  information  for fiscal  years 1993  through  1997,  contained  in the
Five-Year  Financial  Summary on page 27 of the Company's  1997 Annual Report to
Stockholders, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

     The information set forth in the section entitled "Management's  Discussion
of Results of Operations and Financial  Condition" on pages 12 through 13 of the
Company's  1997  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  is  incorporated   herein  by
reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The  Independent  Auditors'  Report,  Consolidated  Statements  of Earnings
(Loss),  Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and
Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  on pages  14  through  26 of the
Company's  1997  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  are  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         Not applicable.




                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information contained in the sections entitled "Information  Concerning
Nominees" on pages 3 through 4,  "Committees of the Board" on pages 5 through 6,
and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting  Compliance" on page 15 of the
Company's  definitive  proxy  materials  dated August 12, 1997, is  incorporated
herein  by  reference.  Certain  information  regarding  executive  officers  is
contained in Part I above.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information  contained in the sections entitled "Board Compensation and
Benefits" on pages 4 and 5, "Summary  Compensation  Table" on pages 8 through 9,
and "Option  Grants in Last Fiscal Year" on page 9 of the  Company's  definitive
proxy  materials  dated August 12,  1997,  is  incorporated  by  reference.  The
information  appearing  in such proxy  materials  under the  heading  "Report of
Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation" is not incorporated herein.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The  information  contained in the  sections  entitled  "Certain  Owners of
Common Stock" on page 2 and "Share Ownership of Directors and Officers" on pages
6 through 7 of the Company's  definitive  proxy materials dated August 12, 1997,
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information  contained in the section entitled  "Certain  Relationships
and Related  Transactions" on page 7 of the Company's definitive proxy materials
dated August 12, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference.


                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:

     Consolidated  Statements of Earnings  (Loss) for the fiscal years ended May
25, 1997, May 26, 1996, and May 28, 1995  (incorporated  by reference to page 15
of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     Consolidated  Balance Sheets at May 25, 1997 and May 26, 1996 (incorporated
by reference to page 16 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows for the fiscal  years ended May 25,
1997, May 26, 1996 and May 28, 1995 (incorporated by reference to page 17 of the
Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements  (incorporated by reference to
pages 18 through 26 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     2. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SCHEDULES:

        Not applicable.




     3. EXHIBITS:

     Pursuant  to Item  601(b)(4)(iii)  of  Regulation  S-K,  copies of  certain
instruments  defining  the rights of holders  of certain  long-term  debt of the
Company are not filed, and in lieu thereof, the Company agrees to furnish copies
thereof to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

     EXHIBIT NUMBER                            TITLE

          3(a)      Articles of Incorporation  (incorporated herein by reference
                    to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company's  Registration  Statement on
                    Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

          3(b)      Bylaws  (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to
                    the  Company's  Registration  Statement on Form 10 effective
                    May 5, 1995)

          4(a)      Rights  Agreement  dated  as of May  28,  1995  between  the
                    Company and Norwest Bank  Minnesota,  N.A.,  as Rights Agent
                    (incorporated  herein by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1 to the
                    Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May 5,
                    1995)

          4(b)      Indenture  dated as of January 1, 1996,  between the Company
                    and Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee
                    (incorporated  herein by reference to the Company's  Current
                    Report on Form 8-K filed February 9, 1996)

        *10(a)      Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.  Stock  Option  and  Long-Term
                    Incentive Plan of 1995, as amended  (incorporated  herein by
                    reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Annual Report on
                    Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 26, 1996)

        *10(b)      Darden  Restaurants,  Inc. FlexComp Plan (incorporated
                    herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10(b)  to the  Company's
                    Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

        *10(c)      Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.  Stock Option and Long-Term
                    Incentive  Conversion Plan, as amended  (incorporated herein
                    by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company's Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 26, 1996)

        *10(d)      Supplemental Pension Plan of Darden Restaurants,  Inc.
                    (incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit  10(d) to the
                    Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May 5,
                    1995)

        *10(e)      Executive  Health  Plan of Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.
                    (incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit  10(e) to the
                    Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May 5,
                    1995)

        *10(f)      Stock   Plan  for   Non-Employee   Directors   of  Darden
                    Restaurants,  Inc.  (incorporated  herein  by  reference  to
                    Exhibit  10(f) to the  Company's  Registration  Statement on
                    Form 10 Effective May 5, 1995)

        *10(g)      Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Darden
                    Restaurants,  Inc.  (incorporated  herein  by  reference  to
                    Exhibit  10(g) to the  Company's  Registration  Statement on
                    Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

- ------------------------------

*    Items that are management  contracts or compensatory  plans or arrangements
     to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.





        *10(h)      Darden Restaurants, Inc. Management Incentive Plan, as
                    amended  (incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h)
                    to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                    year ended May 26, 1996)

        *10(i)      Benefits Trust  Agreement dated as of October 3, 1995,
                    between the Company and Norwest  Bank  Minnesota,  N.A.,  as
                    Trustee

        *10(j)      Form of Management  Continuity  Agreement  between the
                    Company and certain of its executive officers

         11         Determination of Common Shares and Common Share Equivalents

         12         Computation  of  Ratio  of  Consolidated  Earnings  to Fixed
                    Charges

         13         Portions of 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders (incorporated
                    by reference herein)

         21         Subsidiaries of Darden Restaurants, Inc.

         23         Independent Accountant's Consent

         24         Powers of Attorney

         27         Financial Data Schedule

- ------------------------------

*    Items that are management  contracts or compensatory  plans or arrangements
     to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.


(b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.  During the last quarter  covered by this Report,  the
     Company filed one report on Form 8-K. On March 11, 1997,  the Company filed
     a Current Report on Form 8-K announcing  certain  financial results for the
     third quarter of fiscal year 1997 and a $230 million  fourth-quarter pretax
     charge.




                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

     Dated:  August 15, 1997                DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
                                            By: /s/ C.L. Whitehill
                                                ------------------
                                                C.L. Whitehill
                                             SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT,
                                         GENERAL COUNSEL AND SECRETARY


     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has been  signed  below  by the  following  person's  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

          SIGNATURE                      TITLE                        DATE

/s/ H.B. Atwater, Jr.        Director
- --------------------------
H.B. Atwater, Jr.*

/s/ Daniel B. Burke          Director
- --------------------------
Daniel B. Burke*

/s/ Betty Southard Murphy    Director
- -------------------------- 
Betty Southard Murphy*

/s/ Jack A. Smith            Director
- --------------------------
Jack A. Smith*

/s/ Michael D. Rose          Director
- --------------------------
Michael D. Rose*

/s/ Joe R. Lee               Director, Chairman of the Board     August 15, 1997
- --------------------------   and Chief Executive Officer
Joe R. Lee                   (principal executive officer)

/s/ Blaine Sweatt, III       Director and President,
- --------------------------   New Business Division
Blaine Sweatt, III*

/s/ James D. Smith           Senior Vice President-Finance       August 15, 1997
- --------------------------   (principal financial officer and 
James D. Smith               principal accounting officer)


*BY:  C.L. Whitehill
      Attorney-In-Fact
      August 15, 1997





                                  EXHIBIT INDEX



                                    EXHIBITS


        EXHIBIT
        NUMBER                                  TITLE

          3(a)           Articles  of  Incorporation   (incorporated  herein  by
                         reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company's Registration
                         Statement on Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

          3(b)           Bylaws  (incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit
                         3(b) to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10
                         effective May 5, 1995)

          4(a)           Rights  Agreement  dated as of May 28, 1995 between the
                         Company and Norwest  Bank  Minnesota,  N.A.,  as Rights
                         Agent (incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1
                         to the  Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form 10
                         effective May 5, 1995)

          4(b)           Indenture  dated as of  January 1,  1996,  between  the
                         Company   and   Norwest   Bank   Minnesota,    National
                         Association,   as  Trustee   (incorporated   herein  by
                         reference to the Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K
                         filed February 9, 1996)

        *10(a)           Darden   Restaurants,   Inc.  Stock  Option  and
                         Long-Term   Incentive   Plan  of   1995,   as   amended
                         (incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit  10(a) to
                         the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                         year ended May 26, 1996)

        *10(b)           Darden   Restaurants,    Inc.   FlexComp   Plan
                         (incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit  10(b) to
                         the  Company's   Registration   Statement  on  Form  10
                         effective May 5, 1995)

        *10(c)           Darden  Restaurants,  Inc. Stock Option and Long-Term
                         Incentive  Conversion  Plan,  as amended  (incorporated
                         herein by reference to Exhibit  10(c) to the  Company's
                         Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
                         May 26, 1996)

        *10(d)           Supplemental  Pension Plan of Darden Restaurants,
                         Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d)
                         to the  Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form 10
                         effective May 5, 1995)

        *10(e)           Executive Health Plan of Darden Restaurants, Inc.
                         (incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit  10(e) to
                         the  Company's   Registration   Statement  on  Form  10
                         effective May 5, 1995)

        *10(f)           Stock Plan for  Non-Employee  Directors of Darden
                         Restaurants,  Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to
                         Exhibit 10(f) to the Company's  Registration  Statement
                         on Form 10 Effective May 5, 1995)


                                       i




                                    EXHIBITS

        EXHIBIT
        NUMBER                                  TITLE

        *10(g)           Compensation Plan for Non-Employee  Directors of
                         Darden  Restaurants,   Inc.   (incorporated  herein  by
                         reference   to   Exhibit   10(g)   to   the   Company's
                         Registration  Statement  on  Form 10  effective  May 5,
                         1995)

        *10(h)           Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.  Management  Incentive
                         Plan, as amended  (incorporated  herein by reference to
                         Exhibit  10(h) to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form
                         10-K for the fiscal year ended May 26, 1996)

        *10(i)           Benefits Trust  Agreement  dated as of October 3,
                         1995,  between the Company and Norwest Bank  Minnesota,
                         N.A., as Trustee

        *10(j)           Form of Management  Continuity  Agreement between
                         the Company and certain of its executive officers

         11              Determination   of  Common   Shares  and  Common  Share
                         Equivalents

         12              Computation of Ratio of Consolidated  Earnings to Fixed
                         Charges

         13              Portions   of  1997  Annual   Report  to   Stockholders
                         (incorporated by reference herein)

         21              Subsidiaries of Darden Restaurants, Inc.

         23              Independent Accountant's Consent

         24              Powers of Attorney

         27              Financial Data Schedule

- ------------------------------

*    Items that are management  contracts or compensatory  plans or arrangements
     to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.


                                       ii

