
10-K405
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549

    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    FORM 10-K
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------

(Mark One)

/X/  ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE  SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

                     For the fiscal year ended May 31, 1998

/ /  TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO SECTION  13 OR 15(D) OF THE  SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

   For the transition period from ____________________ to ___________________
 
                         Commission File Number 1-13666

                            DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                FLORIDA                                  59-3305930
    (State or other jurisdiction of         (IRS Employer Identification Number)
     incorporation or organization)

       5900 LAKE ELLENOR DRIVE                              32809
          ORLANDO, FLORIDA                                (Zip Code)
(Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (407) 245-4000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                                     Name of each exchange
      Title of each class                             On which registered
COMMON STOCK, WITHOUT PAR VALUE                     NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (G) OF THE ACT: NONE

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  Registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No ____

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by Reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

     Aggregate  market  value of  Common  Stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant,  based on the closing  price of $17.250 per share as reported on the
New York Stock Exchange on August 10, 1998: $2,375 million.

     Number of  shares  of Common  Stock  outstanding  as of  August  10,  1998:
139,184,130 (excluding 23,509,546 shares held in the treasury).

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

         Portions of Registrant's Proxy Statement dated August 10, 1998
                  are incorporated by reference into Part III,
        and portions of Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders
             are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV.




                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS OF DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.

INTRODUCTION

     Darden  Restaurants,  Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Darden")
is the world's  largest  full-service  restaurant  organization.*  In the United
States,  as of May 31, 1998,  it operated  1,118  restaurants  in 49 states (the
exception being Alaska),  including 648 Red Lobster(R), 461 The Olive Garden(R),
six The  Olive  Garden  Cafe(R)  and  three  Bahama  Breeze(R)  restaurants.  In
addition,  the  Company  operated 39  restaurants  in Canada,  including  34 Red
Lobster units and five The Olive Garden units.  All of its  restaurants in North
America are  Company-operated.  In Japan,  as of May 31, 1998, Red Lobster Japan
Partners, a Japanese retailer unaffiliated with Darden,  operated 37 Red Lobster
restaurants pursuant to an Area Development and Franchise Agreement.

     The Company,  a Florida  corporation  incorporated in March of 1995, is the
parent company of GMRI,  Inc., a Florida  corporation  ("GMRI"),  which owns the
operating assets of the restaurants.  GMRI was originally  incorporated on March
27, 1968, as Red Lobster Inns of America, Inc.

     The Company's principal executive offices and restaurant support center are
located at 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive,  Orlando,  Florida 32809  (telephone  number
(407)  245-4000).  Unless the context  indicates  otherwise,  all  references to
Darden or the Company include Darden, GMRI and their respective subsidiaries.

BACKGROUND

     The  Company  opened its first  restaurant,  a Red  Lobster,  in  Lakeland,
Florida in January of 1968.  Red Lobster was founded by William B.  Darden,  for
whom the  Company is named.  The Company was  acquired  by General  Mills,  Inc.
("General Mills") in 1970 and became an independent publicly held company in May
of 1995 when General Mills  distributed all outstanding  Darden stock to General
Mills stockholders (the "Distribution").

     While the  expansion of the  Company's  two largest  restaurant  chains has
historically been steady, the number of restaurants for both Red Lobster and The
Olive  Garden  declined  in fiscal  years  1997 and 1998 due to the  closing  of
under-performing  units  and an  increased  focus on  market  optimization.  Red
Lobster has grown from three  restaurants  in  operation in 1970 to 682 units in
North America by the end of fiscal year 1998.  The Olive  Garden,  an internally
developed concept, opened its first restaurant in December of 1982, and expanded
to 461  restaurants  in the United States and five  restaurants in Canada by the
end of fiscal year 1998. Additionally, at the end of fiscal year 1998, The Olive
Garden  operated  six cafes in food courts  located in regional  shopping  malls
within the United States.

     The Company's  newest  restaurant  concept is Bahama Breeze,  an internally
developed  concept  with a Caribbean  theme.  There are  currently  three Bahama
Breeze restaurants.  The first two are operating in Orlando and nearby Altamonte
Springs,  Florida.  On May 11, 1998, a third Bahama Breeze  restaurant opened in
Memphis, Tennessee.

STRATEGY

     The  Company is a leader in the  casual-dining  segment  of the  restaurant
industry. The Company is committed to the following key strategies.

     o    Developing and operating  distinctive  restaurant concepts,  each with
          its own culture, operating practices,  physical environment,  menu and
          marketing approach.

- ---------------------
*Source:  Restaurants & Institutions Magazine, July 1, 1997 edition.
          ----------------------------------------------------------






     o    Expanding its current portfolio of restaurant concepts, and internally
          developing  or  acquiring  additional  concepts  which can be expanded
          profitably.

     o    Attracting,   developing  and  retaining  experienced  management  and
          personnel  committed to providing  customer  satisfaction and business
          results.

     o    Achieving  operating  efficiencies  by sharing  support  services  and
          infrastructure among its restaurant concepts.

     o    Maintaining   consumer  awareness  through  advertising  and  consumer
          promotions.

     The following table lists the number of restaurants and total sales by year
of the Red Lobster, The Olive Garden and Bahama Breeze concepts.  The table also
includes  information about the now closed China Coast concept as its operations
are reflected in the Company's  Five-Year  Financial  Summary (see Part II, Item
6).

              COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANTS OPEN AT FISCAL YEAR-END



- ---------------------
(a) These numbers do not include the six The Olive Garden Cafes in operation as
    of May 31, 1998.
(b) In August 1995, the Company approved the closing of all China Coast
    restaurants.





INDUSTRY OVERVIEW

     In the United States, the restaurant industry generates  approximately $225
billion  in  annual  sales,   or  roughly   one-third  of  total  consumer  food
expenditures.*  Expenditures for restaurant dining and other meals prepared away
from home have  increased  from 25% of the food  dollar in 1955 to 44% in 1995.*
Over  the  past 20  years,  restaurant  sales  have  grown  at a rate one to two
percentage points faster than the growth of food-at-home sales.* The industry is
highly  fragmented  and  is  characterized  by  the  presence  of  thousands  of
independent  operators and small chains.  While chain  restaurants  dominate the
fast-food  segment with a combined  market share of 62%, chains account for just
22% in the full-service segment.* The Company believes that capable operators of
strong  multi-unit  concepts  will  continue  to  increase  their  share  of the
full-service restaurant market.

     Casual dining is the fastest growing segment of the full-service restaurant
market,  with sales  increasing at a 6.8% annual compound growth rate since 1991
and a 7.1%  annual  compound  growth  rate since  1992.*  Today,  casual  dining
represents 36% of full-service  restaurant  sales, or $37 billion.*  Darden is a
leader in the casual-dining  segment,  with  approximately a nine percent market
share.*  Management  believes  that  casual-dining  concepts  will  benefit from
favorable  demographic  trends, most notably the maturing  population.  Forty to
sixty year olds are the most frequent users of  casual-dining  restaurants,  and
through this decade and the next,  the  population  aged  forty-five or older is
projected to increase by approximately 34 million.  In addition,  "baby-boomers"
(i.e.,  thirty-three  to  fifty-one  year  olds)  tend  to  eat  out  more  than
generations  before them,  so, as they age,  their casual  dining  frequency may
become even higher. Finally, this group includes a high proportion of two-income
families,   which  the  Company   believes   could   increase   the  demand  for
food-away-from-home  due to a combination of more discretionary  income and less
discretionary time.

     Restaurants face growing competition from the supermarket industry which is
offering  improved entrees and side dishes from the deli section.  Supermarkets'
renewed emphasis on such "convenient meals" may have the most impact on segments
of the restaurant industry in which the meals fulfill a primarily  physiological
objective,  such as in the "quick serve" and "midscale" segments.  Casual dining
offers a more  significant  social  component  with the meal, a feature that the
supermarkets' "convenient meals" do not readily confer.

RESTAURANT CONCEPTS

Red Lobster

     Red  Lobster  is  the  largest  chain  of  full-service,  seafood-specialty
restaurants  in the United States.  It offers an extensive menu featuring  fresh
fish, shrimp, crab, lobster, scallops, and other seafood in a casual atmosphere.
The menu includes a variety of specialty seafood and non-seafood  appetizers and
desserts.  For the tenth  consecutive  year,  Red Lobster was named Best Seafood
Chain in America in the 1998 America's Choice In Chains national consumer survey
published in the March 1, 1998 issue of Restaurants & Institutions magazine.

     Dinner  entree  prices  range  from  $6.99 to  $18.99,  with fresh fish and
certain lobster items available at market price.  Lunch entree prices range from
$4.99 to $7.99.  During  fiscal  year  1998,  the  average  check per person was
between $13.50 to $14.75, with alcoholic beverages  accounting for approximately
eight percent of sales. Red Lobster also offers a lower-priced  children's menu.
The Company maintains  approximately  100 different menus to reflect  geographic
differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections in its trade areas.


- ---------------------
* Source:  United States Department of Commerce Census of Retail Trade (1996);
           -------------------------------------------------------------------
  National Restaurant Association Annual Foodservice Forecast (1997); and CREST
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Annual Household Summary (1997).
  --------------------------------





The Olive Garden

     The Olive  Garden is the  largest  chain of  casual,  full-service  Italian
restaurants in the United States.  The moderately  priced menu features  recipes
from both northern and southern Italy. For the ninth consecutive year, The Olive
Garden was named Best Dinnerhouse  Chain in America in the 1998 America's Choice
In Chains  national  consumer  survey  published  in the March 1, 1998  issue of
Restaurants & Institutions magazine.

     Dinner  entree  prices range from $6.95 to $13.95,  and lunch entree prices
range from $4.95 to $7.95. During fiscal year 1998, the average check per person
was between $11.00 and $12.30, with alcoholic beverages  accounting for slightly
more than eight percent of sales.

     The Olive Garden places  importance on brand building and, as a result,  is
(like Red Lobster) one of the largest advertisers in the full-service restaurant
industry.  The Olive Garden Cafe concept,  which is a limited-menu  cafe in food
court settings of regional shopping malls,  operated in six locations at the end
of fiscal year 1998. The Company also regularly  experiments with new restaurant
decor and additional menu improvements.

EXPANSION STRATEGY

     During fiscal year 1998,  the Company opened eight  restaurants  (excluding
pre-existing   restaurants   relocated  to  other  sites).   It  plans  to  open
approximately 13 new Red Lobster, The Olive Garden and Bahama Breeze restaurants
during  fiscal  year  1999  (excluding  relocations).  The  Company's  new store
openings by concept are shown below.

                                       ACTUAL          PROJECTED
                                     FISCAL 1998      FISCAL 1999
                                     -----------      -----------
           Red Lobster..............      1                 6
           The Olive Garden.........      6                 4
           Bahama Breeze............      1                 3
                                         --                --

           Totals...................      8                13
                                         ==                ==


     The Company's  objective is to continue to expand its current  portfolio of
restaurant  concepts,  and to develop internally or acquire additional  concepts
which can be expanded. It is currently testing new ideas and concepts, including
Bahama  Breeze,  its  Caribbean-themed  restaurant.  The Company also  regularly
evaluates  potential  acquisition  candidates  on whether they would satisfy the
Company's strategic and financial  objectives.  At present,  the Company has not
identified any specific acquisitions.

     The Company will continue to focus on improving  operational returns at The
Olive  Garden  and Red  Lobster,  and  limit  new  restaurant  expansion  to the
highest-potential  sites. In addition, the Company plans to expand Bahama Breeze
at the proper  pace so that each new  restaurant  captures  the  concept's  full
potential.  The  specific  number of openings  will also depend upon a number of
factors,  including the Company's ability to locate appropriate sites, negotiate
acceptable purchase or lease terms, obtain necessary local governmental permits,
complete  construction,  and recruit and train restaurant  management and hourly
personnel.

     Darden  considers  location  to  be a  critical  factor  in  determining  a
restaurant's  long-term  success  and  devotes  significant  effort  to the site
selection  process for new  locations.  Prior to  entering a market,  a thorough
study is conducted to determine the optimal number and placement of restaurants.
The Company's site selection process utilizes a variety of analytical techniques
to evaluate a number of important  factors.  These  factors  include  trade area
demographics,  such as target  population  density and household  income levels;
competitive influences in the trade area; the site's visibility,  accessibility,
and traffic  volume;  and proximity to activity  centers such as shopping malls,
hotel/motel  complexes,  offices and universities.  Members of senior management
evaluate,  inspect and approve each  restaurant  site prior to its  acquisition.
After site  acquisition  and receipt of permits,  it typically  takes 120 to 180
days to construct and open a new restaurant.





     The following table illustrates the approximate average capital investment,
size  and  dining  capacity  of the one Red  Lobster  and six The  Olive  Garden
openings  (excluding  relocations  of existing  restaurants)  during fiscal year
1998.

                                 CAPITAL      SQUARE      DINING      DINING
                               INVESTMENT      FEET        SEATS      TABLES
                               ----------     ------      ------      ------

     Red Lobster.............. $2,555,000      5,633        178         48
     The Olive Garden......... $2,897,000      7,484        236         58


     During  fiscal year 1998,  Red Lobster  opened one  restaurant in a smaller
market.  Therefore,  the Red Lobster  figures in the preceding table reflect the
capital  investment,  size  and  dining  capacity  of a single  restaurant  in a
relatively small market.

     During fiscal year 1998, The Olive Garden opened six restaurants. The Olive
Garden  figures in the  preceding  table  reflect the average of three  building
sizes which the Company  utilizes to expand in trade areas of varying sizes. The
building sizes for new restaurants opened in fiscal 1998 (excluding relocations)
range from 6,014 to 9,300  square  feet;  the numbers of dining seats range from
185 to 293; and the numbers of dining tables range from 42 to 76.

     Bahama Breeze opened its third  restaurant in Memphis,  Tennessee,  in May,
1998. The Company hopes to open up to three additional Bahama Breeze restaurants
during  fiscal year 1999,  but the actual number of openings may vary due to the
factors previously discussed.

     The Company  systematically reviews the performance of its restaurant sites
to ensure that each unit meets its  standards.  When a unit falls below  minimum
standards,  a thorough  analysis is  completed  to  determine  the  causes,  and
marketing  and  operational   plans  are  implemented  to  improve  that  unit's
performance.  If performance does not improve to acceptable  levels, the site is
evaluated for  relocation,  closing or conversion to one of the Company's  other
concepts.

     In fiscal  year 1998,  the  Company  permanently  closed  four Red  Lobster
restaurants in the United States and 17 Red Lobster  restaurants  in Canada.  An
additional Red Lobster restaurant in the United States was temporarily closed at
the end of fiscal 1998, but was scheduled to re-open in fiscal 1999.  During the
same period,  The Olive Garden  permanently closed six restaurants in the United
States and 11 restaurants in Canada. For a discussion of restructuring and asset
impairment  charges  related  to these  restaurant  closings,  see  Management's
Discussion of Results of Operations and Financial  Condition and Note 3 of Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements on pages 5 and 14,  respectively,  of the
1998  Financial  Statements  booklet  in the  Company's  1998  Annual  Report to
Stockholders.

     During fiscal 1998, Red Lobster  relocated or rebuilt 11  restaurants  (not
included  in the  numbers of new store  openings or  permanent  closings  stated
above).  These  actions  repositioned  older Red Lobster  restaurants  to better
locations and/or more contemporary buildings.

RESTAURANT OPERATIONS

     The Company believes that high-quality restaurant management is critical to
its long-term  success.  It also believes that its leadership  position,  strong
success-oriented   culture  and  various  short-term  and  long-term   incentive
programs,  including  stock  options,  help attract and retain  highly-motivated
restaurant  managers committed to providing  superior customer  satisfaction and
outstanding business results.

     The  Company's  restaurant  management  structure  varies  by  concept  and
restaurant  size.  Each  restaurant is led by a general  manager and one to four
additional  managers,  depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of
the  restaurant.  Each restaurant  also employs  approximately  65 to 140 hourly
employees,  most of whom work part-time.  The Company issues detailed operations
manuals  covering  all  aspects  of  restaurant  operations  as well as food and
beverage  manuals  which  detail the  preparation  procedures  of the  Company's
formulated  recipes.  The restaurant  management  teams are  responsible for the
day-to-day  operation of each  restaurant and for ensuring





compliance with the Company's operating  standards.  Restaurant general managers
report to directors at Red Lobster and The Olive  Garden,  and each  director is
responsible  for seven to 14 restaurants.  Restaurants are visited  regularly by
all levels of  supervision  to ensure  strict  adherence  to all  aspects of the
Company's standards.

     Each concept's vice president or director of training, together with senior
operations  executives,  is  responsible  for developing  and  maintaining  that
concept's  operational training programs.  These efforts include a 12-to-15 week
training program for management  trainees,  and continuing  development programs
for  managers,  supervisors  and  directors.  The  emphasis of the  training and
development  programs varies by restaurant concept,  but includes improvement of
leadership, restaurant business management and culinary skills. The Company also
utilizes a highly structured training program to open new restaurants, including
training teams  consisting of groups of employees  experienced in all aspects of
restaurant  operations.  The opening  training  teams  typically  begin  on-site
training one week prior to opening and remain on location one week following the
opening.  They are phased out when appropriate to ensure a smooth  transition to
the restaurant's operating staff.

QUALITY ASSURANCE

     The  Company's   Quality   Assurance   Department  helps  ensure  that  all
restaurants provide  high-quality food products in a clean and safe environment.
The  Company   ensures  that  all  seafood   purchased   meets  or  exceeds  its
specifications through rigorous physical evaluation and testing. Since 1976, the
Company has  maintained a  microbiological  laboratory to routinely test seafood
and commodity  products for quality.  In addition,  quality  assurance  managers
visit each restaurant location  periodically  throughout the year to ensure that
food is properly  handled,  and to provide education and training in food safety
and  sanitation.  The  quality  assurance  managers  also  serve as a liaison to
regulatory  agencies  on  issues  relating  to food  safety.  The  Company  uses
independent  third party  auditors to inspect and evaluate  vendors of commodity
food  products  to  ensure  that  its   suppliers   are  operating   under  good
manufacturing practices with the comprehensive industry standard Hazard Analysis
Critical Control Points programs in place.

PURCHASING AND DISTRIBUTION

     The Company's  ability to ensure a consistent  supply of high-quality  food
and supplies at  competitive  prices to all of its restaurant  concepts  depends
upon procurement from reliable sources.  The Company's purchasing staff sources,
negotiates and buys internally  specified food and supplies from more than 3,276
suppliers in 44 countries. To ensure the quality of all food products, suppliers
are  required to meet  strict  quality  control  standards  in the  development,
harvest,  catch and/or production of food products.  Competitive bids, long-term
contracts  and  long-term  vendor  relationships  are  routinely  used to ensure
availability of products and stability of costs.

     The  Company  believes  that  its  seafood  purchasing  capabilities  are a
significant  competitive  advantage.  The Company's  purchasing  staff routinely
travels  within  the  United  States  and  internationally  to  source  over 100
varieties  of  top-quality  seafood at  competitive  prices.  Red Lobster is the
single largest buyer in the United States of many seafood products.  The Company
believes that it has  established  excellent  long-term  relationships  with key
seafood vendors, and sources product directly when possible. It employs an agent
in South America to provide  timely  information on local seafood market trends,
identify  purchasing  opportunities  and inspect product at the source.  It also
operates a  procurement  office in Singapore to source  products  directly  from
Asia.  While the supply of certain  seafood  species is  volatile,  the  Company
believes that it has  demonstrated the ability to identify  alternative  seafood
products and to adjust its menus as required.  All other essential food products
are  available,  or can be made available  upon short notice,  from  alternative
qualified suppliers. Because of the relatively rapid turnover of perishable food
products, inventories in the restaurants have a modest aggregate dollar value in
relation  to  revenues.   Controlled   inventories  of  specified  products  are
distributed to all restaurants through a national distribution company. See Note
2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 13 of the 1998 Financial
Statements booklet in the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.

ADVERTISING AND MARKETING

     The Company  believes that it has  developed  significant  advertising  and
marketing  capabilities.  The  Company's  size  enables  it to be  the  dominant
advertiser in the full-service segment of the restaurant  industry.  The





Company leverages the efficiency of national network television  advertising and
supplements  it  with  local  market  television   advertising.   The  Company's
restaurants  appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers and it uses advertising and
product  promotions  to  attract  customers.  The  Company  implements  periodic
promotions  as  appropriate  to maintain and increase its sales and profits.  It
also relies on radio and newspaper advertising,  as well as newspaper and direct
mail  couponing  programs to attract  customers.  The Company has  developed and
consistently  utilizes  sophisticated  consumer marketing research techniques to
monitor customer satisfaction and customers' evolving expectations.

EMPLOYEES

     At the end of fiscal year 1998, the Company employed  114,800  persons.  Of
these  employees,   1,067  were  corporate  personnel,   5,283  were  restaurant
management personnel, and the remainder were hourly restaurant personnel. Of the
1,067 corporate employees, 588 were in management and 479 were administrative or
office  employees.  The  operating  executives of the Company have an average of
more than 19.7 years of  experience  with the Company.  The  restaurant  general
managers  average  9.8 years with the  Company.  The  Company  believes  that it
provides working  conditions and compensation  that compare favorably with those
of its  competition.  Most  employees,  other  than  restaurant  management  and
corporate  management,  are  paid on an  hourly  basis.  None  of the  Company's
employees  are  covered  by  a  collective  bargaining  agreement.  The  Company
considers its employee relations to be good.

MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS

     The Company strives for leadership in the restaurant  business by utilizing
technology as a competitive advantage.  Since 1975, in-store computers have been
used to assist in the management of the restaurants. The Company has implemented
systems targeted at improved financial control, cost management,  enhanced guest
service and improved employee effectiveness.  Management information systems are
designed to be used across restaurant concepts,  yet are flexible enough to meet
the unique needs of each restaurant chain.  Restaurant  support is provided from
the restaurant support center in Orlando, Florida, seven days a week, 24 hours a
day. A communications  network sends and receives  critical business data to and
from the restaurants each night, providing timely and extensive information each
morning on business  activity in every location.  The restaurant  support center
houses the Company's data center,  which contains sufficient  computing power to
process  information from all restaurants  quickly and efficiently.  The Company
uses internally developed  proprietary  software, as well as purchased software,
with proven,  non-proprietary hardware. This allows processing power in terms of
hardware and software to be  distributed  effectively  to each of the  Company's
restaurant locations.

     The Company's  management  believes these systems have well  positioned the
Company  to  support  current  needs as well as future  growth.  The  Company is
committed to maintaining an industry  leadership position in information systems
and computing  technology.  The Company utilizes a strategic information systems
plan that is prepared  internally and reviewed with senior management.  The plan
is a result of projects approved by the Executive  Information  Systems Steering
Committee.  This  plan  prioritizes  information  systems  projects  based  upon
financial, regulatory and other business advantage criteria.

     The  Company  has  committed  the  resources  necessary  to ensure that its
critical information systems and technology are "Year 2000 compliant" in advance
of the next millennium.  "Year 2000 compliant" refers to information systems and
technology  that  accurately  process  date/time  data  (including  calculating,
comparing and sequencing)  from, into and between the twentieth and twenty-first
centuries  and,  in  particular,  the years 1999 and 2000.  As of May 31,  1998,
approximately  50% of the Company's systems either have been modified to be Year
2000 compliant or have been eliminated due to changes in business  requirements.
Remaining  applications  are  expected to be Year 2000  compliant  over the next
fiscal  year.  The total cost to the Company of  achieving  Year 2000  compliant
systems is not  expected to have a material  impact on the  Company's  financial
condition or results of operations.  For additional  discussion of the Year 2000
issue,  see the  subsection  entitled  "Impact  of Year  2000"  in  Management's
Discussion  of Results of Operations  and  Financial  Condition on page 6 of the
1998  Financial  Statements  booklet  in the  Company's  1998  Annual  Report to
Stockholders.





COMPETITION

     The  restaurant  industry is  intensely  competitive  with  respect to food
quality,  price,  service,  restaurant location,  concept, the attractiveness of
facilities,  and the  effectiveness of advertising and marketing  programs.  The
restaurant  business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes;  national,
regional or local economic conditions; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the
type, number and location of competing restaurants; and consumers' discretionary
purchasing  power.  The Company  competes  within each market with  national and
regional chains as well as locally-owned restaurants, not only for customers but
also for  management  and hourly  personnel  and  suitable  real  estate  sites.
Restaurants  face growing  competition from the supermarket  industry,  which is
offering "convenient meals" in the form of improved entrees and side dishes from
the deli section.  The Company expects intense competition to continue in all of
these areas.

TRADEMARKS AND RELATED AGREEMENTS

     The Company  regards its Red  Lobster(R),  The Olive  Garden(R)  and Bahama
Breeze(R)  servicemarks  as having  significant  value and as being important in
marketing the restaurants. The Company's policy is to pursue registration of its
important servicemarks and trademarks whenever possible and to oppose vigorously
any infringement of them.

     The only restaurant  operations outside of North America  historically have
been conducted  through Red Lobster Japan Partners,  a partnership  venture with
the  Japanese  retailer  JUSCO  that was  established  in 1982.  The  historical
financial results of Darden exclude the results of such operations. On April 26,
1995, the Darden  subsidiary,  GMRI, Inc.,  entered into an Area Development and
Franchise  Agreement  with Red Lobster  Japan  Partners,  which  operated 37 Red
Lobster  restaurants  in  Japan  as of May 31,  1998.  Darden  does  not have an
ownership interest in Red Lobster Japan Partners. Royalty income is not expected
to be material.

SEASONALITY

     The Company's sales volumes fluctuate seasonally,  and are generally higher
in the spring and summer months, and lower in the fall and winter months. Severe
weather,  storms and similar  conditions may impact sales volumes  seasonally in
some operating regions.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

     The Company is subject to various  federal,  state and local laws affecting
its  business.  Each of the  Company's  restaurants  must comply with  licensing
requirements  and  regulations by a number of  governmental  authorities,  which
include  health,  safety and fire agencies in the state or municipality in which
the restaurant is located.  The development and operation of restaurants  depend
on selecting and acquiring  suitable  sites,  which are subject to zoning,  land
use, environmental,  traffic and other regulations. To date, the Company has not
been  significantly  affected  by any  difficulty,  delay or  failure  to obtain
required licenses or approvals.

     Presently about 8.2% of restaurant revenues are attributable to the sale of
alcoholic beverages.  Regulations governing their sale require licensure by each
site (in most  cases,  on an  annual  basis)  and  licenses  may be  revoked  or
suspended  for cause at any time.  These  regulations  relate to many aspects of
restaurant operation,  including the minimum age of patrons and employees, hours
of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling,
storage and  dispensing of alcoholic  beverages.  The failure of a restaurant to
obtain  or  retain  these  licenses  would  adversely  affect  the  restaurant's
operations.  The  Company  is also  subject  in  certain  states to  "dram-shop"
statutes,  which  generally  provide an injured party with  recourse  against an
establishment  that  wrongfully  serves  alcoholic  beverages to an  intoxicated
person causing the injury. The Company carries liquor liability coverage as part
of its comprehensive general liability insurance.

     The  Company is also  subject to federal  and state  minimum  wage laws and
other laws governing such matters as overtime, tip credits,  working conditions,
safety  standards,  and hiring and employment  practices.  Changes in these laws
during the fiscal year ended May 31, 1998, have not had a material effect on the
Company's operations.





     The Company is currently operating under a Tip Rate Alternative  Commitment
("TRAC") agreement with the Internal Revenue Service. The TRAC agreement reduces
the  likelihood  of  future  chain-wide   employer-only   FICA  assessments  for
previously  unreported tips through  increased  educational and other efforts in
the restaurants.

     The Company is subject to federal and state environmental regulations,  but
these rules have not had a material effect on the Company's operations.

     The Company  continues to monitor its facilities  for  compliance  with the
Federal  Americans With  Disabilities  Act ("ADA") and related state statutes in
order to conform to their  requirements.  Under the ADA and related  state laws,
the  Company  could be  required to expend  funds to modify its  restaurants  to
better provide service to, or make reasonable  accommodation  for the employment
of, disabled persons.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     The executive  officers of the Company as of the date of this report are as
follows.

     Joe R. Lee, age 57, is Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of
Darden. Mr. Lee joined Red Lobster in 1967 as a member of its opening management
team,  and was named its President in 1975.  He was elected a Vice  President of
General  Mills in 1976, a Group Vice  President in 1979,  and an Executive  Vice
President in 1981, was named Executive Vice President, Finance and International
Restaurants  in 1991,  and was elected a Vice  Chairman of General Mills in 1992
with  responsibility  for various  consumer foods businesses and corporate staff
functions. Mr. Lee was elected a director of General Mills in 1985. He was named
Chief Executive Officer of Darden in December of 1994.

     Blaine Sweatt, III, age 50, is President,  New Business  Development and an
Executive Vice  President of Darden.  He joined General Mills in 1976 in the Red
Lobster   organization  and  was  named  Director  of  New  Restaurant   Concept
Development  in 1981.  Mr. Sweatt led the teams that  developed the concepts for
The Olive Garden and Bahama Breeze  concepts,  among  others.  He was named Vice
President  in 1985 and  Senior  Vice  President  in 1994.  Mr.  Sweatt  has been
Executive Vice President and a director of Darden since 1995.

     Bradley D. Blum,  age 44, is President of The Olive Garden and an Executive
Vice  President of Darden.  Mr. Blum joined  General Mills in 1978. He was named
Director of Marketing in 1984, responsible for Big G Cereals, and he became Vice
President of Big G New Enterprises in 1989. In 1990, he was named Vice President
of Marketing for Cereal  Partners  Worldwide,  General Mills' joint venture with
Nestle,  headquartered  in Switzerland.  He joined the Company in 1994 as Senior
Vice President of Marketing for The Olive Garden and was named  President of The
Olive Garden in December of 1994.  He was named Senior Vice  President of Darden
in September of 1995 and  Executive  Vice  President and a director of Darden in
September of 1997.

     Richard E. Rivera, age 51, was named President of Red Lobster and Executive
Vice  President of Darden in December of 1997.  Mr. Rivera began his career with
Steak and Ale  Restaurants  of America  and has held many  management  positions
within the industry over the past 25 years.  Prior to joining Red Lobster,  from
1994 to 1996, Mr. Rivera served as President and Chief Executive Officer of RARE
Hospitality International,  Inc., owner of LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants.  Mr.
Rivera has been a director  of Darden  since  joining the Company in December of
1997.

     Linda J. Dimopoulos, age 48, is Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller
and  Business  Information  Systems of Darden with  overall  responsibility  for
corporate  reporting,  accounting,  information  services,  internal  audit  and
quality  assurance.  Ms.  Dimopoulos  joined the Company in 1982.  She was named
Director,  Corporate  Analysis in 1985. In 1986,  she was named Vice  President,
Controller  for  Red  Lobster,  and  then  Vice  President,  Information  System
Services.  She was named Senior Vice President,  Financial  Operations in August
1993, and assumed her present position in July 1998.

     Daniel  Lyons,  age 45, is Senior Vice  President,  Human  Resources of the
Company with overall responsibility for all personnel,  including  compensation,
benefits,  staffing,  corporate security, diversity management





and aviation.  Mr. Lyons joined the Company in 1993 as Senior Vice  President of
Personnel  for The Olive  Garden.  He was  elected to his  present  position  in
January of 1997.  Prior to joining The Olive  Garden,  Mr.  Lyons spent 18 years
with the Quaker Oats Company.

     Robert W. Mock,  age 46, is Executive  Vice  President,  Operations  of The
Olive Garden and Senior Vice President of Darden. Mr. Mock joined the Company in
1969 and, through the years,  held management  positions in various areas of the
Company.  In 1992,  Mr.  Mock was named  Executive  Vice  President  and General
Manager of Red  Lobster  Canada.  In 1994,  Mr.  Mock was named  Executive  Vice
President,  Operations  for The Olive  Garden.  He was  named to the  additional
position of Senior Vice President of Darden in July 1998.

     Clarence Otis, Jr., age 42, is Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer
of the  Company.  Mr.  Otis  joined the  Company in 1995 as Vice  President  and
Treasurer. In July of 1997, he assumed responsibility for investor relations and
was named Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasurer. In July 1998,
Mr.  Otis  assumed  additional  responsibilities  in the area of finance and was
named to his  present  position.  Prior to joining  the  Company,  Mr.  Otis was
employed by  Chemical  Securities,  Inc. in New York where he had been  Managing
Director and Manager of Public Finance since 1991. Prior to his work at Chemical
Securities, Mr. Otis was employed by Siebert Municipal Capital Group as Managing
Director and Principal.

     James D. Smith, age 55, is Senior Vice President,  Real Estate,  Design and
Construction  of the Company.  Mr. Smith  joined  General  Mills in 1982 and was
named Senior Vice President and Controller of the restaurant operations in 1988.
In  December  1994,  Mr.  Smith  was  named  Senior  Vice  President,   Finance.
Subsequently,  he assumed  increasing  responsibilities  in connection  with the
Company's  real  estate  development  activities  and was  named to his  present
position in July of 1998.

     Richard J. Walsh,  age 46, is Senior Vice President,  Corporate  Relations,
with responsibility for all corporate  communications,  environmental relations,
media and  government,  public and  community  relations,  including  the Darden
Restaurants,  Inc. Foundation. Mr. Walsh joined General Mills in 1984 as Manager
of Government Affairs for Red Lobster. He was named Vice President of Government
Relations in 1987 and was promoted to his present position in December of 1994.

     Clifford L.  Whitehill,  age 67, was named a Senior Vice  President  of the
Company in December of 1994.  Mr.  Whitehill  joined General Mills in 1962 as an
attorney in the Law Department.  He was appointed  Assistant  General Counsel in
1968,  elected Vice President in 1971,  named General  Counsel in 1975,  elected
Senior Vice  President in 1981 and elected  Secretary of General  Mills in 1983.
Mr. Whitehill  retired from General Mills immediately prior to the Distribution,
and on that date he  assumed  his  responsibilities  at  Darden  as Senior  Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary.





ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     As of May 31, 1998, the Company operated 1,157  restaurants,  including 682
Red Lobster,  466 The Olive  Garden,  six The Olive Garden Cafe and three Bahama
Breeze restaurants in the following locations:

     Alabama (18)      Arizona (24)     Arkansas (10)       California (95)
     Colorado (21)     Connecticut (12) Delaware (4)        Florida (111)
     Georgia (36)      Hawaii (1)       Idaho (5)           Illinois (49)
     Indiana (34)      Iowa (15)        Kansas (10)         Kentucky (13)
     Louisiana (10)    Maine (5)        Maryland (19)       Massachusetts (8)
     Michigan (42)     Minnesota (18)   Mississippi (8)     Missouri (26)
     Montana (2)       Nebraska (7)     Nevada (9)          New Hampshire (4)
     New Jersey (27)   New Mexico (8)   New York (47)       North Carolina (24)
     North Dakota (4)  Ohio (67)        Oklahoma (18)       Oregon (10)
     Pennsylvania (52) Rhode Island (2) South Carolina (18) South Dakota (3)
     Tennessee (26)    Texas (100)      Utah (9)            Vermont (2)
     Virginia (37)     Washington (20)  West Virginia (5)   Wisconsin (21)
     Wyoming (2)       Canada (39)

     Of the Company's 1,157  restaurants open on May 31, 1998, 735 were on owned
sites and 422 were on leased sites. The 422 leases are classified as follows:

         Land-Only Leases (Darden owns buildings and equipment).......    287
         Ground and Building Leases...................................     76
         Space/In-Line/Other Leases...................................     59
                                                                          ---

           Total                                                          422
                                                                          ===

     The  Company  owns its  executive  offices,  culinary  center and  training
facilities  in Orlando,  Florida.  Except in limited  instances,  the  Company's
restaurant   sites  and  other  facilities  are  not  subject  to  mortgages  or
encumbrances securing money borrowed by the Company.

     See also Notes 5 and 13 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements on
pages 15 and 18,  respectively,  of the 1998 Financial Statements booklet in the
Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is from time to time made a party to legal proceedings  arising
in the  ordinary  course of  business.  The Company  does not  believe  that the
results of such legal proceedings, even if unfavorable to the Company, will have
a materially  adverse  impact on its  financial  condition or the results of its
operations. See the section entitled "Government Regulation" for a discussion of
various federal, state and local regulatory matters.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.





                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The Company's common stock (no par value) has been registered and is traded
on the New York  Stock  Exchange.  As of July 27,  1998,  the  number  of record
holders of common stock was 33,863.  Trading of the Company's common stock began
on a "when  issued"  basis on May 9, 1995,  at a price per share of $9.375.  The
following  table  sets  forth the high and low sales  prices  for the  Company's
common stock for each full quarterly  period from the Distribution to the end of
fiscal year 1998.

                      PER SHARE SALES PRICE OF COMMON STOCK


     During fiscal year 1998, the Company declared two semi-annual  dividends of
four cents per share each. The first semi-annual dividend (four cents per share)
was paid on November 1, 1997, to stockholders of record on October 10, 1997. The
second  semi-annual  dividend (four cents per share) was paid on May 1, 1998, to
stockholders of record on April 10, 1998.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     The  information  for fiscal  years 1993  through  1998,  contained  in the
Five-Year Financial Summary on page 23 of the 1998 Financial  Statements booklet
in the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders,  is incorporated  herein by
reference.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

     The information set forth in the section entitled "Management's  Discussion
of Results of Operations  and  Financial  Condition" on pages 4 through 6 of the
1998  Financial  Statements  booklet  in the  Company's  1998  Annual  Report to
Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The  Independent  Auditors'  Report,  Consolidated  Statements  of Earnings
(Loss),  Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  on pages 8 through





22 of the 1998 Financial  Statements booklet in the Company's 1998 Annual Report
to Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information contained in the sections entitled "Information  Concerning
Nominees" on pages 3 through 4,  "Committees of the Board" on pages 6 through 7,
and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting  Compliance" on page 21 of the
Company's  definitive  proxy  materials  dated August 10, 1998, is  incorporated
herein  by  reference.  Certain  information  regarding  executive  officers  is
contained in Part I above.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information  contained in the sections entitled "Board Compensation and
Benefits" on pages 5 through 6, "Summary Compensation Table" on pages 12 through
13,  and  "Option  Grants  in Last  Fiscal  Year"  on  page 14 of the  Company's
definitive  proxy materials dated August 10, 1998, is incorporated by reference.
The  information  appearing in such proxy materials under the heading "Report of
Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation" is not incorporated herein.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The  information  contained in the  sections  entitled  "Certain  Owners of
Common Stock" on page 2 and "Share Ownership of Directors and Officers" on pages
7 through 8 of the Company's  definitive  proxy materials dated August 10, 1998,
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information  contained in the section entitled  "Certain  Relationships
and Related  Transactions" on page 8 of the Company's definitive proxy materials
dated August 10, 1998, is incorporated herein by reference.





                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(A)  1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:

     Consolidated  Statements of Earnings  (Loss) for the fiscal years ended May
31, 1998, May 25, 1997 and May 26, 1996  (incorporated by reference to page 8 of
the 1998  Financial  Statements  booklet in the Company's  1998 Annual Report to
Stockholders)

     Consolidated  Balance Sheets at May 31, 1998 and May 25, 1997 (incorporated
by reference to page 9 of the 1998 Financial Statements booklet in the Company's
1998 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows for the fiscal  years ended May 31,
1998, May 25, 1997 and May 26, 1996 (incorporated by reference to page 10 of the
1998  Financial  Statements  booklet  in the  Company's  1998  Annual  Report to
Stockholders)

     Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements  (incorporated by reference to
pages 11 through 22 of the 1998  Financial  Statements  booklet in the Company's
1998 Annual Report to Stockholders)

     2. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SCHEDULES:

     Not applicable.

     3. EXHIBITS:

     Pursuant  to Item  601(b)(4)(iii)  of  Regulation  S-K,  copies of  certain
instruments  defining  the rights of holders  of certain  long-term  debt of the
Company are not filed, and in lieu thereof, the Company agrees to furnish copies
thereof to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

       EXHIBIT
       NUMBER                              TITLE
       -------                             -----

        3(a)   Articles of  Incorporation  (incorporated  herein by reference to
               Exhibit 3(a) to the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form 10
               effective May 5, 1995)

        3(b)   Bylaws  (incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to the
               Company's  Registration  Statement  on Form 10  effective  May 5,
               1995)

        4(a)   Rights Agreement dated as of May 28, 1995 between the Company and
               Norwest Bank Minnesota,  N.A., as amended May 23, 1996,  assigned
               to First Union  National  Bank, as Rights Agent,  as of September
               29, 1997

        4(b)   Indenture  dated as of January 1, 1996,  between  the Company and
               Norwest  Bank  Minnesota,   National   Association,   as  Trustee
               (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Current Report
               on Form 8-K filed February 9, 1996)

      *10(a)   Darden  Restaurants,  Inc. Stock Option and Long-Term Incentive
               Plan of 1995,  as amended May 23, 1996,  June 17, 1997,  and June
               26, 1998

      *10(b)   Darden Restaurants,  Inc. FlexComp Plan (incorporated herein by
               reference  to  Exhibit  10(b)  to  the   Company's   Registration
               Statement on Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)


- --------------------------
*    Items that are management  contracts or compensatory  plans or arrangements
     required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.





 
      *10(c)   Darden  Restaurants,  Inc. Stock Option and Long-Term Incentive
               Conversion Plan, as amended  (incorporated herein by reference to
               Exhibit 10(c) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended May 26, 1996)

      *10(d)   Supplemental   Pension  Plan  of  Darden   Restaurants,   Inc.
               (incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10(d)  to  the
               Company's  Registration  Statement  on Form 10  effective  May 5,
               1995)

      *10(e)   Executive Health Plan of Darden Restaurants, Inc. (incorporated
               herein  by   reference   to  Exhibit   10(e)  to  the   Company's
               Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

      *10(f)   Stock  Plan for  Directors  of  Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.,  as
               amended December 10, 1996, and June 26, 1998

      *10(g)   Compensation   Plan  for  Non-Employee   Directors  of  Darden
               Restaurants, Inc., as amended June 17, 1997

      *10(h)   Darden Restaurants,  Inc. Management Incentive Plan, as amended
               (incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10(h)  to  the
               Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended
               May 26, 1996)

      *10(i)   Benefits Trust Agreement  dated as of October 3, 1995,  between
               the  Company  and  Norwest  Bank  Minnesota,   N.A.,  as  Trustee
               (incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10(i)  to  the
               Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended
               May 25, 1997)

      *10(j)   Form of Management  Continuity Agreement,  as amended,  between
               the Company and certain of its executive  officers  (incorporated
               herein by  reference  to Exhibit  10(j) to the  Company's  Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 25, 1997)

          12   Computation of Ratio of Consolidated Earnings to Fixed Charges

          13   Portions of 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders  (incorporated  by
               reference herein)

          21   Subsidiaries of Darden Restaurants, Inc.

          23   Independent Accountant's Consent

          24   Powers of Attorney

          27   Financial Data Schedule

- --------------------------
*    Items that are management  contracts or compensatory  plans or arrangements
     required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

                                      
(B)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K. During the last quarter covered by this Report,  there
     were no Form 8-K filings.






                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

     Dated:  August 20, 1998             DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
                                          By: /s/ C.L. Whitehill
                                              ------------------
                                               C.L. Whitehill
                            Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has been  signed  below  by the  following  person's  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

SIGNATURE                    TITLE                               DATE
- ---------                    -----                               ----

/s/ H.B. Atwater, Jr.        Director
- -------------------------
    H.B. Atwater, Jr.*

/s/ Daniel B. Burke          Director
- -------------------------
    Daniel B. Burke*

/s/ Odie C. Donald           Director
- -------------------------
    Odie C. Donald*

/s/ Betty Southard Murphy    Director
- -------------------------
    Betty Southard Murphy*

/s/ Michael D. Rose          Director
- -------------------------
    Michael D. Rose*

/s/ Jack A. Smith            Director
- -------------------------
    Jack A. Smith*

/s/ Bradley D. Blum          Director and President,
- -------------------------    The Olive Garden
    Bradley D. Blum*

/s/ Joe R. Lee               Director, Chairman of the           August 20, 1998
- -------------------------    Board and Chief Executive Officer 
    Joe R. Lee               (principal executive officer)

/s/ Richard E. Rivera        Director and President, Red Lobster
- -------------------------
    Richard E. Rivera*

/s/ Blaine Sweatt, III       Director and President,
- -------------------------    New Business Development
    Blaine Sweatt, III*

/s/ Linda J. Dimopoulos      Senior Vice President - Corporate   August 20, 1998
- -------------------------    Controller and Business Information
    Linda J. Dimopoulos      Systems (controller and principal
                             accounting officer)

/s/ Clarence Otis, Jr.       Senior Vice President-Finance       August 20, 1998
- -------------------------    and Treasurer (principal financial
    Clarence Otis, Jr.       officer)


*BY: C.L. Whitehill,
     Attorney-In-Fact
     August 20, 1998





                                  EXHIBIT INDEX




                                    EXHIBITS


  EXHIBIT
  NUMBER                              TITLE
  -------                             -----

   3(a)   Articles of Incorporation (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
          3(a) to the Company's  Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May
          5, 1995)

   3(b)   Bylaws  (incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  3(b) to the
          Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

   4(a)   Rights  Agreement  dated as of May 28,  1995  between  the Company and
          Norwest Bank  Minnesota,  N.A.,  as amended May 23, 1996,  assigned to
          First Union National Bank, as Rights Agent, as of September 29, 1997

   4(b)   Indenture dated as of January 1, 1996, between the Company and Norwest
          Bank Minnesota,  National Association, as Trustee (incorporated herein
          by  reference  to the  Company's  Current  Report  on Form  8-K  filed
          February 9, 1996)

 *10(a)   Darden  Restaurants,  Inc. Stock Option and Long-Term Incentive Plan
          of 1995, as amended May 23, 1996, June 17, 1997, and June 26, 1998

 *10(b)   Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.  FlexComp  Plan  (incorporated  herein by
          reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's  Registration Statement on
          Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

 *10(c)   Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.  Stock  Option  and  Long-Term  Incentive
          Conversion  Plan,  as amended  (incorporated  herein by  reference  to
          Exhibit  10(c) to the  Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the
          fiscal year ended May 26, 1996)

 *10(d)   Supplemental Pension Plan of Darden Restaurants,  Inc. (incorporated
          herein by reference  to Exhibit  10(d) to the  Company's  Registration
          Statement on Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

 *10(e)   Executive  Health  Plan of Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.  (incorporated
          herein by reference  to Exhibit  10(e) to the  Company's  Registration
          Statement on Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

 *10(f)   Stock Plan for  Directors of Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.,  as amended
          December 10, 1996, and June 26, 1998

- ---------------------
*    Items that are management  contracts or compensatory  plans or arrangements
     required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

                                       i




                                    EXHIBITS


  EXHIBIT
  NUMBER                              TITLE
  -------                             -----

 *10(g)   Compensation Plan for Non-Employee  Directors of Darden Restaurants,
          Inc., as amended June 17, 1997

 *10(h)   Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.  Management  Incentive  Plan,  as amended
          (incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit  10(h) to the  Company's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 26, 1996)

 *10(i)   Benefits Trust  Agreement  dated as of October 3, 1995,  between the
          Company and Norwest Bank  Minnesota,  N.A.,  as Trustee  (incorporated
          herein by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Company's Annual Report on
          Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 25, 1997)

 *10(j)   Form of Management  Continuity  Agreement,  as amended,  between the
          Company and certain of its executive officers  (incorporated herein by
          reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
          for the fiscal year ended May 25, 1997)

     12   Computation of Ratio of Consolidated Earnings to Fixed Charges

     13   Portions  of 1998  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  (incorporated  by
          reference herein)

     21   Subsidiaries of Darden Restaurants, Inc.

     23   Independent Accountant's Consent

     24   Powers of Attorney

     27   Financial Data Schedule

- ---------------------
*    Items that are management  contracts or compensatory  plans or arrangements
     required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

                                       ii



