Item 1.Business



General



Health Care REIT, Inc. is a real estate investment trust
    (“REIT”) that has been at the forefront of senior
    housing and health care real estate since the company was
    founded in 1970. We are an S&P 500 company
    headquartered in Toledo, Ohio and our portfolio spans the full
    spectrum of senior housing and health care real estate,
    including senior housing communities, skilled nursing
    facilities, medical office buildings, inpatient and outpatient
    medical centers and life science facilities. Our capital
    programs, when combined with comprehensive planning, development
    and property management services, make us a single-source
    solution for acquiring, planning, developing, managing,
    repositioning and monetizing real estate assets. More
    information is available on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.



Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and
    enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash
    dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase
    dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual
    increases in rental and interest income and portfolio growth. To
    meet these objectives, we invest in the full spectrum of senior
    housing and health care real estate and diversify our investment
    portfolio by property type, operator/tenant and geographic
    location.



Depending upon the availability and cost of external capital, we
    believe our liquidity is sufficient to fund operations, meet
    debt service obligations (both principal and interest), make
    dividend distributions and complete construction projects in
    process. We also continue to evaluate opportunities to finance
    future investments. New investments are generally funded from
    temporary borrowings under our unsecured line of credit
    arrangement, internally generated cash and the proceeds from
    sales of real property. Our investments generate cash from rent
    and interest receipts and principal payments on loans
    receivable. Permanent capital for future investments, which
    replaces funds drawn under the unsecured line of credit
    arrangement, has historically been provided through a
    combination of public and private offerings of debt and equity
    securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt.



References herein to “we,” “us,”
    “our” or the “Company” refer to Health Care
    REIT, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless specifically noted
    otherwise.



Portfolio
    of Properties



The following table summarizes our portfolio as of
    December 31, 2010:



InvestmentsPercentage ofNumber of# Beds/UnitsInvestment perType of Property(In thousands)InvestmentsPropertiesor Sq. Ft.metric(1)StatesSenior housing facilities$4,403,20849.0%30327,863 units$162,210 per unit36Skilled nursing facilities1,257,71914.0%18024,064 beds52,266 per bed26Hospitals782,8798.7%311,857 beds446,846 per bed13Medical office buildings(2)2,195,43524.4%1629,047,167 sq. ft.254 per sq. ft.28Life science buildings(2)346,5623.9%7n/a1Totals$8,985,803100.0%68341









(1)Investment per metric was computed
    by using the total investment amount of $8,860,164,000, which
    includes net real estate investments and unfunded construction
    commitments for which initial funding has commenced which
    amounted to $8,592,109,000 and $268,055,000, respectively.(2)Includes our share of
    unconsolidated joint venture investments. Please see Note 7
    to our consolidated financial statements for additional
    information.







Property
    Types



We invest in senior housing and health care real estate. We
    evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our two
    business segments — senior housing and care and
    medical facilities. For additional information regarding
    business segments, see Note 17 to our consolidated
    financial statements. The accounting policies of the segments
    are the same as those described in the summary of significant
    accounting policies (see Note 2 to our consolidated
    financial statements). The following is a summary of our various
    property types.



Senior
    Housing and Care



Our senior housing and care properties include skilled nursing
    facilities, assisted living facilities, independent
    living/continuing care retirement communities and combinations
    thereof. We invest in senior housing and care real estate
    primarily through acquisition and development. Excluding our
    operating partnerships (see Note 3 to our consolidated
    financial statements), properties are primarily leased undertriple-netleases and we are not involved in property management. Our
    properties include stand-alone facilities that provide one level
    of service, combination facilities that provide multiple levels
    of service, and communities or campuses that provide a wide
    range of services.



Independent Living Facilities.Independent
    living facilities are age-restricted, multifamily properties
    with central dining facilities that provide residents access to
    meals and other services such as housekeeping, linen service,
    transportation and social and recreational activities.



Continuing Care Retirement
    Communities.Continuing care retirement
    communities include a combination of detached homes, an
    independent living facility, an assisted living facilityand/ora
    skilled nursing facility on one campus. These communities are
    appealing to residents because there is no need for relocating
    when health and medical needs change. Resident payment plans
    vary, but can include entrance fees, condominium fees and rental
    fees. Many of these communities also charge monthly maintenance
    fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health
    services.



Early Stage Senior Housing.Early stage senior
    housing communities contain primarily for-sale single-family
    homes, townhomes, cluster homes, mobile homesand/orcondominiums with no specialized services. These communities are
    typically restricted or targeted to adults at least
    55 years of age or older. Residents generally lead an
    independent lifestyle. Communities may include amenities such as
    a clubhouse, golf course and recreational spaces.



Assisted Living Facilities.Assisted living
    facilities are state regulated rental properties that provide
    the same services as independent living facilities, but also
    provide supportive care from trained employees to residents who
    require assistance with activities of daily living, including
    management of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting,
    ambulating and eating.



Alzheimer’s/Dementia Care
    Facilities.Certain assisted living facilities
    may include state licensed settings that specialize in caring
    for those afflicted with Alzheimer’s diseaseand/orother
    types of dementia.



Skilled Nursing Facilities.Skilled nursing
    facilities are licensed daily rate or rental properties where
    the majority of individuals require24-hournursingand/ormedical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for
    Medicaidand/orMedicare reimbursement.



Medical
    Facilities



Our medical facilities include medical office buildings,
    hospitals and life science buildings. Our medical office
    buildings are typically leased to multiple tenants and generally
    require a certain level of property management. Our hospital
    investments are typically structured similar to our senior
    housing and care investments. Our life science investments
    represent investments in an unconsolidated joint venture (see
    Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements).



Medical Office Buildings.The medical office
    building portfolio consists of health care related buildings
    that include physician offices, ambulatory surgery centers,
    diagnostic facilities, outpatient servicesand/orlabs.
    Our portfolio has a strong affiliation with health systems:
    approximately 80% of the buildings are either located on campus
    or affiliated with hospitals through a satellite location.





Hospitals.Our hospitals generally include
    acute care hospitals, inpatient rehabilitation hospitals, and
    long-term acute care hospitals. Acute care hospitals provide a
    wide range of inpatient and outpatient services, including, but
    not limited to, surgery, rehabilitation, therapy and clinical
    laboratories. Inpatient rehabilitation hospitals provide
    inpatient services for patients with intensive rehabilitation
    needs. Long-term acute care hospitals provide inpatient services
    for patients with complex medical conditions that require more
    intensive care, monitoring or emergency support than is
    available in most skilled nursing facilities.



Investments



We invest in senior housing and health care real estate
    primarily through acquisitions and developments. We diversify
    our investment portfolio by property type, operator/tenant and
    geographic location. In determining whether to invest in a
    property, we focus on the following: (1) the experience of
    the obligor’s management team; (2) the historical and
    projected financial and operational performance of the property;
    (3) the credit of the obligor; (4) the security for
    the lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of the
    building and its location; and (6) the capital committed to
    the property by the obligor. We conduct market research and
    analysis for all potential investments. In addition, we review
    the value of all properties, the interest rates and covenant
    requirements of any facility-level debt to be assumed by us at
    the time of the acquisition and the anticipated sources of
    repayment of any of the obligor’s existing debt that is not
    to be assumed by us at the time of the acquisition.



We monitor our investments through a variety of methods
    determined by the type of property. Our asset management process
    for senior housing and care properties generally includes review
    of monthly financial statements and other operating data for
    each property, periodic review of obligor creditworthiness,
    periodic property inspections and review of covenant compliance
    relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and
    other collateral. Our internal property management division
    actively manages and monitors the medical office building
    portfolio with a comprehensive process including tenant
    relations, tenant lease expirations, the mix of health service
    providers, hospital/health system relationships, property
    performance, capital improvement needs and market conditions
    among other things. In monitoring our portfolio, our personnel
    use a proprietary database to collect and analyze
    property-specific data. Additionally, we conduct extensive
    research to ascertain industry trends and risks.



Through asset management and research, we evaluate the operating
    environment in each property’s market to determine whether
    payment risk is likely to increase. When we identify
    unacceptable levels of payment risk, we seek to mitigate,
    eliminate or transfer the risk. We categorize the risk as
    obligor, property or market risk. For obligor risk, we typically
    find a substitute operator/tenant to run the property. For
    property risk, we usually work with the operator/tenant to
    institute property-level management changes to address the risk.
    Finally, for market risk, we often encourage an obligor to
    change its capital structure, including refinancing the property
    or raising additional equity. Through these asset management and
    research efforts, we are generally able to intervene at an early
    stage to address payment risk, and in so doing, support both the
    collectability of revenue and the value of our investment.



Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new
    investments will be available in the future with spreads over
    our cost of capital that will generate appropriate returns to
    our stockholders.



Investment
    Types



Real Property.Our hospitals and senior
    housing and care properties are primarily comprised of land,
    building, improvements and related rights. Excluding properties
    in our senior housing operating partnerships (see Note 3 to
    our consolidated financial statements), these properties are
    generally leased to operators under long-term operating leases.
    The leases generally have a fixed contractual term of 12 to
    15 years and contain one or more five to15-yearrenewal options. Certain of our leases also contain purchase
    options. Most of our rents are received undertriple-netleases requiring the operator to pay rent and all additional
    charges incurred in the operation of the leased property. The
    tenants are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the leased
    properties. Substantially all of these operating leases are
    designed with either fixed or contingent escalating rent
    structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are
    generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial
    lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental
    income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is
    generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments
    due for the period.





At December 31, 2010, approximately 91% of our hospitals
    and senior housing and care properties were subject to master
    leases. A master lease is a lease of multiple properties to one
    tenant entity under a single lease agreement. From time to time,
    we may acquire additional properties that are then leased to the
    tenant under the master lease. The tenant is required to make
    one monthly payment that represents rent on all the properties
    that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the master
    lease tenant can exercise its right to purchase the properties
    or to renew the master lease only with respect to all leased
    properties at the same time. This bundling feature benefits us
    because the tenant cannot limit the purchase or renewal to the
    better performing properties and terminate the leasing
    arrangement with respect to the poorer performing properties.
    This spreads our risk among the entire group of properties
    within the master lease. The bundling feature should provide a
    similar advantage if the master lease tenant is in bankruptcy.
    Subject to certain restrictions, a debtor in bankruptcy has the
    right to assume or reject each of its leases. It is our intent
    that a tenant in bankruptcy would be required to assume or
    reject the master lease as a whole, rather than deciding on a
    property by property basis.



Our medical office building portfolio is primarily self-managed
    and consists principally of multi-tenant properties leased to
    health care providers. Our leases have favorable lease terms
    that typically include fixed increasers and some form of
    operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. As of
    December 31, 2010, 88% of our portfolio included leases
    with full pass through, 10% with a partial expense reimbursement
    (modified gross) and 2% with no expense reimbursement (gross).
    Our medical office building leases are non-cancellable operating
    leases that have a weighted average remaining term of
    8.5 years at December 31, 2010 and are normally credit
    enhanced by guarantiesand/orletters of credit.



Construction.We currently provide for the
    construction of properties for tenants generally as part of
    long-term operating leases. We capitalize certain interest costs
    associated with funds used to pay for the construction of
    properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the
    amount advanced during the construction period using the rate of
    interest that approximates our cost of financing. Our interest
    expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. We also typically
    charge a transaction fee at the commencement of construction
    which we defer and amortize to income over the term of the
    resulting lease. The construction period commences upon funding
    and terminates upon the earlier of the completion of the
    applicable property or the end of a specified period. During the
    construction period, we advance funds to the tenants in
    accordance with agreed upon terms and conditions which require,
    among other things, periodic site visits by a Company
    representative. During the construction period, we generally
    require an additional credit enhancement in the form of payment
    and performance bondsand/orcompletion guaranties. At December 31, 2010, we had
    outstanding construction investments of $356,793,000 and were
    committed to providing additional funds of approximately
    $268,055,000 to complete construction for investment properties.



Real Estate Loans.Our real estate loans are
    typically structured to provide us with interest income,
    principal amortization and transaction fees and are generally
    secured by a first, second or third mortgage lien, leasehold
    mortgage, corporate guarantiesand/orpersonal guaranties. At December 31, 2010, we had
    outstanding real estate loans of $436,580,000. The interest
    yield averaged approximately 9.1% per annum on our outstanding
    real estate loan balances. Our yield on real estate loans
    depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest
    rate, average principal amount outstanding during the term of
    the loan and any interest rate adjustments. The real estate
    loans outstanding at December 31, 2010 are generally
    subject to three to20-yearterms with principal amortization schedulesand/orballoon payments of the outstanding principal balances at the
    end of the term. Typically, real estate loans are
    cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate
    loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor
    and its affiliates.



Principles
    of Consolidation



The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint ventures that we
    control, through voting rights or other means. All material
    intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in
    consolidation.





At inception of the joint venture transactions, we identify
    entities for which control is achieved through means other than
    voting rights (“variable interest entities” or
    “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the
    primary beneficiary of its operations. A variable interest
    entity is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the
    equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling
    financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk
    is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without
    additional subordinated financial support. We consolidate
    investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary
    beneficiary. ASC 810 requires enterprises to perform a
    qualitative approach to determining whether or not a VIE will
    need to be consolidated on a continuous basis. This evaluation
    is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence
    the activities of a variable interest entity that most
    significantly impact that entity’s economic performance.



For investments in joint ventures, we evaluate the type of
    rights held by the limited partner(s), which may preclude
    consolidation in circumstances in which the sole general partner
    would otherwise consolidate the limited partnership. The
    assessment of limited partners’ rights and their impact on
    the presumption of control over a limited partnership by the
    sole general partner should be made when an investor becomes the
    sole general partner and should be reassessed if (i) there
    is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights
    of the limited partners, (ii) the sole general partner
    increases or decreases its ownership in the limited partnership
    interests, or (iii) there is an increase or decrease in the
    number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We
    similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of limited
    liability companies.



Equity
    Investments



Equity investments at December 31, 2010 and 2009 include an
    investment in a public company that has a readily determinable
    fair market value. We classify this equity investment asavailable-for-saleand, accordingly, record this investment at its fair market
    value with unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated
    other comprehensive income, a separate component of
    stockholders’ equity. Equity investments at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 also include an investment in a
    private company. We do not have the ability to exercise
    influence over the company, so the investment is accounted for
    under the cost method. Under the cost method of accounting,
    investments in private companies are carried at cost and are
    adjusted only forother-than-temporarydeclines in fair value, return of capital and additional
    investments. These equity investments represent a minimal
    ownership interest in these companies. Additionally, equity
    investments at December 31, 2010 include investments in
    unconsolidated joint ventures.



Investments in Unconsolidated Joint
    Ventures.Investments in less than majority owned
    entities where our interests represent a general partnership
    interest but substantive participating rights or substantive
    kick-out rights have been granted to the limited partners or
    when our interests do not represent the general partnership
    interest and we do not control the major operating and financial
    policies of the entity are reported under the equity method of
    accounting. Under the equity method of accounting, our share of
    the investee’s earnings or losses is included in our
    consolidated results of operations. The initial carrying value
    of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures is based on the
    amount paid to purchase the joint venture interest or the
    estimated fair value of the assets prior to the sale of
    interests in the joint venture. We evaluate our equity method
    investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the
    estimated fair value of the equity method investment to its
    carrying value. When we determine a decline in the estimated
    fair value of such an investment below its carrying value isother-than-temporary,an impairment is recorded.



Borrowing
    Policies



We utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments.
    Our debt and equity levels are determined by management to
    maintain a conservative credit profile. Generally, we intend to
    issue unsecured, fixed rate public debt with long-term
    maturities to approximate the maturities on our leases and
    loans. For short-term purposes, we may borrow on our unsecured
    line of credit arrangement. We replace these borrowings with
    long-term capital such as senior unsecured notes, common stock
    or preferred stock. When terms are deemed favorable, we may
    invest in properties subject to existing mortgage indebtedness.
    In addition, we may obtain secured financing for unleveraged
    properties in which we have invested or may refinance properties
    acquired on a leveraged basis. In our agreements with our
    lenders, we are subject to restrictions with respect to secured
    and unsecured indebtedness.





Competition



We compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate
    partnerships, private equity and hedge fund investors, banks,
    insurance companies, finance/investment companies,
    government-sponsored agencies, taxable and tax-exempt bond
    funds, health care operators, developers and other investors in
    the acquisition, development, leasing and financing of health
    care and senior housing properties. Some of our competitors are
    larger with greater resources and lower costs of capital than
    us. Increased competition inhibits our ability to identify and
    successfully complete investments. We compete for investments
    based on a number of factors including rates, financings
    offered, underwriting criteria and reputation. Our ability to
    successfully compete is also impacted by economic and population
    trends, availability of acceptable investment opportunities, our
    ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms, availability
    and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs and new
    and existing laws and regulations.



The operators/tenants of our properties compete on a local and
    regional basis with operators/tenants of properties that provide
    comparable services. Operators/tenants compete for patients and
    residents based on a number of factors including quality of
    care, reputation, physical appearance of properties, services
    offered, family preferences, physicians, staff and price. We
    also face competition from other health care facilities for
    tenants, such as physicians and other health care providers that
    provide comparable facilities and services.



For additional information on the risks associated with our
    business, please see “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors” of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, we had 263 employees.



Customer
    Concentrations



The following table summarizes certain information about our
    customer concentrations as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in
    thousands):



Number ofTotalPercent ofPropertiesInvestment(2)Investment(3)Concentration by investment:(1)Merrill Gardens LLC38$732,2119%Brandywine Senior Living, LLC19612,5987%Senior Living Communities, LLC12595,2237%Senior Star Living10464,0625%Brookdale Senior Living, Inc.86334,9464%Remaining portfolio5185,853,06968%Totals683$8,592,109100%









(1)All of our top five customers are
    in our senior housing and care segment.(2)Excludes our share of
    unconsolidated joint venture investments. Please see Note 7
    for additional information.(3)Investments with our top five
    customers comprised 24% of total investments at
    December 31, 2009.



Certain
    Government Regulations



Health
    Law Matters — Generally



Typically, operators of senior housing facilities do not receive
    significant funding from government programs and are largely
    subject to state laws, as opposed to federal laws. Operators of
    skilled nursing facilities and hospitals do receive significant
    funding from government programs, and these facilities are
    subject to the federal and state laws that regulate the type and
    quality of the medicaland/ornursing care provided, ancillary services (e.g.,
    respiratory, occupational, physical and infusion therapies),
    qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing
    staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment,
    reimbursement and rate setting and operating





policies. In addition, as described below, operators of these
    facilities are subject to extensive laws and regulations
    pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including, but not
    limited to, the Federal Anti-kickback Statute, the Federal Stark
    Law, and the Federal False Claims Act, as well as comparable
    state law counterparts. Hospitals, physician group practice
    clinics, and other health care providers that operate in our
    portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state, and local
    licensure, registration, certification, and inspection laws,
    regulations, and industry standards. Our tenants’ failure
    to comply with any of these, and other, laws could result in
    loss of accreditation; denial of reimbursement; imposition of
    fines; suspension, decertification, or exclusion from federal
    and state health care programs; loss of license; or closure of
    the facility.



Licensing
    and Certification



The primary regulations that affect senior housing facilities
    with assisted living are state licensing and registration laws.
    In granting and renewing these licenses, the state regulatory
    agencies consider numerous factors relating to a property’s
    physical plant and operations including, but not limited to,
    admission and discharge standards, staffing, and training. A
    decision to grant or renew a license is also affected by a
    property owner’s record with respect to patient and
    consumer rights, medication guidelines, and rules. Certain of
    the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us may
    require the resident to pay an entrance or upfront fee, a
    portion of which may be refundable. These entrance fee
    communities are subject to significant state regulatory
    oversight, including, for example, oversight of each
    facility’s financial condition; establishment and
    monitoring of reserve requirements, and other financial
    restrictions; the right of residents to cancel their contracts
    within a specified period of time; lien rights in favor of
    residents; restrictions on change of ownership; and similar
    matters. Such oversight, and the rights of residents within
    these entrance fee communities, may have an effect on the
    revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities, and,
    therefore, may adversely affect us.



Certain health care facilities are subject to a variety of
    licensure and certificate of need (“CON”) laws and
    regulations. Where applicable, CON laws generally require, among
    other requirements, that a facility demonstrate the need for
    (1) constructing a new facility, (2) adding beds or
    expanding an existing facility, (3) investing in major
    capital equipment or adding new services, (4) changing the
    ownership or control of an existing licensed facility, or
    (5) terminating services that have been previously approved
    through the CON process. Certain state CON laws and regulations
    may restrict the ability of operators to add new properties or
    expand an existing facility’s size or services. In
    addition, CON laws may constrain the ability of an operator to
    transfer responsibility for operating a particular facility to a
    new operator. If we have to replace a property operator who is
    excluded from participating in a federal or state health care
    program (as discussed below), our ability to replace the
    operator may be affected by a particular state’s CON laws,
    regulations, and applicable guidance governing changes in
    provider control.



With respect to licensure, generally our skilled nursing
    facilities and acute care facilities are required to be licensed
    and certified for participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and other
    federal health care programs. This generally requires license
    renewals and compliance surveys on an annual or bi-annual basis.
    The failure of our operators to maintain or renew any required
    license or regulatory approval, as well as the failure of our
    operators to correct serious deficiencies identified in a
    compliance survey could require those operators to discontinue
    operations at a property. In addition, if a property is found to
    be out of compliance with the Medicare, Medicaid, or other
    health care program conditions of participation in, the property
    operator may be excluded from participating in those government
    health care programs. Any such occurrence may impair an
    operators’ ability to meet their financial obligations to
    us. If we have to replace an excluded property operator, our
    ability to replace the operator may be affected by federal and
    state laws, regulations, and applicable guidance governing
    changes in provider control. This may result in payment delays,
    an inability to find a replacement operator, a significant
    working capital commitment from us to a new operator or other
    difficulties.



Reimbursement



Senior Housing Facilities.Approximately 37%
    of our rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010
    were attributable to senior housing facilities. The majority of
    the revenues received by the operators of our senior housing
    facilities are from private pay sources. The remaining revenue
    source is primarily Medicaid under certain waiver programs. As a
    part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (“OBRA”)
    of 1981, Congress established a waiver program enabling some
    states to offer Medicaid reimbursement to assisted living
    providers as an alternative





to institutional long-term care services. The provisions of OBRA
    and the subsequent OBRA Acts of 1987 and 1990 permit states to
    seek a waiver from typical Medicaid requirements to develop
    cost-effective alternatives to long-term care, including
    Medicaid payments for assisted living and home health. As of
    December 31, 2010, four of our 41 senior housing operators
    received Medicaid reimbursement pursuant to Medicaid waiver
    programs. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2010,
    approximately 9% of the revenues at our senior housing
    facilities were from Medicaid reimbursement. There can be no
    guarantee that a state Medicaid program operating pursuant to a
    waiver will be able to maintain its waiver status.



Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and
    are determined by local market conditions and operating costs.
    Generally, facilities receive a higher payment per day for a
    private pay resident than for a Medicaid beneficiary who
    requires a comparable level of care. The level of Medicaid
    reimbursement varies from state to state. Thus, the revenues
    generated by operators of our assisted living facilities may be
    adversely affected by payor mix, acuity level, changes in
    Medicaid eligibility, and reimbursement levels. In addition, a
    state could lose its Medicaid waiver and no longer be permitted
    to utilize Medicaid dollars to reimburse for assisted living
    services. Changes in revenues could in turn have a material
    adverse effect on an operator’s ability to meet its
    obligations to us.



Skilled Nursing Facilities and
    Hospitals.

2006-2008



Medicare Reimbursement and Skilled Nursing
    Facilities.For the twelve months ended
    September 30, 2010, approximately 30% of the revenues at
    our skilled nursing facilities (which comprised 27% of our
    rental revenues for the year ended December 31,
    2010) were paid by Medicare. Skilled nursing facilities are
    reimbursed under the Medicare Skilled Nursing Facility
    Prospective Payment System (“SNF PPS”). There is a
    risk that some skilled nursing facilities’ costs will
    exceed the fixed payments under the SNF PPS, and there is also a
    risk that payments under the SNF PPS may be set below the costs
    to provide certain items and services, which could result in
    immediate financial difficulties for skilled nursing facilities,
    and could cause operators to seek bankruptcy protection. Skilled
    nursing facilities have faced these types of difficulties since
    the implementation of the SNF PPS.



Skilled nursing facilities received a net 1.1% Medicare payment
    rate decrease for federal fiscal year 2010. This 1.1% net
    decrease is the result of a 3.3% decrease in payments due to
    recalibration of the case-mix indexes combined with a 2.2%
    increase in payments through “market basket” changes
    for fiscal year 2010. The Centers for Medicare &
    Medicaid Services (“CMS”), an agency of the
    U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
    (“HHS”), has announced its intention to make a
    positive payment update for skilled nursing facilities for
    fiscal year 2011 — a net 1.7% increase resulting from
    a 2.3% market basket update less a 0.6% forecasting error
    adjustment. Section 5008 of the Deficit Reduction Act of
    2005 directs the Secretary of HHS to conduct a demonstration
    program, for a three year period, beginning January 1,
    2008, assessing the costs and outcomes of patients discharged
    from hospitals in a variety of post-acute care settings,
    including skilled nursing facilities. The outcome of that





demonstration program could lead to changes in Medicare coverage
    and reimbursement for post-acute care. Because the results of
    the demonstration have not yet been finalized, we cannot predict
    the potential financial implications those results, or any other
    proposed changes to the Medicare program, may have on our
    operators or tenants.



The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 mandated caps on Medicare
    reimbursement for certain therapy services. However, Congress
    imposed various moratoriums on the implementation of those caps.
    For 2011, the annual payment cap of $1,870 per patient applies
    to occupational therapy and a separate $1,870 cap applies to
    speech and physical therapy. Congress has permitted patients
    exceeding the cap to obtain additional Medicare coverage through
    a waiver program if the therapy is deemed medically necessary.
    The waiver program was historically extended, most recently, on
    December 15, 2010, by the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders
    Act (HR 4994), which extended the waiver program through
    December 31, 2011. Prior to the recent legislation, the
    program was scheduled to expire December 31, 2010. If the
    exception expires, patients will need to use private funds to
    pay for the cost of therapy above the caps. If patients are
    unable to satisfy theirout-of-pocketcost responsibility to reimburse an operator for services
    rendered, the operator’s ability to meet its financial
    obligations to us could be adversely impacted.



Medicare Reimbursement and Hospitals.For the
    twelve months ended September 30, 2010, approximately 56%
    of the revenues at our hospitals (which comprised 8% of our
    rental revenues for the year ended December 31,
    2010) were from Medicare reimbursements. Hospitals,
    generally, are reimbursed by Medicare under the Hospital
    Inpatient Prospective Payment System (“PPS”), the
    Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System
    (“OPPS”), the Long Term Care Hospital Prospective
    Payment System (“LTCH PPS”), or the Inpatient
    Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment System (“IRF
    PPS”). Acute care hospitals provide a wide range of
    inpatient and outpatient services including, but not limited to,
    surgery, rehabilitation, therapy, and clinical laboratory
    services. Long-term acute care hospitals provide inpatient
    services for patients with medical conditions that are often
    complex and that require more intensive care, monitoring or
    emergency support than that available in most skilled nursing
    facilities. Inpatient rehabilitation facilities provide
    intensive rehabilitation services in an inpatient setting for
    patients requiring at least three hours of rehabilitation
    services a day.



With respect to Medicare’s PPS for regular hospitals,
    reimbursement for inpatient services is made on the basis of a
    fixed, prospective rate, based on the principal diagnosis of the
    patient. Hospitals may be at risk to the extent that their costs
    in treating a specific case exceed the fixed payment amount. The
    diagnosis related group (“DRG”) reimbursement system
    was updated in 2008 to expand the number of DRGs from 538 to 745
    in order to better distinguish more severe conditions. One
    additional DRG was added in 2009, for a new total of 746. In
    some cases, a hospital might be able to qualify for an outlier
    payment if the hospital’s losses exceed a threshold.



Medicaid Reimbursement.Medicaid is a major
    payor source for residents in our skilled nursing facilities and
    hospitals. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2010,
    approximately 51% of the revenues of our skilled nursing
    facilities and 4% of the revenues of our hospitals were
    attributable to Medicaid reimbursement payments. The federal and
    state governments share responsibility for financing Medicaid.
    The federal matching rate, known as the Federal Medical
    Assistance Percentage (“FMAP”), varies by state based
    on relative per capita income, but is at least 50% in all
    states. On average, Medicaid is the largest component of total
    state spending, representing approximately 21% of total state
    spending. The percentage of Medicaid dollars used for long-term
    care varies from state to state, due in part to different ratios
    of elderly population and eligibility requirements. Within
    certain federal guidelines, states have a fairly wide range of
    discretion to determine eligibility and reimbursement
    methodology. Many states reimburse long-term care facilities
    using fixed daily rates, which are applied prospectively based
    on patient acuity and the historical costs incurred in providing
    patient care. Reasonable costs typically include allowances for
    staffing, administrative and general expenses, property, and
    equipment (e.g., real estate taxes, depreciation and fair
    rental).



In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse the cost of
    providing skilled nursing services. Certain states are
    attempting to slow the rate of growth in Medicaid expenditures
    by freezing rates or restricting eligibility and benefits. As of
    the beginning of state fiscal year 2011, states in which we have
    skilled nursing property investments held rates flat on average
    for the year. Our skilled nursing portfolio’s average
    Medicaid rate will likely vary throughout the year as states
    continue to make interim changes to their budgets and Medicaid
    funding. In addition, Medicaid reimbursement rates may decline
    if revenues in a particular state are not sufficient to fund
    budgeted expenditures. President Obama’s proposed fiscal
    year budget for 2012, released on February 14, 2011, has
    the





potential to further impact Medicaid reimbursement rates. The
    President’s budget includes a proposal to phase down the
    Medicaid provider tax, a tax paid by health care providers to
    help fund state Medicaid programs, beginning with a reduction of
    4.5% in fiscal year 2015. If the President’s proposal is
    implemented, the various state Medicaid programs will receive
    less funds, which could adversely affect our operators and
    tenants.



The Medicare Part D drug benefit became effective
    January 1, 2006. Since that date, low-income Medicare
    beneficiaries (eligible for both Medicare and full Medicaid
    benefits), including those nursing home residents who are dually
    eligible for both programs, may enroll and receive outpatient
    prescription drugs under Medicare, not Medicaid. Medicare
    Part D has resulted in increased administrative
    responsibilities for nursing home operators because enrollment
    in Medicare Part D is voluntary and residents must choose
    between multiple prescription drug plans. Operators may also
    experience increased expenses to the extent that a particular
    drug prescribed to a patient is not listed on the Medicare
    Part D drug plan formulary for the plan in which the
    patient is enrolled.



The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care
    facilities continue to evolve. Federal and state authorities
    have considered and may seek to implement new or modified
    reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health
    care property operations. The impact of any such changes, if
    implemented, may result in a material adverse effect on our
    skilled nursing and hospital property operations. No assurance
    can be given that current revenue sources or levels will be
    maintained. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that payments
    under a government health care program are currently, or will be
    in the future, sufficient to fully reimburse the property
    operators for their operating and capital expenses. As a result,
    an operator’s ability to meet its financial obligations to
    us could be adversely impacted.



Finally, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
    (“PPACA”) and the Health Care and Education
    Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amends the PPACA
    (collectively, the “Health Reform Laws”) (further
    discussed below).may have a significant impact on Medicare,
    Medicaid, other federal health care programs, and private
    insurers, which impact the reimbursement amounts received by
    skilled nursing facilities and other health care providers. The
    Health Reform Laws could have a substantial and material adverse
    effect on all parties directly or indirectly involved in the
    health care system.



Other
    Related Laws



and/or



All health care providers, including, but not limited to skilled
    nursing facilities and hospitals (and senior housing facilities
    that receives Medicaid payments) are also subject to the Federal
    Anti-kickback Statute, which generally prohibits persons from
    offering, providing, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to
    induce either the referral of an individual or the furnishing of
    a good or service for which payment may be made under a federal
    health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. Skilled
    nursing facilities and hospitals are also subject to the Federal
    Ethics in Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as
    the Stark Law. The Stark Law generally prohibits the submission
    of claims to Medicare for payment if the claim results from a
    physician referral for certain designated services and the
    physician has a financial relationship with the health service
    provider that does not





qualify under one of the exceptions for a financial relationship
    under the Stark Law. Similar prohibitions on physician
    self-referrals and submission of claims apply to state Medicaid
    programs. Further, health care providers, including, but not
    limited to, skilled nursing facilities and hospitals (and senior
    housing facilities that receive Medicaid payments), are subject
    to substantial financial penalties under the Civil Monetary
    Penalties Act and the Federal False Claims Act and, in
    particular, actions under the Federal False Claims Act’s
    “whistleblower” provisions. Private enforcement of
    health care fraud has increased due in large part to amendments
    to the Federal False Claims Act that encourage private
    individuals to sue on behalf of the government. These
    whistleblower suits brought by private individuals, known as qui
    tam actions, may be filed by almost anyone, including present
    and former patients, nurses and other employees. Such
    whistleblower actions have been brought against nursing
    facilities on the basis of the alleged failure of the nursing
    facility to meet applicable regulations relating to its
    operations. Significantly, if a claim is successfully
    adjudicated, the Federal False Claims Act provides for treble
    damages up to $11,000 per claim.



Prosecutions, investigations, or whistleblower actions could
    have a material adverse effect on a property operator’s
    liquidity, financial condition, and operations, which could
    adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet its
    financial obligations to us. Finally, various state false claim
    act and anti-kickback laws may also apply to each property
    operator. Violation of any of the foregoing statutes can result
    in criminaland/orcivil
    penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the
    ability of an operator to meet its financial obligations to us.



Other legislative developments over the past several years,
    including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
    Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), have greatly expanded the
    definition of health care fraud and related offenses and
    broadened its scope to include private health care plans in
    addition to government payors. Congress also has greatly
    increased funding for the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau
    of Investigation and the Office of the Inspector General of the
    Department of Health and Human Services to audit, investigate
    and prosecute suspected health care fraud. Moreover, a
    significant portion of the billions in health care fraud
    recoveries over the past several years has also been returned to
    government agencies to further fund their fraud investigation
    and prosecution efforts.





In November 2002, CMS began an ongoing national Nursing Home
    Quality Initiative (NHQI). Under this initiative, historical
    survey information, the NHQI Pilot Evaluation Report and the
    NHQI Overview is made available to the public on-line. The NHQI
    website provides consumer and provider information regarding the
    quality of care in nursing homes. The data allows consumers,
    providers, states, and researchers to compare quality
    information that shows how well nursing homes are caring for
    their residents’ physical and clinical needs. The posted
    nursing home quality measures come from resident assessment data
    that nursing homes routinely collect on the residents at
    specified intervals during their stay. If the operators of
    nursing facilities are unable to achieve quality of care ratings
    that are comparable or superior to those of their competitors,
    they may lose market share to other facilities, reducing their
    revenues and adversely impacting their ability to make rental
    payments.



Finally, government investigations and enforcement actions
    brought against the health care industry have increased
    dramatically over the past several years and are expected to
    continue. Some of these enforcement actions represent novel
    legal theories and expansions in the application of the Federal
    False Claims Act. The costs for an operator of a health care
    property associated with both defending such enforcement actions
    and the undertakings in





settling these actions can be substantial and could have a
    material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet
    its obligations to us.



Taxation



Federal
    Income Tax Considerations



The following summary of the taxation of the Company and the
    material federal tax consequences to the holders of our debt and
    equity securities is for general information only and is not tax
    advice. This summary does not address all aspects of taxation
    that may be relevant to certain types of holders of stock or
    securities (including, but not limited to, insurance companies,
    tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers,
    persons holding shares of common stock as part of a hedging,
    integrated conversion, or constructive sale transaction or a
    straddle, traders in securities that use amark-to-marketmethod of accounting for their securities, investors in
    pass-through entities and foreign corporations and persons who
    are not citizens or residents of the United States).



This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of
    U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in
    light of your particular investment or other circumstances. In
    addition, this summary does not discuss any state or local
    income taxation or foreign income taxation or other tax
    consequences. This summary is based on current U.S. federal
    income tax law. Subsequent developments in U.S. federal
    income tax law, including changes in law or differing
    interpretations, which may be applied retroactively, could have
    a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax
    consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our
    securities as set forth in this summary. Before you purchase our
    securities, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding
    the particular U.S. federal, state, local, foreign and
    other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our
    securities.



General



We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (a
    “REIT”) commencing with our first taxable year. We
    intend to continue to operate in such a manner as to qualify as
    a REIT, but there is no guarantee that we will qualify or remain
    qualified as a REIT for subsequent years. Qualification and
    taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety of
    qualification tests imposed under federal income tax law with
    respect to income, assets, distribution level and diversity of
    share ownership as discussed below under
    “— Qualification as a REIT.” There can be no
    assurance that we will be owned and organized and will operate
    in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified.



In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general, we will
    not be subject to federal income tax on that portion of our REIT
    taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to
    stockholders. We may, however, be subject to tax at normal
    corporate rates on any taxable income or capital gain not
    distributed. If we elect to retain and pay income tax on our net
    long-term capital gain, stockholders are required to include
    their proportionate share of our undistributed long-term capital
    gain in income, but they will receive a refundable credit for
    their share of any taxes paid by us on such gain.



Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to federal income
    and excise tax as follows:



•To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital
    gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our
    “REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be subject
    to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax
    rates;•We may be subject to the “alternative minimum tax”
    (the “AMT”) on certain tax preference items to the
    extent that the AMT exceeds our regular tax;•If we have net income from the sale or other disposition of
    “foreclosure property” that is held primarily for sale
    to customers in the ordinary course of business or other
    non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, such income
    will be taxed at the highest corporate rate;•Any net income from prohibited transactions (which are, in
    general, sales or other dispositions of property held primarily
    for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other
    than dispositions of foreclosure property and dispositions of
    property due to an involuntary conversion) will be subject to a
    100% tax;









•If we fail to satisfy either the 75% or 95% gross income tests
    (as discussed below), but nonetheless maintain our qualification
    as a REIT because certain other requirements are met, we will be
    subject to a 100% tax on an amount equal to (1) the gross
    income attributable to the greater of (i) 75% of our gross
    income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes
    of the 75% gross income test (discussed below) or (ii) 95%
    of our gross income (90% of our gross income for taxable years
    beginning on or before October 22, 2004) over the
    amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% gross
    income test (discussed below) multiplied by (2) a fraction
    intended to reflect our profitability;



•If we fail to distribute during each year at least the sum of
    (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year,
    (2) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year
    (other than capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on)
    and (3) any undistributed taxable income from preceding
    periods, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the excess of
    such required distribution over amounts actually
    distributed; and



•We will be subject to a 100% tax on the amount of any rents from
    real property, deductions or excess interest paid to us by any
    of our “taxable REIT subsidiaries” that would be
    reduced through reallocation under certain federal income tax
    principles in order to more clearly reflect income of the
    taxable REIT subsidiary. See “— Qualification as
    a REIT — Investments in Taxable REIT
    Subsidiaries.”



If we acquire any assets from a corporation, which is or has
    been a “C” corporation, in a carryover basis
    transaction, we could be liable for specified liabilities that
    are inherited from the “C” corporation. A
    “C” corporation is generally defined as a corporation
    that is required to pay full corporate level federal income tax.
    If we recognize gain on the disposition of the assets during the
    ten-year period beginning on the date on which the assets were
    acquired by us, then, to the extent of the assets’
    “built-in gain” (i.e., the excess of the fair market
    value of the asset over the adjusted tax basis in the asset, in
    each case determined as of the beginning of the ten-year
    period), we will be subject to tax on the gain at the highest
    regular corporate rate applicable. The results described in this
    paragraph with respect to the recognition of built-in gain
    assume that the built-in gain assets, at the time the built-in
    gain assets were subject to a conversion transaction (either
    where a “C” corporation elected REIT status or a REIT
    acquired the assets from a “C” corporation), were not
    treated as sold to an unrelated party and gain recognized.
    Effective December 30, 2010, we acquired 19 assets that are
    subject to built-in gains tax until December 2020. See
    Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements for
    additional information regarding the built-in gains tax.



Qualification
    as a REIT



A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or association:



(1)which is managed by one or more trustees or directors;(2)the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable
    shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;(3)which would be taxable as a domestic corporation but for the
    federal income tax law relating to REITs;(4)which is neither a financial institution nor an insurance
    company;(5)the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons
    in each taxable year of the REIT except for its first taxable
    year;(6)not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is
    owned during the last half of each taxable year, excluding its
    first taxable year, directly or indirectly, by or for five or
    fewer individuals (which includes certain entities) (the
    “Five or Fewer Requirement”); and(7)which meets certain income and asset tests described below.



Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met during the
    entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at
    least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or
    during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than
    12 months. For purposes of conditions (5) and (6),
    pension funds and certain other tax-exempt entities are treated
    as individuals, subject to a “look-through” exception
    in the case of condition (6).





Based on publicly available information, we believe we have
    satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in
    (5) and (6) above. In addition, Article VI of our
    Amended and Restated By-Laws provides for restrictions regarding
    ownership and transfer of shares. These restrictions are
    intended to assist us in continuing to satisfy the share
    ownership requirements described in (5) and (6) above.
    These restrictions, however, may not ensure that we will, in all
    cases, be able to satisfy the share ownership requirements
    described in (5) and (6) above.



We have complied with, and will continue to comply with,
    regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our
    stockholders requesting information regarding the actual
    ownership of our stock. If, despite sending the annual letters,
    we do not know, or after exercising reasonable diligence would
    not have known, whether we failed to meet the Five or Fewer
    Requirement, we will be treated as having met the Five or Fewer
    Requirement. If we fail to comply with these regulatory rules,
    we will be subject to a monetary penalty. If our failure to
    comply was due to intentional disregard of the requirement, the
    penalty would be increased. However, if our failure to comply
    were due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty
    would be imposed.



We may own a number of properties through wholly owned
    subsidiaries. A corporation will qualify as a “qualified
    REIT subsidiary” if 100% of its stock is owned by a REIT,
    and the REIT does not elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable
    REIT subsidiary. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” will
    not be treated as a separate corporation, and all assets,
    liabilities and items of income, deductions and credits of a
    “qualified REIT subsidiary” will be treated as assets,
    liabilities and items (as the case may be) of the REIT. A
    “qualified REIT subsidiary” is not subject to federal
    income tax, and our ownership of the voting stock of a qualified
    REIT subsidiary will not violate the restrictions against
    ownership of securities of any one issuer which constitute more
    than 10% of the value or total voting power of such issuer or
    more than 5% of the value of our total assets, as described
    below under “— Asset Tests.”



If we invest in a partnership, a limited liability company or a
    trust taxed as a partnership or as a disregarded entity, we will
    be deemed to own a proportionate share of the
    partnership’s, limited liability company’s or
    trust’s assets. Likewise, we will be treated as receiving
    our share of the income and loss of the partnership, limited
    liability company or trust, and the gross income will retain the
    same character in our hands as it has in the hands of the
    partnership, limited liability company or trust. These
    “look-through” rules apply for purposes of the income
    tests and assets tests described below.



Income Tests.There are two separate
    percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that we
    must satisfy for each taxable year.



•At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from
    certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
    directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from
    “rents from real property,” other income from
    investments relating to real property or mortgages on real
    property or certain income from qualified temporary investments.•At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from
    certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
    directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from any of the
    sources qualifying for the 75% gross income test and from
    dividends (including dividends from taxable REIT subsidiaries)
    and interest.



For taxable years beginning on or before October 22, 2004,
    (1) payments to us under an interest rate swap or cap
    agreement, option, futures contract, forward rate agreement or
    any similar financial instrument entered into by us to reduce
    interest rate risk on indebtedness incurred or to be incurred
    and (2) gain from the sale or other disposition of any such
    investment are treated as income qualifying under the 95% gross
    income test. As to transactions entered into in taxable years
    beginning after October 22, 2004, any of our income from a
    “clearly identified” hedging transaction that is
    entered into by us in the normal course of business, directly or
    indirectly, to manage the risk of interest rate movements, price
    changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings or
    obligations incurred or to be incurred by us, or such other
    risks that are prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, is
    excluded from the 95% gross income test.



For transactions entered into after July 30, 2008, any of
    our income from a “clearly identified” hedging
    transaction that is entered into by us in the normal course of
    business, directly or indirectly, to manage the risk of interest
    rate movements, price changes or currency fluctuations with
    respect to borrowings or obligations incurred or to be incurred
    by us is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.





For transactions entered into after July 30, 2008, any of
    our income from a “clearly identified” hedging
    transaction entered into by us primarily to manage risk of
    currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain
    that is included in gross income in the 95% and 75% gross income
    tests is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.



In general, a hedging transaction is “clearly
    identified” if (1) the transaction is identified as a
    hedging transaction before the end of the day on which it is
    entered into and (2) the items or risks being hedged are
    identified “substantially contemporaneously” with the
    hedging transaction. An identification is not substantially
    contemporaneous if it is made more than 35 days after
    entering into the hedging transaction.





Generally, other than income from “clearly identified”
    hedging transactions entered into by us in the normal course of
    business, any foreign currency gain derived by us from dealing,
    or engaging in substantial and regular trading, in securities
    will constitute gross income which does not qualify under the
    95% or 75% gross income tests.



Rents received by us will qualify as “rents from real
    property” for purposes of satisfying the gross income tests
    for a REIT only if several conditions are met:





•The amount of rent must not be based in whole or in part on the
    income or profits of any person, although rents generally will
    not be excluded merely because they are based on a fixed
    percentage or percentages of receipts or sales.



•Rents received from a tenant will not qualify as rents from real
    property if the REIT, or an owner of 10% or more of the REIT,
    also directly or constructively owns 10% or more of the tenant,
    unless the tenant is our taxable REIT subsidiary and certain
    other requirements are met with respect to the real property
    being rented.



•If rent attributable to personal property leased in connection
    with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the total
    rent received under the lease, then the portion of rent
    attributable to such personal property will not qualify as
    “rents from real property.”



•For rents to qualify as rents from real property, we generally
    must not furnish or render services to tenants, other than
    through a taxable REIT subsidiary or an “independent
    contractor” from whom we derive no income, except that we
    may directly provide services that are “usually or
    customarily rendered” in the geographic area in which the
    property is located in connection with the rental of real
    property for occupancy only, or are not otherwise considered
    “rendered to the occupant for his convenience.”



•For taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008, the REIT
    may lease “qualified health care properties” on an
    arm’s-length basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary if the
    property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person
    who qualifies as an “independent contractor” and who
    is, or is related to a person who is, actively engaged in the
    trade or business of operating health care facilities for any
    person unrelated to us or our taxable REIT subsidiary, an
    “eligible independent contractor.” Generally, the rent
    that the REIT receives





from the taxable REIT subsidiary will be treated as “rents
    from real property.” A “qualified health care
    property” includes any real property and any personal
    property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a
    hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate
    care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other
    licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary
    services to patients and which is operated by a provider of such
    services which is eligible for participation in the Medicare
    program with respect to such facility.



For taxable years beginning after August 5, 1997, a REIT
    has been permitted to render a de minimis amount of
    impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts
    received with respect to that property as rent from real
    property. The amount received or accrued by the REIT during the
    taxable year for the impermissible services with respect to a
    property may not exceed 1% of all amounts received or accrued by
    the REIT directly or indirectly from the property. The amount
    received for any service or management operation for this
    purpose shall be deemed to be not less than 150% of the direct
    cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or
    providing the management or operation. Furthermore,
    impermissible services may be furnished to tenants by a taxable
    REIT subsidiary subject to certain conditions, and we may still
    treat rents received with respect to the property as rent from
    real property.



The term “interest” generally does not include any
    amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in
    part on the income or profits of any person, although an amount
    generally will not be excluded from the term
    “interest” solely by reason of being based on a fixed
    percentage of receipts or sales.



If we fail to satisfy one or both of the 75% or 95% gross income
    tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a
    REIT for such year if we are eligible for relief. For taxable
    years beginning on or before October 22, 2004, these relief
    provisions generally will be available if: (1) our failure
    to meet such tests was due to reasonable cause and not due to
    willful neglect; (2) we attach a schedule of the sources of
    our income to our return; and (3) any incorrect information
    on the schedule was not due to fraud with intent to evade tax.
    For taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, these
    relief provisions generally will be available if
    (1) following our identification of the failure, we file a
    schedule for such taxable year describing each item of our gross
    income, and (2) the failure to meet such tests was due to
    reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect.



It is not now possible to determine the circumstances under
    which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief
    provisions. If these relief provisions apply, a 100% tax is
    imposed on an amount equal to (a) the gross income
    attributable to (1) 75% of our gross income over the amount
    of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75% income test
    and (2) 95% of our gross income (90% of our gross income
    for taxable years beginning on or before October 22,
    2004) over the amount of qualifying gross income for
    purposes of the 95% income test, multiplied by (b) a
    fraction intended to reflect our profitability.



The Secretary of the Treasury is given broad authority to
    determine whether particular items of income or gain qualify or
    not under the 75% and 95% gross income tests, or are to be
    excluded from the measure of gross income for such purposes.



Asset Tests.



For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000,
    certain items are excluded from the 10% value test, including:
    (1) straight debt securities of an issuer (including
    straight debt that provides certain contingent





payments); (2) any loan to an individual or an estate;
    (3) any rental agreement described in Section 467 of
    the Internal Revenue Code, other than with a “related
    person”; (4) any obligation to pay rents from real
    property; (5) certain securities issued by a state or any
    subdivision thereof, the District of Columbia, a foreign
    government, or any political subdivision thereof, or the
    Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; (6) any security issued by a
    REIT; and (7) any other arrangement that, as determined by
    the Secretary of the Treasury, is excepted from the definition
    of security (“excluded securities”). Special rules
    apply to straight debt securities issued by corporations and
    entities taxable as partnerships for federal income tax
    purposes. If a REIT, or its taxable REIT subsidiary, holds
    (1) straight debt securities of a corporate or partnership
    issuer and (2) securities of such issuer that are not
    excluded securities and have an aggregate value greater than 1%
    of such issuer’s outstanding securities, the straight debt
    securities will be included in the 10% value test.



For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, a
    REIT’s interest as a partner in a partnership is not
    treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value
    test to securities issued by the partnership. Further, any debt
    instrument issued by a partnership will not be a security for
    purposes of applying the 10% value test (1) to the extent
    of the REIT’s interest as a partner in the partnership and
    (2) if at least 75% of the partnership’s gross income
    (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would
    qualify for the 75% gross income test. For taxable years
    beginning after October 22, 2004, for purposes of the 10%
    value test, a REIT’s interest in a partnership’s
    assets is determined by the REIT’s proportionate interest
    in any securities issued by the partnership (other than the
    excluded securities described in the preceding paragraph).



For taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008, if the
    REIT or its QBU uses a foreign currency as its functional
    currency, the term “cash” includes such foreign
    currency, but only to the extent such foreign currency is
    (i) held for use in the normal course of the activities of
    the REIT or QBU which give rise to items of income or gain that
    are included in the 95% and 75% gross income tests or are
    directly related to acquiring or holding assets qualifying under
    the 75% asset test, and (ii) not held in connection with
    dealing or engaging in substantial and regular trading in
    securities.



With respect to corrections of failures for which the
    requirements for corrections are satisfied after
    October 22, 2004, regardless of whether such failures
    occurred in taxable years beginning on, before or after such
    date, as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test
    or the 5% asset test, a REIT may avoid disqualification as a
    REIT by disposing of sufficient assets to cure a violation that
    does not exceed the lesser of 1% of the REIT’s assets at
    the end of the relevant quarter or $10,000,000, provided that
    the disposition occurs within six months following the last day
    of the quarter in which the REIT first identified the assets.
    For violations of any of the REIT asset tests due to reasonable
    cause and not willful neglect that exceed the thresholds
    described in the preceding sentence, a REIT can avoid
    disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter
    by taking certain steps, including disposition of sufficient
    assets within the six month period described above to meet the
    applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to the greater of
    $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net
    income generated by the non-qualifying assets during the period
    of time that the assets were held as non-qualifying assets and
    filing a schedule with the Internal Revenue Service that
    describes the non-qualifying assets.



Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries.For
    taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, REITs may
    own more than 10% of the voting power and value of securities in
    taxable REIT subsidiaries. We and any taxable corporate entity
    in which we own an interest are allowed to jointly elect to
    treat such entity as a “taxable REIT subsidiary.”



Certain of our subsidiaries have elected to be treated as a
    taxable REIT subsidiary. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject
    to full corporate level federal taxation on their earnings but
    are permitted to engage in certain types of activities that
    cannot be performed directly by REITs without jeopardizing their
    REIT status. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries will attempt to
    minimize the amount of these taxes, but there can be no
    assurance whether or the extent to which measures taken to
    minimize taxes will be successful. To the extent our taxable
    REIT subsidiaries are required to pay federal, state or local
    taxes, the cash available for distribution as dividends to us
    from our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be reduced.



The amount of interest on related-party debt that a taxable REIT
    subsidiary may deduct is limited. Further, a 100% tax applies to
    any interest payments by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its
    affiliated REIT to the extent the





interest rate is not commercially reasonable. A taxable REIT
    subsidiary is permitted to deduct interest payments to unrelated
    parties without any of these restrictions.



The Internal Revenue Service may reallocate costs between a REIT
    and its taxable REIT subsidiary where there is a lack of
    arm’s-length dealing between the parties. Any deductible
    expenses allocated away from a taxable REIT subsidiary would
    increase its tax liability. Further, any amount by which a REIT
    understates its deductions and overstates those of its taxable
    REIT subsidiary will, subject to certain exceptions, be subject
    to a 100% tax. Additional taxable REIT subsidiary elections may
    be made in the future for additional entities in which we own an
    interest.



Annual Distribution Requirements.



It is possible that, from time to time, we may not have
    sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90%
    distribution requirement, or to distribute such greater amount
    as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to,
    among other things, (1) timing differences between
    (i) the actual receipt of income and actual payment of
    deductible expenses and (ii) the inclusion of income and
    deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or
    (2) the payment of severance benefits that may not be
    deductible to us. In the event that timing differences occur, we
    may find it necessary to arrange for borrowings or, if possible,
    pay dividends in the form of taxable stock dividends in order to
    meet the distribution requirement.



Under certain circumstances, in the event of a deficiency
    determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be able to
    rectify a resulting failure to meet the distribution requirement
    for a year by paying “deficiency dividends” to
    stockholders in a later year, which may be included in our
    deduction for distributions paid for the earlier year. Thus, we
    may be able to avoid being taxed on amounts distributed as
    deficiency dividends; however, we will be required to pay
    applicable penalties and interest based upon the amount of any
    deduction taken for deficiency dividend distributions.



The Internal Revenue Service issued Revenue Procedure2008-68,which provided temporary relief to publicly traded REITs seeking
    to preserve liquidity by electing cash/stock dividends. Under
    Revenue Procedure2008-68,a
    REIT may treat the entire dividend, including the stock portion,
    as a taxable dividend distribution, thereby qualifying for the
    dividends-paid deduction, provided certain requirements are
    satisfied. The cash portion of the dividend may be as low as
    10%. Revenue Procedure2008-68,as
    amplified by Revenue Procedure2010-12,applies to dividends declared on or before December 31,
    2012, and with respect to a taxable year ending on or before
    December 31, 2011.



Failure
    to Qualify as a REIT



If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable
    year, we will be subject to federal income tax, including any
    applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at
    regular corporate rates. Distributions to stockholders in any
    year in which we fail to qualify as a REIT will not be
    deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions be
    required to be made in any year. All distributions to
    stockholders will be taxable as ordinary income to the extent of
    current and accumulated earnings and profits allocable to these
    distributions and, subject to certain limitations, will be
    eligible for the dividends received deduction for corporate
    stockholders. Unless entitled





to relief under specific statutory provisions, we also will be
    disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years
    following the year during which qualification was lost. It is
    not possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be
    entitled to statutory relief. Failure to qualify for even one
    year could result in our need to incur indebtedness or liquidate
    investments in order to pay potentially significant resulting
    tax liabilities.



In addition to the relief described above under
    “— Income Tests” and “— Asset
    Tests,” relief is available in the event that we violate a
    provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would result in our
    failure to qualify as a REIT if: (1) the violation is due
    to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we
    pay a penalty of $50,000 for each failure to satisfy the
    provision; and (3) the violation does not include a
    violation described under “— Income Tests”
    or “— Asset Tests” above. It is not now
    possible to determine the circumstances under which we may be
    entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions.



Federal
    Income Taxation of Holders of Our Stock



Treatment of Taxable
    U.S. Stockholders.The following summary
    applies to you only if you are a
    “U.S. stockholder.” A
    “U.S. stockholder” is a holder of shares of stock
    who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is:



•a citizen or resident of the United States;•a corporation, partnership or other entity classified as a
    corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
    organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any
    political subdivision of the United States, including any state;•an estate, the income of which is subject to United States
    federal income taxation regardless of its source; or•a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is able to exercise
    primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one
    or more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal
    Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the
    trust’s substantial decisions.



So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT, distributions on
    shares of our stock made out of the current or accumulated
    earnings and profits allocable to these distributions (and not
    designated as capital gain dividends) will be includable as
    ordinary income for federal income tax purposes. None of these
    distributions will be eligible for the dividends received
    deduction for U.S. corporate stockholders.



Generally, for taxable years ending after May 6, 2003
    through December 31, 2012, the maximum marginal rate of tax
    payable by individuals on dividends received from corporations
    that are subject to a corporate level of tax is 15%. Except in
    limited circumstances, this tax rate will not apply to dividends
    paid to you by us on our shares, because generally we are not
    subject to federal income tax on the portion of our REIT taxable
    income or capital gains distributed to our stockholders. The
    reduced maximum federal income tax rate will apply to that
    portion, if any, of dividends received by you with respect to
    our shares that are attributable to: (1) dividends received
    by us from non-REIT corporations or other taxable REIT
    subsidiaries; (2) income from the prior year with respect
    to which we were required to pay federal corporate income tax
    during the prior year (if, for example, we did not distribute
    100% of our REIT taxable income for the prior year); or
    (3) the amount of any earnings and profits that were
    distributed by us and accumulated in a non-REIT year.



Distributions that are designated as capital gain dividends will
    be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not
    exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year),
    without regard to the period for which you held our stock.
    However, if you are a corporation, you may be required to treat
    a portion of some capital gain dividends as ordinary income.



If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net long-term
    capital gain, you would include in income, as long-term capital
    gain, your proportionate share of this net long-term capital
    gain. You would also receive a refundable tax credit for your
    proportionate share of the tax paid by us on such retained
    capital gains, and you would have an increase in the basis of
    your shares of our stock in an amount equal to your includable
    capital gains less your share of the tax deemed paid.





You may not include in your federal income tax return any of our
    net operating losses or capital losses. Federal income tax rules
    may also require that certain minimum tax adjustments and
    preferences be apportioned to you. In addition, any distribution
    declared by us in October, November or December of any year on a
    specified date in any such month shall be treated as both paid
    by us and received by you on December 31 of that year, provided
    that the distribution is actually paid by us no later than
    January 31 of the following year.





Upon the sale or exchange of any shares of our stock to or with
    a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of
    our stock (whether actually or constructively owned) with us,
    you will generally recognize capital gain or loss equal to the
    difference between the amount realized on the sale or exchange
    and your adjusted tax basis in these shares of our stock. This
    gain will be capital gain if you held these shares of our stock
    as a capital asset.



If we redeem any of your shares in us, the treatment can only be
    determined on the basis of particular facts at the time of
    redemption. In general, you will recognize gain or loss (as
    opposed to dividend income) equal to the difference between the
    amount received by you in the redemption and your adjusted tax
    basis in your shares redeemed if such redemption:
    (1) results in a “complete termination” of your
    interest in all classes of our equity securities; (2) is a
    “substantially disproportionate redemption”; or
    (3) is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend”
    with respect to you. In applying these tests, you must take into
    account your ownership of all classes of our equity securities
    (e.g., common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and
    warrants). You also must take into account any equity securities
    that are considered to be constructively owned by you.



If, as a result of a redemption by us of your shares, you no
    longer own (either actually or constructively) any of our equity
    securities or only own (actually and constructively) an
    insubstantial percentage of our equity securities, then it is
    probable that the redemption of your shares would be considered
    “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” and, thus,
    would result in gain or loss to you. However, whether a
    distribution is “not essentially equivalent to a
    dividend” depends on all of the facts and circumstances,
    and if you rely on any of these tests at the time of redemption,
    you should consult your tax advisor to determine their
    application to the particular situation.



Generally, if the redemption does not meet the tests described
    above, then the proceeds received by you from the redemption of
    your shares will be treated as a distribution taxable as a
    dividend to the extent of the allocable portion of current or
    accumulated earnings and profits. If the redemption is taxed as
    a dividend, your adjusted tax basis in the redeemed shares will
    be transferred to any other shareholdings in us that you own. If
    you own no other shareholdings in us, under certain
    circumstances, such basis may be transferred to a related
    person, or it may be lost entirely.



Gain from the sale or exchange of our shares held for more than
    one year is taxed at a maximum long-term capital gain rate,
    which is currently 15%. Pursuant to Internal Revenue Service
    guidance, we may classify portions of our capital gain dividends
    as gains eligible for the long-term capital gains rate or as
    gain taxable to individual stockholders at a maximum rate of 25%.



On March 30, 2010, the President signed into law the Health
    Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which requires
    U.S. stockholders who meet certain requirements and are
    individuals, estates or certain trusts to pay





an additional 3.8% tax on, among other things, dividends on and
    capital gains from the sale or other disposition of stock for
    taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012.
    U.S. stockholders should consult their tax advisors
    regarding the effect, if any, of this legislation on their
    ownership and disposition of shares of our stock.



Treatment of Tax-Exempt
    U.S. Stockholders.Tax-exempt entities,
    including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts
    and individual retirement accounts (“Exempt
    Organizations”), generally are exempt from federal income
    taxation. However, they are subject to taxation on their
    unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). The
    Internal Revenue Service has issued a published revenue ruling
    that dividend distributions from a REIT to an exempt employee
    pension trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares
    of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or
    business of the exempt employee pension trust. Based on this
    ruling, amounts distributed by us to Exempt Organizations
    generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an Exempt
    Organization finances its acquisition of the shares of our stock
    with debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute UBTI
    pursuant to the “debt financed property” rules.
    Likewise, a portion of the Exempt Organization’s income
    from us would constitute UBTI if we held a residual interest in
    a real estate mortgage investment conduit.



In addition, in certain circumstances, a pension trust that owns
    more than 10% of our stock is required to treat a percentage of
    our dividends as UBTI. This rule applies to a pension trust
    holding more than 10% of our stock only if: (1) the
    percentage of our income that is UBTI (determined as if we were
    a pension trust) is at least 5%; (2) we qualify as a REIT
    by reason of the modification of the Five or Fewer Requirement
    that allows beneficiaries of the pension trust to be treated as
    holding shares in proportion to their actuarial interests in the
    pension trust; and (3) either (i) one pension trust
    owns more than 25% of the value of our stock, or (ii) a
    group of pension trusts individually holding more than 10% of
    the value of our stock collectively own more than 50% of the
    value of our stock.



Backup Withholding and Information
    Reporting.Under certain circumstances, you may
    be subject to backup withholding at applicable rates on payments
    made with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange of,
    shares of our stock. Backup withholding will apply only if you:
    (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification
    number, which if you are an individual, is ordinarily your
    social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer
    identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
    Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments
    of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under
    penalties of perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer
    identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has
    not notified you that you are subject to backup withholding.



Backup withholding will not apply with respect to payments made
    to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and
    tax-exempt organizations. You should consult with a tax advisor
    regarding qualification for exemption from backup withholding,
    and the procedure for obtaining an exemption. Backup withholding
    is not an additional tax. Rather, the amount of any backup
    withholding with respect to a payment to a stockholder will be
    allowed as a credit against such stockholder’s United
    States federal income tax liability and may entitle such
    stockholder to a refund, provided that the required information
    is provided to the Internal Revenue Service. In addition,
    withholding a portion of capital gain distributions made to
    stockholders may be required for stockholders who fail to
    certify their non-foreign status.



Taxation of Foreign Stockholders.The
    following summary applies to you only if you are a foreign
    person. The federal taxation of foreign persons is a highly
    complex matter that may be affected by many considerations.



Except as discussed below, distributions to you of cash
    generated by our real estate operations in the form of ordinary
    dividends, but not by the sale or exchange of our capital
    assets, generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax
    at a rate of 30%, unless an applicable tax treaty reduces that
    tax and you file with us the required form evidencing the lower
    rate.



In general, you will be subject to United States federal income
    tax on a graduated rate basis rather than withholding with
    respect to your investment in our stock if such investment is
    “effectively connected” with your conduct of a trade
    or business in the United States. A corporate foreign
    stockholder that receives income that is, or is treated as,
    effectively connected with a United States trade or business may
    also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is payable in
    addition to regular United States corporate income tax. The
    following discussion will apply to foreign stockholders whose
    investment in us is not so effectively connected. We expect to
    withhold United States





income tax, as described below, on the gross amount of any
    distributions paid to you unless (1) you file an Internal
    Revenue ServiceForm W-8ECIwith us claiming that the distribution is “effectively
    connected” or (2) certain other exceptions apply.



Distributions by us that are attributable to gain from the sale
    or exchange of a United States real property interest will be
    taxed to you under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax
    Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if these distributions were
    gains “effectively connected” with a United States
    trade or business. Accordingly, you will be taxed at the normal
    capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. stockholder on
    these amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax
    and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident
    alien individuals. Distributions subject to FIRPTA may also be
    subject to a branch profits tax in the hands of a corporate
    foreign stockholder that is not entitled to treaty exemption.



We will be required to withhold from distributions subject to
    FIRPTA, and remit to the Internal Revenue Service, 35% of
    designated capital gain dividends, or, if greater, 35% of the
    amount of any distributions that could be designated as capital
    gain dividends. In addition, if we designate prior distributions
    as capital gain dividends, subsequent distributions, up to the
    amount of the prior distributions not withheld against, will be
    treated as capital gain dividends for purposes of withholding.



For taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, any
    capital gain dividend with respect to any class of stock that is
    “regularly traded” on an established securities market
    will be treated as an ordinary dividend if the foreign
    stockholder did not own more than 5% of such class of stock at
    any time during the taxable year. Once this provision takes
    effect, foreign stockholders generally will not be required to
    report distributions received from us on U.S. federal
    income tax returns and all distributions treated as dividends
    for U.S. federal income tax purposes including any capital
    gain dividend will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax
    (unless reduced under an applicable income tax treaty) as
    discussed above. In addition, the branch profits tax will no
    longer apply to such distributions.



Unless our shares constitute a “United States real property
    interest” within the meaning of FIRPTA or are effectively
    connected with a U.S. trade or business, a sale of our
    shares by you generally will not be subject to United States
    taxation. Our shares will not constitute a United States real
    property interest if we qualify as a “domestically
    controlled REIT.” We believe that we, and expect to
    continue to, qualify as a domestically controlled REIT. A
    domestically controlled REIT is a REIT in which at all times
    during a specified testing period less than 50% in value of its
    shares is held directly or indirectly by foreign stockholders.
    However, if you are a nonresident alien individual who is
    present in the United States for 183 days or more during
    the taxable year and certain other conditions apply, you will be
    subject to a 30% tax on such capital gains. In any event, a
    purchaser of our shares from you will not be required under
    FIRPTA to withhold on the purchase price if the purchased shares
    are “regularly traded” on an established securities
    market or if we are a domestically controlled REIT. Otherwise,
    under FIRPTA, the purchaser may be required to withhold 10% of
    the purchase price and remit such amount to the Internal Revenue
    Service.



Backup withholding tax and information reporting will generally
    not apply to distributions paid to you outside the United States
    that are treated as: (1) dividends to which the 30% or
    lower treaty rate withholding tax discussed above applies;
    (2) capital gains dividends; or (3) distributions
    attributable to gain from the sale or exchange by us of
    U.S. real property interests. Payment of the proceeds of a
    sale of stock within the United States or conducted through
    certain U.S. related financial intermediaries is subject to
    both backup withholding and information reporting unless the
    beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that he or
    she is not a U.S. person (and the payor does not have
    actual knowledge that the beneficial owner is a
    U.S. person) or otherwise established an exemption. You may
    obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup
    withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund
    with the Internal Revenue Service.



Recently enacted legislation will require, after
    December 31, 2012, withholding at a rate of 30% on
    dividends in respect of, and gross proceeds from the sale of,
    shares of our stock held by or through certain foreign financial
    institutions (including investment funds), unless such
    institution enters into an agreement with the Secretary of the
    Treasury to report, on an annual basis, information with respect
    to shares in the institution held by certain U.S. persons
    and by certainnon-U.S. entitiesthat are wholly or partially owned by U.S. persons, and to
    withhold on certain payments. Accordingly, the entity through
    which shares of stock is held will affect the determination of





whether such withholding is required. Similarly, dividends in
    respect of, and gross proceeds from the sale of, shares of our
    stock held by an investor that is a non-financialnon-U.S. entitywill be subject to withholding at a rate of 30%, unless such
    entity either (i) certifies to us that such entity does not
    have any “substantial United States owners” or
    (ii) provides certain information regarding the
    entity’s “substantial United States owners,”
    which we will in turn provide to the Secretary of the Treasury.
    We will not pay any additional amounts to any stockholders in
    respect of any amounts withheld. Foreign persons are encouraged
    to consult with their tax advisors regarding the possible
    implications of the legislation on their investment in shares of
    our stock.



U.S.
    Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Depositary
    Shares



Owners of our depositary shares will be treated as if you were
    owners of the series of preferred stock represented by the
    depositary shares. Thus, you will be required to take into
    account the income and deductions to which you would be entitled
    if you were a holder of the underlying series of preferred stock.



Conversion or Exchange of Shares for Preferred
    Stock.No gain or loss will be recognized upon
    the withdrawal of preferred stock in exchange for depositary
    shares and the tax basis of each share of preferred stock will,
    upon exchange, be the same as the aggregate tax basis of the
    depositary shares exchanged. If you held your depositary shares
    as a capital asset at the time of the exchange for shares of
    preferred stock, the holding period for your shares of preferred
    stock will include the period during which you owned the
    depositary shares.



U.S.
    Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Debt
    Securities



The following is a general summary of the United States federal
    income tax consequences and, in the case that you are a holder
    that is anon-U.S. holder,as defined below, the United States federal estate tax
    consequences, of purchasing, owning and disposing of debt
    securities periodically offered under one or more indentures
    (the “notes”). This summary assumes that you hold the
    notes as capital assets. This summary applies to you only if you
    are the initial holder of the notes and you acquire the notes
    for a price equal to the issue price of the notes. The issue
    price of the notes is the first price at which a substantial
    amount of the notes is sold other than to bond houses, brokers
    or similar persons or organizations acting in the capacity of
    underwriters, placement agents or wholesalers. In addition, this
    summary does not consider any foreign, state, local or other tax
    laws that may be applicable to us or a purchaser of the notes.



U.S.
    Holders



The following summary applies to you only if you are a
    U.S. holder, as defined below.



Definition of a U.S. Holder.A
    “U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner of a note or
    notes that is for United States federal income tax purposes:



•a citizen or resident of the United States;•a corporation, partnership or other entity classified as a
    corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
    organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any
    political subdivision of the United States, including any state;•an estate, the income of which is subject to United States
    federal income taxation regardless of its source; or•a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is able to exercise
    primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one
    or more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal
    Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the
    trust’s substantial decisions.



Payments of Interest.Stated interest on the
    notes generally will be taxed as ordinary interest income from
    domestic sources at the time it is paid or accrues in accordance
    with your method of accounting for tax purposes.





Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition of
    Notes.The adjusted tax basis in your note
    acquired at a premium will generally be your cost. You generally
    will recognize taxable gain or loss when you sell or otherwise
    dispose of your notes equal to the difference, if any, between:



•the amount realized on the sale or other disposition, less any
    amount attributable to any accrued interest, which will be
    taxable in the manner described under “— Payments
    of Interest” above; and•your adjusted tax basis in the notes.



Your gain or loss generally will be capital gain or loss. This
    capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if
    at the time of the sale or other disposition you have held the
    notes for more than one year. Subject to limited exceptions,
    your capital losses cannot be used to offset your ordinary
    income.



Backup Withholding and Information
    Reporting.In general, “backup
    withholding” may apply to any payments made to you of
    principal and interest on your note, and to payment of the
    proceeds of a sale or other disposition of your note before
    maturity, if you are a non-corporate U.S. holder and:
    (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification
    number, which if you are an individual, is ordinarily your
    social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer
    identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
    Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments
    of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under
    penalties of perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer
    identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has
    not notified you that you are subject to backup withholding.



The amount of any reportable payments, including interest, made
    to you (unless you are an exempt recipient) and the amount of
    tax withheld, if any, with respect to such payments will be
    reported to you and to the Internal Revenue Service for each
    calendar year. You should consult your tax advisor regarding
    your qualification for an exemption from backup withholding and
    the procedures for obtaining such an exemption, if applicable.
    The backup withholding tax is not an additional tax and will be
    credited against your U.S. federal income tax liability,
    provided that correct information is provided to the Internal
    Revenue Service.



Non-U.S.Holders



The following summary applies to you if you are a beneficial
    owner of a note and are not a U.S. holder, as defined above
    (a“non-U.S. holder”).



Special rules may apply to certainnon-U.S. holderssuch as “controlled foreign corporations,”
    “passive foreign investment companies” and
    “foreign personal holding companies.” Such entities
    are encouraged to consult their tax advisors to determine the
    United States federal, state, local and other tax consequences
    that may be relevant to them.



U.S. Federal Withholding Tax.Subject to
    the discussion below, U.S. federal withholding tax will not
    apply to payments by us or our paying agent, in its capacity as
    such, of principal and interest on your notes under the
    “portfolio interest” exception of the Internal Revenue
    Code, provided that:



•you do not, directly or indirectly, actually or constructively,
    own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all
    classes of our stock entitled to vote;•you are not (1) a controlled foreign corporation for
    U.S. federal income tax purposes that is related, directly
    or indirectly, to us through sufficient stock ownership, as
    provided in the Internal Revenue Code, or (2) a bank
    receiving interest described in Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the
    Internal Revenue Code;•such interest is not effectively connected with your conduct of
    a U.S. trade or business; and•you provide a signed written statement, under penalties of
    perjury, which can reliably be related to you, certifying that
    you are not a U.S. person within the meaning of the
    Internal Revenue Code and providing your name and address to:•us or our paying agent; or•a securities clearing organization, bank or other financial
    institution that holds customers’ securities in the
    ordinary course of its trade or business and holds your notes on
    your behalf and that certifies to us or our paying agent under
    penalties of perjury that it, or the bank or financial
    institution between it and you, has received from you your
    signed, written statement and provides us or our paying agent
    with a copy of such statement.







Treasury regulations provide that:



•if you are a foreign partnership, the certification requirement
    will generally apply to your partners, and you will be required
    to provide certain information;•if you are a foreign trust, the certification requirement will
    generally be applied to you or your beneficial owners depending
    on whether you are a “foreign complex trust,”
    “foreign simple trust,” or “foreign grantor
    trust” as defined in the Treasury regulations; and•look-through rules will apply for tiered partnerships, foreign
    simple trusts and foreign grantor trusts.



If you are a foreign partnership or a foreign trust, you should
    consult your own tax advisor regarding your status under these
    Treasury regulations and the certification requirements
    applicable to you.



If you cannot satisfy the portfolio interest requirements
    described above, payments of interest will be subject to the 30%
    United States withholding tax, unless you provide us with a
    properly executed (1) Internal Revenue ServiceForm W-8BENclaiming an exemption from or reduction in withholding under the
    benefit of an applicable treaty or (2) Internal Revenue
    ServiceForm W-8ECIstating that interest paid on the note is not subject to
    withholding tax because it is effectively connected with your
    conduct of a trade or business in the United States. Alternative
    documentation may be applicable in certain circumstances.



If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States
    and interest on a note is effectively connected with the conduct
    of that trade or business, you will be required to pay United
    States federal income tax on that interest on a net income basis
    (although you will be exempt from the 30% withholding tax
    provided the certification requirement described above is met)
    in the same manner as if you were a U.S. person, except as
    otherwise provided by an applicable tax treaty. If you are a
    foreign corporation, you may be required to pay a branch profits
    tax on the earnings and profits that are effectively connected
    to the conduct of your trade or business in the United States.



Recent legislation generally will impose U.S. withholding
    tax at a 30% rate on payments of interest (including original
    issue discount) and proceeds of sale in respect of debt
    instruments to certainnon-U.S. holdersif certain additional disclosure requirements related to
    U.S. ownership of suchnon-U.S. holdersor U.S. accounts maintained by suchnon-U.S. holdersare not satisfied. However, the withholding tax will not be
    imposed on payments pursuant to debt or other obligations
    outstanding as of March 18, 2012. If payment of withholding
    taxes is required,non-U.S. holdersthat are otherwise eligible for an exemption from, or reduction
    of, U.S. withholding taxes with respect to such
    distributions and proceeds of a sale of such notes will be
    entitled to seek a refund from the Internal Revenue Service
    (“IRS”) to obtain the benefit of such exemption or
    reduction. We will not pay any additional amounts tonon-U.S. holdersin respect of any amounts withheld. These new withholding rules
    are generally effective for payments made after
    December 31, 2012.



Sale, Exchange or other Disposition of
    Notes.You generally will not have to pay
    U.S. federal income tax on any gain or income realized from
    the sale, redemption, retirement at maturity or other
    disposition of your notes, unless:



•in the case of gain, you are an individual who is present in the
    United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year
    of the sale or other disposition of your notes, and specific
    other conditions are met;•you are subject to tax provisions applicable to certain United
    States expatriates; or•the gain is effectively connected with your conduct of a
    U.S. trade or business.



If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States,
    and gain with respect to your notes is effectively connected
    with the conduct of that trade or business, you generally will
    be subject to U.S. income tax on a net basis on the gain.
    In addition, if you are a foreign corporation, you may be
    subject to a branch profits tax on your effectively connected
    earnings and profits for the taxable year, as adjusted for
    certain items.



U.S. Federal Estate Tax.If you are an
    individual and are not a U.S. citizen or a resident of the
    United States, as specially defined for U.S. federal estate
    tax purposes, at the time of your death, your notes will
    generally not be subject to the U.S. federal estate tax,
    unless, at the time of your death (1) you owned actually or
    constructively 10%





or more of the total combined voting power of all our classes of
    stock entitled to vote, or (2) interest on the notes is
    effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or
    business.



Backup Withholding and Information
    Reporting.Backup withholding will not apply to
    payments of principal or interest made by us or our paying
    agent, in its capacity as such, to you if you have provided the
    required certification that you are anon-U.S. holderas described in “— U.S. Federal Withholding
    Tax” above, and provided that neither we nor our paying
    agent have actual knowledge that you are a U.S. holder, as
    described in “— U.S. Holders” above. We
    or our paying agent may, however, report payments of interest on
    the notes.



The gross proceeds from the disposition of your notes may be
    subject to information reporting and backup withholding tax. If
    you sell your notes outside the United States through anon-U.S. officeof anon-U.S. brokerand the sales proceeds are paid to you outside the United
    States, then the U.S. backup withholding and information
    reporting requirements generally will not apply to that payment.
    However, U.S. information reporting, but not backup
    withholding, will apply to a payment of sales proceeds, even if
    that payment is made outside the United States, if you sell
    your notes through anon-U.S. officeof a broker that:



•is a U.S. person, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code;•derives 50% or more of its gross income in specific periods from
    the conduct of a trade or business in the United States;•is a “controlled foreign corporation” for
    U.S. federal income tax purposes; or•is a foreign partnership, if at any time during its tax year,
    one or more of its partners are U.S. persons who in the
    aggregate hold more than 50% of the income or capital interests
    in the partnership, or the foreign partnership is engaged in a
    U.S. trade or business, unless the broker has documentary
    evidence in its files that you are anon-U.S. personand certain other conditions are met or you otherwise establish
    an exemption. If you receive payments of the proceeds of a sale
    of your notes to or through a U.S. office of a broker, the
    payment is subject to both U.S. backup withholding and
    information reporting unless you provide aForm W-8BENcertifying that you are anon-U.S. personor you otherwise establish an exemption.



You should consult your own tax advisor regarding application of
    backup withholding in your particular circumstance and the
    availability of and procedure for obtaining an exemption from
    backup withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup
    withholding rules from a payment to you will be allowed as a
    refund or credit against your U.S. federal income tax
    liability, provided the required information is furnished to the
    Internal Revenue Service.



U.S.
    Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our
    Warrants



Exercise of Warrants.You will not generally
    recognize gain or loss upon the exercise of a warrant. Your
    basis in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares
    or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise
    of the warrant will be equal to the sum of your adjusted tax
    basis in the warrant and the exercise price paid. Your holding
    period in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary
    shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the
    exercise of the warrant will not include the period during which
    the warrant was held by you.



Expiration of Warrants.Upon the expiration of
    a warrant, you will recognize a capital loss in an amount equal
    to your adjusted tax basis in the warrant.



Sale or Exchange of Warrants.Upon the sale or
    exchange of a warrant to a person other than us, you will
    recognize gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference
    between the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your
    adjusted tax basis in the warrant. Such gain or loss will be
    capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss
    if the warrant was held for more than one year. Upon the sale of
    the warrant to us, the Internal Revenue Service may argue that
    you should recognize ordinary income on the sale. You are
    advised to consult your own tax advisors as to the consequences
    of a sale of a warrant to us.





Potential
    Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax
    Consequences



Current and prospective securities holders should recognize that
    the present federal income tax treatment of an investment in us
    may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative
    action at any time and that any such action may affect
    investments and commitments previously made. The rules dealing
    with federal income taxation are constantly under review by
    persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal
    Revenue Service and the Treasury Department, resulting in
    revisions of regulations and revised interpretations of
    established concepts as well as statutory changes. Revisions in
    federal tax laws and interpretations of these laws could
    adversely affect the tax consequences of an investment in us.



Internet
    Access to Our SEC Filings



Our annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports, as well as our proxy statements
    and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission are made available, free of
    charge, on the Internet at www.hcreit.com, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission.



