Item 1A.Risk
    Factors



Many factors could have an effect on our financial condition,
    cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various
    risks resulting from changing economic, environmental,
    political, industry, business and financial conditions. The
    factors described below represent our principal risks.



Risks
    Related to Our Business



The
    worldwide economic downturn and difficult conditions in the
    global capital and credit markets have affected and may continue
    to adversely affect our business, as well as the industries of
    many of our customers and suppliers, which are cyclical in
    nature.



Some of the markets in which our end-use customers participate,
    such as the automotive, electrical, construction and textile
    industries, are cyclical in nature, thus posing a risk to us
    which is beyond our control. These markets are highly
    competitive, to a large extent driven by end-use markets, and
    may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for
    and pricing of our products.



Recent declines in consumer and business confidence and
    spending, together with severe reductions in the availability
    and cost of credit and volatility in the capital and credit
    markets, have adversely affected the business and economic
    environment in which we operate and the profitability of our
    business. Our business is exposed to risks associated with the
    creditworthiness of our key suppliers, customers and business
    partners. In particular, we are exposed to risks associated with
    reduced levels of automotive and textile production and declines
    in the housing market. These conditions have resulted in
    financial instability or other adverse effects at many of our
    suppliers, customers or business partners. The consequences of
    such adverse effects could include the interruption of
    production at the facilities of our customers, the reduction,
    delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the
    inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our
    products, delays or interruptions of the supply of raw





materials we purchase and bankruptcy of customers, suppliers or
    other creditors. The continuation of any of these events may
    adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial
    condition.



During 2008 and 2009, as a result of the economic downturn,
    lenders and institutional investors reduced and, in some cases,
    ceased to provide funding to borrowers reducing the availability
    of liquidity and credit to fund or support the continuation and
    expansion of business operations worldwide. Although the markets
    have stabilized since 2008, future disruption of the credit
    markets could adversely affect our customer’s access to
    credit which supports the continuation and expansion of their
    businesses worldwide and could result in contract cancellations
    or suspensions, payment delays or defaults by our customers.



We are
    a company with operations around the world and are exposed to
    general economic, political and regulatory conditions and risks
    in the countries in which we have significant
    operations.



We operate in the global market and have customers in many
    countries. We have major facilities primarily located in North
    America, Europe and Asia, and hold interests in ventures that
    operate in the US, Germany, China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan
    and Saudi Arabia. Our principal customers are similarly global
    in scope, and the prices of our most significant products are
    typically world market prices. Consequently, our business and
    financial results are affected, directly and indirectly, by
    world economic, political and regulatory conditions.



In addition to the worldwide economic downturn, conditions such
    as the uncertainties associated with war, terrorist activities,
    epidemics, pandemics, weather or political instability in any of
    the countries in which we operate could affect us by causing
    delays or losses in the supply or delivery of raw materials and
    products, as well as increasing security costs, insurance
    premiums and other expenses. These conditions could also result
    in or lengthen economic recession in the United States, Europe,
    Asia or elsewhere.



Moreover, changes in laws or regulations, such as unexpected
    changes in regulatory requirements (including import or export
    licensing requirements), or changes in the reporting
    requirements of the United States, German or European Union
    (“EU”) governmental agencies, could increase the cost
    of doing business in these regions. Any of these conditions may
    have an effect on our business and financial results as a whole
    and may result in volatile current and future prices for our
    securities, including our stock.



In particular, we have invested significant resources in China
    and other Asian countries. This region’s growth has slowed
    and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits associated
    with our investment there and our financial results may be
    adversely impacted.



We are
    subject to risks associated with the increased volatility in the
    prices and availability of key raw materials and
    energy.



We purchase significant amounts of natural gas, ethylene and
    methanol from third parties for use in our production of basic
    chemicals in the Acetyl Intermediates segment, principally
    formaldehyde, acetic acid and VAM. We use a portion of our
    output of these chemicals, in turn, as inputs in the production
    of further products in all our business segments. We also
    purchase significant amounts of wood pulp for use in our
    production of cellulose acetate in the Consumer Specialties
    segment. The price of many of these items is dependent on the
    available supply of such item and may increase significantly as
    a result of production disruptions or strikes. For example, the
    unplanned shutdown of our Clear Lake, Texas facility during 2007
    together with other tight supply conditions caused a shortage of
    acetic acid and increased the price for such product.



We are exposed to volatility in the prices of our raw materials
    and energy. Although we have agreements providing for the supply
    of natural gas, ethylene, wood pulp, electricity and fuel oil,
    the contractual prices for these raw materials and energy vary
    with market conditions and may be highly volatile. Factors that
    have caused volatility in our raw material prices in the past
    and which may do so in the future include:



•Shortages of raw materials due to increasing demand, e.g., from
    growing uses or new uses;•Capacity constraints, e.g., due to construction delays, labor
    disruption or involuntary shutdowns;







•The general level of business and economic activity; and•The direct or indirect effect of governmental regulation.



If we are not able to fully offset the effects of higher energy
    and raw material costs, or if such commodities were unavailable,
    it could have a significant adverse effect on our financial
    results.



Failure
    to develop new products and production technologies or to
    implement productivity and cost reduction initiatives
    successfully may harm our competitive position.



Our operating results, especially in our Consumer Specialties
    and Advanced Engineered Materials segments, depend significantly
    on the development of commercially viable new products, product
    grades and applications, as well as production technologies. If
    we are unsuccessful in developing new products, applications and
    production processes in the future, our competitive position and
    operating results may be negatively affected. Likewise, we have
    undertaken and are continuing to undertake initiatives in all
    business segments to improve productivity and performance and to
    generate cost savings. These initiatives may not be completed or
    beneficial or the estimated cost savings from such activities
    may not be realized.



Recent
    federal regulations aimed at increasing security at certain
    chemical production plants and similar legislation that may be
    proposed in the future could, if passed into law, require us to
    relocate certain manufacturing activities and require us to
    alter or discontinue our production of certain chemical
    products, thereby increasing our operating costs and causing an
    adverse effect on our results of operations.





Environmental
    regulations and other obligations relating to environmental
    matters could subject us to liability for fines,clean-upsand other damages, require us to incur significant costs to
    modify our operations and increase our manufacturing and
    delivery costs.



Costs related to our compliance with environmental laws and
    regulations, and potential obligations with respect to
    contaminated sites may have a significant negative impact on our
    operating results. These obligations include the Comprehensive
    Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980
    (“CERCLA”) and the Resource Conservation and Recovery
    Act of 1976 (“RCRA”) related to sites currently or
    formerly owned or operated by us, or where waste from our
    operations was disposed. We also have obligations related to the
    indemnity agreement contained in the demerger and transfer
    agreement between Celanese GmbH and Hoechst, also referred to as
    the demerger agreement, for environmental matters arising out of
    certain divestitures that took place prior to the demerger.



Our operations are subject to extensive international, national,
    state, local and other supranational laws and regulations that
    govern environmental and health and safety matters, including
    CERCLA and RCRA. We incur substantial capital and other costs to
    comply with these requirements. If we violate them, we can be
    held liable for substantial fines and other sanctions, including
    limitations on our operations as a result of changes to or
    revocations of environmental permits involved. Stricter
    environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and
    enforcement





policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us
    or limitations on our operations and could subject our handling,
    manufacture, use, reuse or disposal of substances or pollutants
    to more rigorous scrutiny than at present. Consequently,
    compliance with these laws and regulations could result in
    significant capital expenditures as well as other costs and
    liabilities, which could cause our business and operating
    results to be less favorable than expected. An adverse outcome
    in these claim procedures may negatively affect our earnings and
    cash flows in a particular reporting period.



Changes
    in environmental, health and safety regulations in the
    jurisdictions where we manufacture and sell our products could
    lead to a decrease in demand for our products.



New or revised governmental regulations and independent studies
    relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the
    environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of
    producing our products.



In June 2009, the California Office of Environmental Health
    Hazard Assessment (“OEHHA”) formally proposed to list
    vinyl acetate monomer (“VAM”), along with 11 other
    substances, to a list of chemicals “known to the state of
    California” to cause cancer. OEHHA is required to maintain
    this list under the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement
    Act of 1986 (“Proposition 65”). Celanese filed
    comments in opposition to the proposed listing because the
    listing was not based on a scientific review of the relevant
    data and the legal standard for adding VAM to the Proposition 65
    list had not been met. Celanese also filed an action in the
    Sacramento County Supervisor Court seeking declaration that
    OEHHA’s proposed listing of VAM would be contrary to law.
    The Superior Court granted Celanese’s request for relief.
    It is anticipated that OEHHA will appeal that decision.



We can provide no assurance that the Sacramento County Superior
    Court decision will be affirmed on appeal, or that VAM or other
    chemicals we produce will not be classified in other
    jurisdictions in a manner that would adversely affect demand for
    such products.



We are a producer of formaldehyde and plastics derived from
    formaldehyde. Several studies have investigated possible links
    between formaldehyde exposure and various end points including
    leukemia. The International Agency for Research on Cancer
    (“IARC”), a private research agency, has reclassified
    formaldehyde from Group 2A (probable human carcinogen) to Group
    1 (known human carcinogen) based on studies linking formaldehyde
    exposure to nasopharyngeal cancer, a rare cancer in humans. In
    October 2009, IARC also concluded based on a recent study that
    there is sufficient evidence for a casual association between
    formaldehyde and the development of leukemia. We expect the
    results of IARC’s review will be examined and considered by
    government agencies with responsibility for setting worker and
    environmental exposure standards and labeling requirements.



Other pending initiatives will potentially require toxicological
    testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals,
    including chemicals used or produced by us. These initiatives
    include the Voluntary Children’s Chemical Evaluation
    Program, High Production Volume Chemical Initiative and expected
    modifications to the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) in the
    United States, as well as various European Commission programs,
    such as the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and
    Restriction of Chemicals (REACh).



The above-mentioned assessments in the United States and Europe
    may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved
    and additional requirements being placed on the production,
    handling, labeling or use of the subject chemicals. Such
    concerns and additional requirements could also increase the
    cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and
    otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a
    decrease in demand for these products. Such a decrease in demand
    would likely have an adverse impact on our business and results
    of operations.



We are
    subject to risks associated with possible climate change
    legislation, regulation and international accords.



Greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become the subject of
    a large amount of international, national, regional, state and
    local attention. Cap and trade initiatives to limit greenhouse
    gas emissions have been introduced in the EU. Similarly,
    numerous bills related to climate change have been introduced in
    the US Congress, which could adversely impact all industries. In
    addition, future regulation of greenhouse gas could occur
    pursuant to future US treaty obligations, statutory or
    regulatory changes under the Clean Air Act or new climate change
    legislation.





While not all are likely to become law, this is a strong
    indication that additional climate change related mandates will
    be forthcoming, and it is expected that they may adversely
    impact our costs by increasing energy costs and raw material
    prices and establishing costly emissions trading schemes and
    requiring modification of equipment.



A step toward potential federal restriction on greenhouse gas
    emissions was taken on December 7, 2009 when the
    Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) issued its
    Endangerment Finding in response to a decision of the Supreme
    Court of the United States. The EPA found that the emission of
    six greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide (which is emitted
    from the combustion of fossil fuels), may reasonably be
    anticipated to endanger public health and welfare. Based on this
    finding, the EPA defined the mix of these six greenhouse gases
    to be “air pollution” subject to regulation under the
    Clean Air Act. Although the EPA has stated a preference that
    greenhouse gas regulation be based on new federal legislation
    rather than the existing Clean Air Act, many sources of
    greenhouse gas emissions may be regulated without the need for
    further legislation.



The US Congress is considering legislation that would create an
    economy-wide“cap-and-trade”system that would establish a limit (or cap) on overall
    greenhouse gas emissions and create a market for the purchase
    and sale of emissions permits or “allowances.” Under
    the leadingcap-and-tradeproposals before Congress, the chemical industry likely would be
    affected due to anticipated increases in energy costs as fuel
    providers pass on the cost of the emissions allowances, which
    they would be required to obtain, to cover the emissions from
    fuel production and the eventual use of fuel by the Company or
    its energy suppliers. In addition,cap-and-tradeproposals would likely increase the cost of energy, including
    purchases of steam and electricity, and certain raw materials
    used by the Company. Other countries are also considering or
    have implemented“cap-and-trade”systems. Future environmental regulatory developments related to
    climate change are possible, which could materially increase
    operating costs in the chemical industry and thereby increase
    our manufacturing and delivery costs.



Our
    production facilities handle the processing of some volatile and
    hazardous materials that subject us to operating risks that
    could have a negative effect on our operating
    results.



Our operations are subject to operating risks associated with
    chemical manufacturing, including the related storage and
    transportation of raw materials, products and waste. These risks
    include, among other things, pipeline and storage tank leaks and
    ruptures, explosions and fires and discharges or releases of
    toxic or hazardous substances.



These operating risks can cause personal injury, property damage
    and environmental contamination, and may result in the shutdown
    of affected facilities and the imposition of civil or criminal
    penalties. The occurrence of any of these events may disrupt
    production and have a negative effect on the productivity and
    profitability of a particular manufacturing facility and our
    operating results and cash flows.



Production
    at our manufacturing facilities could be disrupted for a variety
    of reasons, which could prevent us from producing enough of our
    products to maintain our sales and satisfy our customers’
    demands.







Our
    business and financial results may be adversely affected by
    various legal and regulatory proceedings.



We are subject to legal and regulatory proceedings, lawsuits and
    claims in the normal course of business and could become subject
    to additional claims in the future, some of which could be
    material. The outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits and
    claims may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of
    litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to
    reliably predict. Various factors or developments can lead us to
    change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance
    receivables where applicable, or make such estimates for matters
    previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a
    significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant
    settlement, significant regulatory developments, or changes in
    applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement, or
    unfavorable development could result in charges that could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    or financial condition in any particular period. For a more
    detailed discussion of our legal proceedings, seeItem 3. Legal Proceedingsbelow.



We may
    experience unexpected difficulties and incur unexpected costs in
    the relocation of our Ticona plant from Kelsterbach to the Rhine
    Main area, which may increase our costs, delay the transition or
    disrupt our ability to supply our customers.





If supply to our customers is disrupted for an extended period,
    this could negatively impact the reputation of this business and
    result in the loss of customers. Such effects could have an
    adverse impact on our results of operations in future periods.



Our
    significant non-US operations expose us to global exchange rate
    fluctuations that could adversely impact our
    profitability.



Because we conduct a significant portion of our operations
    outside the United States, fluctuations in currencies of other
    countries, especially the Euro, may materially affect our
    operating results. For example, changes in currency exchange
    rates may decrease our profits in comparison to the profits of
    our competitors on the same products sold in the same markets
    and increase the cost of items required in our operations.



A substantial portion of our net sales is denominated in
    currencies other than the US dollar. In our consolidated
    financial statements, we translate our local currency financial
    results into US dollars based on average exchange rates
    prevailing during a reporting period or the exchange rate at the
    end of that period. During times of a strengthening US dollar
    our reported international sales, earnings, assets and
    liabilities will be reduced because the local currency will
    translate into fewer US dollars.



In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency
    transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries
    enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a
    currency different from the operating subsidiary’s
    functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we
    may not be able to manage our currency transaction and
    translation risks effectively, and volatility in currency
    exchange rates may expose our financial





condition or results of operations to a significant additional
    risk. Since a portion of our indebtedness is and will be
    denominated in currencies other than US dollars, a weakening of
    the US dollar could make it more difficult for us to repay our
    indebtedness.



We use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign
    currency fluctuations, but we cannot guarantee that our hedging
    strategies will be effective. Failure to effectively manage
    these risks could have an adverse impact on our financial
    position, results of operations and cash flows.



Significant
    changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions
    relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the
    valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension
    plans and our pension cost.





Our
    future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our
    intellectual property rights. Our inability to enforce these
    rights could reduce our ability to maintain our market position
    and our profit margins.





Provisions
    in certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as any
    shareholders’ rights plan, may discourage a takeover
    attempt.



Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and
    bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire
    us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders.
    Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose
    various procedural and other requirements, which could make it
    more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate
    actions. For example, our certificate of incorporation
    authorizes our Board of Directors to determine the rights,
    preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of
    preferred stock, without any vote or action by our shareholders.
    Thus, our Board of Directors can authorize and issue shares of
    preferred stock with





voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the
    voting or other rights of holders of our Series A common
    stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring
    a change of control of our Company. In addition, a change of
    control of our company may be delayed or deterred as a result of
    our having three classes of directors (each class elected for a
    three year term) or as a result of any shareholders’ rights
    plan that our Board of Directors may adopt. These provisions
    could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to
    pay in the future for shares of our Series A common stock.



Risks
    Related to the Acquisition of Celanese GmbH, formerly Celanese
    AG



The
    amounts of the fair cash compensation and of the guaranteed
    annual payment offered under the domination and profit and loss
    transfer agreement (“Domination Agreement”) and/or the
    compensation paid in connection with the squeeze-out may be
    increased, which may further reduce the funds the Purchaser can
    otherwise make available to us.



Several minority shareholders of Celanese GmbH have initiated
    special award proceedings seeking the court’s review of the
    amounts of the fair cash compensation and of the guaranteed
    annual payment offered under the Domination Agreement. On
    December 12, 2006, the Frankfurt District Court appointed
    an expert to help determine the value of Celanese AG as of
    July 31, 2004, on which date an extraordinary shareholder
    meeting of Celanese AG was held to resolve the Domination
    Agreement. As a result of these proceedings, the amounts of the
    fair cash compensation and of the guaranteed annual payment
    could be increased by the court, and the Purchaser would be
    required to make such payments within two months after the
    publication of the court’s ruling. Any such increase may be
    substantial. All minority shareholders would be entitled to
    claim the respective higher amounts. This may reduce the funds
    the Purchaser can make available to us and, accordingly,
    diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. See
    Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for
    further information.



The Company also received applications for the commencement of
    award proceedings filed by 79 shareholders against the
    Purchaser with the Frankfurt District Court requesting the court
    to set a higher amount for the Squeeze-Out compensation. Should
    the court set a higher value for the Squeeze-Out compensation,
    former Celanese AG shareholders who ceased to be shareholders of
    Celanese AG due to the Squeeze-Out are entitled, pursuant to a
    settlement agreement between the Purchaser and certain former
    Celanese AG shareholders, to claim for their shares the higher
    of the compensation amounts determined by the court in these
    different proceedings. Previously received compensation for
    their shares will be offset so that those shareholders who
    ceased to be shareholders of Celanese AG due to the Squeeze-Out
    are not entitled to more than higher of the amount set in the
    two court proceedings.



The
    Purchaser may be required to compensate Celanese GmbH for annual
    losses, which may reduce the funds the Purchaser can otherwise
    make available to us.







We and
    two of our subsidiaries have taken on certain obligations with
    respect to the Purchaser’s obligation under the Domination
    Agreement and intercompany indebtedness to Celanese GmbH, which
    may diminish our ability to make payments on our
    indebtedness.



and/or



Risks
    Related to Our Indebtedness



See alsoItem 7. Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Debt and Other Obligations.



Our
    level of indebtedness could diminish our ability to raise
    additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to
    react to changes in the economy or the chemicals industry and
    prevent us from meeting obligations under our
    indebtedness.



Our total indebtedness is approximately $3.5 billion as of
    December 31, 2009.



Our debt could have important consequences, including:



•    increasing vulnerability to
    general economic and industry conditions including exacerbating
    any adverse business effects that are determined to be material
    adverse effects under our senior credit facility;



•    requiring a substantial portion of
    cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of
    principal and interest on indebtedness, therefore reducing our
    ability to use our cash flow to fund operations, capital
    expenditures and future business opportunities;



•    exposing us to the risk of
    increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at
    variable rates of interest;



•    limiting our ability to obtain
    additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures,
    product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and
    general corporate or other purposes; and



•    limiting our ability to adjust to
    changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive
    disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt.



A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument
    governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a
    default under that instrument and, due to cross-default
    provisions, could result in a default under our senior credit
    facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the
    senior credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all
    amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and
    terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were
    unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against
    the collateral, if any, granted to them to secure the
    indebtedness. If the lenders under the senior credit facility
    were to accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, there is no
    guarantee that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to
    repay in full our outstanding indebtedness.





Moreover, the terms of our existing debt do not fully prohibit
    us or our subsidiaries from incurring substantial additional
    indebtedness in the future. If new debt, including amounts
    available under our senior credit agreement, is added to our
    current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could
    intensify. See alsoItem 7. Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Debt and Other Obligations.



Our
    variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk,
    which could cause our debt service obligations to increase
    significantly and affect our operating results.



Certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest and
    expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to
    increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate
    indebtedness would increase, net of the impacts of hedges in
    place. As of December 31, 2009, we had $2.2 billion,
    €440 million and CNY 1.4 billion of variable rate
    debt, of which $1.6 billion and €150 million is
    hedged with interest rate swaps, which leaves $643 million,
    €290 million and CNY 1.4 billion of variable rate
    debt subject to interest rate exposure. Accordingly, a 1%
    increase in interest rates would increase annual interest
    expense by approximately $13 million.



Our senior credit agreement consists of $2,280 million of
    US dollar denominated and €400 million of Euro
    denominated term loans due 2014, a $600 million revolving
    credit facility terminating in 2013 and a $228 million
    credit-linked revolving facility terminating in 2014. Borrowings
    under the senior credit agreement bear interest at a variable
    interest rate based on LIBOR (for US dollars) or EURIBOR (for
    Euros), as applicable, or, for US dollar denominated loans under
    certain circumstances, a base rate, in each case plus an
    applicable margin. The applicable margin for the term loans and
    any loans under the credit-linked revolving facility is 1.75%,
    subject to potential reductions as defined in the new senior
    credit agreement. The term loans under the senior credit
    agreement are subject to amortization at 1% of the initial
    principal amount per annum, payable quarterly, commencing in
    July 2007. The remaining principal amount of the term loans will
    be due on April 2, 2014.



An increase in interest rates could have an adverse impact on
    our future results of operations and cash flows. See alsoItem 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk — Interest Rate Risk Management.



We may
    not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our
    indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy
    obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be
    successful.



Our ability to satisfy our cash needs depends on cash on hand,
    receipt of additional capital, including possible additional
    borrowings, and receipt of cash from our subsidiaries by way of
    distributions, advances or cash payments.



Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our
    debt obligations depends on the financial condition and
    operating performance of our subsidiaries, which is subject to
    prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain
    financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may
    not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating
    activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal,
    premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.



If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund
    our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or
    delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital
    or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative
    measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our
    scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such
    operating results and resources, we could face substantial
    liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material
    assets or operations to meet our debt service and other
    obligations. The senior credit agreement governing our
    indebtedness restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use
    the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to
    consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we
    could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate
    to meet any debt service obligations then due.



Restrictive
    covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to
    engage in certain transactions and may diminish our ability to
    make payments on our indebtedness.



The senior credit agreement governing our indebtedness contains
    various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified
    types of transactions. The covenants contained in the senior
    credit agreement limit our ability to, among other things, incur
    additional indebtedness, pay dividends on or make other
    distributions on or repurchase capital





stock or make other restricted payments, make investments and
    sell certain assets. Such restrictions in our debt instruments
    could result in us having to obtain the consent of our lenders
    in order to take certain actions. Recent disruptions in credit
    markets may prevent us from or make it more difficult or more
    costly for us to obtain such consents from our lenders. Our
    ability to expand our business or to address declines in our
    business may be limited if we are unable to obtain such consents.



In addition, the senior credit agreement requires us to maintain
    a maximum first lien senior secured leverage ratio if there are
    outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility. Our
    ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events
    beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet this test at
    all.



A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default
    under the senior credit agreement. Upon the occurrence of an
    event of default under the senior credit agreement, the lenders
    could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior
    credit agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate
    all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to
    repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior credit
    agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them
    to secure that indebtedness. Our subsidiaries have pledged a
    significant portion of our assets as collateral under the senior
    credit agreement. If the lenders under the senior credit
    agreement accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not
    have sufficient assets to repay amounts borrowed under the
    senior credit agreement as well as their other indebtedness,
    which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our
    stock.



The
    terms of our senior credit agreement limit the ability of
    Celanese Holdings LLC and its subsidiaries to pay dividends or
    otherwise transfer their assets to us.



Our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and our
    ability to pay dividends is dependent on the earnings and the
    distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. However, the terms
    of our senior credit agreement limit the ability of Celanese
    Holdings LLC and its subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise
    transfer their assets to us. Accordingly, our ability to pay
    dividends on our stock is similarly limited.



