
10-K
0001.txt
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.


================================================================================

                                    FORM 10-K

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

(Mark One)

[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934
          For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

                                       OR

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934
          For the transition period from ____________ to ______________

                         Commission file number 0-19277

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                            13-3317783
(State or other jurisdiction of                             (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                            Identification Number)

                Hartford Plaza, Hartford, Connecticut 06115-1900
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (860) 547-5000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities  registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: the following,  all
of which are registered on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.:

     Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
     6.375% Notes due November 1, 2002
     7.75% Notes due June 15, 2005
     6.375% Notes due  November 1, 2008
     7.90% Notes due June 15, 2010
     7.30% Debentures due November 1, 2015
     7.70% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities, Series A, issued
          by Hartford Capital I
     8.35% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities, Series B, issued
          by Hartford Capital II

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed  by  Section  13 or 15 (d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter  period that the  registrant
was  required  to file such  reports),  and (2) has been  subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the best
of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

As of February 28, 2001,  there were  outstanding  236,640,967  shares of Common
Stock, $0.01 par value per share, of the registrant.  The aggregate market value
of the  shares of Common  Stock held by  non-affiliates  of the  registrant  was
$15,025,144,711  based on the  closing  price of $63.85  per share of the Common
Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on February 28, 2001.

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:

================================================================================
Portions of the  Registrant's  definitive  proxy  statement  for its 2001 annual
meeting of shareholders  are  incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K.
================================================================================



                                    CONTENTS



              ITEM    DESCRIPTION                                           PAGE

PART I          1     Business of The Hartford                                 2
                2     Properties                                              13
                3     Legal Proceedings                                       13
                4     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders     13

PART II         5     Market for The Hartford's Common Stock and Related
                         Stockholder Matters                                  13
                6     Selected Financial Data                                 14
                7     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                         Condition and Results of Operations                  15
               7A     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
                         Market Risk                                          47
                8     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data             47
                9     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
                         on Accounting and Financial Disclosure               47

PART III       10     Directors and Executive Officers of The Hartford        47
               11     Executive Compensation                                  47
               12     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
                         and Management                                       47
               13     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions          47

PART IV        14     Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and
                         Reports on Form 8-K                                  47
                      Signatures                                            II-1
                      Exhibits Index                                        II-2


PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS OF THE HARTFORD
(Dollar amounts in millions, except for share data, unless otherwise stated)

GENERAL

The Hartford  Financial  Services Group,  Inc.  (together with its subsidiaries,
"The  Hartford" or the  "Company")  is a  diversified  insurance  and  financial
services  company.  The Hartford,  headquartered  in  Connecticut,  is among the
largest providers of investment products,  individual life, group life and group
disability  insurance products,  and property and casualty insurance products in
the United  States.  Hartford Fire  Insurance  Company,  founded in 1810, is the
oldest  of The  Hartford's  subsidiaries.  The  Hartford  writes  insurance  and
reinsurance  in the United  States and  internationally.  At December  31, 2000,
total assets and total stockholders'  equity of The Hartford were $171.5 billion
and $7.5 billion, respectively.

ORGANIZATION

The Hartford  strives to maintain  and enhance its  position as a market  leader
within the financial  services industry and to maximize  shareholder  value. The
Company  pursues a strategy of  developing  and selling  diverse and  innovative
products through multiple  distribution  channels,  continuously  developing and
expanding  those  distribution  channels,  achieving cost  efficiencies  through
economies  of  scale  and  improved  technology,   maintaining   effective  risk
management and prudent  underwriting  techniques and  capitalizing  on its brand
name  and  customer  recognition  of The  Hartford  Stag  Logo,  one of the most
recognized symbols in the financial services industry.

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation,  was formed
in December 1985 as a wholly-owned  subsidiary of ITT  Corporation  ("ITT").  On
December 19, 1995, ITT distributed all of the outstanding shares of The Hartford
Financial  Services Group, Inc. to ITT shareholders of record in an action known
herein as the Distribution. As a result of the Distribution, The Hartford became
an independent, publicly traded company.

As  a  holding  company  that  is  separate  and  distinct  from  its  insurance
subsidiaries,  The Hartford  Financial  Services Group,  Inc. has no significant
business operations of its own.  Therefore,  it relies on the dividends from its
insurance company subsidiaries, which are primarily domiciled in Connecticut, as
the  principal  source  of  cash  flow  to  meet  its  obligations.   Additional
information  regarding  the  cash  flow  and  liquidity  needs  of The  Hartford
Financial  Services  Group,  Inc.  may be found  in the  Capital  Resources  and
Liquidity section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations ("MD&A").

The Company  maintains  a retail  mutual fund  operation,  whereby the  Company,
through   wholly-owned   subsidiaries,   provides   investment   management  and
administrative services to The Hartford Mutual Funds, Inc., a family of fourteen
mutual funds.  Investors can purchase "shares" in the mutual funds, all of which
are registered with the Securities and Exchange  Commission,  in accordance with
the  Investment  Company  Act  of  1940.  The  mutual  funds  are  owned  by the
shareholders of those funds and not by the Company.

Pursuant to its initial public  offering of Class A common stock on May 22, 1997
(the "Offering") of Hartford Life, Inc.  ("HLI"),  the holding company parent of
The Hartford's significant life insurance  subsidiaries,  HLI sold to the public
26 million  shares at $28.25 per share and  received  proceeds,  net of offering
expenses,  of $687.  The 26  million  shares  sold in the  Offering  represented
approximately 19% of the equity ownership in HLI. On June 27, 2000, The Hartford
acquired all of the outstanding  shares of HLI that it did not already own ("The
HLI Repurchase"). As a result, HLI again became a wholly-owned subsidiary of The
Hartford.  Additional  information  on The HLI  Repurchase  may be  found in the
Capital  Resources and Liquidity  section of the ("MD&A") and Note 2 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

On  November  16,  1998,   The  Hartford   completed  the  sale  of  its  United
Kingdom-based  London & Edinburgh  Insurance Group,  Ltd. ("London & Edinburgh")
subsidiary. The Hartford retained ownership of Excess Insurance Company Limited,
London & Edinburgh's property and casualty insurance and reinsurance subsidiary,
which discontinued writing new business in 1993.

On December 22, 2000, The Hartford  completed the sale of its  Netherlands-based
Zwolsche  Algemeene  N.V.  subsidiary  to  Assurances  Generales  de  France,  a
subsidiary  of Allianz AG. The  Hartford  received  $547,  before costs of sale.
Management  used the  proceeds  from the sale to reduce  outstanding  commercial
paper which was issued to partially fund The HLI Repurchase.

On January 25, 2001,  The Hartford  agreed to acquire the U.S.  individual  life
insurance,  annuity and mutual fund  businesses  of Fortis,  Inc.  (operating as
Fortis Financial Group, or "Fortis") for $1.12 billion in cash. The Company will
effect the acquisition through several reinsurance  agreements with subsidiaries
of Fortis and the  purchase of 100% of the stock of Fortis  Advisors,  Inc.  and
Fortis  Investors,   Inc.,  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of  Fortis.  The  Fortis
transaction,  which is  subject  to  insurance  regulatory  approval  and  other
customary conditions, is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2001.
The acquisition will be recorded as a purchase transaction.

On  February  8,  2001,  The  Hartford  completed  the  sale of its  Spain-based
subsidiary,  Hartford Seguros, to Liberty International, a subsidiary of Liberty
Mutual Group. The Hartford received $29, before costs of sale.

REPORTING SEGMENTS

The  Hartford  is  organized  into  two  major  operations:  Worldwide  Life and
Worldwide  Property & Casualty.  Within these operations,  The Hartford conducts
business principally in eight operating segments.  Additionally,  all activities
related to The HLI Repurchase,  the minority interest in HLI for pre-acquisition
periods and The Hartford Bank, FSB are included in Corporate.

Worldwide Life, headquartered in Simsbury,  Connecticut,  is organized into four
reportable  operating  segments:  Investment  Products,  Individual  Life, Group
Benefits  (formerly  Employee

                                     - 2 -

Benefits) and  Corporate  Owned Life  Insurance  ("COLI").  Worldwide  Life also
includes in an Other category its international operations,  which are primarily
located in Latin  America and the Far East,  and  corporate  items not  directly
allocable to any of its  reportable  operating  segments,  principally  interest
expense.

Worldwide  Property &  Casualty  is  organized  into four  reportable  operating
segments: the underwriting segments of Commercial, Personal and Reinsurance, and
an International  and Other Operations  segment.  Also reported within Worldwide
Property & Casualty is North American,  which includes the combined underwriting
results of Commercial,  Personal and  Reinsurance  along with income and expense
items not directly allocable to these segments, such as net investment income.

The  following is a  description  of  Worldwide  Life and  Worldwide  Property &
Casualty along with each of their segments,  including a discussion of principal
products,  marketing and distribution and competitive  environments.  Additional
information  on The Hartford's  reporting  segments may be found in the MD&A and
Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

WORLDWIDE LIFE

Worldwide Life's business is conducted by HLI, a leading financial  services and
insurance  organization.  Through  Worldwide  Life,  The  Hartford  provides (i)
investment products,  including variable annuities,  fixed market value adjusted
("MVA") annuities, mutual funds and retirement plan services for the savings and
retirement needs of over 1.5 million  customers,  (ii) life insurance for income
protection and estate planning to approximately  500,000 customers,  (iii) group
benefits  products  such as group life and group  disability  insurance  for the
benefit of millions of  individuals  and (iv)  corporate  owned life  insurance.
According  to the latest  publicly  available  data,  with respect to the United
States, the Company is the largest writer of individual variable annuities based
on sales for the year ended  December 31, 2000 and the third  largest  writer of
group  disability  insurance  based on sales for the nine months ended September
30, 2000. In addition,  the Company offers a retail-oriented  mutual fund family
that is the  fastest in history to reach $10  billion in assets.  The  Company's
strong  position  in each of its core  businesses  provides  an  opportunity  to
increase  the  sale of The  Hartford's  products  and  services  as  individuals
increasingly save and plan for retirement, protect themselves and their families
against  disability or death and engage in estate  planning.  The Company is the
third largest  consolidated life insurance group based on statutory assets as of
December  31,  1999.  In the past year,  Worldwide  Life's  total  assets  under
management,  which include $11.4 billion of third-party  assets  invested in the
Company's  mutual  funds,  increased 7% to $155.1  billion at December 31, 2000.
Worldwide  Life  generated  $6.0  billion in revenues  and net income of $575 in
2000.

CUSTOMER SERVICE, TECHNOLOGY AND ECONOMIES OF SCALE

Worldwide  Life  maintains   advantageous   economies  of  scale  and  operating
efficiencies  due to its  continued  growth,  attention  to  expense  and claims
management and commitment to customer  service and technology.  These advantages
allow the  Company to  competitively  price its  products  for its  distribution
network  and   policyholders.   The  Company   continues  to  achieve  operating
efficiencies in its Investment  Products segment.  Operating expenses associated
with  the  Company's  individual  annuity  products  as a  percentage  of  total
individual  annuity account values reduced by more than half,  declining from 43
basis  points  in 1992 to 21 basis  points in 2000.  In  addition,  the  Company
utilizes computer  technology to enhance  communications  within the Company and
throughout its distribution network in order to improve the Company's efficiency
in marketing,  selling and  servicing  its products  and, as a result,  provides
high-quality  customer service. In recognition of excellence in customer service
for variable annuities,  The Hartford was awarded the 2000 Annuity Service Award
by  DALBAR  Inc.,  a  recognized   independent   financial   services   research
organization,  for the fifth  consecutive year. The Hartford is the only company
to receive this prestigious award in every year of the award's existence.  Also,
The Hartford  Mutual  Funds,  Inc.  have been named the leading  mid-sized  fund
complex in the  industry  for top service  providers,  according  to a survey of
broker-dealers conducted by DALBAR Inc.

RISK MANAGEMENT

Worldwide  Life's  product  designs,  prudent  underwriting  standards  and risk
management techniques protect it against disintermediation risk and greater than
expected  mortality  and  morbidity  experience.  As of December 31,  2000,  the
Company had limited exposure to  disintermediation  risk on approximately 98% of
its  domestic  life  insurance  and  annuity  liabilities  through  the  use  of
non-guaranteed separate accounts, MVA features,  policy loans, surrender charges
and  non-surrenderability  provisions.  The Company effectively utilizes prudent
underwriting  to  select  and  price  insurance  risks  and  regularly  monitors
mortality  and  morbidity   assumptions  to  determine  if  experience   remains
consistent with these assumptions and to ensure that its product pricing remains
appropriate.  The Company also enforces disciplined claims management to protect
itself against greater than expected morbidity experience.

INVESTMENT PRODUCTS

The Investment Products segment focuses, through the sale of individual variable
and fixed annuities, mutual funds, retirement plan services and other investment
products,  on the  savings  and  retirement  needs  of  the  growing  number  of
individuals who are preparing for retirement or who have already  retired.  From
December 31, 1995 to December 31, 2000, this segment's  assets under  management
grew to $116.0 billion from $43.9 billion,  a five year compounded annual growth
rate of 21%.  Investment  Products  generated  revenues  of $2.4  billion,  $2.0
billion  and  $1.8  billion  in  2000,  1999 and  1998,  respectively,  of which
individual  annuities accounted for $1.5 billion,  $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion
of total Investment Products revenues in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.  Net
income in the Investment  Products segment was $424 in 2000, a 28% increase over
1999.

The Hartford sells both variable and fixed individual annuity products through a
wide distribution network of national and regional broker-dealer  organizations,
banks and other financial  institutions and independent financial advisors.  The
Hartford is a market leader in the annuity industry with sales of $10.7 billion,
$10.9 billion and $10.0 billion in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.  According
to Variable  Annuity and Research Data

                                     - 3 -

Service ("VARDS"), The Hartford was the number one writer of individual variable
annuities  in the  United  States  for 2000,  1999 and 1998  with  sales of $9.0
billion, $10.3 billion and $9.9 billion,  respectively. In addition, the Company
was the number one seller of  individual  variable  annuities  through  banks in
2000,  1999  and  1998,  according  to  Kenneth  Kehrer  Associates  (a  leading
consultant to banks).

The Company's  total account  value related to individual  annuity  products was
$87.2  billion as of December  31,  2000.  Of this total  account  value,  $78.2
billion,  or 90%,  related to  individual  variable  annuity  products  and $9.0
billion, or 10%, related primarily to fixed MVA annuity products.

The  Hartford  is  emerging  as a  significant  participant  in the mutual  fund
business.  The Company is among the top  providers  of  retirement  products and
services, including asset management and plan administration,  to municipalities
pursuant to Section 457 and plans to  corporations  under Section  401(k) of the
Internal  Revenue Code of 1986,  as amended  (referred  to as "Section  457" and
"Section 401(k)", respectively). The Company also provides structured settlement
contracts,  terminal  funding  products and other  investment  products  such as
guaranteed investment contracts ("GICs").

As previously  mentioned,  in January 2001,  The Hartford  agreed to acquire the
annuity and mutual fund  businesses of Fortis.  This  acquisition is expected to
increase  assets under  management  in the  Company's  fast growing  mutual fund
business by over 30%, as well as solidify the  Company's  number one position in
variable annuities.  (For additional information,  see the Capital Resources and
Liquidity section of the MD&A under "Subsequent Event".)

Principal Products
- ------------------

Individual   Variable   Annuities   --  The  Hartford   earns  fees,   based  on
policyholders'   account  values,  for  managing  variable  annuity  assets  and
maintaining  policyholder  accounts.  The Company uses specified portions of the
periodic  deposits  paid by a customer to  purchase  units in one or more mutual
funds as directed by the customer who then  assumes the  investment  performance
risks and rewards.  As a result,  variable  annuities  permit  policyholders  to
choose  aggressive  or  conservative   investment   strategies,   as  they  deem
appropriate,  without  affecting  the  composition  and quality of assets in the
Company's  general  account.  These products offer the policyholder a variety of
equity and fixed  income  options,  as well as the ability to earn a  guaranteed
rate of interest in the general  account of the Company.  The Company  offers an
enhanced  guaranteed rate of interest for a specified  period of time (no longer
than twelve months) if the policyholder elects to dollar-cost average funds from
the Company's general account into one or more non-guaranteed separate accounts.
Due to this enhanced rate and the  volatility  experienced in the overall equity
markets,  this option continues to be popular with policyholders.  Policyholders
may make deposits of varying  amounts at regular or irregular  intervals and the
value of these assets  fluctuates in accordance with the investment  performance
of the funds selected by the policyholder. To encourage persistency, many of the
Company's  individual variable annuities are subject to withdrawal  restrictions
and surrender charges ranging initially from 6% to 8% of the contract's  initial
deposit less withdrawals which reduce to zero on a sliding scale, usually within
seven policy years.  Volatility  experienced by the equity markets in 2000, 1999
and 1998 did not cause a significant  increase in variable  annuity  surrenders,
demonstrating  that policyholders are generally aware of the long-term nature of
these products.  Individual  variable annuity account values of $78.2 billion as
of December 31, 2000, has grown  significantly from $13.1 billion as of December
31, 1994 due to strong net cash flow,  the result of a high level of sales,  low
levels of surrenders and equity market  appreciation.  Approximately 96% and 95%
of the individual  variable  annuity account values were held in  non-guaranteed
separate accounts as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

The  assets  underlying  the  Company's  variable  annuities  are  managed  both
internally and by outside money managers,  while the Company provides all policy
administration  services. The Company utilizes a select group of money managers,
such as Wellington  Management  Company,  LLP  ("Wellington"),  Putnam Financial
Services,  Inc. ("Putnam"),  American Funds, MFS Investment  Management ("MFS"),
Franklin Templeton Group and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter  InterCapital,  Inc. All
have an interest in the continued growth in sales of the Company's  products and
greatly enhance the marketability of the Company's annuities and the strength of
its  product  offerings.  Two of the  industry's  top  twenty  leading  variable
annuities,  (based on sales for the year ended 2000), The Director(R) and Putnam
Hartford Capital Manager Variable Annuity, are sponsored by The Hartford and are
managed in part by Wellington and Putnam, respectively.  The Hartford Leaders, a
multi-manager  variable  annuity  introduced in July 1999,  combines the product
manufacturing,  wholesaling  and service  capabilities  of The Hartford with the
investment  management  expertise  of  three  of the  nation's  most  successful
investment  management  organizations,  American Funds, Franklin Templeton Group
and MFS. The Hartford  Leaders has proved to be a strong  product from inception
and is  poised to join The  Director(R)  and  Putnam  Hartford  Capital  Manager
Variable Annuity as an industry leader.

Fixed MVA  Annuities -- Fixed MVA  annuities  are fixed rate  annuity  contracts
which  guarantee a specific  sum of money to be paid in the future,  either as a
lump sum or as monthly  income.  In the event that a  policyholder  surrenders a
policy prior to the end of the guarantee  period,  the MVA feature  increases or
decreases  the cash  surrender  value of the annuity in respect of any  interest
rate decreases or increases,  respectively,  thereby protecting the Company from
losses  due to higher  interest  rates at the time of  surrender.  The amount of
payment will not  fluctuate due to adverse  changes in the Company's  investment
return,  mortality  experience  or expenses.  The  Company's  primary  fixed MVA
annuities  have terms  varying  from one to ten years  with an  average  term of
approximately  seven years. Sales of the Company's fixed MVA annuities increased
during 2000 as a result of the higher interest rate environment  making 2000 the
best  sales  year for this  product  since  1995.  Account  values  of fixed MVA
annuities  were $9.0  billion and $8.4 billion as of December 31, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.

Mutual Funds -- In September  1996, the Company  launched a new family of retail
mutual funds.  The Company  provides  investment  management and  administrative
services to The Hartford Mutual Funds,  Inc., a family of fourteen mutual funds.
These  funds are  managed  by  Wellington  and  Hartford  Investment  Management
Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary

                                     - 4 -

of The Hartford. The Company has entered into agreements with over 750 financial
services firms to distribute these mutual funds.

The Company  charges  management  fees to the  shareholders of the mutual funds,
which are recorded as revenue by the Company.  Investors can purchase  shares in
the mutual funds,  all of which are registered  with the Securities and Exchange
Commission,  in accordance  with the Investment  Company Act of 1940. The mutual
funds are owned by the  shareholders  of those funds and not by the Company.  As
such,  the mutual fund  assets and  liabilities,  as well as related  investment
returns,  are not reflected in the Company's  consolidated  financial statements
since they are not assets, liabilities and operations of the Company.

According  to  Strategic   Insight  (a  mutual  fund  research  and   consulting
organization),  The Hartford  Mutual Funds,  Inc.  reached $10 billion in assets
faster  than any other  retail-oriented  fund  family in  history.  Eight of the
fourteen  funds have  Morningstar  ratings and all eight have  three-,  four- or
five- star ratings as of December 31, 2000.  Total retail mutual fund sales were
$5.2  billion,   $3.3  billion  and  $1.6  billion  in  2000,   1999  and  1998,
respectively.

Corporate  -- The  Company  sells  retirement  plan  products  and  services  to
corporations  under  Section  401(k) plans  targeting  the small and medium case
markets  since  the  Company  believes  these  markets  are  underpenetrated  in
comparison  to the large case  market.  As of  December  31,  2000,  the Company
administered over 1,400 Section 401(k) plans.

Governmental  -- The Company  sells  retirement  plan  products  and services to
municipalities under Section 457 plans. The Company offers a number of different
funds,  both fixed  income and equity,  to the  employees  in Section 457 plans.
Generally,  the Company manages the fixed income funds and certain other outside
money  managers act as advisors to the equity funds offered in Section 457 plans
administered by the Company.  As of December 31, 2000, the Company  administered
over 2,000 Section 457 plans.

Institutional  Liabilities  -- The  Company  also  sells  structured  settlement
contracts  which provide for periodic  payments to an injured person or survivor
for a generally determinable number of years, typically in settlement of a claim
under a  liability  policy  in  lieu of a lump  sum  settlement.  The  Company's
structured  settlements  are  sold  through  The  Hartford's   property-casualty
insurance  operations  as well as  specialty  brokers.  The Company also markets
other annuity  contracts for special  purposes such as the funding of terminated
defined  benefit  pension  plans.  In  addition,  the  Company  offers  GICs and
short-term funding agreements.

Marketing and Distribution
- --------------------------

The Investment Products  distribution network is based on management's  strategy
of  utilizing  multiple  and  competing  distribution  channels  to achieve  the
broadest  distribution to reach target  customers.  The success of the Company's
marketing  and  distribution  system  depends  on its  product  offerings,  fund
performance,  successful  utilization of wholesaling  organizations,  quality of
customer  service,  and relationships  with national and regional  broker-dealer
firms,  banks  and  other  financial  institutions,  and  independent  financial
advisors  (through  which  the sale of the  Company's  individual  annuities  to
customers is consummated).

The  Hartford   maintains  a  distribution   network  of   approximately   1,500
broker-dealers  and  approximately  500 banks.  As of September  30,  2000,  the
Company was selling  products  through 24 of the 25 largest  retail banks in the
United States,  including  proprietary  relationships with 10 of the top 25. The
Company periodically  negotiates  provisions and terms of its relationships with
unaffiliated  parties, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain
acceptable  to the Company or such third  parties.  In August 1998,  the Company
completed the purchase of all outstanding  shares of PLANCO Financial  Services,
Inc. and its affiliate, PLANCO, Incorporated (collectively, "PLANCO"), a primary
wholesaler of the Company's individual annuities and mutual funds. PLANCO is the
nation's largest wholesaler of individual annuities and has played a significant
role in The  Hartford's  growth over the past decade.  As a  wholesaler,  PLANCO
distributes The Hartford's fixed and variable annuities, mutual funds and single
premium  variable  life  insurance  by  providing  sales  support to  registered
representatives,  financial  planners and  broker-dealers at brokerage firms and
banks  across  the  United  States.   This  acquisition   secured  an  important
distribution  channel  for  the  Company  and  gives  the  Company  a  wholesale
distribution  platform  which it can  expand  in terms  of both  the  number  of
individuals  wholesaling  its products and the portfolio of products  which they
wholesale.  In addition,  the Company uses  internal  personnel  with  extensive
experience  in the Section 457 market,  as well as access to the Section  401(k)
market, to sell its products and services in the retirement plan market.

Competition
- -----------

The Investment Products segment competes with numerous other insurance companies
as well as certain banks,  securities  brokerage firms,  investment advisors and
other  financial  intermediaries  marketing  annuities,  mutual  funds and other
retirement-oriented  products.  As a result of court  decisions  and  regulatory
actions,  national banks may become more  significant  competitors in the future
for  insurers  which  sell  annuities.  The 1999  Gramm-Leach-Bliley  Act  ("the
Financial Services  Modernization  Act"), which allows affiliations among banks,
insurance  companies and securities  firms,  did not precipitate any significant
changes in ownership in 2000.  (For additional  information,  see the Regulatory
Matters and  Contingencies  section of the MD&A.)  Product sales are affected by
competitive  factors such as investment  performance  ratings,  product  design,
visibility  in  the  marketplace,   financial  strength  ratings,   distribution
capabilities,  levels of charges and  credited  rates,  reputation  and customer
service.

INDIVIDUAL LIFE

The Individual Life segment sells a variety of products including variable life,
universal life,  interest sensitive whole life and term life insurance primarily
to the high end estate and business  planning  markets.  Life insurance in force
increased  13% to $75.1 billion as of December 31, 2000 from $66.7 billion as of
December  31,  1999.  Account  values grew 8% to $5.8 billion as of December 31,
2000 from $5.4  billion as of December  31, 1999.  The  Individual  Life segment
generated revenues of $640, $584 and $567 in 2000, 1999 and 1998,  respectively.
Net income in the Individual  Life segment was $79 in 2000, an 11% increase over
1999.

                                     - 5 -

As previously  mentioned,  in January 2001,  The Hartford  agreed to acquire the
U.S.  individual life insurance  business of Fortis.  This  acquisition will add
significant  scale to the Company's  individual life business,  and according to
data provided by Tillinghast-Towers  Perrin, HLI will move to third largest from
fifth largest  writer of variable life insurance in the United States based upon
new premium  sales.  It will also  broaden the  Company's  reach in the emerging
affluent  market  with the  addition  of a retail  broker-dealer  consisting  of
approximately 3,000 registered representatives. (For additional information, see
the  Capital  Resources  and  Liquidity  section of the MD&A  under  "Subsequent
Event".)

Principal Products
- ------------------

The trend in the individual life industry has been a shift away from traditional
products and fixed  universal life insurance  towards  variable life  (including
variable universal life) insurance  products,  in which The Hartford has been on
the  leading  edge.  In 2000,  of the  Company's  new sales of  individual  life
insurance,  89% was variable life and 10% was either  universal life or interest
sensitive  whole  life.  The  Company  also  sold a small  amount  of term  life
insurance.

Variable  Life --  Variable  life  insurance  provides  a  return  linked  to an
underlying   investment  portfolio  and  the  Company  allows  policyholders  to
determine their desired asset mix among a variety of underlying mutual funds. As
the return on the investment  portfolio increases or decreases,  as the case may
be,  the death  benefit  or  surrender  value of the  variable  life  policy may
increase or  decrease.  The  Company's  single  premium  variable  life  product
provides a death  benefit to the policy  beneficiary  based on a single  premium
deposit.  The  Company's  second-to-die  products are  distinguished  from other
products in that two lives are insured rather than one, and the policy  proceeds
are paid upon the death of both insureds.  Second-to-die policies are frequently
used in estate  planning,  often to fund  estate  taxes  for a  married  couple.
Variable  life account  values were $2.9 billion and $2.6 billion as of December
31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Universal Life and Interest  Sensitive Whole Life -- Universal life and interest
sensitive whole life insurance  coverages provide life insurance with adjustable
rates of return  based on  current  interest  rates.  The  Company  offers  both
flexible and fixed premium policies and provides  policyholders with flexibility
in the  available  coverage,  the timing and amount of premium  payments and the
amount of the death benefit, provided there are sufficient policy funds to cover
all policy charges for the coming period.  The Company also sells universal life
insurance policies with a second-to-die  feature similar to that of the variable
life insurance product offered. Universal life and interest sensitive whole life
account  values were $2.1  billion and $2.0  billion as of December 31, 2000 and
1999, respectively.

Marketing and Distribution
- --------------------------

Consistent with the Company's strategy to access multiple  distribution outlets,
the Individual Life distribution  organization has been developed to penetrate a
multitude of retail sales  channels.  These include  independent  life insurance
sales  professionals;   agents  of  other  companies;   national,  regional  and
independent   broker-dealers;   banks  and  property   and  casualty   insurance
organizations.  The  primary  organization  used  to  wholesale  The  Hartford's
products  to  these  outlets  is a group  of  highly  qualified  life  insurance
professionals  with specialized  training in sophisticated life insurance sales,
particularly as it pertains to estate and business  planning.  These individuals
are  generally  employees of The  Hartford,  who are managed  through a regional
sales office system.  The Company has grown this  organization  rapidly the past
few years to over 210 individuals and expects to continue to increase the number
of wholesalers in the future.

Competition
- -----------

The Individual  Life segment  competes with  approximately  1,500 life insurance
companies  in the  United  States,  as well as  other  financial  intermediaries
marketing  insurance  products.  Competitive factors related to this segment are
primarily the breadth and quality of life insurance  products offered,  pricing,
relationships with third-party  distributors and the quality of underwriting and
customer service.

GROUP BENEFITS

The Group Benefits segment sells group life and group disability  insurance,  as
well as other products,  including stop loss and supplementary  medical coverage
to employers and employer  sponsored plans,  accidental death and dismemberment,
travel accident and other special risk coverages to employers and  associations.
The  Company  also  offers  disability  underwriting,   administration,   claims
processing  services and reinsurance to other insurers and self-funded  employer
plans. According to the latest results published by Life Insurance Marketing and
Research  Association  ("LIMRA"),  the  Company,  based on sales,  was the third
largest provider of group disability  insurance and the fourth largest writer of
group  term life  insurance  in the  United  States  for the nine  months  ended
September 30, 2000. Generally, policies sold in this segment are term insurance,
typically with one or two year rate guarantees.  These rate guarantees allow the
Company  to make  adjustments  in rate or  terms  of its  policies  in  order to
minimize the adverse effect of various market trends. In the disability  market,
the Company  focuses on strong  underwriting  and claims  management to derive a
competitive  advantage.  As of December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company had group
disability  reserves of $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion and group life reserves of
$601 and $560,  respectively.  The Group Benefits segment generated  revenues of
$2.2  billion,   $2.0  billion  and  $1.8  billion  in  2000,   1999  and  1998,
respectively,  of which group disability  insurance accounted for $939, $860 and
$763 and group life insurance  accounted for $687,  $654 and $593 of total Group
Benefits revenues in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.  Net income in the Group
Benefits segment was $90 in 2000, a 14% increase over 1999.

Principal Products
- ------------------

Group  Disability  -- The  Hartford  is one of the largest  participants  in the
"large case" market of the group disability  insurance business.  The large case
market,  as defined  by the  Company,  generally  consists  of group  disability
policies  covering  over 500 employees in a particular  company.  The Company is
continuing  its focus on the  "small  case" and  "medium  case"  group  markets,
emphasizing  name  recognition  and reputation as well as the Company's  managed
disability approach to claims and  administration.  The Company's efforts in the
group disability market focus on early  intervention,  return-to-work  programs,
reduction of long-term disability

                                     - 6 -

claims and successful rehabilitation.  Over the last several years, the focus of
new  disability  products  introduced is to provide  incentives for employees to
return to  independence.  The Company  also works with  disability  claimants to
improve the receipt rate of Social Security  offsets (i.e.,  reducing payment of
benefits by the amount of Social Security payments received).

The Hartford has concentrated on a managed disability approach, which emphasizes
early  claimant  intervention  in an effort to facilitate a disabled  claimant's
return  to work and  thereby  contain  costs.  This  approach,  coupled  with an
individualized  approach to claim servicing,  and an incentive to contain costs,
leads to an overall reduction in the cost of disability  coverage for employers.
The Company's  short-term  disability  benefit  plans  provide a weekly  benefit
amount  (typically 60% to 70% of the employee's  earned income up to a specified
maximum  benefit)  to insured  employees  when they are unable to work due to an
accident or illness.  Long-term  disability insurance provides a monthly benefit
for those  extended  periods  of time not  covered  by a  short-term  disability
benefit  plan when  insured  employees  are  unable  to work due to  disability.
Employees  may  receive  total or  partial  disability  benefits.  Most of these
policies begin providing  benefits  following a 90 or 180 day waiting period and
generally  continue  providing  benefits  until  the  employee  reaches  age 65.
Long-term  disability  benefits  are paid  monthly and are limited to a portion,
generally  50-70%,  of the  employee's  earned income up to a specified  maximum
benefit.

Group Life -- Group term life insurance  provides term coverage to employees and
their  dependents for a specified period and has no accumulation of cash values.
The  Company  offers  options  for its  basic  group  life  insurance  coverage,
including  portability  of  coverage  and  a  living  benefit  option,   whereby
terminally ill  policyholders  can receive death benefits prior to their deaths.
In  addition,  the  Company  offers  premium  waivers and  accidental  death and
dismemberment coverage to employee groups.

Other -- The Hartford  provides  excess of loss medical  coverage (known as stop
loss  insurance) to employers  who self-fund  their medical plans and pay claims
using the services of a third party administrator. The Company provides Medicare
Supplement,  travel accident,  hospital indemnity and other coverages (including
group  life  and  disability)   primarily  to  individual   members  of  various
associations as well as employee groups.

Marketing and Distribution
- --------------------------

The Hartford uses an experienced group of Company  employees,  managed through a
regional sales office system,  to distribute  its group  insurance  products and
services  through a variety of distribution  outlets.  The Company  expanded its
sales office system during 1999, by increasing the sales force and the number of
sales offices by about 25% and 15%,  respectively.  The Company will continue to
expand the system over the coming  years in areas that have the  highest  growth
potential.  The Company will also continue to develop  alternative  distribution
channels  to sell its  products,  such as sales to  employers  through  brokers,
consultants  and  third-party  administrators  as well as to  multiple  employer
groups through its relationships  with trade  associations.  In keeping with its
strategy of developing  multiple  distribution  channels,  the Company signed an
agreement  in January  2001 with Wausau  Benefits,  Inc.,  the  country's  tenth
largest third-party  administrator,  to sell its group life and group disability
products.

Competition
- -----------

Competitive  factors  primarily  affecting  Group  Benefits  are the variety and
quality of products  offered,  the price quoted for coverage and  services,  the
Company's  relationships  with its third-party  distributors  and the quality of
customer  service.   Group  Benefits  competes  with  numerous  other  insurance
companies  and other  financial  intermediaries  marketing  insurance  products.
However,  many of these  businesses  have  relatively high barriers to entry and
there have been very few new entrants over the past few years, while other major
carriers have exited the market.

CORPORATE OWNED LIFE INSURANCE ("COLI")

The  Hartford is a leader in the COLI  market,  which  includes  life  insurance
policies purchased by a company on the lives of its employees,  with the company
or a trust sponsored by the company named as the  beneficiary  under the policy.
Until the Health  Insurance  Portability  Act of 1996 ("HIPA Act of 1996"),  the
Company sold two  principal  types of COLI,  leveraged  and  variable  products.
Leveraged COLI is a fixed premium life insurance  policy owned by a company or a
trust sponsored by a company.  The HIPA Act of 1996 phased out the deductibility
of interest on policy loans under  leveraged COLI at the end of 1998,  virtually
eliminating all future sales of leveraged COLI.  Variable COLI continues to be a
product used by employers to fund non-qualified benefits or other postemployment
benefit  liabilities.  Variable COLI account values were $15.9 billion and $12.4
billion as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Leveraged COLI account values  decreased to $5.0 billion as of December 31, 2000
from $5.7  billion as of December  31,  1999,  primarily  due to the HIPA Act of
1996.  Although COLI revenues  decreased in 2000 to $767 from $831 in 1999, COLI
net income increased 13%, to $34 in 2000.

WORLDWIDE PROPERTY & CASUALTY

The Hartford has the tenth largest property and casualty insurance  operation in
the United States based on written premiums for the year ended December 31, 1999
according to A.M. Best.  Worldwide Property & Casualty generated $8.7 billion in
revenues, $7.3 billion in written premiums and $494 in net income in 2000. Total
assets for  Worldwide  Property & Casualty were $27.1 billion as of December 31,
2000.

Worldwide  Property &  Casualty  is  organized  into four  reportable  operating
segments: the underwriting segments of Commercial, Personal and Reinsurance, and
an International  and Other Operations  segment.  Also reported within Worldwide
Property & Casualty is North American,  which includes the combined underwriting
results of Commercial,  Personal and  Reinsurance  along with income and expense
items not directly allocable to these segments, such as net investment income.

COMMERCIAL

The  Commercial  segment  provides  insurance  coverages to commercial  accounts
primarily  throughout  the United  States.  Commercial  is organized  into three
customer  markets:  Business  Insurance,   Commercial  Affinity  and  Commercial
Specialty.

                                     - 7 -

Business  Insurance  provides  standard  commercial  business for small accounts
("Select Customer") and mid-sized insureds ("Key Accounts"). Commercial Affinity
provides commercial risk management products and services to small and mid-sized
members of affinity groups and customers of financial  institutions.  Commercial
Specialty   provides  insurance  through  retailers  and  wholesalers  to  large
commercial  clients  ("Major/National")  and  insureds  requiring  a variety  of
specialized  coverages.  The  Commercial  segment had  written  premiums of $3.5
billion,  $3.2  billion and $3.2 billion in 2000,  1999 and 1998,  respectively.
Underwriting  losses  for  2000,  1999  and  1998  were  $153,  $171  and  $213,
respectively.

Principal Products
- ------------------

The  Commercial  segment offers  workers'  compensation,  property,  automobile,
liability,  financial products, marine,  agricultural and bond coverages. Excess
and surplus lines  coverages not normally  written by standard line insurers are
also provided.

Marketing and Distribution
- --------------------------

The Commercial segment provides insurance products and services through its home
office  located in Hartford,  Connecticut,  and multiple  domestic  regional and
district  office  locations  and  insurance  centers.  The  segment  markets its
products  nationwide  utilizing  a variety of  distribution  networks  including
approximately  5,400  independent  agents  as well  as  wholesalers  and  direct
marketing including trade associations,  customers of financial institutions and
employee  groups.  Independent  agents,  who often  represent other companies as
well,  are  compensated  on a  commission  basis  and are not  employees  of The
Hartford.

Competition
- -----------

The  commercial  insurance  industry  continues to be a highly  challenging  and
competitive  environment  in which the  Commercial  segment  competes with other
stock insurance companies,  self insurers and other underwriting  organizations.
This competitive environment is created by price competition,  consolidation and
globalization  of companies,  excess  capital  within the  commercial  insurance
industry, exploration and utilization of alternative distribution techniques and
emphasis on cost containment and reduction.  In 2000,  market  conditions in the
commercial industry have improved as a result of a firming pricing environment.

PERSONAL

The Hartford ranks among the largest carriers of personal lines  insurance.  The
Personal  segment  provides  insurance  coverages to individuals  throughout the
United States. Personal is organized to provide customized products and services
to the following  markets:  the  membership  of AARP through a direct  marketing
operation;  customers  who prefer local agent  involvement  through a network of
independent agents in the standard personal lines market and in the non-standard
automobile  market  through  Omni  Insurance  Group,  Inc.  ("Omni"),  which was
acquired in 1998;  customers of Sears,  Roebuck & Co.  ("Sears")  and Ford Motor
Company  and  Ford  Motor  Credit  Company  (collectively,  "Ford")  as  well as
customers of financial  institutions  through an affinity  center which began in
1996; and customer  service for all health  insurance  products  offered through
AARP's Health Care Options effective January 1, 1998. AARP's exclusive licensing
arrangement  continues  through  the year 2002 for  automobile,  homeowners  and
home-based  business and through 2007 for Health Care Options.  These agreements
provide the  Personal  segment  with an  important  competitive  advantage.  The
Personal  segment had written  premiums of $2.6  billion,  $2.5 billion and $2.2
billion in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Underwriting income for 2000, 1999
and 1998 were $2, $34 and $77, respectively.

Principal Products
- ------------------

The Personal segment provides  automobile,  homeowners,  home-based business and
fire coverages to individuals across North America,  including a special program
designed exclusively for members of AARP.

Marketing and Distribution
- --------------------------

The Personal  segment  reaches diverse  markets  through  multiple  distribution
channels.  The segment markets directly to the 33 million members of AARP, sells
its  products  through  independent  agents and also  markets  through  affinity
groups, including Sears, Ford and financial institutions.

Competition
- -----------

The personal lines  marketplace  continues to be competitive,  especially in the
personal  automobile line. Over the last two years,  intense price  competition,
upward  trends  in  loss  costs  and the  significant  expense  of  establishing
alternative  distribution channels have caused underwriting results to decrease.
The personal lines marketplace  reported a combined ratio of 108.9 for the first
nine months of 2000,  according to A.M.  Best.  In the absence of renewal  price
increases by  competitors,  attracting  new  customers  becomes more  difficult,
forcing  companies to offer greater price incentives and product features and to
increase advertising costs.

A major competitive advantage of the Personal segment is the exclusive licensing
arrangement with AARP to provide personal automobile,  homeowners and home-based
business insurance products to its members through 2002. Favorable "baby boomer"
demographics  are expected to increase AARP membership  during this period.  The
Personal segment's  relationship with AARP was further  strengthened when it was
awarded a contract,  effective  January 1, 1998, to provide customer service for
all health insurance  products  offered through AARP's Health Care Options.  The
Hartford's  contract with Sears entered into in 2000,  joins two major brands in
marketing automobile, homeowners, and home-based business, further enhancing The
Hartford's reputation and competitive advantage.

REINSURANCE

The Hartford is a major global reinsurer,  with operations in the United States,
Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Germany, Spain, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
The  Reinsurance  segment had written  premiums of $826,  $703 and $711 in 2000,
1999 and 1998,  respectively.  Underwriting  losses for 2000, 1999 and 1998 were
$73, $48 and $36, respectively.

                                     - 8 -

Principal Products
- ------------------

The  Reinsurance   segment  offers  a  full  range  of  treaty  and  facultative
reinsurance  products including property,  casualty,  marine,  fidelity,  finite
risk, including alternative risk transfer, and specialty coverages.

Marketing and Distribution
- --------------------------

The Reinsurance segment assumes insurance from other insurers, primarily through
reinsurance brokers in the worldwide reinsurance market.

Competition
- -----------

The  worldwide  property  and  casualty  reinsurance  market  remains  extremely
competitive  with  consolidation  in the market  creating  fewer,  but stronger,
competitors.  Also,  nontraditional  solutions  are  beginning to emerge,  which
complement  traditional  reinsurance  products.  The pricing  environment in the
worldwide reinsurance market continued to improve throughout 2000.

INTERNATIONAL AND OTHER OPERATIONS

Worldwide  Property &  Casualty's  International  operations  have  historically
consisted  primarily  of  Western  European  companies  offering  a  variety  of
insurance products designed to meet the needs of local customers.  The Company's
strategic  shift  to  emphasize  growth  opportunities  in  international  asset
accumulation  businesses  has  resulted  in  the  sale  of the  majority  of its
international property and casualty operations.  London & Edinburgh,  located in
the United Kingdom, was sold by The Hartford in November 1998. Zwolsche, located
in the Netherlands,  Belgium and Luxembourg, was sold in December 2000. Hartford
Seguros,  located in Spain,  was sold in  February  2001.  Worldwide  Property &
Casualty's remaining  International  operation is The Hartford Insurance Company
(Singapore),   Ltd.  (formerly  People's  Insurance  Company,  Ltd.  ("Singapore
Insurance")),  of which The Hartford owned an 80% interest at December 31, 2000,
after acquiring an additional 31% in December 2000.

Worldwide  Property & Casualty's  Other  Operations  consist of the property and
casualty  insurance  operations  of The Hartford  which have ceased  writing new
business.  These  operations  primarily  include First State Insurance  Company,
located  in  Boston,   Massachusetts;   Heritage  Reinsurance   Company,   Ltd.,
headquartered in Bermuda;  and Excess Insurance Company Limited,  located in the
United Kingdom.

The primary objectives of Other Operations are the proper disposition of claims,
the resolution of disputes, and the collection of reinsurance proceeds primarily
related  to  policies  written  and  reinsured  prior  to 1985.  As such,  Other
Operations  have no new product  sales,  distribution  systems,  or  competitive
issues.

The International and Other Operations  segment generated revenues of $602, $661
and $1.8 billion in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Net income for 2000, 1999
and 1998 were $28, $33 and $97, respectively.

Principal Products
- ------------------

Singapore Insurance writes property and casualty products, primarily automobile.
Zwolsche offered property and casualty,  life and asset management  products and
services.  Hartford Seguros provided both personal and commercial lines property
and casualty, and life insurance products.

Methods of Distribution
- -----------------------

The International operations conducts its business primarily through independent
brokers who are  compensated on a commission  basis.  Zwolsche  distributed  its
products through various financial institutions.

Competition
- -----------

Singapore is a relatively small market with traditional  local companies as well
as a large foreign presence primarily through branch operations.  Competition is
very strong in most product lines with pricing set freely by the market.

WORLDWIDE LIFE RESERVES

In accordance with applicable  insurance  regulations under which Worldwide Life
operates,  life insurance  subsidiaries  of The Hartford  establish and carry as
liabilities  actuarially  determined  reserves  which are calculated to meet The
Hartford's  future  obligations.  Reserves  for life  insurance  and  disability
contracts are based on actuarially recognized methods using prescribed morbidity
and mortality tables in general use in the United States,  which are modified to
reflect The Hartford's actual  experience when  appropriate.  These reserves are
computed at amounts that, with additions from estimated  premiums to be received
and with interest on such reserves compounded annually at certain assumed rates,
are expected to be sufficient to meet The Hartford's policy obligations at their
maturities or in the event of an insured's death. Reserves also include unearned
premiums, premium deposits, claims incurred but not reported and claims reported
but not yet paid. Reserves for assumed reinsurance are computed in a manner that
is comparable to direct insurance reserves.  Additional information on Worldwide
Life Reserves may be found in the Reserves section of the MD&A.

WORLDWIDE PROPERTY & CASUALTY RESERVES

The Hartford  establishes  reserves to provide for the estimated costs of paying
claims made by  policyholders or against  policyholders.  These reserves include
estimates  for both  claims  that have been  reported  and those  that have been
incurred  but not yet  reported to The  Hartford  and include  estimates  of all
expenses  associated with processing and settling these claims.  This estimation
process is primarily  based on historical  experience  and involves a variety of
actuarial  techniques which analyze trends and other relevant  factors.  For the
year  ended  December  31,  2000,  there  were no  changes  to  these  reserving
assumptions  that  had a  significant  impact  on the  reserves  or  results  of
operations.

The  Hartford  continually  reviews its  estimated  claims and claim  adjustment
expense  reserves  as  additional  experience  and other  relevant  data  become
available,  and reserve levels are adjusted  accordingly.  Such  adjustments are
reflected in net income of the period in which they are made. In the judgment of
The

                                     - 9 -

Hartford's  management,  all information  currently  available has been properly
considered in establishing  the reserves for unpaid claims and claim  adjustment
expenses.  Further  discussion on The Hartford's  property and casualty reserves
may be found in the Reserves section of the MD&A.

The Hartford  continues to receive claims that assert damages from environmental
pollution   and  related   clean-up   costs  and  injuries   from  asbestos  and
asbestos-related  products. Due to deviations from past experience and a variety
of social,  economic and legal  issues,  the  Company's  ability to estimate the
future  policy  benefits,   unpaid  claims  and  claim  adjustment  expenses  is
significantly impacted. A study which reviewed and identified  environmental and
asbestos  exposures in the United  States was performed in 1996 and is discussed
in the Environmental and Asbestos Claims section of the MD&A.

Certain  liabilities for unpaid claims,  principally  for  permanently  disabled
claimants,  terminated reinsurance treaties and certain contracts that fund loss
run-offs for  unrelated  parties,  have been  discounted to present  value.  The
amount of the discount was  approximately  $396 and $480 as of December 31, 2000
and 1999, respectively,  and amortization of the discount had no material effect
on net income during 2000, 1999 and 1998.

As of December  31, 2000,  statutory  basis  property and casualty  reserves for
claims and claim  adjustment  expenses  exceeded those reported under  Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") by $10. The primary differences resulted
from the discounting of GAAP-basis workers'  compensation  reserves at risk free
interest  rates which  exceeded the  required  statutory  discount  rates set by
regulators,  and the  required  exclusion  from  statutory  reserves  of assumed
retroactive reinsurance.

There were no  significant  changes in the mix of the Company's  business  which
have  impacted  property  and  casualty  claims  and  claim  adjustment  expense
reserves;   nor  has  the  Company  completed  any  significant  portfolio  loss
transfers, structured settlements or other transactions which would change claim
payment patterns.

The Company had no unusually  large  property and casualty  insurance  losses or
gains for the year ended December 31, 2000.

A reconciliation of liabilities for unpaid claims and claim adjustment  expenses
is  herein  referenced  from  Note  1(h)  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.  A table depicting the historical development of the liabilities for
unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses follows.



                                     - 10 -





The following table  reconciles the Loss  Development  Table to the Consolidated
Financial Statements:

                                     2000      1999       1998
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Loss Development Table:
  Gross reserves                  $   15,415  $ 15,389 $  15,765
  Exclusion of Zwolsche                   --       169       183
  Reinsurance - affiliated parties       459       456       501
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross reserves per Consolidated
  Financial Statements (see Note
  1 (h))                          $   15,874  $ 16,014 $  16,449
- ------------------------------------------------------------------

CEDED REINSURANCE

Consistent with normal industry  practice,  The Hartford cedes insurance risk to
reinsurance companies.  For property and casualty operations,  these reinsurance
arrangements   provide  greater   diversification  of  business  and  limit  The
Hartford's maximum net loss arising from large risks or catastrophes.

A major portion of The Hartford's property and casualty  reinsurance is effected
under general reinsurance contracts known as treaties, or, in some instances, is
negotiated on an individual risk basis,  known as facultative  reinsurance.  The
Hartford also has in-force excess of loss contracts with reinsurers that protect
it against a specified part or all of certain losses over stipulated amounts.

The ceding of insurance obligations does not discharge the original insurer from
its primary  liability to the  policyholder.  The original  insurer would remain
liable in those situations where the reinsurer is unable to meet the obligations
assumed  under  reinsurance  agreements.  The  Hartford has  established  strict
standards  that  govern  the  placement  of   reinsurance   and  monitors  ceded
reinsurance  security.  Virtually  all of The  Hartford's  property and casualty
reinsurance  is placed  with  reinsurers  that meet  strict  financial  criteria
established by a credit committee.

In accordance with normal industry practice,  Worldwide Life is involved in both
the cession and  assumption of insurance  with other  insurance and  reinsurance
companies.  As of  December  31,  2000,  the  maximum  amount of life  insurance
retained  on any one life by any one of the life  operations  was  approximately
$2.5.

In 2000,  the  Company did not make any  significant  changes in the terms under
which  reinsurance  is ceded  to other  insurers.  Also in 2000,  there  were no
specific  reinsurance  transactions  that had a material  effect on  earnings or
reserves.

INVESTMENT OPERATIONS

An  important  element of the  financial  results of The  Hartford  is return on
invested  assets.  The Hartford's  investment  activities are primarily  divided
between  Worldwide  Life and  Worldwide  Property  &  Casualty.  The  investment
activities  of both  the  Worldwide  Life  and  Worldwide  Property  &  Casualty
operations  are managed based on the  underlying  characteristics  and nature of
their respective liabilities.

The  primary  investment  objective  of  Worldwide  Life's  general  account and
guaranteed  separate accounts is to maximize  after-tax returns  consistent with
acceptable  risk  parameters,  including  the  management  of the interest  rate
sensitivity of invested assets relative to that of policyholder obligations.

The investment objective for the majority of Worldwide Property & Casualty is to
maximize  economic  value  while  generating  after-tax  income  and  sufficient
liquidity to meet corporate and policyholder obligations. For Worldwide Property
& Casualty's Other  Operations,  the investment  objective is to ensure the full
and  timely  payment  of  all  liabilities.  Property  and  casualty  investment
strategies are developed based on a variety of factors including business needs,
regulatory requirements and tax considerations.

For a further discussion of The Hartford's approach to managing risks, including
derivative  utilization,  see the Capital Markets Risk Management section of the
MD&A, as well as Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

REGULATION AND PREMIUM RATES

Although  there has been some  deregulation  with  respect  to large  commercial
insureds in recent  years,  insurance  companies,  for the most part,  are still
subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision  throughout the
United  States.  The

                                     - 11 -

extent of such regulation varies, but generally has its source in statutes which
delegate  regulatory,  supervisory and administrative  powers to state insurance
departments.  Such  powers  relate to,  among other  things,  the  standards  of
solvency  that must be met and  maintained;  the licensing of insurers and their
agents;  the nature of and  limitations on  investments;  premium  rates;  claim
handling  and trade  practices;  restrictions  on the size of risks which may be
insured  under a single  policy;  deposits  of  securities  for the  benefit  of
policyholders; approval of policy forms; periodic examinations of the affairs of
companies;  annual  and  other  reports  required  to be filed on the  financial
condition of companies or for other purposes;  fixing maximum  interest rates on
life  insurance  policy loans and minimum  rates for  accumulation  of surrender
values; and the adequacy of reserves and other necessary provisions for unearned
premiums,  unpaid claims and claim  adjustment  expenses and other  liabilities,
both reported and unreported.

Regulatory  requirements  applying to property and casualty  premium  rates vary
from state to state,  but generally  provide that rates shall not be inadequate,
excessive  or  unfairly  discriminatory.  Rates  for  many  products,  including
automobile and homeowners insurance, are subject to prior regulatory approval in
many  states.  Ocean  marine  insurance  rates are exempt from rate  regulation.
Subject to regulatory requirements,  management determines the rates charged for
its policies.  Methods for arriving at rates vary by product,  exposure  assumed
and size of risk.

While premium rates in the property and casualty  insurance business are for the
most part subject to regulation,  such rates are not in most  instances  uniform
for all  insurers  within a given  jurisdiction,  or in all  jurisdictions.  The
Hartford is a member of various fire, casualty and surety rating  organizations.
For some lines of business,  The Hartford  uses the rates and rating plans which
are filed by these organizations in the various states, while for other lines of
business it uses loss cost data  published by such  organizations.  The Hartford
also  uses  its  own  independent   rates  or  otherwise   departs  from  rating
organization rates, where appropriate.

Most states have enacted  legislation that regulates  insurance  holding company
systems such as The Hartford.  This  legislation  provides  that each  insurance
company in the system is required to register with the  insurance  department of
its state of domicile  and furnish  information  concerning  the  operations  of
companies  within the holding  company  system which may  materially  affect the
operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system.
All transactions within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair
and  equitable.  Notice to the insurance  departments  is required  prior to the
consummation  of  transactions  affecting the ownership or control of an insurer
and of certain  material  transactions  between an insurer and any entity in its
holding  company system.  In addition,  certain of such  transactions  cannot be
consummated without the applicable insurance department's prior approval.

State  insurance   regulations   require  property  and  casualty   insurers  to
participate   in  assigned  risk  plans,   reinsurance   facilities   and  joint
underwriting  associations,  which are  mechanisms to provide risks with various
basic or minimum  insurance  coverage  when they are not  available in voluntary
markets.  Such  mechanisms  are  most  prevalent  for  automobile  and  workers'
compensation  insurance,  but a majority of states also mandate participation in
so-called  FAIR Plans or Windstorm  Plans  providing  basic  property  coverage.
Additionally, some states mandate such participation in facilities for providing
medical  malpractice  insurance.  Participation  is based  upon the  amount of a
company's  written  premiums in a particular  state for the classes of insurance
involved.

The extent of insurance  regulation on business outside the United States varies
significantly among the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries
have  minimal   regulatory   requirements,   while  others   regulate   insurers
extensively.   Foreign  insurers  in  many  countries  are  faced  with  greater
restrictions   than   domestic   competitors   domiciled   in  that   particular
jurisdiction.  The Hartford's international operations are comprised of insurers
licensed  in their  respective  countries  and,  therefore,  are  subject to the
generally less restrictive domestic insurance regulations.

RATINGS

Reference is made to the Capital  Resources  and  Liquidity  section of the MD&A
under "Ratings".

RISK-BASED CAPITAL

Reference is made to the Capital  Resources  and  Liquidity  section of the MD&A
under "Risk-based Capital".

LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES

Reference is made to the  Regulatory  Matters and  Contingencies  section of the
MD&A under "Legislative Initiatives".

INSOLVENCY FUND

Reference is made to the  Regulatory  Matters and  Contingencies  section of the
MD&A under "Insolvency Fund".

NAIC CODIFICATION

Reference is made to the  Regulatory  Matters and  Contingencies  section of the
MD&A under "NAIC Codification".

YEAR 2000

Reference is made to the  Regulatory  Matters and  Contingencies  section of the
MD&A under "Year 2000".

EMPLOYEES

The Hartford had approximately 26,600 employees as of February 28, 2001.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE HARTFORD

Information about the executive  officers of The Hartford who are also directors
and/or  nominees for election as directors is set forth in The  Hartford's  2001
Proxy Statement.  Set forth below is information about other executive  officers
of the Company:

BRENDA FURLONG, 52, became Chief Investment Officer of the Company and President
of Hartford Investment Management Company ("HIMCO"),  a wholly-owned  subsidiary
of the Company,  effective October 1, 1999.  Previously,  Ms. Furlong was Senior
Vice President, Capital Planning and Development with responsibility for mergers
and acquisitions,  strategic

                                     - 12 -

planning and capital  allocation.  Prior to joining the Company in 1996, she was
Vice  President and  Treasurer of Sheraton  Corp.  and held senior  positions at
several ITT Corporation companies.  Ms. Furlong began her career at State Street
Bank and Trust, where she was a commercial lending officer.

JOHN N.  GIAMALIS,  43, is Senior Vice  President and Controller of the Company.
Mr.  Giamalis  joined the  Company in January  1997,  functioning  as  Corporate
Controller and Director,  Financial Reporting and Analysis.  He was appointed in
mid-1998 to the position of Deputy Controller. Prior to joining the Company, Mr.
Giamalis  held  senior  financial  positions  in the  insurance  and  technology
industries.  Previously, he served in public accounting positions,  including as
Senior Manager with  responsibility for insurance,  securities and middle market
clients for Deloitte & Touche. He holds a B.S. degree in business administration
and a Master of professional accountancy from West Virginia University.  He is a
member of the American  Institute and  Connecticut  Society of Certified  Public
Accountants.

RANDALL I. KIVIAT,  50, has held the position of Group Senior Vice  President of
Human  Resources for the Company  since June 1999.  Since joining the Company in
1982, he has held positions of increasing responsibility,  including Director of
Payroll,  Director of Employee  Benefits,  and Vice President of Human Resources
Services.

EDWARD L.  MORGAN,  57, has held the  position of Group  Senior Vice  President,
Corporate   Relations  and  Government  Affairs,  of  the  Company  since  1998.
Previously, he was Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations and Public Affairs
since  1995.  Mr.  Morgan also has held the  position  since 1993 of Senior Vice
President, Corporate Relations and Public Affairs of Hartford Fire.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The Hartford owns the land and buildings  comprising  its Hartford  location and
other  properties  within the  greater  Hartford,  Connecticut  area which total
approximately  1.6  million  square  feet.  In  addition,  The  Hartford  leases
approximately  5.4  million  square  feet  throughout  the United  States and 56
thousand square feet in other  countries.  All of the properties owned or leased
are  used by one or more  of all  eight  operating  segments,  depending  on the
location.  (For  more  information  on  operating  segments  see Part 1, Item 1,
Business  of The  Hartford -  Reporting  Segments.)  The  Company  believes  its
properties and facilities are suitable and adequate for current operations.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Hartford is or may become  involved in various legal actions,  some of which
involve  claims for  substantial  amounts.  In the  opinion of  management,  the
ultimate  liability  with respect to such actual and potential  lawsuits,  after
consideration of provisions made for potential  losses and costs of defense,  is
not expected to be material to the consolidated financial condition,  results of
operations or cash flows of The Hartford.

The Hartford is involved in claims litigation  arising in the ordinary course of
business and  accounts for such  activity  through the  establishment  of policy
reserves.  As further discussed in the MD&A under the Environmental and Asbestos
Claims section,  The Hartford  continues to receive  environmental  and asbestos
claims which involve significant  uncertainty  regarding policy coverage issues.
Regarding  these claims,  The Hartford  continually  reviews its overall reserve
levels, methodologies and reinsurance coverages.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders of The Hartford during the
fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.

PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE HARTFORD'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Hartford's  common stock is traded on the New York Stock  Exchange  ("NYSE")
under the trading symbol "HIG".

The  following  table  presents  the high and low closing  prices for the common
stock of The Hartford on the NYSE for the periods  indicated,  and the quarterly
dividends declared per share.

                           1st Qtr.  2nd Qtr.  3rd Qtr.  4th Qtr.
- -------------------------- --------- --------- --------- --------
Common Stock Price
   High                     $52.75     $64.00    $73.75   $79.31
   Low                       29.38      44.25     56.38    65.44
Dividends Declared            0.24       0.24      0.24     0.25
Common Stock Price
   High                     $58.81     $65.06    $61.94   $53.44
   Low                       48.31      57.13     40.88    37.31
Dividends Declared            0.22       0.23      0.23     0.24
- -------------------------- --------- --------- --------- --------

As of February 28, 2001, the Company had approximately 160,000 shareholders.

On October 19, 2000, The Hartford's Board of Directors approved a 4% increase in
the quarterly  dividend to $0.25 per share.  Dividend decisions are based on and
affected by a number of factors,  including the operating  results and financial
requirements of The Hartford and the impact of regulatory restrictions discussed
in the Capital  Resources  and  Liquidity  section of the MD&A under  "Liquidity
Requirements".

There are also  various  legal  limitations  governing  the  extent to which The
Hartford's insurance  subsidiaries may extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise
provide funds to The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. as discussed in the
Capital   Resources  and  Liquidity   section  of  the  MD&A  under   "Liquidity
Requirements".

                                     - 13 -





                                     - 14 -

ITEM 7.       MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
                            AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA, UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)

Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations  ("MD&A") addresses the financial condition of The Hartford Financial
Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries  (collectively,  "The Hartford" or the
"Company") as of December 31, 2000,  compared  with  December 31, 1999,  and its
results of  operations  for the three years ended  December 31,  2000,  1999 and
1998.  This  discussion  should  be read in  conjunction  with the  Consolidated
Financial Statements and related Notes beginning on page F-1.

Certain of the  statements  contained  herein or in Part I of the Company's Form
10-K (other than statements of historical fact) are forward-looking  statements.
Such forward-looking  statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions
of the Private  Securities  Litigation  Reform Act of 1995 and include estimates
and assumptions related to economic,  competitive and legislative  developments.
These  forward-looking  statements are subject to change and  uncertainty  which
are, in many  instances,  beyond the Company's  control and have been made based
upon management's  expectations and beliefs  concerning future  developments and
their potential effect upon The Hartford.  There can be no assurance that future
developments  will be in accordance with  management's  expectations or that the
effect of future  developments  on The  Hartford  will be those  anticipated  by
management.  Actual results could differ  materially  from those expected by The
Hartford, depending on the outcome of certain factors, including the possibility
of  general  economic  and  business  conditions  that are less  favorable  than
anticipated,  legislative  developments,  changes in interest rates or the stock
markets, stronger than anticipated competitive activity, more frequent or severe
natural  catastrophes  than  anticipated  and those  factors  described  in such
forward-looking statements.

Certain  reclassifications have been made to prior year financial information to
conform to the current year presentation.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INDEX
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Consolidated Results of Operations: Operating Summary       15
Worldwide Life                                              18
Investment Products                                         19
Individual Life                                             20
Group Benefits                                              21
Corporate Owned Life Insurance (COLI)                       22
Worldwide Property & Casualty                               23
Commercial                                                  24
Personal                                                    25
Reinsurance                                                 26
International and Other Operations                          26
Reserves                                                    27
Environmental and Asbestos Claims                           28
Investments                                                 30
Capital Markets Risk Management                             32
Capital Resources and Liquidity                             42
Regulatory Matters and Contingencies                        45
Effect of Inflation                                         46
Accounting Standards                                        46


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS: OPERATING SUMMARY
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



The Hartford defines "core earnings" as after-tax operational results excluding,
as applicable,  net realized capital gains or losses,  the cumulative  effect of
accounting  changes  and  certain  other  items.  Core  earnings  is an internal
performance  measure

                                     - 15 -

used by the Company in the  management of its  operations.  Management  believes
that this  performance  measure  delineates  the  results of  operations  of the
Company's ongoing businesses in a manner that allows for a better  understanding
of the  underlying  trends in the  Company's  current  business.  However,  core
earnings  should only be analyzed in  conjunction  with, and not in lieu of, net
income  and may not be  comparable  to other  performance  measures  used by the
Company's competitors.

2000 COMPARED TO 1999 -- Revenues increased $1.2 billion,  or 9%, primarily as a
result of continued  strong growth in fee income in the Investment  Products and
Individual  Life  segments,  along  with  premium  growth in the Group  Benefits
segment and in all North American Property & Casualty underwriting segments.

Core  earnings  increased  $125,  or 15%, due to earnings  growth of 10% or more
across all segments in Worldwide Life partially offset by a decline in Worldwide
Property & Casualty,  primarily due to an increase in personal  automobile  loss
costs and adverse loss development in reinsurance.

1999 COMPARED TO 1998 -- Revenues decreased $1.5 billion, or 10%, primarily as a
result of the  November  1998 sale of United  Kingdom-based  London &  Edinburgh
Insurance Group, Ltd. ("London & Edinburgh"),  which was The Hartford's  largest
international subsidiary,  the declining block of leveraged corporate owned life
insurance  ("COLI")  business and lower net realized capital gains. The decrease
was  partially  offset  by earned  premium  growth in the  Personal  segment  of
Worldwide  Property & Casualty and higher fee income in the Investment  Products
segment of Worldwide  Life as a result of  increasing  account  values.  (For an
analysis  of net  investment  income and net  realized  capital  gains,  see the
Investments section.)

Core earnings  increased  $21, or 3%,  primarily due to higher fee income in the
Investment  Products segment as a result of increasing  assets under management.
Partially  offsetting  this  increase  was a decrease  in  Worldwide  Property &
Casualty  results,  due primarily to $55 of proceeds received in 1998 related to
the Industrial Risk Insurance pool ("IRI transaction"),  and lower International
and Other  Operations  segment core earnings as a result of the sale of London &
Edinburgh.

NET REALIZED CAPITAL GAINS

See "Investment Results" in the Investments section.

INCOME TAXES

The  effective  tax  rates  for  2000,  1999 and  1998  were  28%,  23% and 26%,
respectively.  The increase in the effective tax rate for 2000 was primarily due
to taxes related to the gain on the sale of Zwolsche Algemeene N.V. ("Zwolsche")
partially  offset by a $24 tax  benefit  resulting  from a  settlement  with the
Internal  Revenue  Service with respect to certain tax matters for the 1993-1995
tax  years.  For  a  further  discussion  on  the  sale  of  Zwolsche,  see  the
International  and Other Operations  section.  The decrease in the effective tax
rate for 1999 was due to an increase in the  proportionate  share of  tax-exempt
net  investment  income  to total  pre-tax  income  for 1999  compared  to 1998.
Tax-exempt  interest  earned  on  invested  assets  was the  principal  cause of
effective  rates lower than the 35% U.S.  statutory  rate.  Income taxes paid in
2000,  1999 and 1998  were  $95,  $41 and $407,  respectively.  (For  additional
information, see Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

MINORITY INTEREST IN CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARY

Prior to the June 27,  2000  acquisition  of all of the  outstanding  shares  of
Hartford  Life,  Inc.  ("HLI")  that The  Hartford did not already own ("The HLI
Repurchase"),  the minority interest in consolidated  subsidiary  represented an
approximate 19% minority  interest in HLI's operating  results.  (For additional
information,   see  the  Capital   Resources   and   Liquidity   section   under
"Acquisitions" and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

PER COMMON SHARE

The following  table  represents  per common share data and return on equity for
the past three years:

                                       2000     1999      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Basic earnings per share                $4.42   $3.83      $4.36
Weighted average common shares
   outstanding                          220.6   224.9      232.8
Diluted earnings per share              $4.34   $3.79      $4.30
Weighted average common shares
   outstanding and dilutive
   potential common shares              224.4   227.5      236.2
Return on equity [1]                     15.4%   15.3%      18.7%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]   Calculated by dividing net income by average equity  excluding  unrealized
      gain (loss), after-tax.

SEGMENT RESULTS

The  Hartford  is  organized  into  two  major  operations:  Worldwide  Life and
Worldwide  Property & Casualty.  Within these operations,  The Hartford conducts
business principally in eight operating segments.  Additionally,  all activities
related to The HLI Repurchase,  the minority interest in HLI for pre-acquisition
periods and The Hartford Bank, FSB are included in Corporate.

Worldwide Life is organized into four reportable operating segments:  Investment
Products,  Individual  Life,  Group Benefits  (formerly  Employee  Benefits) and
Corporate  Owned Life  Insurance  ("COLI").  Worldwide  Life also includes in an
Other  category its  international  operations  as well as  corporate  items not
directly  allocable to any of its  reportable  operating  segments,  principally
interest expense.

Worldwide  Property &  Casualty  is  organized  into four  reportable  operating
segments: the underwriting segments of Commercial, Personal and Reinsurance, and
an International  and Other Operations  segment.  Also reported within Worldwide
Property & Casualty is North American,  which includes the combined underwriting
results of Commercial,  Personal and  Reinsurance  along with income and expense
items not directly allocable to these segments, such as net investment income.

While  the  measure  of  profit or loss  used by The  Hartford's  management  in
evaluating  performance is core earnings for its non-underwriting  segments, the
Commercial,  Personal and  Reinsurance  segments are evaluated by The Hartford's
management  primarily  based upon  underwriting  results.  While

                                     - 16 -

not  considered  segments,  the Company also reports and evaluates core earnings
results for Worldwide Life and Worldwide  Property & Casualty,  including  North
American.  Worldwide  Property  &  Casualty  includes  core  earnings  for North
American and the International and Other Operations segment.

Certain  transactions  between  segments  occur  during the year that  primarily
relate to tax settlements, insurance coverage, expense reimbursements,  services
provided and capital  contributions.  Certain  reinsurance  stop loss agreements
exist between the segments which specify that one segment will reimburse another
for losses  incurred in excess of a predetermined  limit.  Also, one segment may
purchase  group annuity  contracts  from another to fund pension costs and claim
annuities  to  settle  casualty  claims.  In  addition,   certain   intersegment
transactions occur in Worldwide Life. These transactions include interest income
on allocated surplus and the allocation of net realized capital gains and losses
through net invested income  utilizing the duration of the segment's  investment
portfolios.

The  following  is  a  summary  of  North  American   underwriting   results  by
underwriting segment within Worldwide Property & Casualty.  Underwriting results
represent  premiums earned less incurred claims,  claim adjustment  expenses and
underwriting expenses.





The following is a summary of core earnings and net income.



An  analysis  of the  operating  results  summarized  above is  included  on the
following pages.  Reserves,  Environmental and Asbestos Claims,  and Investments
are discussed in separate sections.

                                     - 17 -

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WORLDWIDE LIFE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Worldwide Life provides  investment and retirement products such as variable and
fixed  annuities,  mutual funds and  retirement  plan  services;  individual and
corporate owned life insurance;  and, group benefit  products such as group life
and group disability insurance.

Worldwide Life derives its revenues principally from: (a) fee income,  including
asset  management fees on separate  account and mutual fund assets and mortality
and  expense  fees,  as well as cost of  insurance  charges;  (b) fully  insured
premiums;  (c) certain  other  fees;  and (d) net  investment  income on general
account  assets.  Asset  management  fees and  mortality  and  expense  fees are
primarily  generated from separate account assets,  which are deposited with the
Company  through the sale of variable  annuity and variable life  products,  and
mutual funds.  Cost of insurance  charges are assessed on the net amount at risk
for  investment-oriented  life insurance products.  Premium revenues are derived
primarily from the sale of group life and group disability insurance products.

Worldwide  Life's  expenses   essentially   consist  of  interest   credited  to
policyholders  on general  account  liabilities,  insurance  benefits  provided,
dividends to policyholders,  costs of selling and servicing the various products
offered by the Company, and other general business expenses.

Worldwide  Life's  profitability  depends  largely on the amount of assets under
management, the level of fully insured premiums, the adequacy of product pricing
and underwriting discipline,  claims management and operating efficiencies,  and
its ability to earn target spreads  between earned  investment  rates on general
account assets and credited rates to customers.




As  discussed  above,  Worldwide  Life  consists  of  the  following  reportable
operating  segments:   Investment  Products,  Individual  Life,  Group  Benefits
(formerly Employee  Benefits) and COLI. In addition,  Worldwide Life includes in
an Other category its international  operations,  which are primarily located in
Latin America and the Far East,  and corporate  items not directly  allocable to
any of its reportable operating segments.

On June 27, 2000,  The Hartford  acquired all of the  outstanding  shares of HLI
that it did not  already  own.  (For  additional  information,  see the  Capital
Resources and Liquidity section under "Acquisitions".)

On January 25, 2001,  The Hartford  agreed to acquire the U.S.  individual  life
insurance,  annuity and mutual fund  businesses  of Fortis,  Inc.  (operating as
Fortis  Financial  Group,  or  "Fortis").  This  transaction  is  expected to be
completed in the second quarter of 2001.  (For additional  information,  see the
Capital Resources and Liquidity section under "Subsequent Event".)

2000 COMPARED TO 1999 -- Revenues  increased $454, or 8%,  primarily  related to
the  growth  across  each  of  Worldwide  Life's  primary  operating   segments,
particularly the Investment Products and Group Benefits segments, where revenues
increased $339, or 17%, and $183, or 9%, respectively. The revenue growth in the
Investment  Products  segment  was  primarily  due to higher  fee  income in the
individual  annuity and retail mutual fund  operations as related average assets
under  management  in 2000 were higher  than 1999.  The Group  Benefits  segment
experienced  higher  earned  premiums due to strong sales and  persistency.  The
Individual Life segment also  contributed to the revenue increase as a result of
strong  sales and  favorable  persistency.  Partially  offsetting  the growth in
revenues was the decrease in COLI  revenues  primarily  related to the declining
block of leveraged COLI business.

                                     - 18 -

Benefits,  claims and expenses  increased $352, or 7%, primarily  related to the
growth in Worldwide Life's principal  operating  segments  described above. Core
earnings  increased $165, or 35%, led by the Investment  Products  segment where
core earnings increased $94, or 28%. Additionally, core earnings related to each
of the remaining three operating segments increased 10% or more.  Worldwide Life
also recorded a benefit related to the settlement of certain federal tax matters
of $24 in 2000 (see Note 15 (d) of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements).
This benefit,  along with an $8 benefit related to state income taxes,  resulted
in $32 of tax benefits for the year ended December 31, 2000.  Additionally,  net
realized  capital losses increased due to portfolio  rebalancing.  Excluding the
tax items and net realized capital losses, earnings increased $133, or 28%.

1999 COMPARED TO 1998 -- Revenues  decreased  $252, or 4%,  primarily due to the
declining block of leveraged COLI business. Excluding the COLI segment, revenues
increased $484, or 11%, to $4.7 billion.  This increase was driven  primarily by
the Investment  Products and Group Benefits  segments,  where revenues increased
$257,  or 14%,  and  $215,  or 12%,  respectively.  The  revenue  growth  in the
Investment  Products segment was, for the most part, due to higher fee income in
the individual  annuity and mutual fund  operations.  Total fee income for these
operations  increased $301, or 33%, to $1.2 billion due to significant growth in
related  assets  under  management   resulting  from  strong  sales,   favorable
persistency  and  equity  market   appreciation.   The  Group  Benefits  segment
experienced higher earned premiums due to strong sales and persistency.

Benefits,  claims and  expenses  decreased  $353,  or 7%,  primarily  due to the
declining  block of leveraged COLI business.  Excluding the COLI segment,  total
benefits,  claims and  expenses  increased  $394,  or 11%,  consistent  with the
revenue growth  described  above.  Core earnings  increased $81, or 21%,  driven
mostly by increased fee income associated with higher assets under management in
the Investment  Products  segment,  as well as continued growth across its other
reportable segments.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INVESTMENT PRODUCTS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



The Investment  Products  segment focuses on the savings and retirement needs of
the growing  number of  individuals  who are  preparing  for  retirement or have
already  retired  through the sale of individual  variable and fixed  annuities,
mutual  funds,  retirement  plan  services and other  investment  products.  The
Company was ranked the number one writer of individual variable annuities in the
United States for 2000  according to Variable  Annuity and Research Data Service
("VARDS") and the number one seller of  individual  variable  annuities  through
banks,  according to Kenneth Kehrer Associates (a leading  consultant to banks).
In  addition,  The Hartford  Mutual  Funds,  Inc.  reached $10 billion in assets
faster than any other retail-oriented  mutual fund family in history,  according
to  Strategic  Insight.  Also,  eight of the fourteen  retail  mutual funds have
Morningstar  ratings and, as of December 31, 2000, all eight have three-,  four-
or five-star ratings.

2000  COMPARED TO 1999 -- Revenues  increased  $339,  or 17%,  primarily  due to
higher fee income in the individual  annuity and retail mutual fund  operations.
Fee income  generated by individual  annuities  increased  $227,  or 20%,  while
related average account values grew $8.2 billion, or 10%, to $88.1 billion.  The
growth in average  account  values was due,  in part,  to strong  sales of $10.7
billion  in  2000,  and the  significant  equity  market  performance  in  1999,
partially  offset by surrenders.  Although  average  individual  annuity account
values in 2000 were  higher  than 1999,  account  values at  December  31,  2000
declined $1.7 billion,  or 2%, as compared to December 31, 1999, as strong sales
were not sufficient to offset surrenders and the impact of the retreating equity
markets.  In addition,  fee income from other investment products increased $99,
or 54%,  primarily driven by the Company's  retail mutual fund operation,  where
related assets under management increased $4.0 billion, or 63%. This substantial
increase in the retail mutual fund operation was due to sales of $5.2 billion in
2000, which was partially offset by redemptions.

                                     - 19 -

Due to the continued growth in this segment, particularly the individual annuity
and retail mutual fund operations, total benefits, claims and expenses increased
$229,  or 15%.  This  increase  was driven by  amortization  of deferred  policy
acquisition  costs and operating  expenses,  which grew $86, or 20%, and $43, or
15%,  respectively,  primarily  related  to  growth  in the  individual  annuity
operation.  Additionally,   non-deferred  commissions  increased  $83,  or  59%,
principally related to growth in the retail mutual fund operation.

Core  earnings  increased  $94, or 28%,  primarily due to the growth in revenues
discussed above.  Additionally,  the Investment  Products  segment  continued to
maintain its profit margins related to its primary businesses, thus contributing
to  the  segment's  earnings  growth.  In  particular,  its  individual  annuity
operation's  operating  expenses as a percentage of average  individual  annuity
account values remained consistent with the prior year at 21 basis points.

1999 COMPARED TO 1998 -- Revenues  increased $257, or 14%,  primarily  driven by
higher fee income in the individual  annuity and retail mutual fund  operations.
Fee income generated by individual  annuities increased $248, or 29%, as related
account  values grew $18.2  billion,  or 26%. The growth in  individual  annuity
account  values  was  mostly  due to strong  individual  annuity  sales of $10.9
billion  in  1999  and   favorable   persistency,   as  well  as  equity  market
appreciation.  In addition,  fee income from other investment products increased
$68,  or 59%,  primarily  due to the  Company's  continued  growth in its retail
mutual fund operation,  where related assets under management grew $3.9 billion,
or 154%. This significant  growth in the retail mutual fund operation was driven
by strong sales of $3.3 billion in 1999, favorable persistency and equity market
appreciation.

Associated with continued  growth in this segment,  total  benefits,  claims and
expenses  increased  $165,  or  12%.  This  increase  was  primarily  driven  by
amortization of deferred policy  acquisition costs, which grew $104, or 32%, and
operating  expenses,  which  increased $32, or 13%, as a result of growth in the
individual annuity and retail mutual fund operations described above.

Core  earnings  increased  $64,  or 24%,  for the most part due to the growth in
revenues  discussed  above.  Also  contributing to the higher core earnings were
operating  efficiencies that the segment  continues to achieve,  particularly in
its individual  variable annuity  operation,  where individual annuity operating
expenses as a percentage of average  individual annuity account values decreased
from 23 basis points in 1998 to 21 basis points in 1999.

OUTLOOK

The  market  for  retirement   products   continues  to  expand  as  individuals
increasingly  save and plan for retirement.  Demographic  trends suggest that as
the "baby boom" generation  matures, a significant  portion of the United States
population  will allocate a greater  percentage of their  disposable  incomes to
saving for their  retirement  years due to  uncertainty  surrounding  the Social
Security system and increases in average life expectancy.  As this market grows,
particularly  for  variable  annuities  and  mutual  funds,  new  companies  are
continually entering the market,  aggressively seeking distribution channels and
pursuing  market share.  This trend is not expected to subside,  particularly in
light  of  the   Gramm-Leach-Bliley   Act  of  1999  ("the  Financial   Services
Modernization Act"), which permits affiliations among banks, insurance companies
and securities firms.

Management believes that it has developed and implemented strategies to maintain
and enhance its position as a market leader in the financial services industry.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INDIVIDUAL LIFE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



The  Individual  Life  segment  sells  a  variety  of life  insurance  products,
including variable life,  universal life, interest sensitive whole life and term
life insurance primarily to the high end estate and business planning markets.

2000 COMPARED TO 1999 -- Revenues  increased  $56, or 10%,  resulting  primarily
from fee income  associated  with the growing block of variable life  insurance.
Fee income  increased  $59, or 15%, as variable  life account  values  increased
$352, or 14%,

                                     - 20 -

and variable life insurance in force increased $9.6 billion, or 40%.

Benefits,  claims and expenses increased $47, or 10%, primarily due to a $16, or
6%,  increase in benefits,  claims and claim  adjustment  expenses and a $16, or
12%,  increase in  amortization  of deferred  policy  acquisition  costs  mostly
associated with the growth in this segment's  variable  business.  Additionally,
insurance  operating  costs and other expenses  increased $15, or 17%,  directly
associated  with the  growth  in this  segment  as  previously  described.  Core
earnings  increased $8, or 11%,  primarily due to higher fee income as mortality
experience  (death claims as a percentage of net amount at risk) was  consistent
with prior year.

1999 COMPARED TO 1998 -- Revenues increased $17, or 3%, resulting primarily from
higher fee income  associated with the growing block of variable life insurance.
Fee income  increased  $59, or 18%, as variable  life account  values  increased
$868, or 50%, and variable life insurance in force  increased  $7.5 billion,  or
46%. The higher fee income was partially offset by a decrease in earned premiums
resulting  from the sale of HLI's  Canadian  life  insurance  operation in 1999.
Benefits,  claims and expenses increased slightly,  principally due to a $21, or
19%,  increase in amortization of deferred policy  acquisition  costs associated
with the growth in this segment's revenues. The increase was partially offset by
a decrease of $11, or 4%, in benefits,  claims and claim adjustment expenses due
to the sale of the Canadian life insurance  operation and lower mortality costs.
Core  earnings  increased  $6, or 9%,  essentially  due to higher fee income and
favorable mortality experience.

OUTLOOK

Management  believes  that the  Company's  strong  market  position will provide
opportunities  for growth in this segment as individuals  increasingly  focus on
estate planning.  The Hartford's  agreement to acquire the U.S.  individual life
insurance  business of Fortis is expected to increase its scale while broadening
its distribution capabilities through the addition of a retail broker-dealer. It
is expected that the consummation of this transaction will enhance the Company's
goal of broadening its reach in the emerging affluent market.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GROUP BENEFITS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



The Group Benefits  segment sells group life and group  disability  insurance as
well as other products,  including stop loss and supplementary  medical coverage
to employers and employer  sponsored plans,  accidental death and dismemberment,
travel accident and other special risk coverages to employers and  associations.
The  Company  also  offers  disability  underwriting,   administration,   claims
processing  services and reinsurance to other insurers and self-funded  employer
plans. According to the latest results published by the Life Insurance Marketing
and Research Association  ("LIMRA"),  the Company was the third largest provider
of group  disability  insurance and the fourth largest writer of group term life
insurance,  based on sales,  in the  United  States  for the nine  months  ended
September 30, 2000.

2000 COMPARED TO 1999 -- Revenues  increased  $183,  or 9%, driven  primarily by
growth in fully insured premiums,  excluding  buyouts,  which increased $182, or
10%, principally due to favorable persistency of the in force block of business,
as well as new sales. Also contributing to the revenue growth was an increase in
net investment income of $31, or 16%.

Total  benefits,  claims and expenses  increased  $171, or 9%,  primarily due to
higher benefits,  claims and claim adjustment expenses which, excluding buyouts,
increased $168, or 12%, directly related to revenue growth in this segment.  The
segment's  combined  ratio  (ratio of total  benefits,  claims and expenses as a
percentage of earned  premiums and other) was consistent with the prior year. As
such,  core earnings  increased $11, or 14%,  primarily  driven by the increased
revenues described above.

1999 COMPARED TO 1998 -- Revenues  increased  $215, or 12%,  driven by growth in
fully insured premiums,  excluding  buyouts,  which increased $172, or 11%. This
increase was fundamentally due to group life and group disability, where ongoing
premiums  increased  $49,  or 9%, and $63, or 11%,  respectively,  due to strong
persistency of the in force block of business, coupled with an increase in sales
to new customers.

Benefits,  claims and expenses  increased $211, or 12%,  primarily due to higher
benefits,  claims  and claim  adjustment  expenses,  which,  excluding  buyouts,
increased $187, or 11%, due to the growth in this segment.  The loss ratio (loss
costs as a percentage of earned premiums and other), excluding buyouts, remained
consistent  at  82%,  indicating  a  continuation  of  favorable  mortality  and
morbidity  experience.  In  addition,  the  expense  ratio  (ratio of  insurance
operating  costs and other

                                     - 21 -

expenses as a  percentage  of earned  premiums  and other),  excluding  buyouts,
remained  consistent at 24%. The segment's effective income tax rate was reduced
to 23% in  1999  from  28% in  1998 as a  result  of  increasing  the  level  of
investment in tax-exempt  securities.  As a result of increased premium revenue,
consistent loss and expense ratios and increased  after-tax  investment  income,
core earnings increased $8, or 11%.

OUTLOOK

As  employers  continue  to offer  benefit  plans in order to attract and retain
valued  employees,  management  expects  that the need for group  life and group
disability  insurance  will  continue to expand and believes the Company is well
positioned to take advantage of this growth potential.


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CORPORATE OWNED LIFE INSURANCE (COLI)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



The  Hartford is a leader in the COLI  market,  which  includes  life  insurance
policies purchased by a company on the lives of its employees,  with the company
or a trust sponsored by the company named as beneficiary under the policy. Until
the Health Insurance  Portability and  Accountability  Act of 1996 ("HIPA Act of
1996"),  the Company sold two principal  types of COLI  business,  leveraged and
variable products. Leveraged COLI is a fixed premium life insurance policy owned
by a company or a trust sponsored by a company.  The HIPA Act of 1996 phased out
the  deductibility  of interest on policy loans under leveraged COLI through the
end of 1998,  virtually  eliminating all future sales of this product.  Variable
COLI continues to be a product used by employers to fund non-qualified  benefits
or other postemployment benefit liabilities.

2000  COMPARED  TO 1999 -- Revenues in the COLI  segment  decreased  $64, or 8%,
primarily due to a decline in net investment income of $65, or 15%. This decline
was principally due to the leveraged COLI block of business,  as related account
values decreased $751, or 13%, as a result of the continued downsizing caused by
the HIPA Act of 1996.

Total benefits,  claims and expenses  decreased $70, or 9%, primarily due to the
factor described above. Core earnings  increased $4, or 13%,  principally due to
the variable COLI business where related account values  increased $3.6 billion,
or 29%, as well as earnings  associated  with a block of leveraged COLI business
recaptured in 1998. For additional  information on this recaptured business, see
Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

1999 COMPARED TO 1998 -- Revenues decreased $736, or 47%, primarily attributable
to the  downsizing of the leveraged COLI business as a result of the HIPA Act of
1996. During 1999, leveraged COLI account values decreased $3.4 billion, or 37%.

Consistent  with  the  decrease  in  revenues,  benefits,  claims  and  expenses
decreased  $747, or 49%. Core  earnings  increased $6, or 25%,  primarily due to
growth in the variable COLI business,  where related  account  values  increased
$1.2 billion, or 10%.  Additionally,  leveraged COLI core earnings increased due
to earnings  associated  with a block of leveraged  COLI business  recaptured in
1998, which was partially offset by decreases  associated with the downsizing of
the overall leveraged COLI business.

OUTLOOK

The focus of this  segment is variable  COLI,  which  continues  to be a product
generally   used  by   employers  to  fund   non-qualified   benefits  or  other
postemployment  benefit  liabilities.  The  leveraged  COLI  product has been an
important  contributor to The Hartford's  profitability in recent years and will
continue  to  contribute  to the  profitability  of The  Hartford in the future,
although the level of profit is expected to decline  over the long run.  COLI is
subject to a changing  legislative and regulatory  environment that could have a
material adverse effect on its business.

                                     - 22 -

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WORLDWIDE PROPERTY & CASUALTY
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



As  discussed  above,  Worldwide  Property &  Casualty  is  organized  into four
reportable operating segments: the underwriting segments of Commercial, Personal
and  Reinsurance,  and an  International  and  Other  Operations  segment.  Also
reported within Worldwide Property & Casualty is North American,  which includes
the combined underwriting results of Commercial,  Personal and Reinsurance along
with income and expense items not directly allocable to these segments,  such as
net  investment  income,  net realized  capital gains or losses,  other expenses
including interest and income taxes.

The  following  is a summary of  Worldwide  Property & Casualty  core  earnings,
after-tax. Core earnings exclude net realized capital gains.



Underwriting  results are  discussed  in each of the  Commercial,  Personal  and
Reinsurance  segment  sections.  Net  investment  income  is  discussed  in  the
Investments section.

2000 COMPARED TO 1999 -- Core earnings decreased $27, or 6%, primarily due to an
increase  in  Personal  automobile  loss  costs,  adverse  loss  development  in
Reinsurance  and  expenses  related  to the  Commercial  field  office and claim
reorganizations.  Partially offsetting this decrease was a reduction in property
catastrophe losses and improvement in Commercial mid-market results.

1999  COMPARED TO 1998 -- Core earnings were $456, a decrease of $46, or 9%. The
decrease  was  primarily  the result of a $43  increase in other  expenses,  due
primarily to proceeds received in 1998 related to the IRI transaction and an $8,
or 7%,  decrease in after-tax  underwriting  results.  Partially  offsetting the
decrease was an increase in net investment income of $28, or 4%.

                                     - 23 -

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMERCIAL
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Commercial  provides workers'  compensation,  property,  automobile,  liability,
financial  products,  marine,  agricultural  and bond  coverages  to  commercial
accounts  primarily  throughout  the United  States.  Excess and  surplus  lines
business  not  normally  written by standard  lines  insurers is also  provided.
Commercial  is  organized  into  three  customer  markets:  Business  Insurance,
Commercial Affinity and Commercial Specialty.

Business  Insurance  provides  standard  commercial  business for small accounts
("Select Customer") and mid-sized insureds ("Key Accounts"). Commercial Affinity
provides commercial risk management products and services to small and mid-sized
members of affinity  groups and customers of financial  institutions in addition
to marine coverage.  Commercial  Specialty  provides insurance through retailers
and  wholesalers to large  commercial  clients  ("Major/National")  and insureds
requiring a variety of specialized coverages.  Its results also include the bond
lines and First State  Management  Group,  a leading  underwriter  of excess and
surplus  lines  business   produced   primarily   through   wholesale   brokers.
Agricultural  and  livestock   products  are  also  included  within  Commercial
Specialty.

2000 COMPARED TO 1999 -- Written premiums  increased $304, or 10%, partially due
to The Hartford's  purchase of the in force, new and renewal financial  products
business as well as the  majority  of the excess and  surplus  lines of Reliance
Group Holdings,  Inc. ("Reliance") in 2000, which resulted in $108 of additional
written premiums for the year.  Continued premium growth in Select Customer,  up
$171, or 19%, over the prior year,  also  contributed to the increase in written
premiums.  Enhanced  product  offerings,  targeted  geographic  strategies,  new
business  growth coupled with modest price increases were the primary drivers of
the  Select  Customer  growth.  These  increases  were  slightly  offset by a 2%
decrease in mid-market standard commercial  business.  The decline in mid-market
premiums  continued  to  reflect  the  effective   execution  of  the  Company's
underwriting  initiatives,  although  significant price increases have partially
mitigated this decrease.

Underwriting  results improved $18, or 2.9 combined ratio points,  primarily the
result of  reduced  loss  ratios due to the  continued  effective  execution  of
pricing actions and lower  catastrophe  losses. A decrease in the expense ratio,
despite field and claim  reorganization  costs,  also  contributed  to the lower
combined ratio.

1999  COMPARED TO 1998 -- Written  premiums  decreased  slightly.  Solid premium
growth in The Hartford's small commercial  businesses  resulted in growth of 15%
driven  by  enhanced  product  offerings,  targeted  geographic  strategies  and
partnerships  with other  entities.  These  increases,  however,  were more than
offset by declines in the middle and large national account businesses primarily
due to intense  price  competition  in the  casualty  lines,  where The Hartford
maintained underwriting discipline,  allowing business to move to other carriers
while the Company's margins were preserved.

Underwriting results improved $42, or 0.7 combined ratio points, attributable to
a  decline  in  the  loss  ratio  of  1.3  points  resulting  from  underwriting
initiatives and price  increases.  Partially  offsetting this improvement was an
increase in the other  underwriting  expense ratio due to  investments in growth
areas, primarily Select Customer.

OUTLOOK

Market  conditions in the commercial  sector are expected to continue to improve
in 2001  although  price  competition  within  many  markets  of the  commercial
industry  will  continue  to remain a  challenge  into the  foreseeable  future.
Management  expects  growth in small  commercial  businesses  to  continue to be
achieved,  in part, due to strategic actions being taken which include providing
a complete  product  solution  for the small  commercial  coverage  needs of the
commercial   segment's   customers;   expanding   non-traditional   distribution
alternatives;  executing  geographic  market  share  strategies  and  developing
technology  solutions  that deliver  superior  business  tools to The Hartford's
agents, alliances and policyholders.  Continued pricing and underwriting actions
in the mid-market  standard commercial business should have a positive impact on
overall  profitability  in 2001. The  acquisition of Reliance in 2000 creates an
opportunity  to broaden  the  portfolio  of products  offered by the  Commercial
segment.  Additionally,  the alliance  formed with USAA in late 2000,  to be the
exclusive provider of small business insurance to USAA members, is also expected
to achieve new premium growth.

                                     - 24 -

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PERSONAL
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Personal provides automobile, homeowners, home-based business and fire coverages
to individuals across North America. Personal is organized to provide customized
products and services to the following markets: the membership of AARP through a
direct marketing operation; customers who prefer local agent involvement through
a network  of  independent  agents in the  standard  personal  lines  market and
through Omni Insurance Group, Inc. ("Omni"),  which was acquired in 1998, in the
non-standard automobile market;  customers of Sears, Roebuck & Co. ("Sears") and
Ford Motor Company and Ford Motor Credit Company (collectively,  "Ford") as well
as customers of financial  institutions through an affinity center; and customer
service for all health  insurance  products  offered  through AARP's Health Care
Options  effective  January  1, 1998.  AARP's  exclusive  licensing  arrangement
continues  through 2002 for automobile,  homeowners and home-based  business and
through 2007 for Health Care Options,  thus providing the Personal  segment with
an important competitive advantage.

2000  COMPARED  TO 1999 --  Written  premiums  increased  $177,  or 7%.  Written
premiums  increased  $87,  or 6%,  in the AARP  program  and $57,  or 8%, in the
standard  Agency  business for the year due primarily to policy count growth and
improved  renewal  retention.  Affinity  growth  of $45,  or 37%,  for the  year
included  increased  business  from the Ford and  Sears  accounts.  Non-standard
automobile written premiums through Omni decreased $12, or 5%, for the year as a
result of an expected consumer reaction to rate increases in certain states.

Underwriting  results  decreased $32 with a corresponding  0.5 point increase in
the combined ratio. The decrease in underwriting results and related increase in
the combined  ratio were primarily due to increased  Agency and Omni  automobile
loss costs.  Partially  offsetting this decrease was strong growth in Agency and
AARP  homeowners  lines.  A 1.3 point decrease in the expense ratio for the year
reflected the continued trend of productivity gains from prior initiatives.

1999 COMPARED TO 1998 -- Written  premiums  increased $250, or 11%. Omni written
premiums  increased $88, or 53%,  contributing 4% to the segment's total written
premium growth in 1999. AARP written premiums increased $65, or 5%, contributing
3% to the segment's total written premium growth in 1999. Agency written premium
growth was $31, or 5%,  contributing  1% to the segment's  total written premium
growth in 1999. The Affinity unit experienced  written premium growth of $66, or
120%,  contributing  3% to the segment's  total written  premium growth in 1999.
Written  premium  increases  in all the  units  were  achieved  in light of very
competitive  pricing in the  personal  lines  market,  primarily in the personal
automobile  line.  Servicing  revenues  from  AARP's  Health Care  Options  unit
declined by $38 due to  revenues  related to the  transfer of business  from the
prior carrier in 1998.

Underwriting  results  decreased by $43, with a corresponding 2.5 point increase
in the  combined  ratio.  The decrease in  underwriting  results and increase in
combined ratio resulted  primarily  from  increased  claim and claim  adjustment
expenses.  Loss  experience  in the property line was higher due to increases in
both frequency and severity of claims.  Claim adjustment  expenses increased due
to  investments in claim  initiatives  for  automobile  bodily injury,  physical
damage and property to reduce loss costs in future periods.  Catastrophe  losses
impacted the combined  ratio by 2.9 points in 1999  compared  with 3.5 points in
1998.

OUTLOOK

The personal insurance market remains highly  competitive.  Management  believes
that market  conditions  in the  personal  industry  will  improve in 2001.  The
current  environment in the personal market involves rising loss costs resulting
from inflation in both medical and automobile repair costs.  Management believes
that the Personal  segment is positioned  for continued  written  premium growth
through multiple  distribution  channels.  Initiatives are being  implemented to
further  strengthen  the AARP  relationship  and  attract  more  members  to the
program. In 2000, Affinity entered into an agreement with Sears to market to its
customers.  The Hartford  expects the Sears  program to be a major market in the
future. In the independent agency channel,  investments in agency interface, new
products  and agency  relations  continue to position  The  Hartford for premium
growth. The segment's investments in such areas as advertising, product research
and development,  agency relations,  technology and staff training will continue
in an effort to further  heighten brand awareness,  increase product  offerings,
further develop  alternative  distribution  channels,  improve  productivity and
reduce the expense ratio.

                                     - 25 -

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REINSURANCE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



The  Hartford  assumes  reinsurance  worldwide  through  its  thirteen  Hartford
Reinsurance Company ("HartRe") offices located in the United States, Canada, the
United Kingdom,  France,  Italy,  Germany,  Spain, Hong Kong and Taiwan.  HartRe
primarily writes treaty reinsurance  through  professional  reinsurance  brokers
covering various property, casualty, specialty and marine classes of business.

2000 COMPARED TO 1999 -- Reinsurance  written  premiums  increased $123, or 17%,
primarily due to successful  pricing increases in a firming pricing  environment
in North  America,  as well as growth in new  casualty  programs  business,  and
continued  execution of new business  development  strategies in the alternative
risk transfer line and in Europe.

Underwriting  results  decreased $25 with a corresponding  1.7 point increase in
the combined ratio.  This decrease was primarily due to continued  adverse prior
underwriting  years  loss  development,   partially  offset  by  lower  property
catastrophe losses.

1999 COMPARED TO 1998 -- Written premiums  decreased $8, or 1%, primarily due to
an increase in ceded  reinsurance  premium,  principally as a result of cessions
under an  aggregate  stop  loss  treaty  in 1999,  and the  non-recurrence  of a
significant  single finite risk account  written in 1998.  These  decreases were
partially offset by the first quarter 1999 acquisition of renewal rights for the
reinsurance  business  of Vesta Fire  Insurance  Corp.,  a  subsidiary  of Vesta
Insurance Group Inc.

Underwriting  results  decreased $12, with a corresponding 1.5 point increase in
the combined ratio.  Excluding the finite risk account referred to above,  which
had no  significant  impact on  underwriting  results in 1998,  the  decrease in
underwriting results was due primarily to loss development in 1999 from business
written principally in 1998,  partially offset by recoveries under the aggregate
stop loss treaty.

OUTLOOK

The worldwide  reinsurance  market  remains highly  competitive.  Market pricing
improved during 2000 in the worldwide reinsurance sector, and management expects
that this  pricing  will  continue to firm in 2001.  HartRe is  committed to the
effective  execution of its pricing strategy in both traditional and alternative
risk   transfer   products  and  is  prepared  to  capitalize  on  new  business
opportunities resulting from the changing marketplace.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INTERNATIONAL AND OTHER OPERATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                     - 26 -


The International and Other Operations segment results for 2000 and 1999 include
activity for Zwolsche located in the  Netherlands,  Belgium and Luxembourg until
its sale on  December  22, 2000  (discussed  below),  Hartford  Seguros in Spain
(formerly ITT Ercos),  which was sold in February 2001 (discussed below) and The
Hartford  Insurance  Company  (Singapore),  Ltd.  (formerly  People's  Insurance
Company,  Ltd.  ("Singapore  Insurance")),  of which The Hartford acquired a 49%
interest in January 1998 and an  additional  31% interest in December  2000.  In
addition,  segment  results for 1998,  also  include  London & Edinburgh  in the
United  Kingdom,  until its sale by The  Hartford in November  1998,  (discussed
below).  Products  offered by these  companies  include  property  and  casualty
products  in both  personal  and  commercial  lines  as  well as life  insurance
products and services designed to meet the needs of local customers. The sale of
the majority of The Hartford's  International Operations continued the company's
strategic   shift  in  its   International   Operations   to  emphasize   growth
opportunities in asset accumulation business.

On February 8, 2001,  The  Hartford  completed  the sale of Hartford  Seguros to
Liberty  International,  a  subsidiary  of Liberty  Mutual  Group.  The Hartford
received $29, before costs of sale.

On December 22, 2000, The Hartford  completed the sale of Zwolsche to Assurances
Generales de France,  a subsidiary  of Allianz AG. The Hartford  received  $547,
before costs of sale,  for Zwolsche.  The gain from the sale of Zwolsche of $69,
after-tax,  has been reported in the 2000  investment  results of North American
Property  &  Casualty.   Zwolsche's   operating  results  are  included  in  the
International and Other Operations segment through the date of sale.

On November 16, 1998, The Hartford completed the sale of London & Edinburgh. The
Hartford  received  approximately  $525,  before costs of sale,  for the ongoing
operations  of London &  Edinburgh.  The Hartford  retained  ownership of Excess
Insurance  Co. Ltd.  ("Excess"),  London &  Edinburgh's  property  and  casualty
insurance and reinsurance subsidiary, which discontinued writing new business in
1993. Excess is included in Other Operations. The gain from the sale of London &
Edinburgh of $33, after-tax, has been reported in the 1998 investment results of
North American Property & Casualty.  London & Edinburgh's  operating results are
included in the International and Other Operations  segment 1998 results through
the date of sale and,  therefore,  are not  comparable to current and prior year
results.

Other Operations  consist of the property and casualty  insurance  operations of
The Hartford  which have  discontinued  writing new business.  These  operations
primarily include First State Insurance Company,  Heritage  Reinsurance Company,
Ltd. and Excess. The main focus of these operations is the proper disposition of
claims,  resolving disputes and collecting  reinsurance proceeds related largely
to business underwritten and reinsured prior to 1985.

2000 COMPARED TO 1999 -- Revenues  were down $59, or 9%,  primarily due to lower
earned premiums at Zwolsche.  Core earnings were down $5, or 23%,  primarily due
to a higher calendar year loss ratio in automobile  business in Hartford Seguros
and unfavorable foreign exchange impacts.

1999  COMPARED  TO 1998 --  Revenues  of $661 were down  $1.1  billion,  or 63%,
primarily  due to the sale of London & Edinburgh,  while core earnings were down
$23 or 51% also as a result of the sale of London & Edinburgh.

OUTLOOK

The Hartford continues to explore acquisition opportunities in Latin America and
Asia with an emphasis on asset accumulation businesses.

Except  for  the  uncertainties  related  to  dispute  resolution,   reinsurance
collection and those discussed in the Environmental and Asbestos Claims section,
management  does  not  anticipate  the  future  financial  performance  of Other
Operations  to have a  material  effect on the future  operating  results of the
Company.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RESERVES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In accordance with applicable  insurance  regulations under which Worldwide Life
operates,  life insurance  subsidiaries  of The Hartford  establish and carry as
liabilities  actuarially  determined  reserves  which are calculated to meet The
Hartford's  future  obligations.  Reserves  for life  insurance  and  disability
contracts are based on actuarially recognized methods using prescribed morbidity
and mortality tables in general use in the United States,  which are modified to
reflect The Hartford's actual  experience when  appropriate.  These reserves are
computed at amounts that, with additions from estimated  premiums to be received
and with interest on such reserves compounded annually at certain assumed rates,
are expected to be sufficient to meet The Hartford's policy obligations at their
maturities or in the event of an insured's death. Reserves also include unearned
premiums, premium deposits, claims incurred but not reported and claims reported
but not yet paid. Reserves for assumed reinsurance are computed in a manner that
is comparable to direct insurance reserves.

The  liability  for  policy  benefits  for  universal  life-type  contracts  and
interest-sensitive  whole life  policies is equal to the balance that accrues to
the benefit of policyholders,  including  credited  interest,  amounts that have
been assessed to compensate the Company for services to be performed over future
periods,  and any amounts  previously  assessed against  policyholders  that are
refundable  on   termination  of  the  contract.   For   investment   contracts,
policyholder  liabilities  are equal to the  accumulated  policy account values,
which consist of an  accumulation  of deposit  payments plus credited  interest,
less  withdrawals and amounts  assessed  through the end of the period.  For the
Company's group disability policies, the level of reserves is based on a variety
of factors including particular diagnoses, termination rates and benefit levels.

The  persistency of The  Hartford's  annuity and other  interest-sensitive  life
insurance  reserves is  enhanced by policy  restrictions  on the  withdrawal  of
funds.  Withdrawals in excess of allowable  penalty-free  amounts are assessed a
surrender charge during a penalty period, which is usually at least seven

                                     - 27 -

years.   Such  surrender   charge  is  initially  a  percentage  of  either  the
accumulation  value or  considerations  received,  which varies by product,  and
generally decreases  gradually during the penalty period.  Surrender charges are
set at levels to protect The  Hartford  from loss on early  terminations  and to
reduce the likelihood of policyholders terminating their policies during periods
of increasing  interest rates,  thereby  lengthening  the effective  duration of
policy liabilities and improving the Company's ability to maintain profitability
on such policies.

The  Hartford  establishes  property  and  casualty  reserves to provide for the
estimated costs of paying claims made by policyholders or against policyholders.
These  reserves  include  estimates  for both claims that have been reported and
those that have been  incurred but not  reported,  and include  estimates of all
expenses  associated with  processing and settling these claims.  Estimating the
ultimate cost of future claims and claim adjustment expenses is an uncertain and
complex process. This estimation process is based largely on the assumption that
past developments are an appropriate  predictor of future events, and involves a
variety  of  actuarial  techniques  that  analyze  experience,  trends and other
relevant  factors.  The  uncertainties  involved with the reserving process have
become  increasingly  unpredictable due to a number of complex factors including
social and economic  trends and changes in the concepts of legal  liability  and
damage awards.  Accordingly,  final claim  settlements may vary from the present
estimates,  particularly  when those  payments may not occur until well into the
future.

The  Hartford  continually  reviews its  estimated  claims and claim  adjustment
expense  reserves  as  additional  experience  and other  relevant  data  become
available,   and  reserve  levels  are  adjusted  accordingly.   Adjustments  to
previously  established  reserves,  if any,  will be reflected in the  operating
results  of the  period  in which the  adjustment  is made.  For the year  ended
December 31, 2000, there were no changes to these reserving assumptions that had
a significant  impact on the reserves or results of operations.  In the judgment
of management,  all information currently available has been properly considered
in the reserves  established  for claims and claim  adjustment  expenses.  For a
discussion of environmental and asbestos claims and the uncertainties related to
these reserves, refer to the next section.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ENVIRONMENTAL AND ASBESTOS CLAIMS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Hartford  continues to receive claims that assert damages from environmental
exposures and for injuries from asbestos and asbestos-related  products, both of
which affect North American  Property & Casualty and the International and Other
Operations  segment.  Environmental  claims  relate  primarily to pollution  and
related clean-up costs.  With regard to these claims,  uncertainty  exists which
impacts the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves
for unpaid  losses and related  settlement  expenses.  The  Hartford  finds that
conventional  reserving  techniques  cannot  estimate the ultimate cost of these
claims  because of inadequate  development  patterns and  inconsistent  emerging
legal doctrine.  The majority of environmental claims and many types of asbestos
claims,  differ from any other type of contractual claim because there is almost
no agreement or consistent  precedent to determine what, if any, coverage exists
or which, if any, policy years and insurers or reinsurers may be liable. Further
uncertainty arises with  environmental  claims since claims are often made under
policies,  the existence of which may be in dispute, the terms of which may have
changed over many years,  which may or may not provide for legal defense  costs,
and which may or may not contain  environmental  exclusion  clauses  that may be
absolute or allow for fortuitous events. Courts in different  jurisdictions have
reached disparate  conclusions on similar issues and in certain  situations have
broadened the  interpretation  of policy coverage and liability issues. In light
of the extensive claim settlement process for environmental and asbestos claims,
which  involves  comprehensive  fact  gathering,  subject  matter  expertise and
intensive litigation,  The Hartford established an environmental claims facility
in 1992 to defend itself aggressively against unwarranted claims and to minimize
costs.

Within the property and casualty insurance  industry in the mid-1990s,  progress
was  made  in  developing  sophisticated,  alternative  methodologies  utilizing
company  experience  and  supplemental  databases  to assess  environmental  and
asbestos liabilities.  Consistent with The Hartford's practice of using the best
techniques to estimate the Company's  environmental  and asbestos  exposures,  a
study was initiated in April 1996 based on known cases. The Hartford,  utilizing
internal  staff  supplemented  by  outside  legal  and  actuarial   consultants,
completed the study in October 1996.

The study included a review of identified  environmental and asbestos  exposures
of North  American  Property & Casualty,  along with the U.S.  exposures  of The
Hartford's  International and Other Operations segment. The methodology utilized
a  ground-up   analysis  of  policy,   site  and  exposure   level  data  for  a
representative  sample of The Hartford's  claims.  The results of the evaluation
were  extrapolated  against the balance of the claim  population to estimate the
Company's overall exposure for reported claims.

In addition to estimating  liabilities  on reported  environmental  and asbestos
claims,  The Hartford  estimated  reserves for claims  incurred but not reported
("IBNR"). The IBNR reserve was estimated using information on reporting patterns
of  known  insureds,   characteristics  of  insureds  such  as  limits  exposed,
attachment  points and number of coverage years involved,  third party costs and
closed claims.

Included in The Hartford's  analysis of environmental and asbestos exposures was
a review of applicable reinsurance coverage.  Reinsurance coverage applicable to
the sample was used to estimate  the  reinsurance  coverage  that applied to the
balance  of the  reported  environmental  and  asbestos  claims  and to the IBNR
estimates.

An international  actuarial firm reviewed The Hartford's  approach and concluded
that the way the Company studied its exposures, the thoroughness of its analysis
and  the  way  The  Hartford  came  to  its  estimates   were   reasonable   and
comprehensive.  The Company believes that its methodology and estimates continue
to be  reasonable  and  comprehensive.  Reserve  activity for both  reported and
unreported  environmental  and  asbestos  claims,  including  reserves for legal
defense  costs,  for the years ended  December 31, 2000,  1999 and 1998,  was as
follows (net of reinsurance):

                                     - 28 -




The Hartford  believes that the  environmental and asbestos reserves reported at
December 31, 2000 are a reasonable  estimate of the ultimate remaining liability
for these claims based upon known facts,  current assumptions and The Hartford's
methodologies.  Future social,  economic,  legal or legislative developments may
alter the original  intent of policies  and the scope of coverage.  The Hartford
will  continue to  evaluate  new  methodologies  and  developments,  such as the
increasing  level of asbestos  claims  being  tendered  under the  comprehensive
general liability operations (non-product) section of policies, as they arise in
order  to  supplement  the  Company's   ongoing   analysis  and  review  of  its
environmental  and  asbestos  exposures.  These  future  reviews may result in a
change in reserves, impacting The Hartford's results of operations in the period
in which the reserve  estimates  are changed.  While the impact of these changes
could have a material effect on future results of operations,  The Hartford does
not  expect  such  changes  would  have a material  effect on its  liquidity  or
financial condition.

                                     - 29 -

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INVESTMENTS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

An  important  element of the  financial  results of The  Hartford  is return on
invested  assets.  The  Hartford's  investment  portfolios  are divided  between
Worldwide Life and Worldwide Property & Casualty.  The investment portfolios are
managed based on the underlying  characteristics  and nature of each operation's
respective  liabilities and within  established risk parameters.  (For a further
discussion on The Hartford's approach to managing risks, see the Capital Markets
Risk Management section.)

The investment  portfolios of Worldwide  Life and Worldwide  Property & Casualty
are managed by distinct  investment  strategy  groups.  They are responsible for
monitoring and managing the  asset/liability  profile,  establishing  investment
objectives and guidelines, and determining, within specified risk tolerances and
investment guidelines, the appropriate asset allocation, duration, convexity and
other characteristics of the portfolios. Hartford Investment Management Company,
a wholly-owned  subsidiary of The Hartford  executes the investment  plan of the
strategy groups for Worldwide Life and Worldwide Property & Casualty,  including
the identification and purchase of securities that fulfill the objectives of the
strategy groups.

WORLDWIDE LIFE

The primary  investment  objective of  Worldwide  Life's  general  account is to
maximize after-tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters, including
the management of the interest rate  sensitivity of invested  assets relative to
that of  policyholder  obligations,  as  discussed  in the Capital  Markets Risk
Management section under "Market Risk - Worldwide Life - Interest Rate Risk".

The following  table  identifies the invested assets by type held in the general
account as of December 31, 2000 and 1999.



Policy  loans are secured by the cash value of the life policy and do not mature
in a  conventional  sense,  but expire in  conjunction  with the related  policy
liabilities.  The decrease in policy loans was  primarily  due to the decline in
leveraged COLI business, as discussed in the COLI section. The increase in other
investments primarily reflects an increase in limited partnership investments.

The following table identifies by type the fixed maturity securities held in the
general account as of December 31, 2000 and 1999.






During 2000,  Worldwide Life continued its investment strategy of increasing its
allocation to municipal  tax-exempt  securities with the objective of increasing
after-tax yield.  Short-term and corporate  securities  declined  primarily as a
result of the funding of scheduled  liability  maturities and reallocation  into
other asset sectors,  particularly ABS and CMBS. Additionally,  investments were
shifted from MBS to CMO to increase the prepayment protection of the portfolio.

As of December 31, 2000 and 1999,  approximately 22.3% and 21.5%,  respectively,
of  Worldwide  Life's  fixed  maturities  were  invested  in  private  placement
securities (including 13% and 12% of Rule 144A offerings as of December 31, 2000
and December 31, 1999, respectively). Private placement securities are generally
less liquid than public securities.  However,  private placements generally have
covenants  designed  to  compensate  for  liquidity  risk.  Most of the  private
placement  securities  in the  operation's  portfolio  are  rated by  nationally
recognized rating agencies.  (For further discussion of the

                                     - 30 -

Company's  investment  credit policies,  see the Capital Markets Risk Management
section under "Credit Risk".)

INVESTMENT RESULTS

The following table summarizes Worldwide Life's investment results.




2000 COMPARED TO 1999 -- Net investment  income,  excluding  policy loan income,
increased  $113,  or 10%. The increase was primarily due to higher yields earned
on the investment of cash flow from operations and reinvestment of proceeds from
sales and  maturities of fixed  maturity  securities  in a higher  interest rate
environment.  Policy loan income  decreased  $83, or 21%, due to the decrease in
leveraged COLI business.

Net realized  capital  losses  increased  $83 primarily as a result of portfolio
rebalancing in a higher interest rate environment.

1999 COMPARED TO 1998 -- Total net  investment  income  decreased  $393, or 20%,
primarily due to a decrease in policy loan income resulting from the decrease in
leveraged COLI business. The decline in yield on average invested assets was due
to the  decrease  in policy  loan  income and the  decline  in the  policy  loan
weighted average interest rate to 7.5% for 1999 from 9.9% for 1998.

Net realized capital gains on the sale of equity securities and fixed maturities
for the year ended December 31, 1999 partially  offset a $32,  after-tax,  other
than temporary  impairment and sale of asset-backed  securities  securitized and
serviced by Commercial Financial Services, Inc. ("CFS").

WORLDWIDE PROPERTY & CASUALTY

The investment objective for the majority of Worldwide Property & Casualty is to
maximize  economic  value  while  generating  after-tax  income  and  sufficient
liquidity to meet corporate and policyholder obligations. For Worldwide Property
& Casualty's Other  Operations,  the investment  objective is to ensure the full
and  timely  payment  of  all  liabilities.  Property  and  casualty  investment
strategies are developed based on a variety of factors including business needs,
regulatory requirements and tax considerations.

The following  table  identifies the invested assets by type held as of December
31, 2000 and 1999.




The following table identifies by type the fixed maturity  securities held as of
December 31, 2000 and 1999.



                                     - 31 -

Foreign government and foreign government agency securities  declined due to the
December 2000 sale of Zwolsche.

INVESTMENT RESULTS

The following table below summarizes Worldwide Property & Casualty's  investment
results.


2000 COMPARED TO 1999 -- Both before- and after-tax  net  investment  income and
yields were relatively flat compared to the prior year.

Net realized  capital gains  increased by $195 for 2000 primarily as a result of
the $242 before-tax gain recognized on the sale of Zwolsche, partially offset by
net realized losses in the investment portfolio.

1999 COMPARED TO 1998 -- Before-tax net investment  income  decreased by $82, or
7% and after-tax net investment  income decreased by $49, or 6%. These decreases
were  primarily  due to the effects of the London &  Edinburgh  sale in November
1998,   partially  offset  by  increases  in  income  from  limited  partnership
investments.

Net  realized   capital  gains  decreased   $265,   primarily  as  a  result  of
opportunities  taken in 1998 in a strong  equity  market.  Net realized  capital
gains for 1999 were partially  offset by a $9,  after-tax,  other than temporary
impairment and sale of asset-backed securities securitized and serviced by CFS.

SEPARATE ACCOUNT PRODUCTS

Separate  account  products  are  those  for  which a  separate  investment  and
liability  account is  maintained on behalf of the  policyholder.  The Company's
separate  accounts  reflect two  categories of risk  assumption:  non-guaranteed
separate  accounts totaling $104.3 billion and $102.6 billion as of December 31,
2000 and 1999, respectively,  wherein the policyholder assumes substantially all
the risk and reward; and guaranteed  separate accounts totaling $9.8 billion and
$9.1  billion  as of  December  31,  2000 and 1999,  respectively,  wherein  The
Hartford  contractually  guarantees either a minimum return or the account value
to the policyholder.  The primary  investment  objective of guaranteed  separate
accounts  is to maximize  after-tax  returns  consistent  with  acceptable  risk
parameters,  including  the  management  of the  interest  rate  sensitivity  of
invested assets relative to that of  policyholder  obligations,  as discussed in
the Capital Markets Risk Management  section under "Market Risk - Worldwide Life
- - Interest Rate Risk."

Investment objectives for non-guaranteed  separate accounts vary by fund account
type, as outlined in the applicable fund prospectus or separate  account plan of
operations. Non-guaranteed separate account products include variable annuities,
variable life insurance contracts and variable COLI. Guaranteed separate account
products  primarily  consist of modified  guaranteed  individual  annuities  and
modified   guaranteed  life  insurance,   and  generally  include  market  value
adjustment   features   and   surrender   charges  to   mitigate   the  risk  of
disintermediation.

CORPORATE

In connection with The HLI Repurchase, the carrying value of the purchased fixed
maturity  security  investments was adjusted to fair market value as of the date
of the repurchase.  This adjustment was reported in Corporate.  The amortization
of the adjustment to the fixed maturity security investment's carrying values is
reported in Corporate's net investment  income. The total amount of amortization
for the year ended  December  31,  2000 was $10,  before-tax.  Also  reported in
Corporate are $5 of fixed  maturity  security  investments of The Hartford Bank,
FSB.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CAPITAL MARKETS RISK MANAGEMENT
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Hartford has a disciplined  approach to managing risks  associated  with its
capital markets and asset/liability management activities.  Investment portfolio
management  is organized to focus  investment  management  expertise on specific
classes of investments,  while asset/liability  management is the responsibility
of separate and distinct risk  management  units  supporting  Worldwide Life and
Worldwide Property & Casualty operations. Derivative instruments are utilized in
compliance with established  Company policy and regulatory  requirements and are
monitored internally and reviewed by senior management.

The Company is exposed to two primary sources of investment and  asset/liability
management risk:  credit risk,  relating to the uncertainty  associated with the
ability of an obligor or  counterparty  to make  timely  payments  of  principal
and/or interest,  and market risk, relating to the market price and/or cash flow
variability associated with changes in interest rates, securities prices, market
indices,  yield curves or currency exchange rates. The Company does not hold any
financial instruments purchased for trading purposes.

CREDIT RISK

                                     - 32 -

The Hartford has established investment credit policies that focus on the credit
quality of obligors and counterparties,  limit credit concentrations,  encourage
diversification  and  require  frequent  creditworthiness  reviews.   Investment
activity,  including  setting of policy and defining  acceptable risk levels, is
subject to regular review and approval by senior management and by the Company's
Finance Committee.

The Company invests primarily in securities which are rated investment grade and
has established exposure limits, diversification standards and review procedures
for  all   credit   risks   including   borrower,   issuer   and   counterparty.
Creditworthiness  of specific  obligors  is  determined  by an  internal  credit
evaluation   supplemented   by   consideration   of  external   determinants  of
creditworthiness,  typically ratings assigned by nationally  recognized  ratings
agencies.  Obligor,  asset  sector and  industry  concentrations  are subject to
established limits and monitored on a regular interval.

The Company's derivatives  counterparty exposure policy establishes market-based
credit limits,  favors long-term financial stability and  creditworthiness,  and
typically requires credit  enhancement/credit  risk reducing agreements.  Credit
risk is  measured  as the amount  owed to the  Company  based on current  market
conditions  and  potential  payment  obligations  between  the  Company  and its
counterparties. Credit exposures are generally quantified weekly and netted, and
collateral is pledged to and held by, or on behalf of, the Company to the extent
the current value of derivatives exceeds exposure policy thresholds.

The Hartford is not exposed to any significant  credit  concentration  risk of a
single issuer.

The following  tables  identify  fixed maturity  securities for Worldwide  Life,
including  guaranteed  separate  accounts,  and Worldwide Property & Casualty by
credit quality. The ratings referenced in the tables are based on the ratings of
a nationally  recognized rating organization or, if not rated, assigned based on
the Company's internal analysis of such securities.

WORLDWIDE LIFE

As of December 31, 2000 and 1999,  over 97% of the fixed maturity  portfolio was
invested in securities rated investment grade.



WORLDWIDE PROPERTY & CASUALTY

As of December 31, 2000 and 1999,  over 95% of the fixed maturity  portfolio was
invested in securities rated investment grade.



MARKET RISK

The Hartford has several  objectives  in managing  market risk  associated  with
Worldwide Life and Worldwide Property & Casualty.  Worldwide Life is responsible
for maximizing  after-tax returns within  acceptable risk parameters,  including
the management of the interest rate  sensitivity  of invested  assets to that of
policyholder  obligations.  Worldwide  Life's  fixed  maturity  portfolios  have
material  market exposure to interest rate risk.  Worldwide  Property & Casualty
attempts  to maximize  economic  value while  generating  appropriate  after-tax
income and sufficient liquidity to meet corporate and policyholder  obligations.
Worldwide  Property & Casualty has material exposure to interest rate and equity
market  risk.  The  Company  continually  monitors  these  exposures  and  makes
portfolio adjustments to manage these risks within established limits.

Downward movement in market interest rates during 2000 resulted in a significant
increase in the unrealized appreciation of the fixed maturity security portfolio
from 1999.  However,  The Hartford's asset allocation and its exposure to market
risk have not changed materially from its position at December 31,

                                     - 33 -

1999.

The  Company  analyzes  interest  rate  risk  using  various  models,  including
multi-scenario  cash flow  projection  models  that  forecast  cash flows of the
liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments.

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

The Hartford  utilizes a variety of  derivative  instruments,  including  swaps,
caps,  floors,  forwards and exchange traded futures and options,  in compliance
with Company policy and regulatory requirements in order to achieve one of three
Company approved objectives:  to hedge risk arising from interest rate, price or
currency  exchange  rate  volatility;   to  manage  liquidity;   or  to  control
transaction  costs. The Company does not make a market or trade  derivatives for
the express purpose of earning trading profits.

The  Company  uses  derivative  instruments  in its  management  of market  risk
consistent   with  four  risk   management   strategies:   hedging   anticipated
transactions, hedging liability instruments, hedging invested assets and hedging
portfolios of assets and/or  liabilities.  (For additional  information on these
strategies along with tables reflecting outstanding derivative instruments,  see
the Worldwide Life and Worldwide Property & Casualty discussions below.)

Derivative  activities are monitored by an internal  compliance  unit,  reviewed
frequently by senior management and reported to the Company's Finance Committee.
The notional amounts of derivative  contracts represent the basis upon which pay
or  receive  amounts  are  calculated  and are not  reflective  of credit  risk.
Notional  amounts  pertaining  to  derivative  instruments  for both general and
guaranteed  separate accounts at December 31, 2000 and 1999 totaled $8.8 billion
and $9.8 billion, respectively.

The  following  discussions  focus  on the  key  market  risk  exposures  within
Worldwide Life and Worldwide Property & Casualty.

WORLDWIDE LIFE

Interest Rate Risk
- ------------------

Worldwide  Life's general account and guaranteed  separate  account  exposure to
interest  rate risk  relates to the market  price  and/or cash flow  variability
associated with changes in market interest rates.  Changes in interest rates can
potentially impact Worldwide Life's  profitability.  Under certain circumstances
of   interest   rate   volatility,   Worldwide   Life   could  be   exposed   to
disintermediation  risk and  reduction  in net  interest  rate  spread or profit
margins. For Worldwide Life's  non-guaranteed  separate accounts,  the Company's
exposure is not significant,  as the policyholder  assumes  substantially all of
the investment risk.

Worldwide  Life's general  account and guaranteed  separate  account  investment
portfolios  primarily  consist of investment grade,  fixed maturity  securities,
including corporate bonds, asset-backed securities,  commercial  mortgage-backed
securities,   tax-exempt  municipal   securities  and  collateralized   mortgage
obligations.  The fair value of these and Worldwide Life's other invested assets
fluctuates depending on the interest rate environment and other general economic
conditions.   During   periods  of  declining   interest   rates,   paydowns  on
mortgage-backed  securities and collateralized  mortgage obligations increase as
the underlying mortgages are prepaid. During such periods, the Company generally
will not be able to reinvest the proceeds of any such  prepayments at comparable
yields.  Conversely,  during  periods  of  rising  interest  rates,  the rate of
prepayments  generally  declines,  exposing  the Company to the  possibility  of
asset/liability  cash flow and yield  mismatch.  (For further  discussion of the
Company's risk management  techniques to manage this market risk, see the "Asset
and  Liability  Management  Strategies  Used to Manage  Market  Risk"  discussed
below.)

As described above,  Worldwide Life holds a significant fixed maturity portfolio
that  includes  both fixed and  variable  rate  features.  The  following  table
reflects  the  principal  amounts of  Worldwide  Life's  general and  guaranteed
separate account fixed and variable rate fixed maturity  portfolios,  along with
the respective  weighted average coupons by estimated  maturity year at December
31, 2000.  Comparative  totals are  included as of December  31, 1999.  Expected
maturities  differ  from  contractual  maturities  due  to  call  or  prepayment
provisions.  The weighted  average coupon ("WAC") on variable rate securities is
based on spot rates as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and is primarily  based on
London  Interbank   Offered  Rate  ("LIBOR").   Callable  bonds  and  notes  are
distributed  to either call dates or maturity,  depending on which date produces
the most conservative yield.  Asset-backed  securities,  collateralized mortgage
obligations and mortgage-backed securities are distributed based on estimates of
the rate of future  prepayments  of  principal  over the  remaining  life of the
securities.  These estimates are developed using  prepayment  speeds provided in
broker  consensus  data.  Such  estimates  are derived  from  prepayment  speeds
previously  experienced at the interest rate levels projected for the underlying
collateral.   Actual  prepayment  experience  may  vary  from  these  estimates.
Financial  instruments with certain leverage features have been included in each
of the fixed maturity  categories.  These  instruments  have not been separately
displayed  because  they  were  immaterial  to  the  Worldwide  Life  investment
portfolio.

                                     - 34 -



                                     - 35 -


The table below provides information as of December 31, 2000 on debt obligations
and  TruPS and  reflects  principal  cash  flows and  related  weighted  average
interest rates by maturity year.  Comparative totals are included as of December
31, 1999.



Asset and Liability Management Strategies Used to Manage Market Risk
- --------------------------------------------------------------------

Worldwide  Life  employs  several risk  management  tools to quantify and manage
market risk arising from their investments and interest  sensitive  liabilities.
For certain portfolios, management monitors the changes in present value between
assets and  liabilities  resulting from various  interest rate  scenarios  using
integrated  asset/liability  measurement  systems and a proprietary  system that
simulates the impacts of parallel and non-parallel yield curve shifts.  Based on
this current and prospective  information,  management  implements risk reducing
techniques to improve the match between assets and liabilities.

Derivatives  play an important role in  facilitating  the management of interest
rate risk, creating opportunities to efficiently fund obligations, hedge against
risks that affect the value of certain  liabilities and adjust broad  investment
risk  characteristics as a result of any significant changes in market risks. As
an  end-user  of  derivatives,  Worldwide  Life uses a variety  of  derivatives,
including swaps, caps, floors,  forwards and  exchange-traded  financial futures
and  options,  in order to hedge  exposure  primarily  to interest  rate risk on
anticipated investment purchases or existing assets and liabilities. At December
31, 2000,  notional amounts pertaining to derivatives totaled $8.5 billion ($6.5
billion  related  to  insurance  investments  and $2.0  billion  related to life
insurance liabilities).  Notional amounts pertaining to derivatives totaled $9.6
billion at December 31, 1999 ($6.3 billion related to insurance  investments and
$3.3 billion related to life insurance liabilities).

The strategies described below are used to manage the aforementioned risks.

Anticipatory Hedging -- For certain  liabilities,  Worldwide Life commits to the
price of the  product  prior to receipt of the  associated  premium or  deposit.
Anticipatory hedges are executed to offset the impact of changes in asset prices
arising from interest rate changes pending the receipt of premium or deposit and
the subsequent purchase of an asset. These hedges involve taking a long position
in interest  rate futures or entering  into an interest  rate swap with duration
characteristics   equivalent  to  the  associated   liabilities  or  anticipated
investments. The notional amounts of anticipatory hedges as of December 31, 2000
and 1999 were $144 and $314, respectively. Liability Hedging -- Several products
obligate  Worldwide  Life to  credit a  return  to the  contractholder  which is
indexed  to a market  rate.  To hedge  risks  associated  with  these  products,
Worldwide Life enters into various derivative contracts. Interest rate swaps are
used to convert the  contract  rate into a rate that trades in a more liquid and
efficient  market.  This hedging  strategy  enables  Worldwide Life to customize
contract  terms  and  conditions  to  customer   objectives  and  satisfies  the
operation's  asset/liability  matching  policy.  Interest rate swaps are used to
convert certain fixed contract rates into floating rates,  thereby allowing them
to be appropriately matched against floating rate assets. Additionally, interest
rate caps are used to hedge against the risk of contractholder disintermediation
in a rising interest rate environment.  The notional amounts of derivatives used
for  liability  hedging as of December  31, 2000 and 1999 were $2.0  billion and
$3.3 billion, respectively.

Asset  Hedging -- To meet the various  policyholder  obligations  and to provide
cost-effective  prudent  investment  risk  diversification,  Worldwide  Life may
combine  two  or  more   financial   instruments   to  achieve  the   investment
characteristics  of a fixed  maturity  security  or  that  match  an  associated
liability.  The  use  of  derivative  instruments  in  this  regard  effectively
transfers  unwanted  investment risks or attributes to others.  The selection of
the  appropriate  derivative  instruments  depends on the  investment  risk, the
liquidity  and   efficiency   of  the  market,   and  the  asset  and  liability
characteristics.  The  notional  amounts of asset hedges as of December 31, 2000
and 1999, were $5.4 billion and $4.8 billion, respectively.

Portfolio  Hedging --  Worldwide  Life  periodically  compares  the duration and
convexity  of its  portfolios  of assets to its  corresponding  liabilities  and
enters  into  portfolio  hedges to reduce  any  difference  to  desired  levels.
Portfolio  hedges reduce the mismatch  between assets and liabilities and offset
the  potential  impact to cash flows  caused by changes in interest  rates.  The
notional amounts of portfolio hedges as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, were $1.0
billion and $1.2 billion, respectively.

The  following  tables  provide   information  as  of  December  31,  2000  with
comparative  totals for  December  31, 1999 on  derivative  instruments  used in
accordance with the

                                     - 36 -

aforementioned hedging strategies. For interest rate swaps, caps and floors, the
tables present  notional amounts with weighted average pay and receive rates for
swaps and weighted  average  strike rates for caps and floors by maturity  year.
For interest  rate  futures,  the table  presents  contract  amount and weighted
average settlement price by expected maturity year.








                                     - 37 -








Option Contracts
- ----------------

Worldwide Life uses option contracts to hedge debt instruments that totaled $951
and $254 in  notional  amounts  and  $(34)  and  $(50) in  carrying  value as of
December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Currency Exchange Risk
- ----------------------

As of December  31,  2000,  Worldwide  Life had  immaterial  currency  exposures
resulting from its international operations.

Life Insurance Liability Characteristics
- ----------------------------------------

Worldwide  Life's  insurance  liabilities,  other than  non-guaranteed  separate
accounts,  include  accumulation  vehicles such as fixed and variable annuities,
other investment and universal life-type contracts, and other insurance products
such as long-term disability and term life insurance.

Asset Accumulation Vehicles

While  interest  rate risk  associated  with these  insurance  products has been
reduced  through  the use of market  value  adjustment  features  and  surrender
charges,  the primary  risk  associated  with these  products is that the spread
between  investment  return  and  credited  rate may not be  sufficient  to earn
targeted returns.

Fixed Rate -- Products in this category  require the payment of a fixed rate for
a certain period of time. The cash flows are not interest  sensitive because the
products are written with a market value adjustment  feature and the liabilities
have protection against the early withdrawal of funds through surrender charges.
Product examples include fixed rate annuities with a market value adjustment and
fixed rate guaranteed  investment  contracts.  Contract duration is dependent on
the policyholder's choice of guarantee period.

Indexed  --  Products  in this  category  are  similar  to the fixed  rate asset
accumulation  vehicles  but  require the life  operations  to pay a rate that is
determined  by an external  index.  The amount  and/or timing of cash flows will
therefore  vary based on the level of the  particular  index.  The primary risks
inherent  in these  products  are  similar to the fixed rate asset  accumulation
vehicles,  with the  additional  risk that  changes  in the index may  adversely
affect  profitability.  Product examples include  indexed-guaranteed  investment
contracts with an estimated duration of up to two years.

Interest Credited -- Products in this category credit interest to policyholders,
subject to market conditions and minimum guarantees. Policyholders may surrender
at book  value but are  subject to  surrender  charges  for an  initial  period.
Product  examples  include  universal  life  contracts  and the general  account
portion of Worldwide Life's variable  annuity  products.

                                     - 38 -

Liability duration is short- to intermediate-term.

Other Insurance Products

Long-term  Pay Out  Liabilities  -- Products in this  category are  long-term in
nature and may contain significant actuarial (including mortality and morbidity)
pricing  and cash flow  risks.  The cash  flows  associated  with  these  policy
liabilities  are not interest rate sensitive but do vary based on the timing and
amount of benefit payments. The primary risks associated with these products are
that the benefits will exceed expected  actuarial pricing and/or that the actual
timing  of the  cash  flows  differ  from  those  anticipated,  resulting  in an
investment  return lower than that assumed in pricing.  Product examples include
structured  settlement  contracts,  on-benefit annuities (i.e., the annuitant is
currently  receiving  benefits  thereon)  and  long-term  disability  contracts.
Contract duration is generally five to ten years.

Short-term  Pay Out  Liabilities -- These  liabilities  are short-term in nature
with a duration of less than one year. The primary risks  associated  with these
products are determined by the non-investment contingencies such as mortality or
morbidity  and  the  variability  in the  timing  of the  expected  cash  flows.
Liquidity is of greater  concern  than for the  long-term  pay out  liabilities.
Products  include  individual  and  group  term  life  insurance  contracts  and
short-term disability contracts.

Management  of  the  duration  of  investments   with  respective   policyholder
obligations is an explicit  objective of Worldwide Life's  management  strategy.
The estimated  cash flows of insurance  policy  liabilities  based upon internal
actuarial  assumptions  as of December 31, 2000 are reflected in the table below
by expected  maturity  year.  Comparative  totals are  included for December 31,
1999.



Sensitivity to Changes in Interest Rates
- ----------------------------------------

For liabilities  whose cash flows are not  substantially  affected by changes in
interest  rates  ("fixed   liabilities")  and  where  investment  experience  is
substantially  absorbed by Worldwide  Life, the  sensitivity of the net economic
value (discounted  present value of asset cash flows less the discounted present
value of liability cash flows) of those  portfolios to 100 basis point shifts in
interest  rates are  shown in the  following  tables.  These  fixed  liabilities
represented  about  60% and  55% of  Worldwide  Life's  general  and  guaranteed
separate account  liabilities at December 31, 2000 and 1999,  respectively.  The
remaining liabilities generally allow Worldwide Life significant  flexibility to
adjust credited rates to reflect actual  investment  experience and thereby pass
through  a  substantial   portion  of  actual   investment   experience  to  the
policyholder.  The fixed liability portfolios are managed and monitored relative
to defined objectives and are analyzed regularly by management for internal risk
management purposes using scenario simulation  techniques,  and are evaluated on
an annual basis, in compliance with regulatory requirements.

                                Change in Net Economic Value
                                   2000                1999
                           ----------------------------------------
Basis point shift            - 100     + 100     - 100     + 100
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
 Amount                    $    (15)  $    (27)  $   (4)   $    (5)
 Percent of liability value   (0.09)%    (0.16)%  (0.03)%    (0.03)%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------


WORLDWIDE PROPERTY & CASUALTY

Interest Rate Risk
- ------------------

The  primary  exposure to interest  rate risk in  Worldwide  Property & Casualty
relates to its fixed  maturity  investments.  Changes in market  interest  rates
directly impact the market value of the fixed maturity securities.  In addition,
but to a lesser  extent,  interest  rate risk exists on debt issued.  Derivative
instruments are used  periodically to manage interest rate risk and as a result,
their  value will  change as market  rates  change,  generally  in the  opposite
direction of the item being hedged.  The total  notional  amounts of derivatives
used for hedging  interest  rate risk as of December 31, 2000 and 1999 were $318
and $136, respectively.

The principal amounts of the fixed and variable rate fixed maturity  portfolios,
along with the respective weighted average coupons by estimated maturity year at
December 31, 2000, are reflected in the following table.  Comparative totals are
included as of December 31, 1999.  Expected  maturities  differ from contractual
maturities due to call or prepayment provisions.  The weighted average coupon on
variable  rate  securities  is based on spot rates as of  December  31, 2000 and
1999,  and is based  primarily on LIBOR.  Callable bonds and notes are primarily
municipal bonds, and are distributed to either call dates or maturity  depending
on which date produces the most  conservative  yield.  Asset-backed  securities,
collateralized   mortgage   obligations  and   mortgage-backed   securities  are
distributed  based on estimates of the rate of future  prepayments

                                     - 39 -

of principal  over the remaining  life of the  securities.  These  estimates are
developed  using  prepayment  speeds  contained in broker  consensus  data. Such
estimates are derived from prepayment speeds previously  experienced at interest
rate  levels  projected  for  the  underlying   collateral.   Actual  prepayment
experience may vary from these  estimates.  Financial  instruments  with certain
leverage  features have been included in each of the fixed maturity  categories.
These instruments have not been separately  displayed as they were immaterial to
Worldwide Property & Casualty's investment portfolio.



                                     - 40 -


The following  table  provides  information  as of December 31, 2000 on interest
rate swaps used to manage  interest rate risk on fixed  maturities  and presents
notional  amounts with weighted  average pay and receive rates by maturity year.
Comparative  totals are included as of December 31, 1999.  The weighted  average
rates are based on spot rates as of December 31, 2000 and 1999.




The table below provides information as of December 31, 2000 on debt obligations
and  QUIPS and  reflects  principal  cash  flows and  related  weighted  average
interest rates by maturity year.  Comparative totals are included as of December
31, 1999.



Equities Price Risk
- -------------------

Worldwide  Property & Casualty  holds a diversified  portfolio of investments in
equity securities representing firms in various countries, industries and market
segments  ranging from small market  capitalization  stocks to Standard & Poor's
500 stocks.  The risk  associated  with these  securities  relates to  potential
decreases in value resulting from changes in equity prices.

The following  table reflects equity  securities  owned at December 31, 2000 and
1999, grouped by major market type.


                              2000                1999
                       FAIR VALUE PERCENT  FAIR VALUE  PERCENT
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
EQUITY SECURITIES
  Domestic
   Large cap           $   521      58.9%   $   519      45.8%
   Midcap/small cap        179      20.2%       114      10.1%
  Foreign
   EAFE [1]/Canadian       185      20.9%       465      41.0%
   Emerging                 --       --          35       3.1%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
     TOTAL             $   885     100.0%  $  1,133     100.0%
===============================================================
[1] Europe, Australia, Far East countries index.

Currency Exchange Risk
- ----------------------

As of December 31, 2000,  Worldwide Property & Casualty had immaterial  currency
exposures resulting from its international operations.

                                     - 41 -

Currency exchange risk also exists with respect to investments in foreign equity
securities.  Forward foreign contracts with a notional amount of $8 and $48 were
used to manage this risk at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

CORPORATE

Interest Rate Risk
- ------------------

The  primary  exposure to interest  rate risk in  Corporate  relates to the debt
issued in connection  with The HLI  Repurchase.  Corporate  also has $5 in fixed
maturity  security  investments  that  represent  an  immaterial  interest  rate
exposure.

The table below provides information as of December 31, 2000 on Corporate's debt
obligations  and  reflects  principal  cash flows and related  weighted  average
interest  rates  by  maturity  year.  Because  the  debt  was  issued  in  2000,
comparative totals are not presented.




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Capital resources and liquidity  represent the overall financial strength of The
Hartford and its ability to generate strong cash flows from each of the business
segments  and borrow funds at  competitive  rates to meet  operating  and growth
needs. The capital structure of The Hartford as of December 31, 2000 consists of
debt and equity, and as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 also consisted of minority
interest, summarized as follows:



ACQUISITIONS

On June 27, 2000,  The Hartford  acquired all of the  outstanding  shares of HLI
that it did not already own. The HLI  Repurchase has been recorded as a purchase
transaction.  Consideration  totaled $1.4 billion and resulted in recognition of
goodwill  (excess of the  purchase  price over the fair values of the net assets
acquired) of $862,  which is being amortized on a straight-line  basis over a 25
year period.

Purchase  accounting  for this  transaction  resulted in adjustments to the cost
basis of certain  assets and  liabilities  acquired based on assessments of fair
value,  including the recognition of an asset  representing the present value of
estimated  net cash  flows  (present  value of the  future  gross  profits to be
earned, PVP) embedded in HLI's existing insurance and investment contracts.

The amount of the purchase price  allocated to PVP was $801. PVP is amortized to
expense in relation  to the  estimated  gross  profits on those  contracts,  and
interest is accreted on the unamortized balance. For the year ended December 31,
2000,  amortization  of PVP  amounted  to  $47.  Amortization  of  all  purchase
adjustments,  excluding  goodwill,  will not have a  significant  impact  on the
Company's ongoing results of operations.

                                     - 42 -

Purchase consideration for the transaction was as follows:

Issuance of:
- -----------
Common stock from treasury (7.25 million shares
   @ $54.90 per share)                                    $  398
Long-term notes:
   $250  7.75% notes due June 15, 2005                       244
   $275  7.90% notes due June 15, 2010                       272
Commercial paper                                             400
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
     Consideration raised                                  1,314
Other, including conversion of HLI employee stock
   options and restricted shares                             102
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
     Total consideration                                  $1,416
=================================================================

CAPITALIZATION

The  Hartford's  total  capitalization,  excluding  unrealized  gain  (loss)  on
securities,  net of tax,  increased  by $1.3  billion as of  December  31,  2000
compared to December 31, 1999.  This change was primarily the result of earnings
and financing  activities  related to The HLI  Repurchase,  partially  offset by
dividends  declared  and the  effect of  treasury  stock  acquired  in the first
quarter of 2000.

The  Hartford's  total  capitalization,  excluding  unrealized  gain  (loss)  on
securities,  net of  tax,  increased  by $129 in 1999  from  1998.  This  change
primarily was the result of earnings,  partially offset by dividends declared on
The Hartford's  common stock and the effect of treasury stock  acquired,  net of
reissuances for incentive and stock purchase plans.

On  November  9, 2000,  The  Hartford  filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  a shelf  registration  statement  and a  prospectus,  as  amended on
January 31, 2001,  for the potential  offering and sale of up to $2.6 billion in
debt and equity securities. (For a further discussion of the shelf registration,
see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

DEBT

On June 16,  2000,  The Hartford  issued and sold $525 of  unsecured  redeemable
long-term debt. On June 23, 2000, The Hartford issued $400 of commercial  paper.
Proceeds from the debt issuances were used to partially fund The HLI Repurchase.
The Company used  proceeds  from the sale of Zwolsche to pay off all the $400 of
commercial  paper on December 29, 2000.  (For additional  information  regarding
debt, see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

On March 1, 2001,  HLI issued and sold $400 of senior debt  securities  from its
existing shelf registration.  (For additional information,  see Note 17 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

COMPANY  OBLIGATED  MANDATORILY  REDEEMABLE  PREFERRED  SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY
TRUSTS HOLDING SOLELY JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES (QUIPS AND TRUPS)

On March 6, 2001, HLI issued and sold $200 of trust  preferred  securities  from
its existing shelf  registration.  (For additional  information,  see Note 17 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

For a further discussion of Company Obligated  Mandatorily  Redeemable Preferred
Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely Junior  Subordinated  Debentures,
see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Issuance of common stock from  treasury - On June 8, 2000,  The Hartford  issued
7.25 million shares of common stock in a block trade to Goldman, Sachs & Co. for
$398. The shares were issued out of treasury. The Hartford used the net proceeds
from the issuance of the shares to partially fund The HLI Repurchase.

Dividends  -  The  Hartford   declared  $214  and  paid  $210  in  dividends  to
shareholders in 2000 and declared $209 and paid $207 in 1999.

On October 19,  2000,  The  Hartford  declared a dividend on its common stock of
$0.25 per share  payable  on  January  2, 2001 to  shareholders  of record as of
December 1, 2000.

Treasury Stock - In December 1997, The Hartford's Board of Directors  authorized
the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of the Company's  outstanding  common stock
over a three-year  period beginning with the first quarter of 1998. The Hartford
completed the $1.0 billion repurchase  authorization during 1999 by repurchasing
9.2  million  shares of its common  stock in the open  market at a total cost of
$453.  In  October  1999,  The  Hartford's  Board of  Directors  authorized  the
repurchase  of up to an  additional  $1.0 billion of the  Company's  outstanding
common stock.  This repurchase  authorization was effective in November 1999 and
covers a three-year  period.  For the year ended December 31, 2000, The Hartford
repurchased 2.8 million shares of its common stock in the open market at a total
cost of $100. Since the inception of the 1999 repurchase  program,  The Hartford
has  repurchased  5.9 million  shares at a total cost of $243.  Certain of these
repurchased  shares have been reissued pursuant to certain  stock-based  benefit
plans.  During  the  first  quarter  of 2000  and in  conjunction  with  The HLI
Repurchase, management elected to discontinue repurchase activity.

Unrealized  Gain  (Loss) -  Unrealized  gain (loss) on  securities,  net of tax,
increased  by $695 as of December 31, 2000  compared to December  31, 1999.  The
change  resulted  primarily  from the impact of decreased  interest rates on the
fixed maturity portfolio.

Subsequent  Event - On February 16, 2001, The Hartford  issued 10 million shares
of common stock pursuant to an  underwritten  offering for net proceeds of $615.
(For  additional  information,  see Note 17 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.)

                                     - 43 -

RATINGS

The following table summarizes The Hartford's significant U.S. member companies'
financial ratings from the major independent rating organizations as of February
28, 2001.

                             A.M.     FITCH  STANDARD
                             BEST     [1]    & POOR'S   MOODY'S
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
INSURANCE RATINGS:
  Hartford Fire               A+      AA        AA        Aa3
  Hartford Life Insurance
   Company                    A+      AA+       AA        Aa3
  Hartford Life & Accident    A+      AA+       AA        Aa3
  Hartford Life & Annuity     A+      AA+       AA        Aa3
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
OTHER RATINGS:
  The Hartford Financial
   Services Group, Inc.:
   Senior debt                a+      A+        A         A2
   Commercial paper          AMB-1    F-1      A-1        P-1
  Hartford Capital I and
   II quarterly income
   preferred securities [2]   a-       A       BBB+       a2
  Hartford Life, Inc.:
   Senior debt                a+      A+        A         A2
   Commercial paper           --      F-1      A-1        P-1
  Hartford Life, Inc.:
   Capital I trust
   preferred securities [2]   a-       A       BBB+       a2
=================================================================
[1]   Formerly Duff & Phelps
[2]   A.M. Best ratings were adjusted to reflect the  integration of A.M. Best's
      debt and preferred stock scales.

Ratings are an important factor in establishing  the competitive  position of an
insurance  company  such as The  Hartford.  There can be no  assurance  that the
Company's  ratings will  continue for any given period of time or that they will
not be changed.

On January 26, 2001,  Moody's confirmed the insurance and debt financial ratings
of  The  Hartford   Financial   Services  Group,  Inc.  and  HLI  following  the
announcement  of the  Fortis  acquisition,  but  changed  the  outlook  on  both
companies'  debt  ratings to  negative  from  stable.  Moody's  stated  that the
revision in debt ratings outlook was based upon Moody's concerns that the Fortis
acquisition would increase The Hartford's  operating and financial leverage over
the medium term and fixed charge coverage would weaken.  The revision in ratings
outlook does not  constitute a ratings  "downgrade",  nor has Moody's placed the
Company on its "watchlist" for possible downgrade.

LIQUIDITY REQUIREMENTS

The liquidity requirements of The Hartford have been and will continue to be met
by funds from  operations  as well as the  issuance of  commercial  paper,  debt
securities and its credit facility. The principal sources of operating funds are
premiums  and  investment  income as well as  maturities  and sales of  invested
assets.  The Hartford  Financial Services Group, Inc. is a holding company which
receives  operating  cash flow in the form of dividends  from its  subsidiaries,
enabling it to service debt,  pay dividends on its common stock and pay business
expenses.

Dividends to The Hartford  Financial  Services Group, Inc. from its subsidiaries
are restricted.  The payment of dividends by  Connecticut-domiciled  insurers is
limited under the insurance  holding  company laws of  Connecticut.  Under these
laws, the insurance  subsidiaries  may only make their dividend  payments out of
restricted  surplus.  These laws  require  notice to and  approval  by the state
insurance  commissioner  for the declaration or payment of any dividend,  which,
together with other dividends or distributions  made within the preceding twelve
months,  exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of the insurer's policyholder surplus as
of  December  31 of the  preceding  year or (ii) net  income  (or net gain  from
operations,  if such company is a life insurance  company) for the  twelve-month
period ending on the thirty-first  day of December last preceding,  in each case
determined under statutory insurance  accounting policies.  In addition,  if any
dividend  of  a  Connecticut-domiciled  insurer  exceeds  the  insurer's  earned
surplus,   it  requires  the  prior  approval  of  the   Connecticut   Insurance
Commissioner.

The  insurance  holding  company  laws of the other  jurisdictions  in which The
Hartford's  insurance  subsidiaries  are  incorporated  (or deemed  commercially
domiciled)  generally contain similar  (although in certain  instances  somewhat
more restrictive) limitations on the payment of dividends.

As of December 31, 2000, the maximum amount of statutory  dividends which may be
paid  to  The  Hartford  Financial  Services  Group,  Inc.  from  its  insurance
subsidiaries in 2001, without prior regulatory approval, is $779.

The primary uses of funds are to pay claims, policy benefits, operating expenses
and commissions,  and to purchase new investments. In addition, The Hartford has
a  policy  of  carrying  a  significant   short-term   investment  position  and
accordingly  does not  anticipate  selling  intermediate-  and  long-term  fixed
maturity  investments  to meet any  liquidity  needs.  (For a discussion  of the
Company's investment objectives and strategies,  see the Investments and Capital
Markets Risk Management sections.)

RISK-BASED CAPITAL

The National  Association of Insurance  Commissioners  ("NAIC") has  regulations
establishing  minimum  capitalization  requirements  based on risk-based capital
("RBC")  formulas  for both  life  and  property  and  casualty  companies.  The
requirements   consist  of  formulas,   which   identify   companies   that  are
undercapitalized  and require specific regulatory  actions.  The RBC formula for
life companies establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business,
asset and  interest  rate risks.  RBC is  calculated  for  property and casualty
companies after adjusting capital for certain  underwriting,  asset,  credit and
off-balance  sheet  risks.  As of  December  31,  2000,  each of The  Hartford's
insurance  subsidiaries  within Worldwide Life and Worldwide Property & Casualty
had more than sufficient capital to meet the NAIC's RBC requirements.

                                     - 44 -

CASH FLOW

                                 2000       1999        1998
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by
  operating activities        $   2,350  $     891  $     907
Net cash (used for) provided
  by investing activities     $  (2,079) $   2,279  $     411
Net cash used for financing
  activities                  $    (208) $  (3,104) $  (1,340)
Cash - end of year            $     227  $     182  $     123
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

2000  COMPARED TO 1999 -- The increase in operating  cash flow was primarily the
result of growth in Worldwide Life business,  along with favorable  underwriting
cash flows in  Worldwide  Property &  Casualty.  The  decrease  in cash used for
financing activities was attributable to net financing for The HLI Repurchase as
well as a lower level of disbursements  for investment type contracts related to
the leveraged block of COLI business.  The financing activities,  along with the
increase in cash provided by operating  activities,  accounted for the change in
cash from investing activities.

1999 COMPARED TO 1998 -- Operating cash flow decreased slightly in 1999 compared
to 1998. The change in both investing and financing cash flows was primarily the
result of an increase in disbursements  for investment type contracts related to
the leveraged COLI block of business.

Operating  cash  flows in each of the last  three  years  have  been  more  than
adequate to meet liquidity requirements.

SUBSEQUENT EVENT

On January 25, 2001,  The Hartford  agreed to acquire the U.S.  individual  life
insurance,  annuity and mutual fund  businesses  of Fortis for $1.12  billion in
cash.  The  Company  will effect the  acquisition  through  several  reinsurance
agreements with  subsidiaries of Fortis and the purchase of 100% of the stock of
Fortis Advisors, Inc. and Fortis Investors,  Inc., wholly-owned  subsidiaries of
Fortis.  The  Fortis  transaction,  which is  subject  to  insurance  regulatory
approval  and other  customary  conditions,  is expected to be  completed in the
second  quarter  of  2001.  The  acquisition  will  be  reported  as a  purchase
transaction.  The Company plans to finance the transaction  through the issuance
of debt and equity securities. (For additional information, see Note 17 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REGULATORY MATTERS AND CONTINGENCIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES

The  business of  insurance  is  primarily  regulated  by the states and is also
affected by a range of legislative developments at the state and federal levels.
Passage in November  1999 of the Financial  Services  Modernization  Act,  which
permits affiliations among banks,  insurance companies and securities firms, may
have  competitive,  operational and other  implications  for the Company.  Among
other  provisions,  the  measure  includes  privacy  protections  requiring  all
financial  service providers to disclose their privacy policies and restrict the
sharing of personal  information  for  marketing  purposes.  Various  states are
considering even more restrictive privacy measures that could potentially affect
the Company's operations.

Enactment of the Financial  Services  Modernization Act at the federal level has
also focused renewed attention on state regulation of insurance. Elements of the
insurance  industry  are  involved in a  countrywide  initiative  to  streamline
regulatory  procedures,   notably  the  elimination  of  rate  and  form  filing
requirements for property and casualty lines. Altogether,  about half the states
have  considered  a variety  of such  measures,  which  could  result in reduced
transaction costs and improved speed to market.

Federal measures which have been previously considered by Congress and which, if
adopted, could affect the insurance business, include tax law changes pertaining
to the tax treatment of insurance companies and life insurance products, as well
as changes in individual  income tax rates and the estate tax, a number of which
changes could have an impact on the relative  desirability  of various  personal
investment   vehicles.   Other   proposals   pertain  to  medical   testing  for
insurability,  and the use of gender in determining  insurance and pension rates
and benefits.  It is too early to determine  whether any of these proposals will
ultimately  be enacted  by  Congress.  Therefore,  the  potential  impact to the
Company's  financial  condition or results of  operations  cannot be  reasonably
estimated at this time.

Congress is expected to continue to consider  reform of the Superfund  hazardous
waste cleanup  program and the creation of a centralized  mechanism for handling
asbestos  injury  claims.  Both  proposals  have the  potential  to reduce claim
exposures;  however,  enactment of such legislation may not occur in the current
Congress.  Proposed  legislation to reduce abusive  class-action  lawsuits would
also have a  beneficial  impact,  but  prospects  for  near-term  enactment  are
likewise uncertain.  So-called "patient  protection"  legislation  introduced in
Congress  and passed in many  states  includes  provisions  permitting  lawsuits
against  health  maintenance  organizations  ("HMOs")  for  denial of  coverage.
Although the Company is not a health insurer or health care provider, passage of
such  legislation  could affect medical claim costs to the extent that HMOs were
constrained from actively managing care.

INSOLVENCY FUND

In all states,  insurers  licensed to transact  certain classes of insurance are
required to become members of an insolvency  fund. In most states,  in the event
of the  insolvency  of an insurer  writing  any such class of  insurance  in the
state,  members of the fund are assessed to pay certain  claims of the insolvent
insurer.  A  particular  state's  fund  assesses  its  members  based  on  their
respective  written  premiums in the state for the classes of insurance in which
the insolvent insurer is engaged. Assessments are generally limited for any year
to one or two percent of premiums written per year depending on the state.  Such
assessments paid by The Hartford  approximated $2 in 2000, $4 in 1999 and $12 in
1998.

                                     - 45 -

NAIC CODIFICATION

The  NAIC  adopted  the   Codification   of  Statutory   Accounting   Principles
("Codification") in March 1998. The effective date for the statutory  accounting
guidance  was January 1, 2001.  Each of The  Hartford's  domiciliary  states has
adopted  Codification,  and the  Company has made the  necessary  changes in its
statutory reporting required for implementation. The Company has determined that
the  overall  impact of  applying  the new  guidance  will  result in a one-time
statutory  cumulative  transition  benefit of  approximately  $250 in  statutory
surplus.

DEPENDENCE ON CERTAIN THIRD PARTY RELATIONSHIPS

The Company  distributes  its  annuity,  life and certain  property and casualty
insurance  products  through  a  variety  of  distribution  channels,  including
broker-dealers, banks, wholesalers, its own internal sales force and other third
party organizations. The Company periodically negotiates provisions and renewals
of these relationships and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain
acceptable  to the  Company  or  such  third  parties.  An  interruption  in the
Company's  continuing  relationship  with certain of these third  parties  could
materially affect the Company's ability to market its products. During the first
quarter of 1999, the Company modified its existing,  exclusive contract with one
such third  party,  Putnam  Mutual  Funds  Corp.  ("Putnam")  to  eliminate  the
exclusivity  provision  which  will  allow  both  parties  to pursue  new market
opportunities.  Putnam is  contractually  obligated  to support  and service the
related  annuity in force block of business  and to market,  support and service
new business. However, there can be no assurance that this contract modification
will not adversely  impact the Company's  ability to distribute  Putnam  related
products.

YEAR 2000

As of December 31, 2000, The Hartford had not experienced any Year  2000-related
business  interruptions  arising  either  from its own systems or those of third
parties. As an insurer,  The Hartford has received claims from insureds who have
incurred  losses as a result of Year 2000 issues.  Insurance  coverage,  if any,
will depend upon the provisions of the policies and the facts and  circumstances
of each claim. The Hartford does not believe that the claim and claim adjustment
expenses  related to such claims will have a material impact upon The Hartford's
financial condition or results of operations.

OTHER

For  further  information  on  other  contingencies,  see  Note 15 of  Notes  to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EFFECT OF INFLATION
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The rate of  inflation as measured by the change in the average  consumer  price
index has not had a material effect on the revenues or operating  results of The
Hartford during the three most recent fiscal years.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For a discussion of accounting  standards,  see Note 1 of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements.


                                     - 46 -

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information  required by this item is said forth in the Capital Markets Risk
Management  section of the  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules elsewhere herein.

ITEM  9.  CHANGES  IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE HARTFORD

Certain of the information  called for by Item 10 is set forth in the definitive
proxy  statement  for the  2001  annual  meeting  of  shareholders  (the  "Proxy
Statement")  filed or to be  filed  by The  Hartford  with  the  Securities  and
Exchange  Commission  within  120 days  after  the end of the last  fiscal  year
covered by this Form 10-K under the caption  "Item 1.  Election  of  Directors -
Directors and Nominees" and "Stock  Ownership of Directors,  Executive  Officers
and Certain  Shareholders  -  Compliance  with Section  16(a) of the  Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934"  and is  incorporated  herein  by  reference.  Additional
information  required by Item 10 regarding The Hartford's  executive officers is
set forth in Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the caption  "Executive  Officers of
The Hartford" and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information  called for by Item 11 is set forth in the Proxy Statement under
the captions  "Compensation  of Executive  Officers" and "The Board of Directors
and its  Committees - Directors'  Compensation"  and is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information  called for by Item 12 is set forth in the Proxy Statement under
the caption  "Stock  Ownership  of  Directors,  Executive  Officers  and Certain
Shareholders" and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

None.

PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)   Documents filed as a part of this report:

      1.    CONSOLIDATED   FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS.   See  Index  to  Consolidated
            Financial Statements elsewhere herein.
      2.    CONSOLIDATED   FINANCIAL   STATEMENT   SCHEDULES.   See   Index   to
            Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules elsewhere herein.
      3.    EXHIBITS. See Exhibit Index elsewhere herein.

(b)   Reports on Form 8-K - The Hartford has filed no reports on Form 8-K during
      the quarter ended December 31, 2000.

(c)   See Item 14(a)(3).

(d)   See Item 14(a)(2).

                                     - 47 -

            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES




                                                                         Page(s)
Report of Management                                                      F-1
Report of Independent Public Accountants                                  F-2
Consolidated  Statements  of Income for the three years ended
  December 31, 2000                                                       F-3
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2000 and 1999              F-4
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for
  the three years ended December 31, 2000                                 F-5-6
Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows for the three years
  ended December 31, 2000                                                 F-7
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                F-8-31
Summary of Investments - Other Than Investments in Affiliates             S-1
Condensed Financial Information of The Hartford Financial
  Services Group, Inc.                                                    S-2-3
Supplementary Insurance Information                                       S-4
Reinsurance                                                               S-5
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                                         S-6
Supplemental Information Concerning Property and Casualty
  Insurance Operations                                                    S-7




                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT


The  management  of  The  Hartford   Financial  Services  Group,  Inc.  and  its
subsidiaries  ("The  Hartford") is responsible for the preparation and integrity
of information contained in the accompanying  consolidated  financial statements
and other sections of the Annual Report.  The financial  statements are prepared
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
and, where  necessary,  include amounts that are based on management's  informed
judgments and estimates. Management believes these statements present fairly The
Hartford's  financial  position  and  results of  operation,  and that any other
information  contained in the Annual  Report is  consistent  with the  financial
statements.

Management has made available The Hartford's  financial records and related data
to Arthur Andersen LLP,  independent  public  accountants,  in order for them to
perform an audit of The  Hartford's  consolidated  financial  statements.  Their
report appears on page F-2.

An essential element in meeting management's  financial  responsibilities is The
Hartford's system of internal controls. These controls, which include accounting
controls and the internal auditing program,  are designed to provide  reasonable
assurance that assets are safeguarded, and transactions are properly authorized,
executed and recorded.  The controls,  which are documented and  communicated to
employees in the form of written  codes of conduct and policies and  procedures,
provide for careful  selection  of  personnel  and for  appropriate  division of
responsibility.  Management  continually  monitors  for  compliance,  while  The
Hartford's  internal  auditors  independently  assess the  effectiveness  of the
controls and make  recommendations  for improvement.  Also,  Arthur Andersen LLP
took  into   consideration   The  Hartford's  system  of  internal  controls  in
determining the nature, timing and extent of their audit tests.

Another important element is management's  recognition of its responsibility for
fostering  a strong,  ethical  climate,  thereby  ensuring  that The  Hartford's
affairs are  transacted  according  to the  highest  standards  of personal  and
professional  conduct. The Hartford has a long-standing  reputation of integrity
in business  conduct and  utilizes  communication  and  education  to create and
fortify a strong compliance culture.

The Audit  Committee  of the Board of  Directors  of The  Hartford,  composed of
independent  directors,  meets  periodically  with  the  external  and  internal
auditors to evaluate the  effectiveness of work performed by them in discharging
their  respective  responsibilities  and to ensure their  independence  and free
access to the Committee.

                                      F-1

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


TO THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.:

We have audited the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets of The Hartford
Financial Services Group, Inc. (a Delaware  corporation) and its subsidiaries as
of  December  31,  2000 and 1999,  and the related  Consolidated  Statements  of
Income,  Changes  in  Stockholders'  Equity and Cash Flows for each of the three
years in the period  ended  December  31,  2000.  These  consolidated  financial
statements  and the schedules  referred to below are the  responsibility  of the
Company's  management.  Our  responsibility  is to  express  an opinion on these
financial statements and the schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial  statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial  statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial  statement
presentation.  We believe  that our audits  provide a  reasonable  basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the  financial  position  of The  Hartford
Financial  Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and
1999,  and the results of their  operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2000 in conformity  with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.

Our  audits  were  made for the  purpose  of  forming  an  opinion  on the basic
financial  statements  taken as a whole.  The  schedules  listed in the Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules are presented for the purpose of
complying with the Securities and Exchange  Commission's  rules and are not part
of the basic  financial  statements.  These schedules have been subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and,
in our  opinion,  fairly  state in all  material  respects  the  financial  data
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic  financial  statements
taken as a whole.



                                                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Hartford, Connecticut
January 25, 2001 (except with respect to the matters  discussed in Notes 6, 7, 8
and 17, as to which the date is March 6, 2001)

                                      F-2



    SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

                                      F-3



SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

                                      F-4






                                      F-5




SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

                                      F-6



SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

                                      F-7

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data, unless otherwise stated)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

(A)  BASIS OF PRESENTATION

The Hartford  Financial  Services Group, Inc. and its consolidated  subsidiaries
("The  Hartford"  or the  "Company")  provide  life and  property  and  casualty
insurance to both  individual and commercial  customers in the United States and
internationally.

On December 22, 2000, The Hartford  completed the sale of its  Netherlands-based
Zwolsche  Algemeene  N.V.  ("Zwolsche")  subsidiary to  Assurances  Generales de
France, a subsidiary of Allianz AG. For purposes of these financial  statements,
Zwolsche's  operating  results  are  included  in  The  Hartford's  Consolidated
Statements of Income through the date of sale.

On June 27,  2000,  The  Hartford  acquired  all of the  outstanding  shares  of
Hartford Life, Inc. ("HLI") that it did not already own ("The HLI  Repurchase").
The accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect the minority interest
in HLI of  approximately  19%  prior to the  acquisition  date.  (For a  further
discussion of The HLI Repurchase, see Note 2.)

On  November  16,  1998,   The  Hartford   completed  the  sale  of  its  United
Kingdom-based  London & Edinburgh  Insurance Group,  Ltd. ("London & Edinburgh")
subsidiary.  For purposes of these  financial  statements,  London & Edinburgh's
operating  results are included in The  Hartford's  Consolidated  Statements  of
Income through the date of sale. (For additional information, see Note 19.)

The  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  prepared  on the  basis of
accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the United  States  which  differ
materially  from the  accounting  prescribed  by  various  insurance  regulatory
authorities.  All material  intercompany  transactions  and balances between The
Hartford, its subsidiaries and affiliates have been eliminated.

The  preparation  of  financial   statements,   in  conformity  with  accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States,  requires management to make
estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets and
liabilities  and disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities at the date of
the  financial  statements  and the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

The most significant estimates include those used in determining deferred policy
acquisition  costs and the liability for future policy  benefits,  unpaid claims
and claim  adjustment  expenses.  Although some variability is inherent in these
estimates, management believes the amounts provided are adequate.

Certain  reclassifications have been made to prior year financial information to
conform to the current year classification of transactions and accounts.

(B)  ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In  March  2000,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  ("FASB")  issued
Interpretation  No. 44,  "Accounting  for Certain  Transactions  Involving Stock
Compensation  - an  Interpretation  of APB  Opinion  No.  25"  ("FIN 44" or "the
Interpretation").  FIN 44  clarifies  the  application  of APB  Opinion  No.  25
regarding  the   definition  of  employee,   the  criteria  for   determining  a
non-compensatory  plan,  the accounting for changes to the terms of a previously
fixed  stock  option  or  award,   the  accounting  for  an  exchange  of  stock
compensation  awards in a business  combination,  and other  stock  compensation
related  issues.  FIN 44 became  effective  July 1,  2000,  with  respect to new
awards,  modifications to outstanding awards, and changes in grantee status that
occur on or after  that  date.  The  adoption  of FIN 44 did not have a material
impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

Effective  January 1, 2000, The Hartford  adopted  Statement of Position ("SOP")
No. 98-7,  "Accounting  for  Insurance  and  Reinsurance  Contracts  That Do Not
Transfer Insurance Risk". This SOP provides guidance on the method of accounting
for insurance and  reinsurance  contracts that do not transfer  insurance  risk,
defined in the SOP as the  deposit  method.  Adoption of this SOP did not have a
material impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

In December 1999, the staff of the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  issued
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements"
("SAB  101").  SAB 101  provides  that  if  registrants  have  not  applied  the
accounting  therein,  they  should  implement  the SAB and  report a  change  in
accounting principle. SAB 101, as subsequently amended, became effective for the
Company in the fourth  quarter of 2000.  The  adoption of SAB 101 did not have a
material impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

Effective  January 1, 1999, The Hartford  adopted SOP No. 98-1,  "Accounting for
the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use". This SOP
provides  guidance on  accounting  for costs of  internal  use  software  and in
determining  whether  software is for internal use. The SOP defines internal use
software as software that is acquired,  internally developed, or modified solely
to meet  internal  needs and  identifies  stages  of  software  development  and
accounting  for the related costs incurred  during the stages.  Adoption of this
SOP did not have a  material  impact on the  Company's  financial  condition  or
results of operations.

Effective  January 1, 1999,  The Hartford  adopted SOP No. 97-3,  "Accounting by
Insurance and Other  Enterprises for  Insurance-Related  Assessments".  This SOP
addresses  accounting by insurance and other enterprises for assessments related
to insurance  activities  including  recognition,  measurement and disclosure of
guaranty fund or other assessments. Adoption of this SOP did not have a material
impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

                                      F-8

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(B)  ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (CONTINUED)

In November 1998, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF")  reached  consensus on
Issue 98-15,  "Structured  Notes Acquired for a Specific  Investment  Strategy".
This  pronouncement  requires companies to account for structured notes acquired
for a specific  investment  strategy as a unit.  Affected companies that entered
into these notes prior to  September  25,  1998 are  required to either  restate
prior period financial statements to conform with the prescribed unit accounting
model, or disclose the related impact on earnings for all periods  presented and
cumulatively  over the life of the instruments had the registrant  accounted for
the structure as a unit. Cumulatively, over the period that the Company held the
instrument,  net income would have been unchanged as the Company disposed of its
remaining structured note in September 2000.

The  Hartford's  cash flows  were not  impacted  by  adopting  these  changes in
accounting principles.

(C)  FUTURE ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In October 2000,  the FASB issued  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards
("SFAS") No. 140,  "Accounting  for Transfers and Servicing of Financial  Assets
and  Extinguishments  of Liabilities - a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125".
SFAS No. 140 revises the  criteria  for  accounting  for  certain  transfers  of
financial  assets and the reporting and disclosure  requirements  for collateral
arrangements.  Implementation  of the provisions of SFAS No. 140 is not expected
to have a material  impact on the  Company's  financial  condition or results of
operations.

In July 2000,  the EITF reached  consensus on Issue No. 99-20,  "Recognition  of
Interest  Income and  Impairment  on Certain  Investments".  This  pronouncement
requires investors in certain asset-backed securities to record changes in their
estimated yield on a prospective  basis and to evaluate these  securities for an
other than temporary decline in value. This consensus is effective for financial
statements with fiscal quarters beginning after March 15, 2001. Adoption of EITF
No. 99-20 is not expected to have a material  impact on the Company's  financial
condition or results of operations.

In June 2000, the FASB issued SFAS No. 138,  "Accounting for Certain  Derivative
Instruments  and  Certain  Hedging  Activities",  which  amended  SFAS No.  133,
"Accounting  for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities".  SFAS No. 133
established  accounting and reporting  requirements for derivative  instruments,
including certain derivative  instruments embedded in other contracts.  SFAS No.
133 requires, among other things, that all derivatives be carried on the balance
sheet at fair value. SFAS No. 133 also specifies hedge accounting criteria under
which a derivative can qualify for special accounting. SFAS No. 138 amended SFAS
No. 133 so that for interest rate hedges,  a company may designate as the hedged
risk, the risk of changes only in a benchmark  interest rate. Also,  credit risk
is newly defined as the company-specific spread over the benchmark interest rate
and may be  hedged  separately  from,  or in  combination  with,  the  benchmark
interest rate. Initial application of SFAS No. 133, as amended, for The Hartford
began January 1, 2001.  Implementation of SFAS No. 133, as amended,  is expected
to result in a cumulative  transition  adjustment,  decreasing net income by $23
after-tax.  However,  the FASB's  Derivative  Implementation  Group continues to
deliberate on multiple issues,  the resolution of which could have a significant
impact on the Company's expectations.

(D)  INVESTMENTS

The  Hartford's  investments  in both fixed  maturities,  which  include  bonds,
redeemable  preferred stock and commercial paper, and equity  securities,  which
include common and non-redeemable preferred stocks, are classified as "available
for sale" in accordance with SFAS No. 115,  "Accounting for Certain  Investments
in Debt and Equity  Securities".  Accordingly,  these  securities are carried at
fair value with the after-tax  difference  from cost reflected in  stockholders'
equity as a component of accumulated other  comprehensive  income.  Policy loans
are carried at outstanding balance which approximates fair value. Other invested
assets consist  primarily of partnership  investments which are accounted for by
the equity method. Non-partnership other invested assets are valued at amortized
cost.

Realized  capital gains (losses) on security  transactions  associated  with the
Company's immediate  participation  guaranteed contracts are recorded and offset
by amounts owed to  policyholders  and were $(9),  $2 and $8 for the years ended
December  31,  2000,  1999  and  1998,  respectively.  Under  the  terms  of the
contracts,   the  realized   capital  gains  and  losses  will  be  credited  to
policyholders in future years as they are entitled to receive them. Net realized
capital gains and losses,  after  deducting the life and pension  policyholders'
share,  are reported as a component of revenues and are determined on a specific
identification basis.

The  Company's  accounting  policy for  impairment  recognition  of  investments
requires  recognition of an other than temporary impairment charge on a security
if it is determined  that the Company is unable to recover all amounts due under
the  contractual  obligations  of the  security.  In  addition,  for  securities
expected to be sold, an other than temporary  impairment charge is recognized if
the  Company  does not expect the fair value of a security to recover to cost or
amortized cost prior to the expected date of sale. Once an impairment charge has
been recorded,  the Company then continues to review the other than  temporarily
impaired securities for appropriate valuation on an ongoing basis.

(E)  DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

HEDGE  ACCOUNTING - The Hartford  utilizes a variety of derivative  instruments,
including swaps, caps, floors, forwards and exchange traded futures and options,
in compliance  with Company  policy and in order to achieve one of three Company
approved objectives: to hedge risk arising from interest rate, price or currency
exchange rate volatility; to manage liquidity;

                                      F-9

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(E)  DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

or to control  transaction  costs.  The Company is  considered  an "end-user" of
derivative  instruments  and as such  does not  make a market  or trade in these
instruments for the express purpose of earning trading  profits.  The Hartford's
accounting for derivative  instruments used to manage risk is in accordance with
the concepts  established in SFAS No. 80,  "Accounting  for Futures  Contracts",
SFAS No.  52,  "Foreign  Currency  Translation",  AICPA  Issue  Paper No.  86-2,
"Accounting for Options",  and various EITF pronouncements.  Written options are
used, in all cases in conjunction with other assets and derivatives,  as part of
the Company's asset and liability  management strategy.  Derivative  instruments
are  carried at values  consistent  with the asset or  liability  being  hedged.
Derivative instruments used to hedge fixed maturities or equities are carried at
fair value with the after-tax  difference  from cost reflected in  stockholders'
equity as a component of  accumulated  other  comprehensive  income.  Derivative
instruments  used to hedge  liabilities  are carried at cost. In June 1998,  the
FASB issued SFAS No. 133,  "Accounting  for Derivative  Instruments  and Hedging
Activities".  Initial application of SFAS No. 133, as amended,  for The Hartford
began for the first quarter of 2001. For further  discussion of SFAS No. 133, as
amended, see (c) Future Adoption of New Accounting Standards.

Derivative  instruments  must be designated at inception as a hedge and measured
for  effectiveness  both at inception and on an ongoing  basis.  The  Hartford's
correlation  threshold for hedge  designation  is 80% to 120%.  If  correlation,
which  is  assessed  monthly  or  quarterly  and  measured  based  on a  rolling
three-month average, falls outside the range of 80% to 120%, hedge accounting is
terminated.  Derivative  instruments  used to create a synthetic asset must meet
synthetic accounting criteria including designation at inception and consistency
of terms between the synthetic and the instrument  being  replicated.  Synthetic
instrument  accounting,  consistent  with industry  practice,  provides that the
synthetic asset is accounted for like the financial instrument it is intended to
replicate.  Derivative  instruments which fail to meet risk management  criteria
are marked to market with the impact reflected in the Consolidated Statements of
Income.

FUTURES  - Gains or  losses  on  financial  futures  contracts  entered  into in
anticipation  of the future  receipt of product cash flows are deferred  and, at
the time of the ultimate purchase,  reflected as an adjustment to the cost basis
of the purchased  asset.  Gains or losses on futures used in invested asset risk
management  are deferred  and  adjusted  into the cost basis of the hedged asset
when the  futures  contracts  are closed,  except for  futures  used in duration
hedging  which are  deferred  and  adjusted  into the cost basis on a  quarterly
basis.  The  adjustments  to the cost basis are  amortized  into net  investment
income over the remaining asset life.

FORWARD  COMMITMENTS  - Open forward  commitment  contracts are marked to market
through  stockholders'  equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income.  Such  contracts are recorded at settlement by recording the purchase of
the specified  securities at the  previously  committed  price.  Gains or losses
resulting from the termination of the forward  commitment  contracts  before the
delivery  of the  securities  are  recognized  immediately  in the  Consolidated
Statements of Income as a component of net investment income.

OPTIONS - The cost of options entered into as part of a risk management strategy
are adjusted into the basis of the  underlying  asset or liability and amortized
over  the  remaining  life of the  hedge.  Gains  or  losses  on  expiration  or
termination are adjusted into the basis of the underlying asset or liability and
amortized over the remaining life.

INTEREST  RATE SWAPS - Interest  rate swaps  involve  the  periodic  exchange of
payments without the exchange of underlying  principal or notional amounts.  Net
receipts  or  payments  are  accrued  and  recognized  over the life of the swap
agreement as an adjustment to income. Should the swap be terminated, the gain or
loss is adjusted into the basis of the asset or liability and amortized over the
remaining life. Should the hedged asset be sold or liability  terminated without
terminating  the  swap  position,  any  swap  gains or  losses  are  immediately
recognized in earnings.  Interest  rate swaps  purchased in  anticipation  of an
asset purchase  (anticipatory  transaction)  are recognized  consistent with the
underlying asset components such that the settlement  component is recognized in
the  Consolidated  Statements  of  Income  while the  change in market  value is
recognized as an unrealized gain or loss.

INTEREST  RATE  CAPS  AND  FLOORS  -  Premiums  paid on  purchased  floor or cap
agreements and the premium  received on issued cap or floor agreements (used for
risk  management)  are  adjusted  into  the  basis  of the  applicable  asset or
liability and  amortized  over the asset or liability  life.  Gains or losses on
termination  of such  positions  are  adjusted  into the  basis of the  asset or
liability and amortized over the remaining  life. Net payments are recognized as
an  adjustment  to income  or basis  adjusted  and  amortized  depending  on the
specific hedge strategy.

FORWARD EXCHANGE AND CURRENCY SWAPS CONTRACTS - Forward  exchange  contracts and
foreign currency swaps are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 52. Changes
in the spot rate of instruments  designated as hedges of the net investment in a
foreign  subsidiary  are  reflected  in  stockholders'  equity as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income.

(F)  SEPARATE ACCOUNTS

The Company maintains separate account assets and liabilities which are reported
at fair value.  Separate  account assets are segregated from other  investments,
and investment income and gains and losses accrue directly to the policyholders.
Separate  accounts  reflect two categories of risk  assumption:  non- guaranteed
separate  accounts,  wherein the  policyholder  assumes the investment risk, and
guaranteed  separate  accounts,  wherein  the Company  contractually  guarantees
either a minimum return or the account value to the policyholder.

(G)  DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS

WORLDWIDE LIFE - Policy  acquisition  costs,  including  commissions and certain
other expenses  associated with acquiring  business,  are deferred and amortized
over the  estimated  lives of the  contracts,  generally  20  years.  Generally,
acquisition costs are deferred and amortized using the

                                      F-10

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(G)  DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS (CONTINUED)

retrospective   deposit  method.   Under  the   retrospective   deposit  method,
acquisition  costs are  amortized in proportion to the present value of expected
gross  profits from  investment,  mortality and expense  margins,  and surrender
charges.  Actual gross profits can vary from management's estimates resulting in
increases  or  decreases in the rate of  amortization.  Management  periodically
reviews  these  estimates  and  evaluates  the  recoverability  of the  deferred
acquisition cost asset. When appropriate,  management revises its assumptions on
the estimated gross profits of these contracts,  and the cumulative amortization
for the books of business are reestimated and readjusted by a cumulative  charge
or credit to income.

WORLDWIDE  PROPERTY  &  CASUALTY  -  Policy   acquisition  costs,   representing
commissions, premium taxes and certain other underwriting expenses, are deferred
and amortized  over policy terms.  Estimates of future  revenues,  including net
investment  income and tax benefits,  are compared to estimates of future costs,
including  amortization  of policy  acquisition  costs, to determine if business
currently in force is expected to result in a net loss.

(H)  FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS, UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES

WORLDWIDE LIFE - Liabilities  for future policy benefits are computed by the net
level  premium  method  using  interest  assumptions  ranging from 3% to 11% and
withdrawal and mortality  assumptions  appropriate at the time the policies were
issued.  Claim  reserves,  which are the result of sales of group  long-term and
short-term disability, stop loss, and Medicare supplement, are stated at amounts
determined by estimates on individual  cases and estimates of unreported  claims
based on past experience.

The following table displays the development of the claim reserves  (included in
future policy benefits in the Consolidated  Balance Sheets) resulting  primarily
from group disability products.

                                 For the years ended December 31,
                                 --------------------------------
                                    2000      1999       1998
                                 --------------------------------
BEGINNING CLAIM RESERVES-GROSS     $2,128     $1,938    $1,746
Reinsurance recoverables              125        125        71
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
BEGINNING CLAIM RESERVES-NET        2,003      1,813     1,675
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
INCURRED EXPENSES RELATED TO
     Current year                   1,093      1,013       902
     Prior years                      (11)       (33)      (48)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL INCURRED                      1,082        980       854
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
PAID EXPENSES RELATED TO
     Current year                     410        360       334
     Prior years                      468        430       382
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL PAID                            878        790       716
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING CLAIM RESERVES-NET           2,207      2,003     1,813
Reinsurance recoverables              177        125       125
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING CLAIM RESERVES-GROSS        $2,384     $2,128    $1,938
=================================================================

WORLDWIDE PROPERTY & CASUALTY - The Hartford establishes reserves to provide for
the  estimated  costs  of  paying  claims  made  by   policyholders  or  against
policyholders.  These reserves include  estimates for both claims that have been
reported and those that have been  incurred but not reported to The Hartford and
include estimates of all expenses  associated with processing and settling these
claims. This estimation process is primarily based on historical  experience and
involves  a variety  of  actuarial  techniques  which  analyze  trends and other
relevant  factors.  Certain  liabilities  for  unpaid  claims,  principally  for
permanently  disabled  claimants,  terminated  reinsurance  treaties and certain
contracts that fund loss run-offs for unrelated parties, have been discounted to
present  value using an average  interest rate of 5.7% in 2000 and 6.3% in 1999.
At December 31, 2000 and 1999, such discounted  reserves  totaled $716 and $768,
respectively (net of discounts of $396 and $480, respectively).  Amortization of
the discount did not have a material  effect on net income during 2000, 1999 and
1998, respectively.  A reconciliation of liabilities for unpaid claims and claim
adjustment expenses follows:

                                   For the years ended December 31,
                                   --------------------------------
                                     2000      1999      1998
                                   --------------------------------
BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
  CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
  EXPENSES-GROSS                    $16,014   $16,449   $18,376
Reinsurance recoverables              3,271     3,286     4,348
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
  CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
  EXPENSES-NET                       12,743    13,163    14,028
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ADD PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS
  AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
     Current year                     5,170     4,953     5,404
     Prior years [1]                     27      (171)     (152)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS
  AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES       5,197     4,782     5,252
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
LESS PAYMENTS
     Current year                     2,265     2,137     2,275
     Prior years                      3,069     3,024     2,876
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL PAYMENTS                        5,334     5,161     5,151
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Foreign currency translation            (26)      (41)       (1)
Reserves resulting from                  --        --        86
  acquisitions
Other [2]                              (158)       --    (1,051)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
  CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
  EXPENSES-NET                       12,422    12,743    13,163
Reinsurance recoverables              3,452     3,271     3,286
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
  CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
   EXPENSES-GROSS                   $15,874   $16,014   $16,449
=================================================================
[1]  Excludes the effects of foreign exchange adjustments.
[2]  2000  includes $161 related to the sale of Zwolsche.  1998 includes  $1,067
     related to the sale of London & Edinburgh. (See Note 19.)

The  Company  has an  exposure  to  catastrophe  losses  which  can be caused by
significant  events  including  hurricanes,  severe winter storms,  earthquakes,
windstorms  and  fires.   The  frequency  and  severity  of   catastrophes   are
unpredictable, and the exposure to a catastrophe is a function of both the total
amount  insured in an area  affected by the event and the severity of the event.
Catastrophes generally impact limited geographic areas; however,  certain events
may produce significant damage in heavily populated areas. The Company generally
seeks to reduce its  exposure to  catastrophe  losses  through  individual  risk
selection and the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance.

                                      F-11

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(I)  OTHER POLICYHOLDER FUNDS AND BENEFITS PAYABLE

Other  policyholder  funds and benefits  payable include reserves for investment
contracts  without  life  contingencies,  corporate  owned  life  insurance  and
universal life insurance contracts.  Of the amounts included in this item, $15.6
billion  and $16.6  billion,  as of December  31,  2000 and 1999,  respectively,
represent policyholder obligations.

The liability for policy benefits for universal  life-type contracts is equal to
the balance that  accrues to the benefit of  policyholders,  including  credited
interest, amounts that have been assessed to compensate the Company for services
to be performed over future periods, and any amounts previously assessed against
policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract. For investment
contracts,  policyholder liabilities are equal to the accumulated policy account
values,  which  consist of an  accumulation  of deposit  payments  plus credited
interest, less withdrawals and amounts assessed through the end of the period.

(J)  REVENUE RECOGNITION

WORLDWIDE  LIFE - Fee income for investment  and universal  life-type  contracts
consists of policy charges for policy administration,  cost of insurance charges
and surrender charges assessed against  policyholders'  account balances and are
recognized  in  the  period  in  which  services  are  provided.   Premiums  for
traditional   life   insurance   are   recognized  as  revenues  when  due  from
policyholders.  Retrospective  and  contingent  commissions  and  other  related
expenses are  incurred  and  recorded in the same period that the  retrospective
premiums are recorded or other contract provisions are met.

WORLDWIDE  PROPERTY & CASUALTY - Property  and casualty  insurance  premiums are
earned  principally  on a pro rata  basis  over the  lives of the  policies  and
include  accruals for ultimate premium revenue  anticipated  under auditable and
retrospectively  rated  policies.  Unearned  premiums  represent  the portion of
premiums  written  applicable  to the  unexpired  terms of  policies  in  force.
Unearned premiums also include estimated and unbilled premium adjustments. Other
revenue consists primarily of revenues  associated with the Company's  servicing
businesses.  Retrospective and contingent commissions and other related expenses
are incurred and recorded in the same period that the retrospective premiums are
recorded or other contract provisions are met.

(K)  FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

Foreign  currency  translation  gains and losses are reflected in  stockholders'
equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive  income.  Balance sheet
accounts are  translated  at the  exchange  rates in effect at each year end and
income  statement  accounts  are  translated  at the  average  rates of exchange
prevailing  during  the  year.  The  national  currencies  of the  international
operations are generally their functional currencies.


(L)  DIVIDENDS TO POLICYHOLDERS

Policyholder  dividends  are accrued  using an estimate of the amount to be paid
based on underlying contractual  obligations under policies and applicable state
laws. If limitations exist on the amount of net income from  participating  life
insurance contracts that may be distributed to stockholders,  the policyholders'
share of net income on those  contracts  that cannot be  distributed is excluded
from stockholders' equity by a charge to operations and a credit to a liability.

WORLDWIDE LIFE -  Participating  life insurance in force  accounted for 17%, 20%
and 22% as of December  31,  2000,  1999 and 1998,  respectively,  of total life
insurance in force.  Dividends to policyholders  were $67, $104 and $330 for the
years  ended  December  31,  2000,  1999 and 1998,  respectively.  There were no
additional amounts of income allocated to participating policyholders.

WORLDWIDE PROPERTY & CASUALTY - Net written premiums for participating  property
and casualty insurance policies represented 9%, 11% and 13% of total net written
premiums for the years ended  December 31,  2000,  1999 and 1998,  respectively.
Dividends to  policyholders  were $33, $40 and $30 for the years ended  December
31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

(M)  MUTUAL FUNDS

The Company  maintains  a retail  mutual fund  operation,  whereby the  Company,
through   wholly-owned   subsidiaries,   provides   investment   management  and
administrative services to The Hartford Mutual Funds, Inc., a family of fourteen
mutual funds.  The Company charges  management  fees to the  shareholders of the
mutual  funds,  which are  recorded  as revenue by the  Company.  Investors  can
purchase  "shares" in the mutual  funds,  all of which are  registered  with the
Securities and Exchange  Commission,  in accordance with the Investment  Company
Act of 1940. The mutual funds are owned by the  shareholders  of those funds and
not by the Company.  As such, the mutual fund assets and liabilities and related
investment  returns are not  reflected in the Company's  consolidated  financial
statements since they are not assets, liabilities and operations of the Company.

2.  THE HLI REPURCHASE

On June 27, 2000,  The Hartford  acquired all of the  outstanding  shares of HLI
that it did not already own. The HLI  Repurchase has been recorded as a purchase
transaction.  Consideration  totaled $1.4 billion and resulted in recognition of
goodwill  (excess  of the  purchase  price over the fair value of the net assets
acquired) of $862,  which is being amortized on a straight-line  basis over a 25
year period.

                                      F-12

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

2.  THE HLI REPURCHASE (CONTINUED)

Purchase consideration for the transaction was as follows:

Issuance of:
- -----------
  Common stock from treasury (7.25 million shares
   @ $54.90 per share)                                  $  398
  Long-term notes:
   $250  7.75% notes due June 15, 2005                     244
   $275  7.90% notes due June 15, 2010                     272
  Commercial paper                                         400
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Consideration raised                                1,314
Other, including conversion of HLI employee stock
   options and restricted shares                           102
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Total consideration                                $1,416
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Purchase  accounting  for this  transaction  resulted in adjustments to the cost
basis of certain  assets and  liabilities  acquired based on assessments of fair
value.  These adjustments also include the recognition of an asset  representing
the present value of estimated net cash flows (present value of the future gross
profits to be earned, "PVP") embedded in HLI's existing insurance and investment
contracts.  The amount of the purchase  price  allocated to PVP was $801. PVP is
amortized  to  expense  in  relation  to the  estimated  gross  profits on those
contracts,  and interest is accreted on the  unamortized  balance.  For the year
ended December 31, 2000,  amortization  of PVP amounted to $47.  Amortization of
all purchase adjustments, excluding goodwill, will not have a significant impact
on the Company's ongoing results of operations.




                                      F-13

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)





The amortized  cost and estimated  fair value of fixed  maturity  investments at
December  31,  2000  by  estimated  maturity  year  are  shown  below.  Expected
maturities  differ  from  contractual  maturities  due  to  call  or  prepayment
provisions.  Asset-backed securities,  including mortgage-backed  securities and
collateralized  mortgage obligations,  are distributed to maturity year based on
the Company's  estimates of the rate of future prepayments of principal over the
remaining  lives  of  the  securities.   These  estimates  are  developed  using
prepayment  speeds provided in broker consensus data. Such estimates are derived
from prepayment speeds experienced at the interest rate levels projected for the
applicable  underlying  collateral.  Actual prepayment  experience may vary from
these estimates.

                                      Amortized
MATURITY                                 Cost       Fair Value
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
One year or less                     $     2,459   $     2,472
Over one year through five years           9,346         9,406
Over five years through ten years         11,029        11,305
Over ten years                            11,022        11,309
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
    TOTAL                            $    33,856   $    34,492
=================================================================

                                      F-14

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

3.       INVESTMENTS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(F)      SALES OF FIXED MATURITY AND EQUITY SECURITY INVESTMENTS

Sales of fixed maturities,  excluding short-term fixed maturities, for the years
ended  December 31, 2000,  1999 and 1998  resulted in proceeds of $9.6  billion,
$9.8  billion and $9.2  billion,  gross  gains of $187,  $245 and $230 and gross
losses of $(429),  $(311) and  $(302),  respectively.  Sales of equity  security
investments  for the years ended  December 31, 2000,  1999 and 1998  resulted in
proceeds of $1.3 billion,  $1.3 billion and $2.2  billion,  gross gains of $258,
$124 and $636 and gross losses of $(110), $(19) and $(334), respectively.

(G)      CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

The Hartford is not exposed to any credit  concentration risk of a single issuer
greater than 10% of stockholders' equity.

(H)      DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

The Hartford  utilizes a variety of  derivative  instruments,  including  swaps,
caps,  floors,  forwards and exchange traded financial  futures and options,  in
compliance  with  Company  policy and in order to achieve  one of three  Company
approved objectives: to hedge risk arising from interest rate, price or currency
exchange rate volatility; to manage liquidity; or to control transactions costs.
The Company is considered an "end-user" of derivative  instruments and, as such,
does not make a market or trade in these  instruments for the express purpose of
earning trading profits.

The  Company  uses  derivative  instruments  in its  management  of market  risk
consistent   with  four  risk   management   strategies:   hedging   anticipated
transactions, hedging liability instruments, hedging invested assets and hedging
portfolios of assets and/or liabilities.

The Company's derivatives  counterparty exposure policy establishes market-based
credit limits,  favors long-term financial stability and  creditworthiness,  and
typically requires credit  enhancement/credit  risk reducing agreements.  Credit
risk is  measured  as the amount owed to The  Hartford  based on current  market
conditions  and  potential  payment  obligations  between  the  Company  and its
counterparties. Credit exposures are generally quantified weekly and netted, and
collateral  is pledged to or held by the  Company to the extent that the current
value of derivative instruments exceeds exposure policy thresholds.

Derivative  activities are monitored by an internal  compliance  unit,  reviewed
frequently  by  senior  management  and  reported  to  The  Hartford's   Finance
Committee. The notional amounts of derivative contracts represent the basis upon
which pay or receive  amounts are  calculated  and are not  reflective of credit
risk.   Notional  amounts  pertaining  to  derivative   instruments   (excluding
guaranteed separate accounts) totaled $5.3 billion at December 31, 2000 and $7.7
billion at December 31, 1999.

A summary  of  derivative  instruments  for The  Hartford,  segregated  by major
investment  and liability  category,  was as follows as of December 31, 2000 and
1999:



                                      F-15

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



A  reconciliation  between  notional amounts as of December 31, 2000 and 1999 by
derivative type and strategy is as follows:


(I) COLLATERAL ARRANGEMENTS

The Hartford entered into various collateral arrangements which require both the
pledging  and  accepting  of  collateral  in  connection   with  its  derivative
instruments  and  repurchase  agreements.  As of December 31,  2000,  collateral
pledged has not been separately reported in the Consolidated  Balance Sheet. The
classification  and carrying amounts of collateral  pledged at December 31, 2000
were as follows:

                                                     Carrying
ASSETS                                                Amount
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. Gov't and Gov't agencies and authorities
   (guaranteed and sponsored)                      $         3
U.S. Gov't and Gov't agencies and authorities
   (guaranteed and sponsored) - asset-backed                31
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL                                           $        34
=================================================================

                                      F-16

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

3.   INVESTMENTS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(I)  COLLATERAL ARRANGEMENTS (CONTINUED)

At December 31, 2000, The Hartford had accepted collateral  consisting primarily
of U.S.  Government  securities with a fair value of $252. While The Hartford is
permitted by contract to sell or repledge the collateral  accepted,  none of the
collateral  had been sold or repledged at December 31, 2000.  As of December 31,
2000, all collateral accepted was held in separate custodial accounts.

4.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

SFAS No. 107, "Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial  Instruments",  requires
disclosure  of fair value  information  of  financial  instruments.  For certain
financial  instruments  where  quoted  market  prices are not  available,  other
independent  valuation techniques and assumptions are used. Because considerable
judgment is used, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of amounts that
could be realized in a current market  exchange.  SFAS No. 107 excludes  certain
financial instruments from disclosure, including insurance contracts, other than
financial guarantees and investment  contracts.  The Hartford uses the following
methods and  assumptions in estimating the fair value of each class of financial
instrument.

Fair value for fixed maturities and marketable  equity  securities  approximates
those quotations  published by applicable stock exchanges or received from other
reliable sources.

For policy loans, carrying amounts approximate fair value.

Fair value for other invested  assets,  which primarily  consist of partnerships
and trusts,  is based on external market  valuations from  partnership and trust
management.

Other  policyholder  funds  and  benefits  payable  fair  value  information  is
determined by  estimating  future cash flows,  discounted at the current  market
rate.

For short-term debt, carrying amounts approximate fair value.

Fair  value for  long-term  debt and QUIPS and TruPS  (which  represent  company
obligated  mandatorily  redeemable  preferred  securities of  subsidiary  trusts
holding solely junior  subordinated  debentures) is based on external  valuation
using discounted future cash flows at current market interest rates.

The fair value of  derivative  financial  instruments,  including  swaps,  caps,
floors,  futures,  options  and  forward  commitments,  is  determined  using an
internal pricing model that is similar to external valuation models.  Derivative
instruments are reported below as a component of other investments.

The carrying amounts and fair values of The Hartford's financial  instruments at
December 31, 2000 and 1999 were as follows:

                                 2000                 1999
                          ----------------------------------------
                           Carrying      Fair    Carrying    Fair
                            Amount      Value     Amount    Value
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
ASSETS
 Fixed maturities           $34,492   $34,492    $32,875   $32,875
 Equity securities            1,056     1,056      1,286     1,286
 Policy loans                 3,610     3,610      4,222     4,222
 Other investments            1,511     1,512        758       774
LIABILITIES
 Other policyholder
  funds and benefits
  payable [1]               $11,985   $11,607    $11,991   $11,416
 Short-term debt                235       238         31        31
 Long-term debt               1,862     1,901      1,548     1,505
 QUIPS/TruPS                  1,243     1,233      1,250     1,082
==================================================================
[1]  Excludes group accident and health and universal life insurance  contracts,
     including corporate owned life insurance.

5.  SEPARATE ACCOUNTS

The Hartford maintained separate account assets and liabilities  totaling $114.1
billion and $111.7  billion at December 31, 2000 and 1999,  respectively,  which
are reported at fair value.  Separate account assets,  which are segregated from
other  investments,  reflect two categories of risk  assumption:  non-guaranteed
separate  accounts  totaling  $104.3  billion and $102.6 billion at December 31,
2000 and 1999,  respectively,  wherein the  policyholder  assumes the investment
risk, and guaranteed separate accounts totaling $9.8 billion and $9.1 billion at
December 31, 2000 and 1999,  respectively,  wherein The  Hartford  contractually
guarantees  either a minimum  return or the account  value to the  policyholder.
Included in the non-guaranteed category were policy loans totaling $697 and $860
at December 31, 2000 and 1999,  respectively.  Net investment  income (including
net realized capital gains and losses) and interest credited to policyholders on
separate  account  assets are not  reflected in the  Consolidated  Statements of
Income.

Separate  account  management  fees and other  revenues were $1.4 billion,  $1.1
billion and $911 in 2000, 1999 and 1998,  respectively.  The guaranteed separate
accounts  include fixed market value  adjusted  ("MVA")  individual  annuity and
modified guaranteed life insurance.  The average credited interest rate on these
contracts  was 6.6% and 6.5% at December  31, 2000 and 1999,  respectively.  The
assets that support these  liabilities  were  comprised of $9.6 billion and $9.1
billion in fixed maturities as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively,  and
$127 of other  invested  assets as of December  31,  2000.  The  portfolios  are
segregated  from other  investments  and are managed to minimize  liquidity  and
interest  rate  risk.  In  order  to  minimize  the  risk  of  disintermediation
associated  with early  withdrawals,  fixed MVA annuity and modified  guaranteed
life insurance  contracts  carry a graded  surrender  charge as well as a market
value  adjustment.  Additional  investment  risk is hedged  using a  variety  of
derivatives  which  totaled $3 and $(96) in carrying  value and $3.5 billion and
$2.1 billion in notional amounts as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

                                      F-17

                        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



(A)  SHORT-TERM DEBT

On June 23, 2000, The Hartford borrowed $400 under its commercial paper program,
the  proceeds  of which  were  used to  partially  fund The HLI  Repurchase.  On
December 29, 2000, the Company paid off this  borrowing  with proceeds  received
from the sale of Zwolsche (see Note 19).

The  Hartford's  commercial  paper ranks  equally with its other  unsecured  and
unsubordinated  indebtedness.  As of December 31, 2000,  The Hartford had a $1.5
billion  five-year  revolving  credit  facility  with  one year  remaining  with
twenty-six participating banks. This facility is available for general corporate
purposes and to provide  additional  support to the Company's  commercial  paper
program.  At December 31, 2000,  there were no outstanding  borrowings under the
facility.

As of December  31,  2000,  HLI  maintained a $250  five-year  revolving  credit
facility comprised of four participatory banks. This facility,  which expires in
2003,  is available  for general  corporate  purposes and to provide  additional
support to HLI's commercial  paper program.  As of December 31, 2000, there were
no outstanding borrowings under the facility or commercial paper program.

(B)  LONG-TERM DEBT

The Hartford's  long-term  debt  securities of The Hartford  Financial  Services
Group, Inc. ("HFSG") are unsecured obligations of HFSG and rank on a parity with
all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of HFSG.

On  November  9, 2000,  The  Hartford  filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  a shelf  registration  statement  and a  prospectus,  as  amended on
January 31, 2001,  for the potential  offering and sale of up to $2.6 billion in
debt and equity securities.  Specifically, the registration statement allows for
the  following  types of securities to be offered:  debt  securities,  preferred
stock,  common stock,  depositary shares,  warrants,  stock purchase  contracts,
stock purchase units and junior  subordinated  deferrable interest debentures of
the Company, preferred securities of any of one or more capital trusts organized
by The  Hartford  ("The  Hartford  Trusts") and  guarantees  by the Company with
respect to the preferred  securities of any of The Hartford Trusts (see Note 7).
This  registration  statement  includes  an  aggregate  of $127 of The  Hartford
securities remaining under a shelf registration  statement filed by The Hartford
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 11, 1995 and subsequently
amended on October 2, 1996.

The October 11, 1995 shelf registration,  as amended,  allowed for the potential
offering and sale of up to $2.25  billion in debt and equity  securities.  As of
December 31, 1999,  The Hartford had $1.05  billion  remaining  under this shelf
registration. On June 8, 2000, The Hartford issued 7.25 million shares of common
stock under the shelf  registration  for $398.  On June 16,  2000,  The Hartford
issued and sold $525 of unsecured  redeemable  long-term  debt under this shelf.
The long-term debt was issued in the form of $250 7.75% five-year notes due June
15, 2005, and $275 7.90% ten-year notes due June 15, 2010. Interest on the notes
is payable  semi-annually on June 15 and December 15, commencing on December 15,
2000.  The Hartford  used the net proceeds from the issuance of the common stock
and debt to partially fund The HLI Repurchase (see Note 2).

On June 8, 1998, HLI filed an omnibus registration statement with the Securities
and  Exchange  Commission  for the  issuance  of up to $1.0  billion of debt and
equity  securities,  including up to $350 of  previously  registered  but unsold
securities.  HLI had $750 remaining on this shelf  registration  on December 31,
2000.

(C)  SUBSEQUENT EVENT

On March 1, 2001,  HLI issued and sold $400 of senior debt  securities  from its
existing shelf registration. (For additional information, see Note 17.)

(D)  INTEREST EXPENSE

Interest  expense  incurred  related to short- and long-term  debt totaled $150,
$114 and $125 for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

                                      F-18

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

7.   COMPANY OBLIGATED MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY
     TRUSTS HOLDING SOLELY JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES (QUIPS AND TRUPS)

(A)  DESCRIPTION

On June 29, 1998,  Hartford  Life Capital I, a special  purpose  Delaware  trust
formed by HLI,  issued  10,000,000,  7.2% Trust Preferred  Securities,  Series A
("Series A Preferred  Securities").  The proceeds  from the sale of the Series A
Preferred  Securities  were  used  to  acquire  $250  of 7.2%  Series  A  Junior
Subordinated  Deferrable Interest Debentures ("Junior Subordinated  Debentures")
issued by HLI. HLI used the proceeds from the offering for the retirement of its
outstanding  commercial  paper, for acquisitions and for other general corporate
purposes.

The Series A Preferred  Securities  represent undivided  beneficial interests in
Hartford  Life  Capital  I's  assets,   which  consist   solely  of  the  Junior
Subordinated Debentures. HLI owns all of the beneficial interests represented by
Series A Common  Securities  of  Hartford  Life  Capital I.  Holders of Series A
Preferred  Securities  are  entitled to receive  cumulative  cash  distributions
accruing  from June 29,  1998,  the date of issuance,  and payable  quarterly in
arrears  commencing  July  15,  1998 at the  annual  rate of 7.2% of the  stated
liquidation amount of $25.00 per Series A Preferred Security.  Holders of Series
A Preferred  Securities  generally have no voting rights. The Series A Preferred
Securities  are subject to  mandatory  redemption  upon  repayment of the Junior
Subordinated Debentures at maturity or upon earlier redemption.

HLI has the right to redeem the Junior  Subordinated  Debentures (i) in whole or
in part on or after  June 30,  2003,  or (ii) at any  time,  in whole but not in
part, in certain  circumstances upon the occurrence of certain specified events,
in either case at a redemption price equal to accrued and unpaid interest on the
Junior Subordinated Debentures so redeemed to the date fixed for redemption plus
the principal  amount  thereof.  In addition,  prior to June 30, 2003, HLI shall
have the right to redeem  the Junior  Subordinated  Debentures  at any time,  in
whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the accrued and unpaid interest
on the  Junior  Subordinated  Debentures  so  redeemed  to the  date  fixed  for
redemption,  plus the  greater  of (a) the  principal  amount  thereof or (b) an
amount  equal  to the  present  value  on the  redemption  date of the  interest
payments that would have been paid through June 20, 2003, after discounting that
amount on a quarterly basis from the originally  scheduled date for payment, and
the present value on the redemption date of principal,  after  discounting  that
amount on a quarterly  basis from June 30, 2003,  at a discount rate tied to the
interest rate on U.S. Treasury securities maturing on June 30, 2003.

The Junior  Subordinated  Debentures bear interest at the annual rate of 7.2% of
the principal amount, payable quarterly in arrears commencing June 29, 1998, and
mature on June 30, 2038.  The Junior  Subordinated  Debentures are unsecured and
rank junior and subordinate in right of payment to all present and future senior
debt  of HLI  and  are  effectively  subordinated  to all  existing  and  future
liabilities of its subsidiaries.

HLI has the  right at any  time,  and from time to time,  to defer  payments  of
interest on the Junior  Subordinated  Debentures  for a period not  exceeding 20
consecutive  quarters  up to the  debentures'  maturity  date.  During  any such
period, interest will continue to accrue and HLI may not declare or pay any cash
dividends or  distributions  on, or purchase,  HLI's  capital stock nor make any
principal,  interest or premium  payments on or repurchase  any debt  securities
that rank pari passu with or junior to the Junior Subordinated  Debentures.  HLI
will have the  right at any time to  dissolve  the  Trust  and cause the  Junior
Subordinated  Debentures  to be  distributed  to the  holders  of the  Series  A
Preferred Securities and the Series A Common Securities.  HLI has guaranteed, on
a subordinated  basis, all of the Hartford Life Capital I obligations  under the
Series A Preferred Securities, including payment of the redemption price and any
accumulated and unpaid distributions upon dissolution, winding up or liquidation
to the extent funds are available.

On January 19,  1996,  The  Hartford and several  wholly-owned  special  purpose
trusts ("Hartford  Trusts") formed by The Hartford filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission a shelf  registration  statement for the potential offering
and sale of $500 of debt  securities  and  preferred  stock,  including up to an
aggregate  $500  Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest  Debentures  of  The
Hartford and Preferred Securities of the Hartford Trusts.

On February 28,  1996,  Hartford  Capital I, a special  purpose  Delaware  trust
formed by The Hartford,  issued 20,000,000  Series A, 7.7% Cumulative  Quarterly
Income Preferred  Securities  ("Hartford  Series A Preferred  Securities").  The
proceeds from the sale of Hartford  Series A Preferred  Securities  were used to
acquire $500 of Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable Interest  Debentures,  Series A
("Hartford  Junior  Subordinated  Debentures"),  issued  by  The  Hartford.  The
Hartford  used the  proceeds  from the sale of such  debentures  for the partial
repayment of  outstanding  commercial  paper and short-term  bank  indebtedness.
Hartford Series A Preferred  Securities represent undivided beneficial interests
in the assets of Hartford  Capital I. The  Hartford  owns all of the  beneficial
interests  represented  by Series A Common  Securities  of  Hartford  Capital I.
Holders of  Hartford  Series A  Preferred  Securities  are  entitled  to receive
preferential  cumulative cash distributions  accruing from February 28, 1996 and
payable  quarterly  in arrears  commencing  March 31, 1996 at the annual rate of
7.7% of the  liquidation  amount  of  $25.00  per  Hartford  Series A  Preferred
Security.  Holders of Hartford Series A Preferred Securities have limited voting
rights.  The  Hartford  Series A Preferred  Securities  are subject to mandatory
redemption  upon  repayment of the Hartford  Junior  Subordinated  Debentures at
maturity or their earlier redemption.

The Hartford has the right to redeem the Hartford Junior Subordinated Debentures
(i) at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the accrued
and unpaid interest on the Hartford Junior  Subordinated  Debentures so redeemed
to the date fixed for redemption,  plus the greater of (a) the principal  amount
thereof and (b) an amount equal to the interest  and  principal  that would have
been  payable  after the  redemption  date,  discounting  that  amount on a U.S.
Treasury rate basis to a present  value,  or (ii) on or after February 28, 2001,
in whole or part, at a redemption price equal to the accrued and unpaid interest
on the Hartford Junior Subordinated Debentures so redeemed to the date fixed for
redemption plus 100% of the

                                      F-19

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

7.   COMPANY OBLIGATED MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY
     TRUSTS  HOLDING  SOLELY JUNIOR  SUBORDINATED  DEBENTURES  (QUIPS AND TRUPS)
     (CONTINUED)

(A)  DESCRIPTION (CONTINUED)

principal amount thereof,  or (iii) at any time, in whole, but not in part, upon
the occurrence of certain  specified  events, at a redemption price equal to the
accrued and unpaid  interest on the Hartford Junior  Subordinated  Debentures so
redeemed to the date fixed for  redemption,  plus 100% of the  principal  amount
thereof, in each case subject to certain conditions.

The Hartford Junior Subordinated  Debentures bear interest at the annual rate of
7.7% of the principal amount,  payable quarterly in arrears commencing March 31,
1996,  and  mature on  February  28,  2016.  The  Hartford  Junior  Subordinated
Debentures are unsecured and rank junior and  subordinate in right of payment to
all senior debt of The Hartford and are effectively subordinated to all existing
and future liabilities of its subsidiaries.

The Hartford has the right to defer payments of interest on the Hartford  Junior
Subordinated  Debentures by extending the interest  payment  period for up to 20
consecutive  quarters for each deferral period,  up to the maturity date. During
any such  period,  interest  will  continue to accrue and The  Hartford  may not
declare or pay any cash  dividends or  distributions  on The  Hartford's  common
stock nor make any principal,  interest or premium payments on or repurchase any
debt  securities  that rank pari  passu  with or junior to the  Hartford  Junior
Subordinated  Debentures.  In  the  event  of  failure  to pay  interest  for 30
consecutive  days  (subject  to the  deferral  of any due date in the case of an
extension period),  the Hartford Junior Subordinated  Debentures will become due
and payable.  The Hartford has guaranteed,  on a subordinated  basis, all of the
Hartford Capital I obligations under the Hartford Series A Preferred Securities,
including  to  pay  the  redemption   price  and  any   accumulated  and  unpaid
distributions to the extent of available funds and upon dissolution,  winding up
or liquidation, but only to the extent that Hartford Capital I has funds to make
such payments.

On October 30,  1996,  Hartford  Capital II, a special  purpose  Delaware  trust
formed by The Hartford,  issued 20,000,000 Series B, 8.35% Cumulative  Quarterly
Income  Preferred  Securities  ("Series B Preferred  Securities").  The material
terms of the Series B Preferred  Securities  are  substantially  the same as the
Hartford Series A Preferred  Securities described above, except for the rate and
maturity date.  The proceeds from the sale of the Series B Preferred  Securities
were used to acquire $500 of Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures,
Series  B  ("Series  B  Debentures"),  issued  by The  Hartford.  The  Series  B
Debentures  bear  interest at the annual rate of 8.35% of the  principal  amount
payable quarterly in arrears commencing December 31, 1996, and mature on October
30, 2026.  The Hartford used the proceeds from the sale of such  debentures  for
general corporate purposes.

(B)  SUBSEQUENT EVENT

On March 6, 2001, HLI issued and sold $200 of trust  preferred  securities  from
its existing shelf registration. (For additional information, see Note 17.)

(C)  INTEREST EXPENSE

Interest expense incurred with respect to the Series A Preferred  Securities and
Series B Preferred Securities totaled  approximately $100, $100 and $91 in 2000,
1999 and 1998, respectively.

8.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

(A)  COMMON STOCK

On June 8, 2000,  The Hartford  issued 7.25 million  shares of common stock in a
block  trade to  Goldman,  Sachs & Co. for $398.  The shares  were issued out of
treasury.  The Hartford used the net proceeds from the issuance of the shares to
partially fund The HLI Repurchase (see Note 2).

On May 21, 1998, The Hartford's  shareholders approved an increase in the number
of authorized  common shares from 200,000,000 to 400,000,000.  On that date, the
Board of Directors  declared a two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a
100% stock dividend distributed on July 15, 1998 to shareholders of record as of
June 24, 1998. Agreements concerning stock options and other commitments payable
in shares of the Company's  common stock either  provide for the issuance of the
additional  shares  due to the  declaration  of the  stock  split  or have  been
modified to reflect the stock split.  In addition,  retroactive  adjustments  to
treasury  stock and  additional  paid-in  capital  have been made to reflect the
stock split. All references to issued,  outstanding and weighted average shares,
as well as per  share  amounts,  reflect  the  stock  split in the  consolidated
financial  statements  and related  notes.  Par value per common share  remained
unchanged at $0.01.

In December 1997, The Hartford's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of
up to $1.0 billion of the Company's  outstanding  common stock over a three-year
period beginning with the first quarter of 1998. The Hartford completed the $1.0
billion repurchase  authorization during 1999 by repurchasing 9.2 million shares
of its common stock in the open market at a total cost of $453. In October 1999,
The  Hartford's  Board  of  Directors  authorized  the  repurchase  of  up to an
additional  $1.0  billion  of  the  Company's  outstanding  common  stock.  This
repurchase  authorization was effective in November 1999 and covers a three-year
period.  For the year ended  December 31, 2000,  The  Hartford  repurchased  2.8
million  shares of its common  stock in the open market at a total cost of $100.
Since the inception of the 1999 repurchase program, The Hartford has repurchased
5.9 million shares at a total cost of $243.  Certain of these repurchased shares
have been reissued  pursuant to certain  stock-based  benefit plans.  During the
first quarter of 2000 and in  conjunction  with The HLI  Repurchase,  management
elected to  discontinue  repurchase  activity.  Shares  repurchased  in the open
market are carried at cost and reflected as a reduction to stockholders' equity.
Treasury  shares  subsequently  reissued  are reduced from  treasury  stock on a
weighted average cost basis.

                                      F-20

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

8.   STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)

(B)  SUBSEQUENT EVENT

On February 16,  2001,  The  Hartford  issued 10 million  shares of common stock
pursuant to an  underwritten  offering for net proceeds of $615. (For additional
information, see Note 17.)

(C)  PREFERRED STOCK

The Company has 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock  authorized,  none of which
have been issued. In 1995, the Company approved The Hartford  Stockholder Rights
Plan,  pursuant  to which a  nonvoting  right  attaches  to each share of common
stock. Upon the occurrence of certain  triggering  events, the right will permit
each shareholder to purchase a fraction of a share of the Series A Participating
Cumulative  Preferred  Stock (the "Series A Preferred  Stock") of The  Hartford.
There are 300,000  authorized shares of Series A Preferred Stock. No shares were
issued or outstanding at December 31, 2000, 1999 or 1998.

(D)  STATUTORY RESULTS

                               For the years ended December 31,
                              -----------------------------------
                                 2000        1999        1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
STATUTORY NET INCOME
  Life operations               $   422  $      245  $      290
  Property and casualty
    operations                      779         315         497
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
    TOTAL                       $ 1,201  $      560  $      787
=================================================================
STATUTORY SURPLUS
  Life operations               $ 2,407  $    2,356  $    2,144
  Property and casualty
    operations                    3,495       4,678       6,705
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
    TOTAL                       $ 5,902  $    7,034  $    8,849
=================================================================


A significant  percentage of the consolidated  statutory  surplus is permanently
reinvested  or is subject to various  state and  foreign  government  regulatory
restrictions or other  agreements  which limit the payment of dividends  without
prior  approval.  As of  December  31,  2000,  the maximum  amount of  statutory
dividends  which may be paid to HFSG from its  insurance  subsidiaries  in 2001,
without prior approval, is $779.

The domestic  insurance  subsidiaries of HFSG prepare their statutory  financial
statements in accordance with accounting  practices prescribed by the applicable
state insurance  department.  Prescribed  statutory accounting practices include
publications of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"), as
well as state laws, regulations and general administrative rules.

The  NAIC  adopted  the   Codification   of  Statutory   Accounting   Principles
("Codification") in March 1998. The effective date for the statutory  accounting
guidance  was January 1, 2001.  Each of The  Hartford's  domiciliary  states has
adopted  Codification,  and the  Company has made the  necessary  changes in its
statutory reporting required for implementation. The Company has determined that
the  overall  impact of  applying  the new  guidance  will  result in a one-time
statutory  cumulative  transition  benefit of  approximately  $250 in  statutory
surplus.

9.  EARNINGS PER SHARE

Earnings per share amounts have been computed in accordance  with the provisions
of  SFAS  No.  128,  "Earnings  per  Share".  The  following  tables  present  a
reconciliation of income and shares used in calculating basic earnings per share
to those used in calculating diluted earnings per share.



                                      F-21

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

9.   EARNINGS PER SHARE (CONTINUED)

Basic  earnings per share are computed  based on the weighted  average number of
shares  outstanding  during the year.  Diluted  earnings  per share  include the
dilutive  effect of outstanding  options,  using the treasury stock method,  and
also contingently issuable shares. Under the treasury stock method,  exercise of
options  is assumed  with the  proceeds  used to  purchase  common  stock at the
average market price for the period. The difference between the number of shares
assumed issued and number of shares  purchased  represents the dilutive  shares.
Contingently   issuable  shares  are  included  upon   satisfaction  of  certain
conditions related to the contingency.

10.  STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS

On May 18, 2000,  the  shareholders  of The Hartford  approved The Hartford 2000
Incentive  Stock  Plan (the "2000  Plan"),  which  replaced  The  Hartford  1995
Incentive  Stock  Plan  (the  "1995  Plan").  The  terms of the 1995  Plan  were
substantially  similar to the terms of the 2000 Plan  except  that the 1995 Plan
had an annual award limit and a higher maximum award limit.

Under the 2000  Plan,  awards may be  granted  in the form of  non-qualified  or
incentive stock options  qualifying  under Section 422A of the Internal  Revenue
Code,  performance  shares  or  restricted  stock,  or  any  combination  of the
foregoing.  In addition,  stock appreciation rights may be granted in connection
with all or part of any stock options granted under the 2000 Plan. The aggregate
number of shares of stock which may be awarded is subject to a maximum  limit of
17,211,837 shares applicable to all awards for the ten-year duration of the 2000
Plan.

All  options  granted  have an exercise  price equal to the market  price of the
Company's common stock on the date of grant, and an option's maximum term is ten
years.  Certain options become  exercisable over a three year period  commencing
one year from the date of grant,  while certain other options become exercisable
upon the  attainment  of specified  market price  appreciation  of the Company's
common  shares  or at seven  years  after the date of  grant.  For any year,  no
individual  employee  may  receive an award of options  for more than  1,000,000
shares. As of December 31, 2000, The Hartford had not issued any incentive stock
options under the 2000 Plan.

Performance  awards of common stock granted  under the 2000 Plan become  payable
upon the attainment of specific  performance goals achieved over a period of not
less than two nor more than five years,  and restricted stock granted is subject
to a  restriction  period.  On a  cumulative  basis,  no  more  than  20% of the
aggregate  number  of  shares  which  may be  awarded  under  the 2000  Plan are
available for performance shares and restricted stock awards.  Also, the maximum
award of performance  shares for any individual  employee in any year is 200,000
shares.

In 1997, the Company  awarded special  performance  based options and restricted
stock to certain key  executives  under the 1995 Plan. The awards vested only if
the Company's stock traded at certain  predetermined  levels for ten consecutive
days by March 1, 2001.  Vested  options  could not be exercised  nor  restricted
shares  disposed  of until  March 1, 2001.  As a result of the  Company's  stock
trading at predetermined  levels for ten consecutive  days, in May 1999 and also
in September 2000, the special  performance  based options and restricted  stock
vested. As a result, the Company began recognizing  compensation  expense in May
1999 and continued to recognize expense through March 1, 2001.

In 1996,  the Company  established  The Hartford  Employee  Stock  Purchase Plan
("ESPP").  Under this plan,  eligible  employees  of The  Hartford  may purchase
common stock of the Company at a 15% discount from the lower of the market price
at the beginning or end of the quarterly  offering period.  The Company may sell
up to  5,400,000  shares of stock to  eligible  employees  under  the ESPP,  and
241,742,  255,971  and  220,911  shares  were  sold  in  2000,  1999  and  1998,
respectively. The weighted average fair value of the discount under the ESPP was
$14.89,  $9.99 and $12.20 in 2000,  1999 and 1998,  respectively.  Additionally,
during 1997, The Hartford  established employee stock purchase plans for certain
employees  of the  Company's  international  subsidiaries.  Under  these  plans,
participants  may purchase  common stock of The Hartford at a fixed price at the
end of a three-year period.

The  Company  applies  Accounting  Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25 and related
interpretations   in  accounting  for  its   stock-based   compensation   plans.
Accordingly,  in the measurement of compensation  expense,  the Company utilizes
the excess of market price over  exercise  price on the first date that both the
number of shares and award  price are known.  For the years ended  December  31,
2000,  1999  and  1998,  compensation  expense  related  to  the  Company's  two
stock-based compensation plans was $23, $16 and $21 after-tax, respectively. Had
compensation  cost  for  the  Company's  incentive  stock  plan  and  ESPP  been
determined  based on the fair value at the grant  dates for awards  under  those
plans  consistent  with the method of SFAS No. 123,  "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation",  the  Company's net income and earnings per share would have been
reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated as follows:

                                   2000      1999       1998
- -------------------------------- --------- ---------- ---------
Net income:
   As reported                      $974      $862     $1,015
   Pro forma [1] [2]                $937      $834       $988
Basic earnings per share:
   As reported                     $4.42     $3.83      $4.36
   Pro forma [1] [2]               $4.25     $3.71      $4.24
Diluted earnings per share:
   As reported                     $4.34     $3.79      $4.30
   Pro forma [1] [2]               $4.18     $3.67      $4.19
- -------------------------------- --------- ---------- ---------
[1]  The pro forma  disclosures  are not  representative  of the  effects on net
     income and earnings per share in future years.
[2]  Includes The Hartford's  ownership share of  compensation  costs related to
     HLI's  incentive  stock plan and employee stock purchase plan determined in
     accordance with SFAS No. 123.

                                      F-22

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

10.  STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS (CONTINUED)

The fair value of each option  grant is estimated on the date of the grant using
the  Black-Scholes  options-pricing  model with the following  weighted  average
assumptions  used for grants in 2000, 1999 and 1998:  dividend yield of 1.5% for
2000, 2.1% for 1999 and 1.7% for 1998;  expected price  variability of 35.7% for
2000, 29.0% for 1999 and 25.7% for 1998;  risk-free  interest rates of 6.41% for
2000 grants, 5.08% for 1999 grants and 4.89% for 1998 grants; and expected lives
of four years for 2000, seven years for 1999 and five years for 1998.

A summary of the  status of  non-qualified  options  included  in the  Company's
incentive  stock plan as of December 31, 2000,  1999 and 1998 and changes during
the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 is presented below:



The following table summarizes  information about stock options  outstanding and
exercisable (shares in thousands) at December 31, 2000:



11.  PENSION PLANS AND  POSTRETIREMENT  HEALTH CARE AND LIFE  INSURANCE  BENEFIT
     PLANS

The following tables set forth a reconciliation of beginning and ending balances
of the  benefit  obligation  and fair value of plan assets as well as the funded
status of The Hartford's defined benefit pension and postretirement  health care
and life insurance benefit plans for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999.
International plans represent an immaterial  percentage of total pension assets,
liabilities and expense and, for reporting purposes,  are combined with domestic
plans.



                                      F-23

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


11.  PENSION PLANS AND  POSTRETIREMENT  HEALTH CARE AND LIFE  INSURANCE  BENEFIT
     PLANS (CONTINUED)




Assumptions used in the accounting for the plans were:



For measurement  purposes, a 6.5% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost
of covered  health care  benefits was assumed for 2000.  The rate was assumed to
decrease  gradually  to 5.0% for  2007  and  remain  at that  level  thereafter.
Increasing  (decreasing) the table of health care trend rates by one percent per
year would have the effect of increasing  (decreasing) the benefit obligation as
of December 31, 2000 by $7 ($7) and the annual net periodic expense for the year
then ended by $1 ($1), respectively, for the postretirement health care and life
insurance benefit plan.

Total pension cost for the years ended December 31, 2000,  1999 and 1998 include
the following components:



The  Hartford  provides  certain  health care and life  insurance  benefits  for
eligible retired employees. The Hartford's contribution for health care benefits
will depend  upon the  retiree's  date of  retirement  and years of service.  In
addition,  the plan has a  defined  dollar  cap  which  limits  average  Company
contributions.  The Hartford has prefunded a portion of the health care and life
insurance   obligations  through  trust  funds  where  such  prefunding  can  be
accomplished on a tax effective basis.


12.  INVESTMENT AND SAVINGS PLAN

Substantially  all U.S.  employees are eligible to participate in The Hartford's
Investment and Savings Plan under which designated contributions may be invested
in  common  stock  of  The  Hartford  or  certain   other   investments.   These
contributions  are  matched,  up to 3%  of  compensation,  by  the  Company.  In
addition,  the  Company  allocates  0.5% of base  salary  to the  plan  for each
eligible  employee.  Matching  Company  contributions  are used to  acquire  The
Hartford's  common  stock.  The  cost to The  Hartford  for the  above  plan was
approximately $28, $26 and $24 for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

                                      F-24

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

13.  REINSURANCE

The Hartford  cedes  insurance  to other  insurers in order to limit its maximum
losses.  Such  transfer  does not relieve The Hartford of its primary  liability
and, as such,  failure of reinsurers to honor their  obligations could result in
losses to The  Hartford.  The  Hartford  also  assumes  reinsurance  from  other
insurers.  The Hartford evaluates the financial  condition of its reinsurers and
monitors  concentrations  of credit risk. As of December 31, 2000,  The Hartford
had no significant reinsurance-related concentrations of credit risk.

Life insurance net retained premiums were comprised of the following:

                              For the years ended December 31,
                            -------------------------------------
                                2000         1999        1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Gross premiums              $    4,731  $    4,165  $    4,121
Assumed                            137         154          98
Ceded                             (303)       (250)       (217)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
  NET RETAINED PREMIUMS     $    4,565  $    4,069  $    4,002
=================================================================

The Hartford records a receivable for reinsured benefits paid and the portion of
insurance  liabilities  that are reinsured.  The cost of reinsurance  related to
long-duration  contracts  is  accounted  for  over  the  life of the  underlying
reinsured  policies using assumptions  consistent with those used to account for
the  underlying  policies.   Life  insurance  recoveries  on  ceded  reinsurance
contracts,  which reduce death and other benefits,  were $225, $168 and $119 for
the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

In 1998,  the  Company  recaptured  an in force  block of  Corporate  Owned Life
Insurance  ("COLI")  business  previously ceded to MBL Life Assurance Co. of New
Jersey (MBL Life).  The transaction  was consummated  through an assignment of a
reinsurance  arrangement between the Company and MBL Life to a subsidiary of the
Company.  The Company  originally  assumed the life insurance block in 1992 from
Mutual Benefit Life, which had been placed in court-supervised rehabilitation in
1991, and reinsured a portion of those policies back to MBL Life. This recapture
was effective  January 1, 1998 and resulted in a decrease in ceded  premiums and
other considerations of $163 in 1998. Additionally, this transaction resulted in
a decrease in reinsurance  recoverables of $4.8 billion, which was exchanged for
the fair value of assets  comprised  of $4.3 billion in policy loans and $443 in
other net assets.

The effect of reinsurance on property and casualty  premiums  written and earned
was as follows:

                            For the years ended December 31,
                          --------------------------------------
                               2000        1999         1998
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
PREMIUMS WRITTEN
     Direct               $    7,108   $   6,464   $    7,221
     Assumed                     965         833          866
     Ceded                      (826)       (585)        (633)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
       NET                $    7,247   $   6,712   $    7,454
================================================================
PREMIUMS EARNED
     Direct               $    6,769   $   6,189   $    7,029
     Assumed                   1,001         827          872
     Ceded                      (795)       (528)        (656)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
       NET                $    6,975   $   6,488   $    7,245
================================================================

Reinsurance  cessions which reduce claims and claim expenses incurred were $650,
$565  and  $115  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  2000,   1999  and  1998,
respectively.



                                      F-25

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

14.  INCOME TAX (CONTINUED)



Prior to the Tax Reform Act of 1984, the Life  Insurance  Company Income Tax Act
of 1959  permitted the deferral  from taxation of a portion of statutory  income
under  certain  circumstances.  In these  situations,  the  deferred  income was
accumulated in a "Policyholders' Surplus Account" and, based on current tax law,
will be taxable in the future only under conditions  which management  considers
to be remote;  therefore,  no federal  income  taxes have been  provided  on the
balance in this account,  which for tax return  purposes was $104 as of December
31, 2000.

No  additional  provision  or  benefit  has been  recognized  for U.S.  taxes on
international losses amounting to approximately $(154) at December 31, 2000.

A reconciliation  of the tax provision at the U.S. Federal statutory rate to the
provision for income taxes is as follows:



15.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

(A)  LITIGATION

The Hartford is or may become  involved in various legal actions,  some of which
involve  claims for  substantial  amounts.  In the  opinion of  management,  the
ultimate  liability  with respect to such actual and potential  lawsuits,  after
consideration of provisions made for potential  losses and costs of defense,  is
not expected to be material to the consolidated financial condition,  results of
operations or cash flows of The Hartford.

(B)  ENVIRONMENTAL AND ASBESTOS CLAIMS

Historically,   The  Hartford  has  found  it  difficult  to  estimate  ultimate
liabilities  related to  environmental  and asbestos claims due to uncertainties
surrounding  these  exposures.   Within  the  property  and  casualty  insurance
industry,  in the  mid-1990s,  progress  was made in  developing  sophisticated,
alternative   methodologies   utilizing  company   experience  and  supplemental
databases  to assess  environmental  and  asbestos  liabilities.  A study  which
incorporated  these  methodologies  was initiated by The Hartford in April 1996.
The study included a review of identified  environmental and asbestos  exposures
of North  American  Property  &  Casualty,  along  with  U.S.  exposures  of The
Hartford's  International and Other Operations segment. The methodology utilized
a  ground-up   analysis  of  policy,   site  and  exposure   level  data  for  a
representative  sample of The Hartford's  claims.  The results of the evaluation
were  extrapolated  against the balance of the claim  population to estimate the
Company's overall exposure for reported claims.

In addition to estimating  liabilities  on reported  environmental  and asbestos
claims,  The Hartford  estimated  reserves for claims  incurred but not reported
("IBNR"). The IBNR reserve was estimated using information on reporting patterns
of  known  insureds,   characteristics  of  insureds  such  as  limits  exposed,
attachment  points and number of coverage years involved,  third party costs and
closed claims.

Included in The Hartford's  analysis of environmental and asbestos exposures was
a review of applicable reinsurance coverage.  Reinsurance coverage applicable to
the sample was used to estimate  the  reinsurance  coverage  that applied to the
balance  of the  reported  environmental  and  asbestos  claims  and to the IBNR
estimates.

                                      F-26

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

15.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)

(B)  ENVIRONMENTAL AND ASBESTOS CLAIMS (CONTINUED)

The Hartford  believes that the  environmental and asbestos reserves reported at
December 31, 2000 are a reasonable  estimate of the ultimate remaining liability
for these claims based upon known facts,  current assumptions and The Hartford's
methodologies.  Future social,  economic,  legal or legislative developments may
alter the original  intent of policies  and the scope of coverage.  The Hartford
will  continue to  evaluate  new  methodologies  and  developments,  such as the
increasing  level of asbestos  claims  being  tendered  under the  comprehensive
general liability operations (non-product) section of policies, as they arise in
order  to  supplement  the  Company's   ongoing   analysis  and  review  of  its
environmental  and  asbestos  exposures.  These  future  reviews may result in a
change in reserves, impacting The Hartford's results of operations in the period
in which the reserve  estimates  are changed.  While the impact of these changes
could have a material effect on future results of operations,  The Hartford does
not  expect  such  changes  would  have a material  effect on its  liquidity  or
financial condition.

(C)  LEASE COMMITMENTS

Total rental expense on operating leases was $214 in 2000, $187 in 1999 and $188
in 1998. Future minimum lease commitments are as follows:

2001                                              $       115
2002                                                       93
2003                                                       79
2004                                                       70
2005                                                       61
Thereafter                                                185
- ------------------------------------------------ --- -----------
  TOTAL                                           $       603
================================================ === ===========

(D)  TAX MATTERS

The Hartford's  federal income tax returns are routinely audited by the Internal
Revenue  Service  ("IRS").  As of December 31,  2000,  the  Company's  1996-1997
federal income tax returns are under audit by the IRS.  Management believes that
adequate  provision has been made in the financial  statements for any potential
assessments  that may result from tax examinations and other tax related matters
for all open tax years.

During the second quarter of 2000, the Company reached a settlement with the IRS
with respect to certain tax matters for the 1993-1995 tax years.  The settlement
resulted in a $24 tax benefit  being  recorded in the Company's  second  quarter
results of operations.  As of December 31, 2000, the same matter is under review
with the IRS for the 1996-1997 tax years.

(E)  UNFUNDED COMMITMENTS

At December 31, 2000, The Hartford has  outstanding  commitments to fund limited
partnership  investments  totaling $357. These capital commitments can be called
by the partnerships  during the 5-year commitment period to fund working capital
needs or the purchase of new investments.  If the commitment  period expires and
the commitment  has not been fully funded,  The Hartford is not required to fund
the remaining unfunded commitment.

16.  TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES

On December 19, 1995, ITT Corporation ("ITT") distributed all of the outstanding
shares of common stock of The Hartford to the  shareholders  of ITT common stock
("the  Distribution").  As a result of the Distribution,  The Hartford became an
independent publicly traded company. Prior to the Distribution, The Hartford had
substantial dealings with ITT and its affiliates as described below.

The Distribution Agreement entered into by The Hartford, ITT Destinations, Inc.,
and ITT Industries, Inc. (the former ITT subsidiaries) addressed the disposition
of shared liabilities.  A shared liability is defined as a liability arising out
of, or related to, business  conducted by ITT prior to the Distribution that was
not otherwise specifically related to one of the former ITT subsidiaries.  Under
the Distribution Agreement, responsibility for shared liabilities generally will
be borne  equally by each of the former ITT  subsidiaries  (or any  successor to
each  former  ITT  subsidiary),  including  related  attorney's  fees and  other
out-of-pocket  expenses.  As of December 31, 2000, accruals had been established
for liabilities covered by this agreement.

17.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

(A)  SALE OF HARTFORD SEGUROS

On  February  8,  2001,  The  Hartford  completed  the  sale of its  Spain-based
subsidiary,  Hartford Seguros, to Liberty International, a subsidiary of Liberty
Mutual Group. The Hartford received $29 before costs of sale.

(B)  FORTIS ACQUISITION

On January 25, 2001,  The Hartford  agreed to acquire the U.S.  individual  life
insurance,  annuity and mutual fund  businesses  of Fortis,  Inc.  (operating as
Fortis Financial Group, or "Fortis") for $1.12 billion in cash. The Company will
effect the acquisition through several reinsurance  agreements with subsidiaries
of Fortis and the  purchase of 100% of the stock of Fortis  Advisors,  Inc.  and
Fortis  Investors,   Inc.,  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of  Fortis.  The  Fortis
transaction,  which is  subject  to  insurance  regulatory  approval  and  other
customary conditions, is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2001.
The acquisition will be reported as a purchase transaction.

The Company plans to finance the acquisition  through (1) its February 16, 2001,
issuance  of 10  million  shares of common  stock  pursuant  to an  underwritten
offering  under its current  shelf  registration  for net proceeds of $615,  (2)
proceeds from the March 1, 2001, HLI issuance of $400 of senior debt  securities
under HLI's shelf  registration  and (3)  proceeds  from the March 6, 2001,  HLI
issuance of $200 of trust preferred securities under HLI's shelf registration.

                                      F-27

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

18.  SEGMENT INFORMATION

The  Hartford  is  organized  into  two  major  operations:  Worldwide  Life and
Worldwide  Property & Casualty.  Within these operations,  The Hartford conducts
business principally in eight operating segments.  Additionally,  all activities
related to The HLI Repurchase,  the minority interest in HLI for pre-acquisition
periods and The Hartford Bank, FSB are included in Corporate.

Worldwide Life is organized into four reportable operating segments:  Investment
Products,  Individual  Life,  Group Benefits and Corporate  Owned Life Insurance
("COLI").  Investment  Products offers individual  variable and fixed annuities,
mutual funds, retirement plan services and other investment products. Individual
Life  sells a variety  of life  insurance  products,  including  variable  life,
universal life,  interest  sensitive  whole life and term life insurance.  Group
Benefits  sells  group  insurance  products,  including  group  life  and  group
disability  insurance  as  well as  other  products,  including  stop  loss  and
supplementary  medical  coverage to  employers  and  employer  sponsored  plans,
accidental  death and  dismemberment,  travel  accident  and other  special risk
coverages to employers and associations. COLI primarily offers variable products
used by employers to fund non-qualified benefits or other postemployment benefit
obligations as well as leveraged COLI.  Worldwide Life also includes in an Other
category its  international  operations as well as corporate  items not directly
allocable to any of its  reportable  operating  segments,  principally  interest
expense.

Worldwide  Property &  Casualty  is  organized  into four  reportable  operating
segments: the underwriting segments of Commercial, Personal and Reinsurance, and
an International  and Other Operations  segment.  Also reported within Worldwide
Property & Casualty is North American,  which includes the combined underwriting
results of Commercial,  Personal and  Reinsurance  along with income and expense
items not directly  allocable to these segments,  such as net investment income.
The Commercial  segment  provides  primarily  workers'  compensation,  property,
automobile,   liability,  financial  products,  marine,  agricultural  and  bond
coverages  to  commercial  accounts  throughout  the United  States.  Excess and
surplus lines coverages not normally  written by standard lines insurers is also
provided.  The Personal  segment  provides  automobile,  homeowners,  home-based
business and fire  coverages to individuals  throughout  the United States.  The
Reinsurance  segment assumes  reinsurance  worldwide through its thirteen HartRe
offices located in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Italy,
Germany, Spain, Hong Kong and Taiwan. HartRe primarily writes treaty reinsurance
through  professional  reinsurance brokers covering various property,  casualty,
specialty and marine classes of business. International consists of European and
Asian companies offering a variety of insurance products (primarily property and
casualty  products)  designed to meet the needs of local  customers (see Note 17
for subsequent  event) and Other  Operations  consists of operations  which have
ceased writing new business.

While  the  measure  of  profit or loss  used by The  Hartford's  management  in
evaluating  performance is core earnings for its non-underwriting  segments, the
Commercial,  Personal and  Reinsurance  segments are evaluated by The Hartford's
management primarily based upon underwriting results. The Hartford defines "core
earnings"  as  after-tax  operational  results  excluding,  as  applicable,  net
realized capital gains or losses,  the cumulative effect of accounting  changes,
allocated  Distribution  items  (see  Note 16) and  certain  other  items.  Core
earnings  is an  internal  performance  measure  used  by  the  Company  in  the
management of its operations.  While not considered  segments,  the Company also
reports and  evaluates  core earnings  results for Worldwide  Life and Worldwide
Property & Casualty,  including  North American.  Worldwide  Property & Casualty
includes  core  earnings  for North  American  and the  International  and Other
Operations segment.

Certain  transactions  between  segments  occur  during the year that  primarily
relate to tax settlements, insurance coverage, expense reimbursements,  services
provided and capital  contributions.  Certain  reinsurance  stop loss agreements
exist between the segments which specify that one segment will reimburse another
for losses  incurred in excess of a predetermined  limit.  Also, one segment may
purchase  group annuity  contracts  from another to fund pension costs and claim
annuities  to  settle  casualty  claims.  In  addition,   certain   intersegment
transactions occur in Worldwide Life. These transactions include interest income
on allocated surplus and the allocation of net realized capital gains and losses
through net invested income  utilizing the duration of the segment's  investment
portfolios.

The following  tables present revenues and core earnings.  Underwriting  results
are presented for the Commercial,  Personal and Reinsurance  segments while core
earnings are presented for the non-underwriting  segments,  along with Worldwide
Life and Worldwide Property & Casualty, including North American.

                                      F-28

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

18.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)





                                      F-29

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)







                                      F-30

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

19.  ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS

(A)  ACQUISITIONS

On June 27, 2000,  The Hartford  acquired all of the  outstanding  shares of HLI
that it did not already own (for a description of The HLI  Repurchase,  see Note
2).

On August 26, 1998,  HLI  completed  the purchase of all  outstanding  shares of
PLANCO  Financial  Services,   Inc.   ("PLANCO")  and  its  affiliate,   PLANCO,
Incorporated.  PLANCO is a primary  distributor  of HLI's annuity and investment
products.  As a wholesaler,  PLANCO  distributes  HLI's  annuity and  investment
products,  including  fixed and  variable  annuities,  mutual  funds and  single
premium  variable  life  insurance,  as  well  as  providing  sales  support  to
registered  representatives,  financial planners and broker-dealers at brokerage
firms and banks  across the United  States.  The  acquisition  was recorded as a
purchase  transaction and accordingly,  the results of PLANCO's  operations have
been  included in The  Hartford's  consolidated  financial  statements  from the
closing date of the transaction.

On February 12, 1998,  The Hartford  completed  the purchase of all  outstanding
shares  of Omni  Insurance  Group,  Inc.  ("Omni"),  a  holding  company  of two
non-standard auto insurance  subsidiaries licensed in 25 states and the District
of Columbia. The Hartford paid cash of $31.75 per share, plus transaction costs,
for a total of $189. The acquisition was recorded as a purchase  transaction and
accordingly,  the  results  of  Omni's  operations  have  been  included  in The
Hartford's  consolidated  financial  statements  from  the  closing  date of the
transaction.

(B)  DISPOSITIONS

On December 22, 2000, The Hartford  completed the sale of its  Netherlands-based
Zwolsche  subsidiary to Assurances  Generales de France, a subsidiary of Allianz
AG. The Hartford  received $547, before costs of sale, and reported an after-tax
net realized capital gain of $69 related to the transaction. Management used the
proceeds from the sale to reduce  outstanding  commercial paper which was issued
to partially fund The HLI Repurchase.

On  November  16,  1998,   The  Hartford   completed  the  sale  of  its  United
Kingdom-based London & Edinburgh subsidiary. The Hartford received approximately
$525,  before costs of sale, and reported an after-tax net realized capital gain
of $33 related to the  transaction.  The Hartford  retained  ownership of Excess
Insurance  Co. Ltd.,  London & Edinburgh's  property and casualty  insurance and
reinsurance subsidiary, which discontinued writing new business in 1993.



                                      F-31

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                                   SCHEDULE I

          SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS - OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES




                                      S-1

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                                   SCHEDULE II

 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
                                  (REGISTRANT)






                                      S-2

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                                   SCHEDULE II

                       CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF
             THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC. (continued)
                                  (Registrant)






                                      S-3








                                      S-4



                                      S-5





                                      S-6

                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                     THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                                     By:  /s/ John N. Giamalis
                                     -------------------------------------------
                                     John N. Giamalis
                                     Senior Vice President and Controller

Date:  March 23, 2001

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been  signed by the  following  persons in the  capacities  and on the dates
indicated.


    SIGNATURE                         TITLE                            DATE
    ---------                         -----                            ----

/s/ Ramani Ayer               Chairman, President, Chief          March 23, 2001
- ------------------------
Ramani Ayer                  Executive Officer and Director

/s/ Lowndes A. Smith          Vice Chairman and Director          March 23, 2001
- ------------------------
Lowndes A. Smith

/s/ David K. Zwiener             Executive Vice President,        March 23, 2001
- ------------------------
David K. Zwiener          Chief Financial Officer and Director

/s/ John N. Giamalis             Senior Vice President            March 23, 2001
- ------------------------
John N. Giamalis                    and Controller

/s/ Bette B. Anderson                  Director                   March 23, 2001
- ------------------------
Bette B. Anderson

/s/ Rand V. Araskog                    Director                   March 23, 2001
- ------------------------
Rand V. Araskog

/s/ Dina Dublon                        Director                   March 23, 2001
- ------------------------
Dina Dublon

/s/ Donald R. Frahm                    Director                   March 23, 2001
- ------------------------
Donald R. Frahm

/s/ Paul G. Kirk, Jr.                  Director                   March 23, 2001
- ------------------------
Paul G. Kirk, Jr.

/s/ Robert W. Selander                 Director                   March 23, 2001
- ------------------------
Robert W. Selander

/s/ H. Patrick Swygert                 Director                   March 23, 2001
- ------------------------
H. Patrick Swygert

/s/ Gordon I. Ulmer                    Director                   March 23, 2001
- ------------------------
Gordon I. Ulmer


                                      II-1

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000
                                    FORM 10-K

                                 EXHIBITS INDEX

The exhibits attached to this Form 10-K are those which are required by Item 601
of Regulation S-K and which have not been  previously  filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.

EXHIBIT #
- ---------

3.01    Amended  and  Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of The  Hartford
        Financial  Services Group, Inc. ("The Hartford"),  amended effective May
        21, 1998, was filed as Exhibit 3.01 to The Hartford's  Form 10-Q for the
        quarterly  period  ended  June 30,  1998 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

3.02    Amended By-Laws of The Hartford,  amended  effective  February 18, 1999,
        were filed as Exhibit  3.02 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal
        year ended December 31, 1998 and are incorporated herein by reference.

4.01    Amended and Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  and By-Laws of The
        Hartford (included as Exhibits 3.01 and 3.02, respectively).

4.02    Rights  Agreement  dated as of November 1, 1995 between The Hartford and
        The Bank of New York as Rights  agent was filed as  Exhibit  4.02 to The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

4.03    Form of  certificate  of the voting  powers,  preferences  and  relative
        participating,   optional  and  other  special  rights,  qualifications,
        limitations  or  restrictions  of  Series  A  Participating   Cumulative
        Preferred  Stock of The  Hartford  (attached  as Exhibit A to the Rights
        Agreement that is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.02 hereto).

4.04    Form of Right Certificate (attached as Exhibit B to the Rights Agreement
        that is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.02 hereto).

4.05    Indenture  dated as of May 15, 1991  between The  Hartford and The Chase
        Manhattan Bank (National  Association),  as trustee, with respect to The
        Hartford's 8.20% Notes due October 15, 1998, 7.25% Notes due December 1,
        1996, and 8.30% Notes due December 1, 2001 (incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 4(b) to The Hartford's Form 10 filed on May 9, 1991, as amended,
        file no. 0-19277).

4.06    Forms of The  Hartford's  8.20% Notes due October 15, 1998,  7.25% Notes
        due  December 1, 1996 and 8.30% Notes due December 1,  2001(included  in
        the Indenture incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.05 hereto).

4.07    Senior Indenture, dated as of October 20, 1995, between The Hartford and
        The Chase  Manhattan  Bank  (National  Association),  as  trustee,  with
        respect to The  Hartford's  6.375%  Notes Due  November  1, 2002,  7.30%
        Debentures  Due  November 1, 2015 and 6.375%  Notes Due November 1, 2008
        (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.08 to The Hartford's  Report on
        Form 8-K dated November 15, 1995).

4.08    Forms of The  Hartford's  6.375%  Notes Due  November  1, 2002 and 7.30%
        Debentures due November 1, 2015  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibits
        4.09 and 4.10, respectively,  of The Hartford's Report on Form 8-K dated
        November 15, 1995).

4.09    Form of The  Hartford's  6.375%  Notes due November 1, 2008 was filed as
        Exhibit  4.09 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
        December 31, 1998 and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.10    Junior  Subordinated  Indenture,  dated as of February 28, 1996, between
        The Hartford and Wilmington Trust Company,  as Trustee,  with respect to
        The Hartford's 7.70% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures,
        Series A, due  February  28,  2016  ("Junior  Debentures")  was filed as
        Exhibit  4.09 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
        December 31, 1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.11    Supplemental  Indenture  No. 1 dated as of February 28, 1996 between The
        Hartford and Wilmington Trust Company,  as Trustee,  with respect to the
        Junior Debentures, was filed as Exhibit 4.10 to The Hartford's Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is  incorporated  herein
        by reference.

                                      II-2

                       EXHIBITS INDEX (continued)

EXHIBIT #
- ---------

4.12    Form of The Hartford's  7.70% Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest
        Debenture,  Series A, due February 28, 2016  (included in the  Indenture
        incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.10 hereto).

4.13    Amended and Restated  Trust  Agreement  dated as of February 28, 1996 of
        Hartford  Capital I, relating to the 7.70%  Cumulative  Quarterly Income
        Preferred  Securities,  Series A ("Preferred  Securities")  was filed as
        Exhibit  4.12 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
        December 31, 1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.14    Agreement as to Expenses and  Liabilities  dated as of February 28, 1996
        between The Hartford and Hartford Capital I was filed as Exhibit 4.13 to
        The Hartford's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and
        is incorporated herein by reference.

4.15    Preferred  Security  Certificate  for  Hartford  Capital I (included  as
        Exhibit E of the Trust  Agreement  incorporated  by reference as Exhibit
        4.13 hereto).

4.16    Guarantee  Agreement  dated as of February 28, 1996 between The Hartford
        and Wilmington Trust, as trustee,  relating to The Hartford's  guarantee
        of the Preferred Securities, was filed as Exhibit 4.15 to The Hartford's
        Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended   December  31,  1995  and  is
        incorporated herein by reference.

4.17    Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of October 30, 1996, between The
        Hartford and Wilmington Trust Company,  as Trustee,  with respect to The
        Hartford's 8.35% Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest  Debentures,
        Series B, due October 30, 2026 ("Series B Junior  Debentures") was filed
        as Exhibit  4.16 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
        December 31, 1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.18    Form of The Hartford's  8.35% Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest
        Debenture,  Series B, due  October  30, 2026 was filed as Exhibit 4.2 to
        The  Hartford's  Form 8-K dated  November  4,  1996 and is  incorporated
        herein by reference.

4.19    Amended and  Restated  Trust  Agreement  dated as of October 30, 1996 of
        Hartford Capital II, relating to the 8.35%  Cumulative  Quarterly Income
        Preferred  Securities,  Series B, ("Series B Preferred  Securities") was
        filed as Exhibit 4.1 to The  Hartford's  Form 8-K dated November 4, 1996
        and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.20    Agreement  as to Expenses and  Liabilities  dated as of October 30, 1996
        between The Hartford  and Hartford  Capital II (included as Exhibit D of
        Exhibit 4.19 that is incorporated by reference herein).

4.21    Preferred  Security  Certificate  for  Hartford  Capital II (included as
        Exhibit E of Exhibit 4.19 that is incorporated by reference herein).

4.22    Guarantee  Agreement  dated as of October 30, 1996  between The Hartford
        and Wilmington Trust, as trustee,  relating to The Hartford's  guarantee
        of the Series B Preferred  Securities,  was filed as Exhibit 4.21 to The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

4.23    Supplemental  Indenture  No. 1, dated as of December  27,  2000,  to the
        Senior  Indenture  between The Hartford and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
        Trustee,  was  filed  as  Exhibit  4.30 to The  Hartford's  Registration
        Statement on From S-3  (Registration  No. 333-49666) and is incorporated
        herein by reference.

4.24    Form of The  Hartford's  7.75%  Senior  Notes due June 15, 2005 is filed
        herewith.

4.25    Form of The  Hartford's  7.90%  Senior  Notes due June 15, 2010 is filed
        herewith.

10.01   Distribution Agreement among ITT Corporation, ITT Destinations, Inc. and
        The Hartford was filed as Exhibit 10.01 to The Hartford's  Form 10-K for
        the fiscal year ended  December 31, 1995 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

10.02   Intellectual  Property  License  Agreement  among ITT  Corporation,  ITT
        Destinations,  Inc. and The  Hartford was filed as Exhibit  10.02 to The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

10.03   Tax Allocation Agreement among ITT Corporation,  ITT Destinations,  Inc.
        and The Hartford was filed as Exhibit 10.03 to The Hartford's  Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is  incorporated  herein
        by reference.

                                      II-3

                           EXHIBITS INDEX (continued)

EXHIBIT #
- ---------


10.04   Form of Trade  Name and  Service  Mark  License  Agreement  between  ITT
        Corporation  and  The  Hartford  was  filed  as  Exhibit  10.04  to  The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

10.05   License Assignment Agreement among ITT Destinations,  Inc., The Hartford
        and  Nutmeg  Insurance  Company  was  filed  as  Exhibit  10.05  to  The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

10.06   License  Assignment  Agreement  among  ITT  Destinations,  Inc.,  Nutmeg
        Insurance  Company  and  Hartford  Fire  Insurance  Company was filed as
        Exhibit  10.06 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
        December 31, 1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.07   Employee Benefit Services and Liability Agreement among ITT Corporation,
        ITT  Destinations,  Inc. and The Hartford was filed as Exhibit  10.07 to
        The Hartford's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and
        is incorporated herein by reference.

10.08   Debt  allocation  agreement  dated as of  November  1, 1995  between ITT
        Corporation and The Hartford,  and related Fourth Supplemental Indenture
        dated as of November 1, 1995 among ITT  Corporation,  The  Hartford  and
        State Street Bank and Trust Company, as successor trustee, were filed as
        Exhibit  10.10 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
        December 31, 1995 and are incorporated herein by reference.

10.09   Five-Year  Competitive  Advance and Revolving Credit Facility  Agreement
        dated as of December  20,  1996 among The  Hartford,  the Lenders  named
        therein and The Chase Manhattan Bank as  Administrative  Agent was filed
        as Exhibit 10.11 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
        December 31, 1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.10   364 Day  Competitive  Advance and Revolving  Credit  Facility  Agreement
        dated as of December  20,  1996 among The  Hartford,  the lenders  named
        therein and The Chase Manhattan Bank as  Administrative  Agent was filed
        as Exhibit 10.12 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
        December 31, 1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.

*10.11  Employment  Agreement dated July 1, 1997 between The Hartford and Ramani
        Ayer was  filed as  Exhibit  10.01 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-Q for the
        quarterly period ended September 30, 1997 and is incorporated  herein by
        reference.

*10.12  Employment  Agreement  dated July 1, 1997 between  Hartford  Life,  Inc.
        ("Hartford  Life"),  The  Hartford  and  Lowndes  A.  Smith was filed as
        Exhibit 10.02 to The Hartford's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
        September 30, 1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

*10.13  Employment  Agreement  dated July 1, 1997 between The Hartford and David
        K. Zwiener was filed as Exhibit  10.03 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-Q for
        the quarterly period ended September 30, 1997 and is incorporated herein
        by reference.

*10.14  Employment  Agreement dated July 1, 2000 between The Hartford and Thomas
        M. Marra was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-Q for the
        quarterly period ended September 30, 2000 and is incorporated  herein by
        reference.

*10.15  Form of Employment Protection Agreement between The Hartford and certain
        executive  officers of The  Hartford  was filed as Exhibit  10.15 to The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

*10.16  The Hartford 1996 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee  Directors,  as
        amended,  was filed as Exhibit 10.15 to The Hartford's Form 10-K for the
        fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  1998 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

*10.17  The  Hartford  2000  Incentive  Stock Plan dated as of May 18,  2000 was
        filed as  Exhibit  10.1 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-Q for the  quarterly
        period ended June 30, 2000 and is incorporated herein by reference.

*10.18  The Hartford 1996 Deferred  Restricted Stock Unit Plan, as amended,  was
        filed as Exhibit 10.17 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year
        ended December 31, 1998 and is incorporated herein by reference.

*10.19  The Hartford 1996 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended in June 2000,
        is filed herewith.

                                      II-4

                           EXHIBITS INDEX (continued)

EXHIBIT #
- ---------


*10.20  The Hartford 1997 Senior  Executive  Severance Pay Plan I, revised as of
        October 15, 1998, was filed as Exhibit 10.19 to The Hartford's Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 and is  incorporated  herein
        by reference.

*10.21  The Hartford  Executive  Severance  Pay Plan,  revised as of February 1,
        1999,  was filed as Exhibit  10.20 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the
        fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  1998 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

10.22   Master Intercompany Agreement among Hartford Life, The Hartford and with
        respect to  Articles VI and XII,  Hartford  Fire  Insurance  Company was
        filed as  Exhibit  10.01 to  Hartford  Life's  Form  10-Q  filed for the
        quarterly  period  ended  June 30,  1997 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

10.23   Tax Sharing Agreement among The Hartford and its subsidiaries, including
        Hartford Life,  was filed as Exhibit 10.02 to Hartford  Life's Form 10-Q
        filed for the quarterly  period ended June 30, 1997 and is  incorporated
        herein by reference.

10.24   Management  Agreement  between  Hartford Life Insurance  Company and The
        Hartford Investment  Management  Company,  was filed as Exhibit 10.03 to
        Hartford Life's Form 10-Q filed for the quarterly  period ended June 30,
        1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.25   Management  Agreement  among certain  subsidiaries  of Hartford Life and
        Hartford  Investment  Services,  Inc.,  was  filed as  Exhibit  10.04 to
        Hartford Life's Form 10-Q filed for the quarterly  period ended June 30,
        1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.26   Sublease  Agreement between Hartford Fire Insurance Company and Hartford
        Life was filed as Exhibit  10.05 to Hartford  Life's Form 10-Q filed for
        the quarterly  period ended June 30, 1997 and is incorporated  herein by
        reference.

12.01   Statement Re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges is filed
        herewith.

21.01   Subsidiaries of The Hartford  Financial  Services  Group,  Inc. is filed
        herewith.

23.01   Consent of Arthur  Andersen LLP to the  incorporation  by reference into
        The Hartford's  Registration Statements on Forms S-8 and Form S-3 of the
        report of Arthur  Andersen LLP contained in this Form 10-K regarding the
        audited financial statements is filed herewith.


* Management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement.

                                      II-5

                                  EXHIBIT 4.24


         THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL  SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE
HEREINAFTER  REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE  DEPOSITORY  TRUST
COMPANY  OR A  NOMINEE  OF  THE  DEPOSITORY  TRUST  COMPANY.  THIS  SECURITY  IS
EXCHANGEABLE  FOR  SECURITIES  REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE
DEPOSITORY  TRUST  COMPANY  OR ITS  NOMINEE  ONLY IN THE  LIMITED  CIRCUMSTANCES
DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND MAY NOT BE  TRANSFERRED  EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE
DEPOSITORY  TRUST COMPANY TO A NOMINEE OF THE  DEPOSITORY  TRUST COMPANY OR BY A
NOMINEE OF THE  DEPOSITORY  TRUST  COMPANY TO THE  DEPOSITORY  TRUST  COMPANY OR
ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY.

           UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED  REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION  ("DTC"),  TO THE ISSUER
OR ITS AGENT  FOR  REGISTRATION  OF  TRANSFER,  EXCHANGE,  OR  PAYMENT,  AND ANY
CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME
AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED  REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE
TO  CEDE  & CO.  OR TO  SUCH  OTHER  ENTITY  AS IS  REQUESTED  BY AN  AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE  OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER,  PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR
OTHERWISE  BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS  WRONGFUL  INASMUCH  AS THE  REGISTERED  OWNER
HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.


                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                      7.75% Senior Notes due June 15, 2005


No.1                                                                $250,000,000
CUSIP 416515 AD 6


         THE HARTFORD  FINANCIAL  SERVICES  GROUP,  INC.  (formerly ITT Hartford
Group,  Inc.) , a corporation  organized and existing under the laws of Delaware
(hereinafter called the "Company", which term includes any successor corporation
under  the  Indenture  hereinafter  referred  to),  for value  received,  hereby
promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered  assigns,  the principal sum of Two
Hundred  Fifty  Million  Dollars  ($250,000,000)  on June 15,  2005,  and to pay
interest  thereon  from June 16, 2000 or from the most recent  Interest  Payment
Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on June
15 and December 15 in each year,  commencing  December 15, 2000,  at the rate of
7.75% per annum,  on the basis of a 360-day  year  consisting  of twelve

                                     - 1 -

30-day months,  until the principal  hereof is paid or duly provided for or made
available  for  payment,  and (to the extent that the  payment of such  interest
shall be  legally  enforceable)  at the rate of 7.75% per  annum on any  overdue
principal or premium and on any overdue installment of interest. The interest so
payable,  and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date
will,  as provided in such  Indenture,  be paid to the Person in whose name this
Security (or one or more  Predecessor  Securities) is registered at the close of
business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the June 1
or  December  1  (whether  or not a  Business  Day),  as the case  may be,  next
preceding such Interest  Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually  paid
or duly  provided for will  forthwith  cease to be payable to the Holder on such
Regular  Record  Date and may  either be paid to the  person in whose  name this
Security (or one or more  Predecessor  Securities) is registered at the close of
business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted  Interest to
be fixed by the Trustee,  notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities
of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special  Record  Date,  or be
paid  at any  time  in  any  other  lawful  manner  not  inconsistent  with  the
requirements  of any securities  exchange on which the Securities of this series
may be listed and, upon such notice as may be required by such exchange,  all as
more fully provided in said Indenture.

         Payment of the principal of (and premium,  if any) and interest on this
Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that
purpose in The City of New York,  in such coin or currency of the United  States
of America as at the time of payment is legal  tender for  payment of public and
private debts;  provided,  however, that at the option of the Company payment of
                --------   -------
interest  may be made by check  mailed to the  address  of the  Person  entitled
thereto as such address shall appear in the Securities Register.

         Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set
forth on the reverse  hereof,  which further  provisions  shall for all purposes
have the same effect as if set forth at this place.

           Unless the certificate of authentication  hereon has been executed by
the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security
shall  not be  entitled  to any  benefit  under  the  Indenture  or be  valid or
obligatory for any purpose.

                                     - 2 -

           IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

Dated:

                           THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.


      By:
         -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                J. Richard Garrett
                       Senior Vice President and Treasurer

Attest:


________________________________
Michael O' Halloran
Assistant Secretary

                                     - 3 -

                     TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

           This is one of the  Securities  referred  to in the within  mentioned
Indenture.



                                                THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK,
                                                    as Trustee


                                                By:
                                                   -----------------------------
                                                     Authorized officer

                                     - 4 -

                               Reverse of Security

         This  Security is one of a duly  authorized  issue of securities of the
Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more
series under a Senior Indenture, dated as of October 20, 1995 (herein called the
"Indenture"),  between  the Company and The Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as Trustee,
successor to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National  Association) (herein called the
"Trustee",  which term includes any successor  trustee under the Indenture),  to
which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made
for a statement of the  respective  rights,  limitations  of rights,  duties and
immunities  thereunder  of the  Company,  the  Trustee  and the  Holders  of the
Securities  and of the terms  upon  which  the  Securities  are,  and are to be,
authenticated  and delivered.  This Security is one of the series  designated on
the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $250,000,000.

         The Company  may, at its option,  upon not less than 30 days' notice by
mail, redeem the Securities of this series on any Interest Payment Date in whole
at any time or in part  from  time to time at a  redemption  price  equal to any
accrued and unpaid interest plus the greater of the principal  amount thereof or
an amount equal to the Discounted  Remaining Fixed Amount Payments as defined in
the  Indenture.  For purposes of this Security,  the term "Current  Value" shall
mean,  in respect of any amount,  the  present  value of that amount on the date
fixed for redemption  after  discounting  that amount on a semiannual basis from
the originally scheduled date for payment on the basis of the Treasury Rate, all
computed in accordance with generally accepted financial practice.

         In the  event  of  redemption  of this  Security  in part  only,  a new
Security or Securities of this series for the unredeemed  portion hereof will be
issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.

         The  Indenture  contains  provisions  for  satisfaction,  discharge and
defeasance of the entire  indebtedness on this security,  upon compliance by the
Company with certain conditions set forth therein.

         If an Event of Default with respect to  Securities of this series shall
occur and be  continuing,  the principal of the Securities of this series may be
declared  due and  payable in the manner  and with the  effect  provided  in the
Indenture.

         The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the
amendment  thereof and the  modification  of the rights and  obligations  of the
Company  and the rights of the  Holders of the  Securities  of each series to be
affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the
consent of the Holders of a majority in principal  amount of the  Securities  at
the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.  The Indenture also contains
provisions  permitting the Holders of specified  percentages in principal amount
of the  Securities  of each  series  at the time  Outstanding,  on behalf of the
Holders of all  Securities  of such series,  to waive  compliance by the Company
with certain  provisions of the  Indenture  and certain past defaults  under the
Indenture  and their  consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of
this  Security  shall be  conclusive  and binding  upon such Holder and upon all
future Holders of

                                     - 5 -

this  Security  and of any  Security  issued upon the  registration  of transfer
hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such
consent or waiver is made upon this Security.

         No reference  herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security
or of the Indenture  shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company,  which
is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and
interest  on this  Security  at the  times,  place and rate,  and in the coin or
currency, herein prescribed.

         As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth,  the  transfer of this  Security  is  registrable  in the  Securities
Register,  upon surrender of this Security for  registration  of transfer at the
office or agency  of the  Company  in any  place  where  the  principal  of (and
premium, if any) and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or
accompanied  by a written  instrument  of transfer in form  satisfactory  to the
Company and the Securities  Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his
attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of
this series, of authorized  denominations  and for the same aggregate  principal
amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.

         The  Securities  of this series are issuable  only in  registered  form
without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As
provided in the Indenture and subject to certain  limitations therein set forth,
Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount
of  Securities  of  this  series  of a  different  authorized  denomination,  as
requested by the Holder surrendering the same.

         No service charge shall be made for any such  registration  of transfer
or exchange,  but the Company may require  payment of a sum  sufficient to cover
any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.

         Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer,
the  Company,  the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat
the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all
purposes,  whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the
Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.

           All terms used in this  Security  which are defined in the  Indenture
shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

                                     - 6 -

                                                  EXHIBIT 4.25



         THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL  SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE
HEREINAFTER  REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE  DEPOSITORY  TRUST
COMPANY  OR A  NOMINEE  OF  THE  DEPOSITORY  TRUST  COMPANY.  THIS  SECURITY  IS
EXCHANGEABLE  FOR  SECURITIES  REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE
DEPOSITORY  TRUST  COMPANY  OR ITS  NOMINEE  ONLY IN THE  LIMITED  CIRCUMSTANCES
DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND MAY NOT BE  TRANSFERRED  EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE
DEPOSITORY  TRUST COMPANY TO A NOMINEE OF THE  DEPOSITORY  TRUST COMPANY OR BY A
NOMINEE OF THE  DEPOSITORY  TRUST  COMPANY TO THE  DEPOSITORY  TRUST  COMPANY OR
ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY.

           UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED  REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION  ("DTC"),  TO THE ISSUER
OR ITS AGENT  FOR  REGISTRATION  OF  TRANSFER,  EXCHANGE,  OR  PAYMENT,  AND ANY
CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME
AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED  REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE
TO  CEDE  & CO.  OR TO  SUCH  OTHER  ENTITY  AS IS  REQUESTED  BY AN  AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE  OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER,  PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR
OTHERWISE  BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS  WRONGFUL  INASMUCH  AS THE  REGISTERED  OWNER
HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.


                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                      7.90% Senior Notes due June 15, 2010


No.1                                                                $275,000,000
CUSIP 416515 AE 4


         THE HARTFORD  FINANCIAL  SERVICES  GROUP,  INC.  (formerly ITT Hartford
Group,  Inc.) , a corporation  organized and existing under the laws of Delaware
(hereinafter called the "Company", which term includes any successor corporation
under  the  Indenture  hereinafter  referred  to),  for value  received,  hereby
promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered  assigns,  the principal sum of Two
Hundred Seventy-Five Million Dollars ($275,000,000) on June 15, 2010, and to pay
interest  thereon  from June 16, 2000 or from the most recent  Interest  Payment
Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on June
15 and December 15 in each year,  commencing  December 15, 2000,  at the rate of
7.90% per annum,  on the basis of a 360-day  year

                                     - 7 -

consisting of twelve 30-day months,  until the principal  hereof is paid or duly
provided for or made available for payment,  and (to the extent that the payment
of such interest shall be legally enforceable) at the rate of 7.90% per annum on
any overdue principal or premium and on any overdue installment of interest. The
interest so payable,  and punctually  paid or duly provided for, on any Interest
Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose
name this Security (or one or more Predecessor  Securities) is registered at the
close of business on the Regular Record Date for such  interest,  which shall be
the June 1 or  December 1 (whether or not a Business  Day),  as the case may be,
next preceding  such Interest  Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually
paid or duly  provided for will  forthwith  cease to be payable to the Holder on
such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the person in whose name this
Security (or one or more  Predecessor  Securities) is registered at the close of
business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted  Interest to
be fixed by the Trustee,  notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities
of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special  Record  Date,  or be
paid  at any  time  in  any  other  lawful  manner  not  inconsistent  with  the
requirements  of any securities  exchange on which the Securities of this series
may be listed and, upon such notice as may be required by such exchange,  all as
more fully provided in said Indenture.

         Payment of the principal of (and premium,  if any) and interest on this
Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that
purpose in the City of New York,  in such coin or currency of the United  States
of America as at the time of payment is legal  tender for  payment of public and
private debts;  provided,  however, that at the option of the Company payment of
                --------  --------
interest  may be made by check  mailed to the  address  of the  Person  entitled
thereto as such address shall appear in the Securities Register.

         Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set
forth on the reverse  hereof,  which further  provisions  shall for all purposes
have the same effect as if set forth at this place.

           Unless the certificate of authentication  hereon has been executed by
the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security
shall  not be  entitled  to any  benefit  under  the  Indenture  or be  valid or
obligatory for any purpose.

                                     - 8 -

           IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

Dated:

                           THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.


      By:
         -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                J. Richard Garrett
                       Senior Vice President and Treasurer

Attest:


_______________________________
Michael O' Halloran
Assistant Secretary

                                     - 9 -

                     TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

           This is one of the  Securities  referred  to in the within  mentioned
Indenture.



                                                THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK,
                                                    as Trustee


                                                By:
                                                   -----------------------------
                                                     Authorized officer

                                     - 10 -

                               Reverse of Security

         This  Security is one of a duly  authorized  issue of securities of the
Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more
series under a Senior Indenture, dated as of October 20, 1995 (herein called the
"Indenture"),  between  the Company and The Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as Trustee,
successor to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National  Association) (herein called the
"Trustee",  which term includes any successor  trustee under the Indenture),  to
which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made
for a statement of the  respective  rights,  limitations  of rights,  duties and
immunities  thereunder  of the  Company,  the  Trustee  and the  Holders  of the
Securities  and of the terms  upon  which  the  Securities  are,  and are to be,
authenticated  and delivered.  This Security is one of the series  designated on
the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $275,000,000.

         The Company  may, at its option,  upon not less than 30 days' notice by
mail, redeem the Securities of this series on any Interest Payment Date in whole
at any time or in part  from  time to time at a  redemption  price  equal to any
accrued and unpaid interest plus the greater of the principal  amount thereof or
an amount equal to the Discounted  Remaining Fixed Amount Payments as defined in
the Indenture,  except that,  for purposes of this  Security,  the term "Current
Value" shall mean, in respect of any amount, the present value of that amount on
the date fixed for  redemption  after  discounting  that amount on a  semiannual
basis  from the  originally  scheduled  date  for  payment  on the  basis of the
Treasury Rate plus 10 basis points,  all computed in accordance  with  generally
accepted financial practice.

         In the  event  of  redemption  of this  Security  in part  only,  a new
Security or Securities of this series for the unredeemed  portion hereof will be
issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.

         The  Indenture  contains  provisions  for  satisfaction,  discharge and
defeasance of the entire  indebtedness on this security,  upon compliance by the
Company with certain conditions set forth therein.

         If an Event of Default with respect to  Securities of this series shall
occur and be  continuing,  the principal of the Securities of this series may be
declared  due and  payable in the manner  and with the  effect  provided  in the
Indenture.

         The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the
amendment  thereof and the  modification  of the rights and  obligations  of the
Company  and the rights of the  Holders of the  Securities  of each series to be
affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the
consent of the Holders of a majority in principal  amount of the  Securities  at
the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.  The Indenture also contains
provisions  permitting the Holders of specified  percentages in principal amount
of the  Securities  of each  series  at the time  Outstanding,  on behalf of the
Holders of all  Securities  of such series,  to waive  compliance by the Company
with certain  provisions of the  Indenture  and certain past defaults  under the
Indenture  and their  consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of
this

                                     - 11 -

Security  shall be  conclusive  and binding upon such Holder and upon all future
Holders of this  Security and of any Security  issued upon the  registration  of
transfer  hereof  or in  exchange  herefor  or in lieu  hereof,  whether  or not
notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.

         No reference  herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security
or of the Indenture  shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company,  which
is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and
interest  on this  Security  at the  times,  place and rate,  and in the coin or
currency, herein prescribed.

         As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth,  the  transfer of this  Security  is  registrable  in the  Securities
Register,  upon surrender of this Security for  registration  of transfer at the
office or agency  of the  Company  in any  place  where  the  principal  of (and
premium, if any) and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or
accompanied  by a written  instrument  of transfer in form  satisfactory  to the
Company and the Securities  Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his
attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of
this series, of authorized  denominations  and for the same aggregate  principal
amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.

         The  Securities  of this series are issuable  only in  registered  form
without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As
provided in the Indenture and subject to certain  limitations therein set forth,
Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount
of  Securities  of  this  series  of a  different  authorized  denomination,  as
requested by the Holder surrendering the same.

         No service charge shall be made for any such  registration  of transfer
or exchange,  but the Company may require  payment of a sum  sufficient to cover
any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.

         Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer,
the  Company,  the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat
the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all
purposes,  whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the
Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.

           All terms used in this  Security  which are defined in the  Indenture
shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

                                     - 12 -


                                  EXHIBIT 10.19

                  THE HARTFORD 1996 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN


                                    ARTICLE I
                                     PURPOSE

1.1 PURPOSE.  The purpose of the Plan is to provide,  in the  discretion  of the
Committee,  an  opportunity  for certain Key  Employees  to defer the receipt of
certain  Eligible  Compensation  to the  extent  provided  herein.  The  Plan is
intended  to  constitute  an  unfunded  and  unsecured   deferred   compensation
arrangement for a select group of management or highly compensated employees for
purposes of ERISA. The Plan restates the terms of certain unfunded and unsecured
deferred  compensation  arrangements  established  for  such  employees  by  ITT
Corporation  and The Hartford in 1994 and 1995, and continued by The Hartford to
the extent provided hereunder. Capitalized terms used in the Plan shall have the
meanings provided herein.


                                   ARTICLE II
                                   DEFINITIONS

The following terms shall have the following meanings for purposes of the Plan:

"ACCOUNT"  means the account  maintained on behalf of a Participant  pursuant to
 -------
the Plan.

"ACT" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 ---

"BENEFICIAL  OWNER" means any Person who, directly or indirectly,  has the right
 -----------------
to vote or dispose of or has "beneficial  ownership" (within the meaning of Rule
13d-3 under the Act) of any  securities  of a company,  including any such right
pursuant  to any  agreement,  arrangement  or  understanding  (whether or not in
writing),  provided that: (A) a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial  Owner
           -------------
of any security as a result of an agreement,  arrangement  or  understanding  to
vote such security (i) arising solely from a revocable proxy or consent given in
response to a public  proxy or consent  solicitation  made  pursuant  to, and in
accordance with, the Act and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder, or
(ii) made in connection with, or to otherwise participate in, a proxy or consent
solicitation  made,  or to be made,  pursuant to, and in  accordance  with,  the
applicable  provisions  of the Act  and the  applicable  rules  and  regulations
thereunder, in either case described in clause (i) or (ii) above, whether or not
such  agreement,  arrangement or  understanding  is also then reportable by such
Person on Schedule 13D under the Act (or any  comparable  or successor  report);
and (B) a Person engaged in business as an  underwriter of securities  shall not
be deemed to be the  Beneficial  Owner of any  security  acquired  through  such
Person's participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the
expiration of forty days after the date of such acquisition.

"BOARD OF  DIRECTORS"  means the Board of Directors  of The  Hartford  Financial
 -------------------
Services Group, Inc.



June, 2000


                                     Page 2

"CHANGE OF CONTROL" means:
 -----------------

         (A) a report on  Schedule  13D shall be filed with the  Securities  and
         Exchange  Commission  pursuant to Section  13(d) of the Act  disclosing
         that  any  Person,  other  than The  Hartford  or a  subsidiary  of The
         Hartford or any employee  benefit  plan  sponsored by The Hartford or a
         subsidiary  of  The  Hartford,  is the  Beneficial  Owner  directly  or
         indirectly of twenty  percent or more of the  outstanding  stock of The
         Hartford entitled to vote in the election of directors of The Hartford;

         (B) any Person, other than The Hartford or a subsidiary of The Hartford
         or any employee  benefit plan sponsored by The Hartford or a subsidiary
         of The Hartford,  shall purchase  shares  pursuant to a tender offer or
         exchange  offer to acquire  any stock of The  Hartford  (or  securities
         convertible   into   stock)   for   cash,   securities   or  any  other
         consideration,  provided  that after  consummation  of the  offer,  the
         Person in question is the Beneficial  Owner of fifteen  percent or more
         of the  outstanding  stock  of The  Hartford  entitled  to  vote in the
         election  of  directors  of The  Hartford  (calculated  as  provided in
         paragraph  (d) of Rule  13d-3  under  the Act in the case of  rights to
         acquire stock);

         (C)  the   stockholders   of  The  Hartford   shall   approve  (1)  any
         consolidation  or merger in which The Hartford is not the continuing or
         surviving  corporation  or  pursuant  to which  shares  of stock of The
         Hartford  entitled to vote in the election of directors of The Hartford
         would be converted into cash, securities or other property,  other than
         a  consolidation  or merger of The  Hartford  in which  holders of such
         stock of The Hartford  immediately prior to the consolidation or merger
         have  the  same  proportionate  ownership  of  stock  of the  surviving
         corporation  entitled to vote in the election of directors  immediately
         after the  consolidation  or merger as immediately  before,  or (2) any
         sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series
         of related  transactions) of all or substantially all the assets of The
         Hartford; or

         (D) within any 12 month period,  the persons who were  directors of The
         Hartford   immediately   before  the  beginning  of  such  period  (the
         "Incumbent  Directors  of The  Hartford")  shall  cease (for any reason
         other than  death) to  constitute  at least a majority  of the board of
         directors of The Hartford or the board of directors of any successor to
         The Hartford,  provided that any director of The Hartford who was not a
         director of The  Hartford  at the  beginning  of such  period  shall be
         deemed to be an Incumbent Director of The Hartford if such director (1)
         was elected to the board of  directors  of The  Hartford  by, or on the
         recommendation  of or with the approval of, at least  two-thirds of the
         directors of The Hartford who then qualified as Incumbent  Directors of
         The Hartford  either actually or by prior operation of this clause (D),
         and  (2)  was not  designated  by a  Person  who  has  entered  into an
         agreement  with The Hartford to effect a  transaction  described in the
         immediately preceding clause (C) hereof.

"COMMITTEE"  means the  Compensation  and  Personnel  Committee  of the Board of
 ---------
Directors,  or such other Committee as the Board may designate to administer the
Plan pursuant to Article VII.

                                     Page 3

"ELIGIBLE  COMPENSATION" means the amount of compensation of a Key Employee,  if
 ----------------------
any, designated by the Committee in its sole discretion as eligible for deferral
under the Plan, which may include (A) the cash amount,  if any, which may become
payable to a Key Employee pursuant to a Participating  Company's executive bonus
program, (B) the cash amount, if any, which may become payable to a Key Employee
pursuant to a Participating  Company's life sales incentive payment program, and
(C)  the  amount  of  any  such  other  compensation  of  a  Key  Employee  of a
Participating  Company as the  Committee  may deem  appropriate  for deferral in
accordance with the Plan.

"ERISA" means the Employee  Retirement  Income  Security Act of 1974, as amended
 -----
from time to time.

"INCENTIVE  STOCK PLAN" means The Hartford 1995 Incentive  Stock Plan, as may be
 ---------------------
amended from time to time, and any successor Plan thereto.

"INVESTMENT AND SAVINGS PLAN" means The Hartford Investment and Savings Plan, as
 ---------------------------
may be amended from time to time, and any successor Plan thereto.

"KEY EMPLOYEE" shall have the meaning assigned by the Incentive Stock Plan.
 ------------

"PARTICIPANT"  means a Key Employee who properly  elects to  participate  in the
 -----------
Plan pursuant to Article III.

"PARTICIPATING  COMPANY" shall have the meaning  assigned by the Incentive Stock
 ----------------------
Plan.

"PERSON" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Act, as
 ------
supplemented  by Section  13(d)(3) of the Act;  provided,  however,  that Person
shall not include (A) The Hartford, any subsidiary of The Hartford or any Person
controlled  by  The  Hartford,  (B)  any  trustee  or  other  fiduciary  holding
securities  under any employee benefit plan of The Hartford or of any subsidiary
of The Hartford,  or (C) a corporation  owned,  directly or  indirectly,  by the
stockholders  of The Hartford in  substantially  the same  proportions  as their
respective ownership of securities of The Hartford.

"PHANTOM  FUND"  means a mutual fund or other  investment  vehicle or measure or
 -------------
index of  investment  performance  selected by the  Committee to  determine  the
hypothetical  investment  experience of Participant Accounts pursuant to Article
IV.

"PLAN" means this plan, The Hartford 1996 Deferred  Compensation Plan, as may be
 ----
amended from time to time.

"PLAN ADMINISTRATOR" shall have the meaning assigned by Article VII of the Plan.
 ------------------

                                     Page 4

"THE HARTFORD" means The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., or a successor
 ------------
by merger, purchase or otherwise.

"VALUATION  DATE" means the last  business  day of each  calendar  quarter in an
 ---------------
applicable  calendar  year,  or such other date as may be designated by the Plan
Administrator.


                                   ARTICLE III
                                  PARTICIPATION

3.1  ELECTION TO  PARTICIPATE.  A Key  Employee of a  Participating  Company may
     ------------------------
participate  in the Plan by filing a properly  completed  election form (or such
other authorization as the Plan Administrator may require) with the party and by
the date designated by the Plan Administrator. The election of a Key Employee in
accordance  with this Article III shall apply only to the Eligible  Compensation
as to which the  election  is made,  and shall  have the  effect,  to the extent
provided herein, of deferring the payment of such Eligible  Compensation  beyond
the date that it might  otherwise have become payable to the  Participant.  Such
election  shall  be  irrevocable,  except  to  the  extent  provided  herein  or
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.

3.2 FORM OF ELECTION.  The election form filed by a Participant pursuant to this
    ----------------
Article  III  shall  (A)  identify  a  portion  of  the  Participant's  Eligible
Compensation that may become payable with respect to the Participant's services,
(B) contain the  Participant's  election to defer the payment of such portion of
such  Eligible  Compensation  that  is  determinable  for  tax  purposes  in the
following  calendar  year in  accordance  with the  terms of the  Plan,  and (C)
contain such other information as the Plan Administrator may require.

3.3 MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM AMOUNTS REQUIRED FOR PARTICIPATION. The Committee or the
    ------------------------------------------------------
Plan  Administrator  may  designate  a maximum  and a minimum  portion  of a Key
Employee's  Eligible  Compensation,  in terms of a  percentage  or other  amount
thereof, as to which an election may be made hereunder.

3.4 NULLIFICATION OF ELECTION.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary,
    -------------------------
any election made by a Key Employee  hereunder  shall be deemed null and void to
the extent that (A) the Eligible  Compensation as to which the election  applies
is designated by the Committee,  in its sole discretion,  as not payable to such
Key Employee,  (B) such election applies to Eligible Compensation payable during
the 12 month  period  during  which the Key Employee  ceases  savings  under the
Investment and Savings Plan as a result of receiving a hardship withdrawal under
that Plan, or (C) the Committee so determines in its sole discretion.

3.5  ESTABLISHMENT  OF PARTICIPANT  ACCOUNTS.  An account shall be maintained on
     ---------------------------------------
behalf  of each  Participant  on the  books of The  Hartford.  Amounts  shall be
credited to or debited  from a  Participant's  Account as provided in Article V.
The Plan Administrator  shall cause each  Participant's  Account to be valued on
the applicable  Valuation Date, and shall cause records indicating such value

                                     Page 5

to be  maintained.  When an event  requires  a  determination  of the value of a
Participant's  Account,  such value shall be determined as of the Valuation Date
coincident  with or next  succeeding  the  date of such  event.  The  value of a
Participant's  Account shall be reported to the Participant from time to time as
determined appropriate by the Plan Administrator.

3.6  OBTAINING  OF LIFE  INSURANCE  POLICIES.  As a condition  of  participation
     ---------------------------------------
hereunder,  the Committee may require that a Participant  provide  assistance in
obtaining a life insurance policy on the life of such  Participant,  such policy
to be solely owned by, and solely payable to, The Hartford (or such other entity
as may be designated by the Committee).  Such Participant may be required to (A)
complete an application for life insurance, (B) furnish underwriting information
(including but not limited to submitting to medical examinations by an insurance
company  approved  examiner),  (C)  authorize  the release of the  Participant's
medical history to an insurance company underwriter,  and (D) provide such other
information and take such other actions  relating to such life insurance  policy
as may be required by the Plan  Administrator.  A Participant  as to whom a life
insurance  policy is  obtained  hereunder  shall have no right to or interest in
such policy or the proceeds thereof.

3.7 TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION. The participation of a Participant in the Plan
    ----------------------------
shall terminate on the earlier of (A) the date that all amounts  credited to the
Participant's  Account have been distributed  pursuant to the Plan, (B) the date
of  termination  of the Plan, or (C) such other date as may be designated by the
Committee.


                                   ARTICLE IV
                       PHANTOM FUND INVESTMENT ALLOCATIONS

4.1 SELECTION OF PHANTOM FUNDS.  The Committee  shall select one or more Phantom
    --------------------------
Funds to which a Participant may elect pursuant to the Plan to allocate all or a
portion of the amount then and thereafter credited to the Participant's Account.
To the extent provided  herein,  such Phantom Funds shall be used to measure the
hypothetical  investment  experience of the portion of a  Participant's  Account
that the Participant  properly elects to have allocated  thereto.  The Committee
may  change  the  selection  of  Phantom  Funds  from  time to time in its  sole
discretion.  The  selection  of any such  Phantom  Funds  shall not  require the
Company to invest or earmark any of its assets in any specific manner.

4.2  INVESTMENT  ALLOCATION  ELECTION.  To the  extent  permitted  by  the  Plan
     --------------------------------
Administrator,  a Participant  may elect to have the amount then and  thereafter
credited to his or her Account allocated among one or more of the Phantom Funds.
Such  election  shall be made by filing a properly  completed  election form (or
such other  authorization as the Plan  Administrator may require) with the party
and by the date designated by the Plan Administrator. Such election shall result
in the  investment  experience of an elected  Phantom Fund being used to measure
the  hypothetical  investment  experience  of  the  particular  portion  of  the
Participant's Account allocated to that Phantom Fund as provided herein.

                                     Page 6



                                     Page 7

4.3  CHANGES  IN  INVESTMENT  ALLOCATION.  To the extent  permitted  by the Plan
     -----------------------------------
Administrator,  a Participant  may change the investment  allocation  previously
elected by filing a properly completed change form (or such other  authorization
as the Plan Administrator may require) with the party and by the date designated
by the Plan Administrator. Such change shall be effective as soon as practicable
after the  Valuation  Date  coincident  with or next  succeeding  receipt of the
timely filed change form by the  designated  party (or such other date as may be
designated by the Plan  Administrator),  and shall apply to all amounts then and
thereafter credited to the Participant's Account.

4.4 FAILURE TO MAKE PROPER  ELECTION.  In the event that a Participant  does not
    --------------------------------
make a proper election  pursuant to this Article IV, such  Participant  shall be
deemed to have elected to have the entire amount (as to which no proper election
is made) then and thereafter credited to the Participant's  Account allocated to
the Phantom Fund that the Plan  Administrator  determines  generally to have the
least risk of loss of principal.

4.5  LIMITATIONS  ON  INVESTMENT  ALLOCATION.  The  Plan  Administrator  may (A)
     ---------------------------------------
establish a minimum  and/or a maximum  portion of a  Participant's  Account,  in
terms of a percentage or other amount  thereof,  that a Participant may elect to
allocate to a particular  Phantom Fund  hereunder,  (B) preclude any Participant
who is an executive officer of the Company from allocating any portion of his or
her Account to a Phantom Fund with an investment experience determined primarily
in relation to the investment  performance of securities  issued by the Company,
and (C) establish such other  limitations on investment  allocations as the Plan
Administrator may deem appropriate.

4.6 NO ACTUAL INVESTMENT.  Notwithstanding  anything herein to the contrary,  no
    --------------------
amount of Eligible  Compensation as to which an election is made hereunder,  and
no amount credited to a Participant's Account pursuant to the Plan, shall be set
aside or  invested in any actual  fund on behalf of the  Participant,  provided,
however,  that  nothing in the Plan shall be  construed  to preclude the Company
from directly or indirectly making investments for its own account in any actual
investment vehicle corresponding to the Phantom Funds (or otherwise) in order to
assist the Company in meeting its obligations hereunder, or for any other reason
whatsoever. No Participant or any other person or entity shall have by reason of
the Plan any right to or in any such investment made by the Company.

                                    ARTICLE V
                 CREDITING AND DEBITING OF PARTICIPANT ACCOUNTS

5.1 CREDITING OF ELIGIBLE  COMPENSATION.  Eligible  Compensation as to which the
    -----------------------------------
Participant  makes an election in accordance  with the Plan shall be credited to
the Participant's Account as of the last day of the month in which such Eligible
Compensation would otherwise have been paid to the Participant.

5.2 CREDITING AND/OR DEBITING OF PHANTOM FUND INVESTMENT  EXPERIENCE.  As of any
    ----------------------------------------------------------------
particular  Valuation  Date upon which an amount is credited to a  Participant's
Account,  such Account shall be

                                     Page 8

credited  or  debited,  as  the  case  may  be,  with  an  amount  equal  to the
hypothetical  net  investment  gain or loss that  such  Participant  would  have
realized if the portion of his or her Account  properly  elected to be allocated
to a particular  Phantom Fund pursuant to Article IV were  actually  invested in
such Phantom Fund during the period beginning with the preceding  Valuation Date
and ending upon such  particular  Valuation Date (or such other period as may be
designated by the Plan Administrator).

5.3  DEBITING  OF   DISTRIBUTIONS.   The  amount  of  any  distribution  from  a
     ----------------------------
Participant's   Account   pursuant  to  the  Plan  shall  be  debited  from  the
Participant's  Account  as  of  the  Valuation  Date  coincident  with  or  next
succeeding the date of such distribution.

5.4 DEBITING OF ADMINISTRATIVE  EXPENSES. The Participant's  allocable share (as
    ------------------------------------
determined by the Plan Administrator) of any administrative  expenses related to
the operation of the Plan that are  determined by the Committee to be payable by
Participants shall be debited from the Participant's Account as of the Valuation
Date  coincident  with or next  succeeding the date upon which such expenses are
incurred.

5.5 VESTING OF CREDITED  AMOUNTS.  The rights of a Participant  in regard to the
    ----------------------------
amounts credited to the Participant's Account hereunder shall be fully vested at
all times.


                                   ARTICLE VI
                     DISTRIBUTIONS FROM PARTICIPANT ACCOUNTS

6.1  DISTRIBUTION  ELECTION.  A  Participant  may  elect,  by filing a  properly
     ----------------------
completed  election form (or such other  authorization as the Plan Administrator
may  require)   with  the  party  and  by  the  date   designated  by  the  Plan
Administrator,  to have the total amount credited to the  Participant's  Account
distributed  to  him or her on a date  and in a  manner  permitted  by the  Plan
Administrator.  Distributions  from a  Participant's  Account  shall  be made in
accordance with the date and manner of  distribution  elected by the Participant
hereunder,  except  to the  extent  that  a  different  date  and/or  manner  of
distribution is required pursuant to the Plan.  Distributions made in accordance
with a Participant's  distribution election shall be made as soon as practicable
after  the  Valuation  Date  coincident  with or  next  succeeding  the  date of
distribution  elected  by the  Participant.  A  Participant  who does not file a
properly completed election form in accordance with this Section shall be deemed
to have elected to have such amount  distributed to the  Participant in a single
lump sum cash payment as soon as practicable after the Valuation Date coincident
with  or  next  succeeding  the  date  the  Participant's  employment  with  all
Participating  Companies  terminates.  The  election  or  deemed  election  by a
Participant  of a  distribution  date and manner  pursuant to this Section shall
apply to all amounts then and  thereafter  credited to a  Participant's  Account
under the Plan, and shall be irrevocable except to the extent otherwise provided
herein or permitted in the discretion of the Committee or the Plan Administrator
to the extent determined consistent with applicable tax laws.

                                     Page 9

6.2 DISTRIBUTION IN THE EVENT OF HARDSHIP.  A Participant may request a hardship
    -------------------------------------
distribution  from his or her  Account by filing a properly  completed  hardship
distribution  form (or such other  authorization as the Plan  Administrator  may
require) by the date and with the party  designated  by the Plan  Administrator.
The Plan  Administrator  may, if it determines  that a severe and  unforeseeable
financial hardship on the part of the Participant exists,  permit a distribution
to the  Participant of an amount credited to the  Participant's  Account that is
reasonably  necessary to meet such  hardship,  including  any amount  reasonably
necessary to pay any income or other taxes resulting from such distribution.

6.3 DISTRIBUTION  UPON TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.  As soon as practicable  after
    --------------------------------------------
the  Valuation  Date  coincident  with  or  next  succeeding  the  date  that  a
Participant's  employment with all  Participating  Companies  terminates for any
reason other than Retirement,  the Company shall distribute to the Participant a
single  lump  sum  cash  payment  equal  to the  total  amount  credited  to the
Participant's Account as of such Valuation Date.

6.4  DISTRIBUTION  IN THE EVENT OF A TERMINATION  OF THE PLAN. In the event of a
     --------------------------------------------------------
termination of the Plan, the entire amount credited to a  Participant's  Account
as of the Valuation Date  coincident with or next succeeding such event shall be
distributed  to the  Participant  in a single  lump sum cash  payment as soon as
practicable after such Valuation Date.

6.5  DISTRIBUTION TO FIDUCIARY.  If the Plan  Administrator  determines that any
     -------------------------
person to whom any amount is otherwise distributable hereunder is unable to care
for his or her affairs,  such amount  (unless a prior claim  therefor shall have
been made by a duly appointed guardian, committee or other legal representative)
may be distributed to any person  determined by the Plan  Administrator  to have
fiduciary  responsibility  for such person otherwise entitled to such amount, in
such manner and proportions as the Plan Administrator may deem appropriate.  Any
such distribution shall constitute a complete discharge of any obligation of the
Company to such person under the Plan.

6.6 DISTRIBUTION IN THE EVENT OF DEATH.  Notwithstanding  anything herein to the
    ----------------------------------
contrary,  in the event of a Participant's  death, the entire amount credited to
the  Participant's  Account as of the  Valuation  Date  coincident  with or next
succeeding the date of the Participant's  death shall be distributed in a single
lump sum cash payment as soon as practicable after such Valuation Date to one or
more  beneficiaries,  if any, properly designated by the Participant by the date
and in the manner required by the Plan Administrator. If (A) no such designation
is in  effect  at  the  time  of the  Participant's  death,  (B)  no  designated
beneficiary survives the Participant, or (C) any beneficiary designation made by
the Participant  conflicts with applicable law, such amount shall be paid to the
Participant's estate as soon as practicable after such Valuation Date.

6.7  DISTRIBUTION UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF A CHANGE OF CONTROL.
     -------------------------------------------------------

         (A)  DISTRIBUTION  OF  ACCOUNTS.  Upon the  occurrence  of a Change  of
              --------------------------
         Control,  all Participants  shall be paid single lump sum cash payments
         equal to the entire amount credited

                                    Page 10

         to their  respective  Accounts  as of the date of such occurrence, such
         payments  to be made  immediately  following the date of such Change of
         Control.

         (B) EXCEPTION FOR PRIOR ELECTION.  Notwithstanding Section 6.7(A), if a
             ----------------------------
         Participant who is an employed by a Participating  Company  immediately
         prior to a Change of Control  has made a prior  valid  election  to not
         receive a lump sum distribution of his or her Account (and therefore to
         continue participating in the Plan) upon a Change of Control, then such
         Participant's  Account  shall not be so  distributed  and shall (to the
         extent permitted by the Plan) continue to be maintained under the Plan,
         and  any  such  Participant's  Account  shall  be  distributed  to such
         Participant at the time and in the form otherwise required by the Plan.

         (C) DEATH  PRIOR TO  RECEIPT OF  PAYMENT.  In the event of the death of
             ------------------------------------
         such a  Participant  before  receiving  a payment  required  by Section
         6.7(A)  hereof,  such payment shall be made  immediately  following the
         date of the  occurrence  of the Change of Control to the  individual or
         entity who would have  received  payment  hereunder in the absence of a
         Change of Control.

6.8 DISTRIBUTION IN OTHER CIRCUMSTANCES. The Committee may determine in its sole
    -----------------------------------
discretion that a distribution of an amount credited to a Participant's  Account
is  appropriate  under  the  circumstances.  As soon as  practicable  after  the
Valuation  Date  coincident  with  or  next  succeeding  the  date  of any  such
determination,  the Company shall distribute such amount to the Participant in a
single lump sum cash payment (or in such other  manner of payment as  determined
appropriate by the Committee).


                                   ARTICLE VII
                                 ADMINISTRATION

7.1 ADMINISTRATION BY COMMITTEE.  Except as otherwise delegated by the Committee
    ---------------------------
pursuant to the Plan, (A) the Plan shall be administered  by the Committee,  (B)
the Committee shall have full authority to administer and interpret this Plan in
any  manner  it  deems   appropriate  in  its  sole  discretion,   and  (C)  the
determinations  of the  Committee  shall be binding on and  conclusive as to all
parties.

7.2 DELEGATION OF CERTAIN AUTHORITY TO PLAN  ADMINISTRATOR.  Except as otherwise
    ------------------------------------------------------
provided by the Committee in accordance  with the Plan,  the Plan  Administrator
shall be The Hartford's  Group Senior Vice President,  Human Resources (or other
person  holding  a  similar  position).  Except as  otherwise  provided  herein,
required  by  applicable  law,  or  determined  by the  Committee,  (A) the Plan
Administrator  shall be responsible for the  performance of such  administrative
duties under this Plan that are not  otherwise  reserved to the Committee by the
Plan,  (B) the Plan  Administrator  shall have full  authority to administer and
interpret this Plan in any manner it deems  appropriate in its sole  discretion,
and (C) the  determinations  of the  Plan  Administrator  shall be  binding  and
conclusive as to all parties.

                                    Page 11

7.3  LIABILITY  AND  INDEMNIFICATION  OF COMMITTEE  AND PLAN  ADMINISTRATOR.  In
     ----------------------------------------------------------------------
connection  with any action or  determination  made in connection with the Plan,
the  Plan  Administrator  and the  Committee  shall  be  entitled  to rely  upon
information furnished by or on behalf of the Company or any Participant.  To the
extent permitted by law, the Plan Administrator and the members of the Committee
shall not be liable for, and The Hartford shall indemnify the Plan Administrator
and the members of the Committee  against any liability  for, any loss sustained
by  reason  of any act or  failure  to act in their  administrative  capacities,
provided such act or failure to act does not involve  willful  misconduct.  Such
indemnification  shall  include  attorneys'  fees and other  costs and  expenses
reasonably   incurred  in  defense  of  any  action  brought  against  the  Plan
Administrator  or any  member  of the  Committee  by  reason  of any such act or
failure to act. The Plan Administrator and any member of the Committee shall not
be liable  or  responsible  for any act or  omission  of  another  fiduciary  in
relation  to  the  Plan  unless  the  Plan  Administrator  or  such  member  (A)
participates  knowingly  in, or  knowingly  undertakes  to conceal,  such act or
omission by such other fiduciary,  or (B) has knowledge of a breach of fiduciary
responsibility  by such other fiduciary and does not make reasonable  efforts to
remedy such breach.


                                  ARTICLE VIII
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

8.1 UNFUNDED AND  UNSECURED  PLAN.  The Plan shall be unfunded and unsecured for
    -----------------------------
tax purposes and for purposes of ERISA. The Hartford shall have no obligation to
fund its liabilities,  if any, under the Plan. Nothing in the Plan and no action
taken by The  Hartford or its agents  hereunder  shall be  construed to create a
trust of any kind,  or a fiduciary  relationship  between The  Hartford  and any
other  person or  entity.  All  funds or other  assets  received  or held by The
Hartford  pursuant to or in connection with the Plan may be used by The Hartford
for any corporate purpose,  and The Hartford shall not be obligated to segregate
such  amounts from its general  assets.  No  Participant  or any other person or
entity shall have any claim  against The Hartford or its assets other than as an
unsecured and unsubordinated general creditor of The Hartford.  Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing,  a  Participant's  claim hereunder shall at any
time be solely  for the  amount  then  credited  to the  Participant's  Account.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  The Hartford may  establish a grantor trust or
purchase  securities or take any other action deemed  appropriate  to assist The
Hartford in meeting its obligations under the Plan, provided,  however,  that in
no event  shall any person or entity have any right to or interest in such trust
or property by reason of the Plan.

8.2 ABSENCE OF  REPRESENTATIONS.  The Plan shall not be construed to provide any
    ---------------------------
representation  or guarantee by The Hartford that any particular income or other
tax consequence will result from a Participant's participation in the Plan. Each
Participant  shall be deemed to have consulted with his or her  professional tax
advisor to determine the tax consequences of participation  hereunder.  The Plan
shall not be  construed  to  provide  any  representation  or  guarantee  by The
Hartford that any particular amount of a Participant's  Account allocated to any
of  the  Phantom  Funds  hereunder  will

                                    Page 12

result in any particular investment experience related thereto, and The Hartford
shall in no event be  required  to pay any  amount  to any  person  or entity on
account of any loss suffered by reason of the operation of the Plan.

8.3  WITHHOLDING.  The Plan  Administrator  shall  have the  right to make  such
     -----------
provisions as it deems  appropriate to satisfy any obligation of The Hartford to
withhold federal, state or local income or other taxes incurred by reason of the
operation  of the Plan,  including  but not  limited to at any time  requiring a
Participant  to submit  payment to The Hartford for such taxes,  or  withholding
such taxes from a Participant's wages (or other amounts) due to the Participant.

8.4 NO EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS. The Plan shall not, directly or indirectly,  create in
    --------------------
any Participant any right with respect to continuation of employment with any of
the  Participating  Companies or to the receipt of any Eligible  Compensation or
other  compensation.  The Plan shall not interfere in any way with the rights of
the applicable  Participating  Company to terminate,  or otherwise  modify,  the
employment of any Participant or its compensation policies at any time.

8.5 RIGHTS NOT  TRANSFERABLE.  The rights of a Participant  under the Plan shall
    ------------------------
not be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed
of, other than (A) by will, (B) by the laws of descent or  distribution,  or (C)
pursuant  to a qualified  domestic  relations  order as defined in the  Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,  provided that the rights of any transferee of
a Participant shall not be greater than the rights of the Participant hereunder.
The foregoing  restriction  shall be in addition to any restrictions  imposed by
applicable  law on a  Participant's  ability to dispose of any rights  under the
Plan.

8.6  EFFECT  OF PLAN.  The  provisions  of the Plan  shall be  binding  upon all
     ---------------
successors  and  assigns of a  Participant,  including  without  limitation  the
Participant's  estate and the  executors,  administrators  or trustees  thereof,
heirs and legatees, and any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or representative of
creditors of the Participant.

8.7  ADMINISTRATIVE  EXPENSES.  The  Hartford  shall pay for all  administrative
     ------------------------
expenses related to the operation of the Plan, except as otherwise determined by
the Committee.

8.8  AMENDMENT  AND  TERMINATION  OF THE  PLAN.  The Board of  Directors  or the
     -----------------------------------------
Committee  (acting on behalf of the Board of  Directors)  may amend or terminate
the Plan or any Participant  elections  hereunder at any time. The Committee may
at any time amend or terminate the Plan or any Participant  elections  hereunder
if the  Committee  determines  in its sole  discretion  that The  Hartford  will
recognize   income  for  income  tax  purposes  with  respect  to  any  reserves
accumulated  under  any life  insurance  policy  obtained  with  respect  to any
Participant  hereunder.  The Committee or the Plan  Administrator  may amend the
Plan to the extent (A) required by applicable law or regulation, or (B) required
to maintain a favorable tax status for the Plan.

8.9 GOVERNING LAW. The laws of the State of Connecticut shall govern all matters
    -------------
relating to the Plan,  except to the extent such laws are superseded by the laws
of the United States.

                                    Page 13

8.10  SEVERABILITY  OF  PROVISIONS.  If any  provision of the Plan shall be held
      ----------------------------
invalid or unenforceable,  such invalidity or unenforceability  shall not affect
any other provisions  hereof, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if
such invalid or unenforceable provisions had not been included herein.

8.11 EFFECTIVE DATE. The Effective Date of this restatement of the Plan shall be
     --------------
July 16, 1998, or such later date as the Plan Administrator may determine.

                                    Page 14


                                    Page 15

                                  PLAN HISTORY
                                  ------------

10/17/96:       Key terms of Plan  formally  approved  by the  Compensation  and
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Personnel  Committee  of the Board of  Directors of ITT Hartford
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                Group, Inc., and authority to create Plan document and implement
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                Plan  delegated  to  management  on  same  date.  Plan  restates
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                essential   terms  of   provisions   of  deferred   compensation
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                arrangements  established  by ITT  Corporation in 1994 (for 1995
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                executive  salary and for  executive  bonuses  determinable  and
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                payable in 1995), and by ITT Corporation and ITT Hartford Group,
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                Inc. in 1995 (for 1996  executive  salary and executive  bonuses
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                determinable  and payable in 1996, and for life sales  incentive
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                payments earned in 1996).
                -------------------------

5/2/97:         Plan  amended to reflect  Company  name change from ITT Hartford
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Group,  Inc. to The Hartford  Financial  Services Group, Inc. No
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                changes  determined  necessary to reflect  Life  Company  public
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                offerings.
                ----------

10/97           No changes determined  necessary to reflect committee's approval
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                at  10/16/97   meeting  of  reduction   in  threshold   pay  for
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                participation to the IRS Section  401(a)(17) amount for the year
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                participation   is  elected   ($160k   for   1997).   Determined
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                unnecessary to have committee re-approve  plan every year - plan
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                terms permit plan to be in effect until committee terminates it.
                ----------------------------------------------------------------

7/98            Plan amended to include change of control provisions approved by
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                the Compensation  Committee of The Hartford  Financial  Services
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                Group, Inc.
                -----------

6/00            Plan amended to include  additional change of control provisions
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                approved  by  the   Compensation   Committees  of  The  Hartford
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                Financial  Services  Group,  Inc.  and  Hartford  Life,  Inc. on
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                February  16,  2000,  and also  amended to reflect the merger of
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                Hartford  Life,  Inc.  into a  wholly  owned  subsidiary  of The
                ----------------------------------------------------------------
                Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. in June, 2000.
                ------------------------------------------------------


                                    Page 16


                                                                   EXHIBIT 12.01





                                                                   EXHIBIT 21.01

              SUBSIDIARIES OF THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.


                                                                  JURISDICTION
                                                                       OF
COMPANY NAME                                                      INCORPORATION
- ------------                                                      -------------

American Maturity Life Insurance Company (60%)                     Connecticut
AML Financial, Inc.                                                Connecticut
Brazilcap Capitalizacao, S.A. (17%)                                   Brazil
BMG Capital Advisers, L.L.C.                                       Connecticut
Business Management Group, Inc.                                    Connecticut
CCS Commercial, L.L.C. (50%)                                         Delaware
CLA Corporation                                                    Connecticut
Dornberger/Berry & Company, Inc.                                   South Dakota
1810 Corporation                                                    Delaware
Ersatz Corporation                                                  Delaware
Excess Insurance Company, Limited                                      U.K.
Fedcap Capitalizacao S.A. (25%)                                       Brazil
Fencourt Reinsurance Company, Ltd.                                    Bermuda
First State Insurance Company                                      Connecticut
First State Management Group, Inc.                                   Delaware
First State Management Group Insurance
  Services of Massachusetts, LLC                                   Massachusetts
First State Management Group Insurance Services of Texas, LLC          Texas
Four Thirty Seven Land Company, Inc.                                 Delaware
Galicia Retiro Compania de Seguros S.A.                              Argentina
Galicia Vida Compania de Seguros, S.A., (40%)                        Argentina
HARCO Property Services, Inc.                                       Connecticut
Hartford Accident and Indemnity Company                             Connecticut
Hartford Casualty Insurance Company                                   Indiana
Hartford-Comprehensive Employee Benefit Service Company             Connecticut
Hartford Equity Sales Company, Inc.                                 Connecticut
Hartford Fianzas, S.A. de C.V. (80%)                                   Mexico
Hartford Financial Services, LLC                                      Delaware
Hartford Financial Services Life Insurance Company                  Connecticut
Hartford Fire Insurance Company                                     Connecticut
Hartford Fire International (Germany) GMBH                            Germany
Hartford Fire International, Ltd.                                   Connecticut
Hartford Insurance, Ltd.                                              Bermuda
Hartford Insurance Company of Canada                                   Canada
Hartford Insurance Company of Illinois                                Illinois
Hartford Insurance Company of the Midwest                              Indiana
Hartford Insurance Company of the Southeast                            Florida
Hartford Integrated Technologies, Inc.                              Connecticut
Hartford International Life Reassurance Corporation                 Connecticut
Hartford International Management Services Company, L.L.C.            Delaware
Hartford Investment Financial Services Company                        Delaware
Hartford Investment Management Company                                Delaware
Hartford Investments Canada Corp.                                      Canada
Hartford Investment Services, Inc.                                  Connecticut
Hartford Investor Services Company, LLC                             Connecticut
Hartford Life and Accident Insurance Company                        Connecticut
Hartford Life and Annuity Insurance Company                         Connecticut
Hartford Life Insurance Company                                     Connecticut
Hartford Life Insurance, KK                                            Japan
Hartford Life, Inc.                                                   Delaware


                                                                   EXHIBIT 21.01

Hartford Life International, Ltd.                                   Connecticut
Hartford Life, Ltd.                                                   Bermuda
Hartford Lloyd's Corporation                                           Texas
Hartford Lloyd's Insurance Company (partnership)                       Texas
Hartford Management, Ltd.                                             Bermuda
Hartford of Florida, L.L.C.                                           Florida
Hartford Re Company                                                 Connecticut
Hartford Re Spain Correduria De Reaseguros S.A.                        Spain
Hartford Risk Management, Inc. (90%)                                  Delaware
Hartford Salud, S.A.                                                 Argentina
Hartford Securities Distribution Company, Inc.                      Connecticut
Hartford Seguros de Retiro S.A.                                      Argentina
Hartford Seguros, S.A. de C.V. (80%)                                   Mexico
Hartford Seguros de Vida, S.A.                                       Argentina
Hartford Specialty Company                                            Delaware
Hartford Specialty Insurance Services of Texas, LLC                     Texas
Hartford Technology Service Company                                 Connecticut
Hartford Technology Services Company, L.L.C.                          Delaware
Hartford Underwriters Insurance Company                             Connecticut
Hart Life Insurance Company                                         Connecticut
HartRe Company, L.L.C.                                              Connecticut
Hart Re Group, L.L.C.                                               Connecticut
Heritage (Bermuda), Ltd.                                              Bermuda
Heritage Holdings, Inc.                                             Connecticut
Heritage Reinsurance Company, Ltd.                                    Bermuda
HL Investment Advisors, LLC                                         Connecticut
Horizon Management Group, L.L.C.                                      Delaware
Horizon Portfolio Management Ltd                                        U.K.
HRA, Inc.                                                           Connecticut
HRA Brokerage Services, Inc.                                        Connecticut
ICATU Hartford Administracao de Beneficios, Ltda.                      Brazil
ICATU Hartford Capitalizacao, S.A.                                     Brazil
ICATU Hartford Fundo de Pensao                                         Brazil
ICATU Hartford Seguros, S.A. (45%)                                     Brazil
Instituto de Salta Compania de Seguros de Vida S.A. (90%)             Argentina
International Corporate Marketing Group, Inc.                       Connecticut
ISOP Financing Company Limited Partnership                          Connecticut
ITT Hartford International, Ltd                                         U.K.
ITT Hartford Seguros de Vida, S.A. (16.67%)                           Uruguay
Sudamericana Holding S.A. (56.7%)                                    Argentina
ITT New England Management Company, Inc.                           Massachusetts
New England Insurance Company                                       Connecticut
New England Reinsurance Corporation                                 Connecticut
New Ocean Insurance Company, Ltd.                                     Bermuda
Nutmeg Insurance Agency, Inc.                                       Connecticut
Nutmeg Insurance Company                                            Connecticut
Nutmeg Life Insurance Company                                           Iowa
Omni General Agency, Inc.                                              Texas
Omni Indemnity Company                                                Illinois
Omni Insurance Company                                                Illinois
Omni Insurance Group, Inc.                                            Georgia
Pacific Insurance Company, Limited                                  Connecticut
Personal Lines Insurance Center, Inc.                               Connecticut
Planco Financial Services, Inc.                                     Pennsylvania
Planco Incorporated                                                 Pennsylvania
Property and Casualty Insurance Company of Hartford                   Indiana


                                                                   EXHIBIT 21.01

Sentinel Insurance Company, Ltd.                                    Connecticut
Servus Life Insurance Company                                       Connecticut
Specialty Risk Services, Inc.                                         Delaware
Terry Associates, Inc.                                              Connecticut
The Confluence Group, Inc.                                          Connecticut
The Evergreen Group, Inc.                                             New York
The Harford Bank, FSB                                                 Federal
The Hartford Club of Simsbury, Inc.                                 Connecticut
The Hartford Fidelity & Bonding Company                             Connecticut
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.                           Delaware
The Hartford Insurance Company, (Singapore), Ltd. (80%)              Singapore
The Hartford International Financial Services Group
       Compania De Seguros Y Reaseguros S.A. (99.75%)                  Spain
The Hartford International Financial Services Group, LLC             Delaware
Thesis S.A.                                                          Argentina
Trumbull Finance, L.L.C.                                            Connecticut
Trumbull Insurance Company                                          Connecticut
Trumbull Recovery Services, Inc.                                      Florida
Trumbull Services, L.L.C.                                           Connecticut
Twin City Fire Insurance Company                                      Indiana
United Premium Capital, L.L.C. (50%)                                Connecticut


                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.01


                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                    -----------------------------------------



To The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.:

As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation of our
report  included  in  this  Form  10-K,  into  the  Company's  previously  filed
registration  statements  (i) on Forms  S-3  (Registration  Nos.  333-12617  and
333-49666)  and  (ii)  on  Forms  S-8  (Registration  Nos.  33-80663,  33-80665,
333-12563, 333-49170 and 333-34092).


                                                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP



Hartford, Connecticut
March 23, 2001



