
10-K
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.


================================================================================

                                    FORM 10-K

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

(Mark One)
[X]      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

                                       OR

[ ]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

          For the transition period from ____________ to ______________

                         Commission file number 0-19277

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          DELAWARE                                            13-3317783
(State or other jurisdiction of                           (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                          Identification Number)

                HARTFORD PLAZA, HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT 06115-1900
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (860) 547-5000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities  registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act: the following,  all
of which are registered on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.:

      Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
      6.375% Notes due November 1, 2002
      6.375% Notes due November 1, 2008
      7.30% Debentures due November 1, 2015
      7.70% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred  Securities,  Series A, issued
         by Hartford Capital I
      8.35% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred  Securities,  Series B, issued
         by Hartford Capital II

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed  by  Section  13 or 15 (d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter  period that the  registrant
was  required  to file such  reports),  and (2) has been  subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No[ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the best
of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

As of February 29, 2000,  there were  outstanding  214,581,962  shares of Common
Stock, $0.01 par value per share, of the registrant.  The aggregate market value
of the  shares of Common  Stock held by  non-affiliates  of the  registrant  was
$6,662,649,969  based on the  closing  price of $31.25  per share of the  Common
Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on February 29, 2000.

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Portions of the  Registrant's  definitive  proxy  statement  for its 2000 annual
meeting of shareholders  are  incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K.
================================================================================


                                    CONTENTS



         ITEM    DESCRIPTION                                                PAGE

PART I     1     Business of The Hartford                                    2
           2     Properties                                                  9
           3     Legal Proceedings                                           9
           4     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders         9

PART II    5     Market for The Hartford's Common Stock and Related
                 Stockholder Matters                                         9
           6     Selected Financial Data                                     10
           7     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                 Condition and Results of Operations                         11
           7A    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
                 Market Risk                                                 44
           8     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                 44
           9     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
                 on Accounting and Financial Disclosure                      44

PART III   10    Directors and Executive Officers of The Hartford            44
           11    Executive Compensation                                      44
           12    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
                 and Management                                              44
           13    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions              44

PART IV    14    Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and
                 Reports on Form 8-K                                         44
                 Signatures                                                 II-1
                 Exhibits Index                                             II-2


PART I

Item 1.  BUSINESS OF THE HARTFORD
(Dollar amounts in millions except for share data unless otherwise stated)

GENERAL

The Hartford  Financial Services Group, Inc., and its subsidiaries (The Hartford
or the Company),  headquartered in Connecticut,  are among the largest providers
of both  property  and casualty  insurance  and life  insurance  products in the
United States.  Hartford Fire Insurance Company,  founded in 1810, is the oldest
of The Hartford's subsidiaries. The Hartford writes insurance and reinsurance in
the United States and  internationally.  At December 31, 1999,  total assets and
total stockholders' equity of The Hartford were $167.1 billion and $5.5 billion,
respectively.

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation,  was formed
in December,  1985 as a wholly-owned  subsidiary of ITT  Corporation  (ITT).  On
December 19, 1995, ITT distributed all of the outstanding shares of The Hartford
Financial  Services Group, Inc. to ITT shareholders of record in an action known
herein as the Distribution. As a result of the Distribution, The Hartford became
an independent, publicly traded company.

Pursuant to the initial public  offering on May 22, 1997 (the Offering) of Class
A common stock of Hartford Life, Inc.  (HLI),  the holding company parent of The
Hartford's  significant life insurance  subsidiaries,  HLI sold to the public 26
million  shares at  $28.25  per share and  received  proceeds,  net of  offering
expenses,  of $687.  The 26  million  shares  sold in the  Offering  represented
approximately  19% of the equity  ownership in HLI. As of December 31, 1999, The
Hartford  continued to maintain an approximate 81% equity  ownership in HLI. The
Hartford's  current  intent is to continue to  beneficially  own at least 80% of
HLI, but it is under no contractual obligation to do so.

On  November  16,  1998,   The  Hartford   completed  the  sale  of  its  United
Kingdom-based  London & Edinburgh  Insurance  Group,  Ltd.  (London & Edinburgh)
subsidiary to Norwich Union, a leading provider of general and life insurance in
the United Kingdom.  The Hartford received  approximately  $525, before costs of
sale, and reported an after-tax net realized  capital gain of $33 related to the
transaction.  The  Hartford  retained  ownership of Excess  Insurance  Co. Ltd.,
London & Edinburgh's property and casualty insurance and reinsurance subsidiary,
which discontinued writing new business in 1993.

As a holding  company,  The  Hartford  Financial  Services  Group,  Inc.  has no
significant  business  operations  of its  own  and,  therefore,  relies  on the
dividends from its insurance company subsidiaries, which are primarily domiciled
in  Connecticut,  as the  principal  source  of cash to  meet  its  obligations.
Additional  information  regarding  the  cash  flow and  liquidity  needs of The
Hartford  Financial  Services Group,  Inc. may be found in the Capital Resources
and  Liquidity  section of  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A).

REPORTING SEGMENTS

The Hartford's reporting segments consist of Commercial,  Personal, Reinsurance,
Life,  International and Other Operations.  While not considered a segment,  the
Company  also  reports  results for North  American  Property & Casualty,  which
include  the  combined  underwriting  results of the  Commercial,  Personal  and
Reinsurance segments, along with income and expense items not directly allocable
to these segments such as net investment  income and net realized  capital gains
and losses.  Other Operations  include  operations which have ceased writing new
business.  Also included in Other Operations is the effect of an approximate 19%
minority interest in HLI's operating results.  The following is a description of
each  segment,   including  a  discussion  of  principal  products,  methods  of
distribution  and  competitive  environments.   Additional  information  on  The
Hartford's  reporting  segments  may be  found in the MD&A on pages 11 to 44 and
Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

NORTH AMERICAN PROPERTY & CASUALTY

North  American  Property & Casualty is the tenth largest  property and casualty
insurance  operation in the United States based on written premiums for the year
ended  December  31, 1998  according to A.M.  Best.  North  American  Property &
Casualty  generated $7.3 billion in revenues,  $6.4 billion in written  premiums
and $448 in net  income in 1999.  Total  assets  for North  American  Property &
Casualty were $21.5 billion as of December 31, 1999.

COMMERCIAL

The  Commercial  segment  provides  insurance  coverages to commercial  accounts
throughout  the United  States and Canada.  Commercial  is organized  into three
customer  markets:  Business  Insurance,   Commercial  Affinity  and  Commercial
Specialty.  Business Insurance provides standard  commercial  business for small
accounts  (Select  Customer) and mid-sized  insureds (Key Accounts).  Commercial
Affinity provides  commercial risk management products and services to small and
mid-sized  members of affinity  groups and customers of financial  institutions.
Commercial  Specialty  provides  insurance  through retailers and wholesalers to
large commercial  clients  (Major/National)  and insureds requiring a variety of
specialized  coverages.  The  Commercial  segment  had $3.2  billion  in written
premiums and a $171 underwriting loss in 1999.

Principal Products
- ------------------

The  Commercial  segment offers  workers'  compensation,  property,  automobile,
liability,  marine,  agricultural  and bond coverages.  Excess and surplus lines
coverages not normally written by standard line insurers are also provided.

                                     - 2 -

Methods of Distribution
- -----------------------

The Commercial segment provides insurance products and services through its home
office  located in Hartford,  Connecticut,  and multiple  domestic  regional and
district  office  locations  and  insurance  centers.  The  segment  markets its
products nationwide  utilizing a variety of distribution  networks including the
use of approximately 5,400 independent agents,  wholesalers and direct marketing
including trade associations,  customers of financial  institutions and employee
groups.  Independent  agents,  who often  represent other companies as well, are
compensated on a commission basis and are not employees of The Hartford.

Competition
- -----------

The  commercial   insurance  industry  continues  to  be  a  highly  challenging
environment in which the Commercial segment competes with other stock companies,
mutual companies,  self insurers and other underwriting  organizations.  Intense
competition within the financial services industry continues to create difficult
market conditions in the commercial  industry.  This competitive  environment is
created by tremendous  price  competition,  consolidation  and  globalization of
companies, excess capital within the commercial insurance industry,  exploration
and  utilization  of  alternative  distribution  techniques and emphasis on cost
containment and reduction.

PERSONAL

The Hartford ranks among the largest carriers of personal lines  insurance.  The
Personal  segment  provides  insurance  coverages to individuals  throughout the
United States. Personal is organized to provide customized products and services
to the following  markets:  the  membership  of AARP through a direct  marketing
operation;  customers  who prefer local agent  involvement  through a network of
independent agents in the standard personal lines market and in the non-standard
automobile market through Omni Insurance Group, Inc. (Omni),  which was acquired
in  1998;  customers  of Ford  Motor  Company  and  Ford  Motor  Credit  Company
(collectively,  Ford) as well as customers of financial  institutions through an
affinity  center  which  began in 1996;  and  customer  service  for all  health
insurance  products offered through AARP's Health Care Options effective January
1, 1998. AARP's exclusive licensing  arrangement continues through the year 2002
for automobile,  homeowners and home-based  business and through 2007 for Health
Care Options.  The Ford contract is for a five-year  term through 2004.  Each of
these  agreements  provides the Personal  segment with an important  competitive
advantage.  The Personal segment had $2.5 billion in written premiums and $34 in
underwriting income in 1999.

Principal Products
- ------------------

The Personal segment provides  homeowners,  automobile,  home-based business and
fire coverages to individuals across North America,  including a special program
designed exclusively for members of AARP.


Methods of Distribution
- -----------------------

The Personal  segment  reaches diverse  markets  through  multiple  distribution
channels.  The segment markets directly to the 33 million members of AARP, sells
its  products  through  independent  agents and also  markets  through  affinity
groups, including Ford and financial institutions.

Competition
- -----------

The  personal  lines   marketplace   continues  to  become   increasingly   more
competitive,  especially  in the personal  automobile  line.  The past few years
leading up to 1998  produced  favorable  returns  in  personal  lines,  allowing
companies  to drive  prices down and  utilize  varied  distribution  channels to
increase marketshare. In 1999, however, intense price competition, upward trends
in  loss  costs  and  the  significant   expense  of  establishing   alternative
distribution channels caused underwriting results to decrease. In the absence of
renewal price  increases by competitors,  attracting new customers  becomes more
difficult, forcing companies to offer greater price incentives, product features
and increase  advertising  costs.  Agency companies wishing to grow are offering
agents greater incentives to move business from competitors in order to increase
market share.

A major competitive advantage of the Personal segment is the exclusive licensing
arrangement with AARP to provide personal automobile,  homeowners and home-based
business insurance products to its members through 2002. Favorable "baby boomer"
demographics are expected to increase AARP membership  significantly during this
period.  During 1996, the Personal segment's  relationship with AARP was further
strengthened  when it was awarded a contract to provide customer service for all
health insurance  products offered through AARP's Health Care Options  effective
January 1, 1998. The Hartford's new contract with Ford joins two major brands in
marketing automobile, homeowners, and home-based business, further enhancing The
Hartford's reputation and competitive advantage.

REINSURANCE

The Hartford is a major global reinsurer,  with operations in the United States,
Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Germany, Spain, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
The Reinsurance segment had $703 in written premiums and a $48 underwriting loss
in 1999.

Principal Products
- ------------------

The  Reinsurance   segment  offers  a  full  range  of  treaty  and  facultative
reinsurance products including property,  casualty,  marine,  fidelity,  surety,
finite risk and specialty coverages.

Methods of Distribution
- -----------------------

The Reinsurance segment assumes insurance from other insurers, primarily through
reinsurance brokers in the worldwide reinsurance market.

                                     - 3 -

Competition
- -----------

The  worldwide  property  and  casualty  reinsurance  market  remains  extremely
competitive.  Continued soft market  conditions make profitable growth difficult
to  maintain.  Consolidation  in the  market has  created  fewer,  but  stronger
competitors.  Also,  nontraditional solutions are beginning to reduce demand for
traditional reinsurance products.

LIFE

The Life segment's business is conducted principally by HLI, a leading financial
services  and  insurance  organization  providing  investment  products  such as
variable  annuities  and  mutual  funds,  individual  and  corporate  owned life
insurance and employee benefits  products.  Among the fastest growing major life
insurance  groups  for the  past  several  years,  The  Hartford's  consolidated
domestic life insurance operations are ranked as the third largest in the United
States  based on statutory  assets as of December  31,  1998,  according to A.M.
Best's latest available data. Growth in the Life segment's total assets has been
primarily driven by variable annuity sales and equity market appreciation.  With
a 9% market  share,  the Company was ranked the number one writer of  individual
variable  annuities in the United States for 1999 according to Variable  Annuity
and  Research  Data  Service  (VARDS).  In  addition,  the Company was the third
largest provider of group disability insurance in the United States for the nine
months ended  September 30, 1999  according to the latest  results  published by
Life Insurance  Marketing and Research  Association  (LIMRA).  Also during 1999,
seven of the twelve retail mutual funds received  Morningstar ratings and, as of
December 31, 1999,  all seven have three-,  four- or five-star  ratings.  In the
past year, the Life segment's total assets under management,  which include $6.4
billion of assets invested in the Company's  retail mutual funds,  increased 17%
to $145.4 billion at December 31, 1999. The Life segment  generated $5.5 billion
in revenues and net income of $467 in 1999.

The Life  segment,  headquartered  in Simsbury,  Connecticut,  has the following
reportable operations:  Investment Products,  Individual Life, Employee Benefits
and  Corporate  Owned Life  Insurance  (COLI).  In  addition,  the Life  segment
includes in an Other category its international operations,  which are primarily
located in Latin America,  and corporate items not directly  allocable to any of
its reportable operations.

Principal Products
- ------------------

The Investment Products operation focuses on the savings and retirement needs of
the growing  number of  individuals  who are  preparing  for  retirement or have
already retired. The variety of products sold within this operation reflects the
diverse  nature  of the  market.  These  products  include  individual  variable
annuities,  fixed market value  adjusted (MVA)  annuities,  retail mutual funds,
retirement  plan services and other  investment  products.  The Individual  Life
operation,  which focuses on the high end estate and business  planning markets,
sells a variety of life insurance products,  including variable life,  universal
life,  interest-sensitive  whole  life and term  life  insurance.  The  Employee
Benefits  operation sells group life and group  disability  insurance as well as
other  products  including  stop  loss and  supplementary  medical  coverage  to
employers  and  employer  sponsored  plans.  The COLI  operation  includes  life
insurance  products  purchased by a company on the lives of its employees,  with
the company  named as  beneficiary  under the policy,  primarily  purchased  for
funding the company's  post-employment  benefits and other non-qualified benefit
programs.

Methods of Distribution
- -----------------------

The Life  segment  sells a  variety  of  individual  and  group  investment  and
insurance products  primarily through  broker-dealers,  financial  institutions,
licensed agents, insurance brokers, associations and third party administrators.
The Investment Products operation  distributes  individual  annuities and mutual
funds through a network of over 1,500  broker-dealers and over 500 banks through
the use of wholesaling operations and strategic alliances.  In 1998, the Company
purchased all of the outstanding shares of PLANCO Financial  Services,  Inc. and
its affiliate, PLANCO, Incorporated (PLANCO), the nation's largest wholesaler of
individual  annuities  and a primary  distributor  of the  Company's  individual
annuities and mutual funds. In addition,  the Company utilizes an internal sales
force to distribute its group investment products. The Individual Life operation
distributes  its  products  through  a sales  office  system of  qualified  life
insurance professionals who have access to an extensive network of licensed life
insurance agents as well as through  broker-dealers,  banks and independent life
insurance  marketing  organizations.  The Employee  Benefits  operation  uses an
experienced  group of Company  employees managed through a regional sales office
system to  distribute  its products  through a variety of  distribution  outlets
including    insurance   agents,    brokers,    associations   and   third-party
administrators. The COLI operation uses a group of experienced Company employees
who work with specialized brokers and consultants to distribute its products.

Competition
- -----------

The Life  segment  competes  with  numerous  insurance  companies  in the United
States,  as  well as  certain  banks,  securities  brokerage  firms,  investment
advisors and other  financial  intermediaries  who market  investment  and other
retirement-oriented  products. As the industry continues to consolidate, some of
these companies have or will gain greater financial  strength and resources than
The  Hartford.  In  particular,  national  banks  may  become  more  significant
competitors  in the future for insurers who sell  annuities as a result of court
decisions   and   recent   regulatory    actions.    In   November   1999,   the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley  Act of 1999 (the Financial Services  Modernization Bill) was
enacted into law,  allowing banks,  securities firms and insurance  companies to
have ownership  affiliation.  (For  additional  information,  see the Regulatory
Matters and Contingencies section of the MD&A.) Other competitive factors in the
life  insurance   industry  include,   but  are  not  limited  to,  price,  name
recognition,  quality of  distribution  systems and products  offered,  customer
service,  financial strength ratings and claims-paying  ability ratings.  In the
individual  annuity market,  sales volume is also dependent on fund performance,
the array of fund and product options, product design and credited rates.

                                     - 4 -

INTERNATIONAL

The Hartford's  International  segment  consists  primarily of Western  European
companies offering a variety of insurance products designed to meet the needs of
local customers. These companies include Zwolsche Algemeene (Zwolsche),  located
in the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, Hartford Seguros Spain (formerly ITT
Ercos),  and  People's   Insurance  Company  Limited  (People's   Insurance)  in
Singapore,  of which The Hartford  acquired a 49% interest in January 1998.  The
International  segment generated $509 in revenues and $27 in net income in 1999.
Assets totaled $2.4 billion at December 31, 1999.

Principal Products
- ------------------

Zwolsche sells  property and casualty,  life and asset  management  products and
services.    Personal   lines   products   at   Zwolsche   include   automobile,
hospitalization  and homeowners.  Commercial lines products,  primarily property
coverage,  are sold to small to  medium-sized  clients.  Zwolsche life insurance
operations   offer  term  life,   mortgage,   savings  and   pension   products.
Additionally,  Zwolsche has an asset  management  business  offering  investment
services  through a range of  mutual  funds  and its bank  subsidiary.  Hartford
Seguros provides both personal and commercial  lines property and casualty,  and
life  insurance  products.  People's  Insurance  writes  property  and  casualty
products, primarily automobile.

Methods of Distribution
- -----------------------

The International  segment conducts its business  primarily through  independent
brokers who are compensated on a commission basis. Zwolsche also distributes its
products through various financial institutions. Hartford Seguros recently began
selling life insurance products through a brokerage company in Spain.

Competition
- -----------

The Netherlands has historically been an open market with competitors  operating
from around the world. While Spain has only opened up its market within the last
fifteen years,  it has attracted  significant  foreign  capital with many of the
large global  insurance  companies  establishing a presence,  to the extent that
foreign capital now exceeds  domestic  capital.  Singapore is a relatively small
market with  traditional  local  companies as well as a large  foreign  presence
primarily   through   branch   operations.   Each  market  has  its  own  unique
characteristics  but, in  general,  competition  is very strong in most  product
lines with pricing set freely by the market.

OTHER OPERATIONS

The Hartford's Other Operations  consist of the property and casualty  insurance
operations  of The  Hartford  which have  ceased  writing  new  business.  These
operations  primarily include First State Insurance Company,  located in Boston,
Massachusetts, Heritage Reinsurance Company, Ltd., headquartered in Bermuda, and
Excess Insurance Company Limited, located in the United Kingdom.

The primary objectives of Other Operations are the proper disposition of claims,
the resolution of disputes, and the collection of reinsurance proceeds primarily
related  to  policies  written  and  reinsured  prior  to 1985.  As such,  Other
Operations  have no new product  sales,  distribution  systems,  or  competitive
issues.

Included  in Other  Operations  is the  effect of an  approximate  19%  minority
interest in HLI's operating results.

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY RESERVES

The Hartford  establishes  reserves to provide for the estimated costs of paying
claims made by  policyholders or against  policyholders.  These reserves include
estimates  for both  claims  that have been  reported  and those  that have been
incurred  but not yet  reported to The  Hartford  and include  estimates  of all
expenses  associated with processing and settling these claims.  This estimation
process is primarily  based on historical  experience  and involves a variety of
actuarial techniques which analyze trends and other relevant factors.

The  Hartford  continually  reviews its  estimated  claims and claim  adjustment
expense  reserves  as  additional  experience  and other  relevant  data  become
available,  and reserve levels are adjusted  accordingly.  Such  adjustments are
reflected in net income of the period in which they are made. Further discussion
on The  Hartford's  property and casualty  reserves may be found in the Reserves
section of the MD&A.

The Hartford  continues to receive claims asserting  damages from  environmental
pollution   and  related   clean-up   costs  and  injuries   from  asbestos  and
asbestos-related  products. Due to deviations from past experience and a variety
of social,  economic and legal  issues,  the  Company's  ability to estimate the
future  policy  benefits,   unpaid  claims  and  claim  adjustment  expenses  is
significantly impacted. A study, which reviewed and identified environmental and
asbestos  exposures  in the United  States,  was  performed in 1996 and is fully
discussed in the Environmental and Asbestos Claims section of the MD&A.

Certain  liabilities for unpaid claims,  principally  for  permanently  disabled
claimants,  terminated reinsurance treaties and certain contracts that fund loss
run-offs for  unrelated  parties,  have been  discounted to present  value.  The
amount of the discount was  approximately  $480 and $423 as of December 31, 1999
and 1998, respectively,  and amortization of the discount had no material effect
on net income during 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

In  the  judgment  of  The  Hartford's  management,  all  information  currently
available has been properly  considered in establishing  the reserves for unpaid
claims and claim adjustment expenses.

A reconciliation of liabilities for unpaid claims and claim adjustment  expenses
is  herein  referenced  from  Note  1(h)  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.  A table depicting the historical development of the liabilities for
unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses follows.

                                     - 5 -





LIFE RESERVES

In accordance with applicable insurance regulations under which the Life segment
operates,  life insurance  subsidiaries  of The Hartford  establish and carry as
liabilities  actuarially  determined  reserves  which are calculated to meet The
Hartford's  future  obligations.  Reserves  for life  insurance  and  disability
contracts are based on actuarially recognized methods using prescribed morbidity
and mortality tables in general use in the United States,  which are modified to
reflect The Hartford's actual  experience when  appropriate.  These reserves are
computed at amounts that, with additions from estimated  premiums to be received
and with interest on such reserves compounded annually at certain assumed rates,
are expected to be sufficient to meet The Hartford's policy obligations at their
maturities or in the event of an insured's death. Reserves also include unearned
premiums, premium deposits, claims incurred but not reported and claims reported
but not yet paid. Reserves

                                     - 6 -

for assumed  reinsurance are computed on bases essentially  comparable to direct
insurance reserves.

For The Hartford's  universal life and  interest-sensitive  whole life policies,
reserves are set according to premiums collected,  plus interest credited,  less
charges.  Other fixed death  benefit and  individual  life reserves are based on
assumed investment yield,  persistency,  mortality and morbidity as per commonly
used  actuarial  tables,  expenses and margins for adverse  deviations.  For the
Company's group disability policies, the level of reserves is based on a variety
of  factors  including  particular  diagnoses,  termination  rates  and  benefit
payments.

The  persistency of The  Hartford's  annuity and other  interest-sensitive  life
insurance  reserves is  enhanced by policy  restrictions  on the  withdrawal  of
funds.  Withdrawals in excess of allowable  penalty-free  amounts are assessed a
surrender charge during a penalty period, which is usually at least seven years.
Such surrender charge is initially a percentage of the accumulation value, which
varies by product,  and generally decreases gradually during the penalty period.
Surrender  charges are set at levels to protect The Hartford  from loss on early
terminations  and to reduce the likelihood of  policyholders  terminating  their
policies during periods of increasing  interest rates,  thereby  lengthening the
effective  duration of policy liabilities and improving the Company's ability to
maintain profitability on such policies.

The Hartford's  reserves  comply in all material  respects with state  insurance
department  statutory  requirements;  however,  in  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements, life insurance reserves are determined in accordance with accounting
principles  generally  accepted  in the  United  States,  which  may  vary  from
statutory accounting practices.

CEDED REINSURANCE

Consistent with normal industry  practice,  The Hartford cedes insurance risk to
reinsurance companies.  For property and casualty operations,  these reinsurance
arrangements   provide  greater   diversification  of  business  and  limit  The
Hartford's maximum net loss arising from large risks or catastrophes.

A major portion of The Hartford's property and casualty  reinsurance is effected
under general reinsurance contracts known as treaties, or, in some instances, is
negotiated on an individual risk basis,  known as facultative  reinsurance.  The
Hartford also has in-force excess of loss contracts with reinsurers that protect
it against a specified part or all of certain losses over stipulated amounts.

The ceding of insurance obligations does not discharge the original insurer from
its primary  liability to the  policyholder.  The original  insurer would remain
liable in those situations where the reinsurer is unable to meet the obligations
assumed  under  reinsurance  agreements.  The  Hartford has  established  strict
standards  that  govern  the  placement  of   reinsurance   and  monitors  ceded
reinsurance  security.  Virtually  all of The  Hartford's  property and casualty
reinsurance  is placed  with  reinsurers  that meet  strict  financial  criteria
established by a credit committee. Consistent with normal industry practice, HLI
is involved in both the cession and assumption of insurance with other insurance
and reinsurance  companies.  As of December 31, 1999, the maximum amount of life
insurance  retained  on  any  one  life  by  any  of  the  life  operations  was
approximately $2.5, excluding accidental death benefits.

INVESTMENT OPERATIONS

An  important  element of the  financial  results of The  Hartford  is return on
invested  assets.  The Hartford's  investment  activities are primarily  divided
between property and casualty,  including other operations, and life operations.
The investment  activities of both the property and casualty and life operations
are  managed  based  on the  underlying  characteristics  and  nature  of  their
respective liabilities.

The investment objective for the majority of property and casualty operations is
to maximize  economic  value while  generating  after-tax  income and sufficient
liquidity to meet corporate and policyholder  obligations.  For the property and
casualty other  operations,  the investment  objective is to ensure the full and
timely payment of all liabilities.  Property and casualty investment  strategies
are developed based on a variety of factors including business needs, regulatory
requirements and tax considerations.

The primary  investment  objective of the life  operation's  general account and
guaranteed  separate accounts is to maximize  after-tax returns  consistent with
acceptable  risk  parameters,  including  the  management  of the interest  rate
sensitivity of invested assets relative to that of policyholder obligations.

For a further discussion of The Hartford's approach to managing risks, including
derivative  utilization,  see the Capital Markets Risk Management section of the
MD&A, as well as Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

REGULATION AND PREMIUM RATES

Insurance  companies are subject to  comprehensive  and detailed  regulation and
supervision  throughout the United States. The extent of such regulation varies,
but generally has its source in statutes which delegate regulatory,  supervisory
and administrative powers to state insurance departments. Such powers relate to,
among other things,  the standards of solvency that must be met and  maintained;
the licensing of insurers and their  agents;  the nature of and  limitations  on
investments; premium rates; claim handling and trade practices;  restrictions on
the size of risks  which  may be  insured  under a single  policy;  deposits  of
securities for the benefit of policyholders;  approval of policy forms; periodic
examinations of the affairs of companies;  annual and other reports  required to
be filed on the financial  condition of companies or for other purposes;  fixing
maximum  interest  rates on life  insurance  policy loans and minimum  rates for
accumulation  of  surrender  values;  and the  adequacy  of  reserves  and other
necessary  provisions for unearned premiums,  unpaid claims and claim adjustment
expenses and other liabilities, both reported and unreported.

                                     - 7 -

Regulatory  requirements  applying to property and casualty  premium  rates vary
from state to state,  but generally  provide that rates shall not be inadequate,
excessive  or  unfairly  discriminatory.  Rates  for  many  products,  including
automobile and homeowners insurance, are subject to prior regulatory approval in
many  states.  Ocean  marine  insurance  rates are exempt from rate  regulation.
Subject to regulatory requirements,  management determines the rates charged for
its policies.  Methods for arriving at rates vary by product,  exposure  assumed
and size of risk.

While premium rates in the property and casualty  insurance business are for the
most part subject to regulation,  such rates are not in most  instances  uniform
for all  insurers  within a given  jurisdiction,  or in all  jurisdictions.  The
Hartford is a member of various fire, casualty and surety rating  organizations.
For some lines of business,  The Hartford  uses the rates and rating plans which
are filed by these organizations in the various states, while for other lines of
business it uses loss cost data  published by such  organizations.  The Hartford
also  uses  its  own  independent   rates  or  otherwise   departs  from  rating
organization rates, where appropriate.

Most states have enacted  legislation that regulates  insurance  holding company
systems such as The Hartford.  This  legislation  provides  that each  insurance
company in the system is required to register with the  insurance  department of
its state of domicile  and furnish  information  concerning  the  operations  of
companies  within the holding  company  system which may  materially  affect the
operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system.
All transactions within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair
and  equitable.  Notice to the insurance  departments  is required  prior to the
consummation  of  transactions  affecting the ownership or control of an insurer
and of certain  material  transactions  between an insurer and any entity in its
holding  company system.  In addition,  certain of such  transactions  cannot be
consummated without the applicable insurance department's prior approval.

State  insurance   regulations   require  property  and  casualty   insurers  to
participate   in  assigned  risk  plans,   reinsurance   facilities   and  joint
underwriting  associations,  which are  mechanisms to provide risks with various
basic or minimum  insurance  coverage  when they are not  available in voluntary
markets.  Such  mechanisms  are  most  prevalent  for  automobile  and  workers'
compensation  insurance,  but a majority of states also mandate participation in
so-called  FAIR Plans or Windstorm  Plans  providing  basic  property  coverage.
Additionally, some states mandate such participation in facilities for providing
medical  malpractice  insurance.  Participation  is based  upon the  amount of a
company's  written  premiums in a particular  state for the classes of insurance
involved.

The extent of insurance  regulation on business outside the United States varies
significantly among the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries
have  minimal   regulatory   requirements,   while  others   regulate   insurers
extensively.   Foreign  insurers  in  many  countries  are  faced  with  greater
restrictions   than   domestic   competitors   domiciled   in  that   particular
jurisdiction.  The Hartford's international operations are comprised of insurers
licensed in their respective countries and, therefore,  are subject to generally
less  restrictive  domestic  insurance  regulations.  The Monetary  Authority of
Singapore,  the regulatory  body in Singapore,  does not currently allow foreign
companies to own a majority share of local companies.

RATINGS

Reference is made to the Capital  Resources  and  Liquidity  section of the MD&A
under "Ratings".

RISK-BASED CAPITAL

Reference is made to the Capital  Resources  and  Liquidity  section of the MD&A
under "Risk-based Capital".

LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES

Reference is made to the  Regulatory  Matters and  Contingencies  section of the
MD&A under "Legislative Initiatives".

INSOLVENCY FUND

Reference is made to the  Regulatory  Matters and  Contingencies  section of the
MD&A under "Insolvency Fund".

NAIC PROPOSALS

Reference is made to the  Regulatory  Matters and  Contingencies  section of the
MD&A under "NAIC Proposals".

YEAR 2000

Reference is made to the  Regulatory  Matters and  Contingencies  section of the
MD&A under "Year 2000".

EMPLOYEES

The Hartford had approximately 26,000 employees as of February 29, 2000.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE HARTFORD

Information about the executive  officers of The Hartford who are also directors
and/or  nominees for election as directors is set forth in The  Hartford's  2000
Proxy Statement.  In addition to those executive  officers who are listed in the
2000 Proxy Statement, listed below are other Company executive officers, certain
of whom  have  served  in  similar  positions  for  The  Hartford  prior  to the
Distribution:

BRENDA FURLONG, 51, became Chief Investment Officer of the Company and President
of Hartford Investment  Management Company (HIMCO), a wholly owned subsidiary of
the Company,  effective  October 1999.  Previously,  Ms. Furlong was Senior Vice
President, Capital Planning and Development, with responsibility for mergers and
acquisitions,  strategic planning and capital  allocation.  Prior to joining the
Company in 1996,  she served as Vice  President  and  Treasurer  of the Sheraton
Corp., the worldwide  hospitality and gaming company,  and held senior positions
at several ITT Corporation

                                     - 8 -

companies. She began her career at State Street Bank and Trust, where she was an
officer  in  commercial  lending.   Ms.  Furlong  holds  a  Master's  degree  in
international  studies from  American  University  and an MBA from  Northeastern
University. She is a graduate of Whittier College.

JOHN N.  GIAMALIS,  42, is Senior Vice  President and Controller of the Company.
Mr.  Giamalis  joined the  Company in January  1997,  functioning  as  Corporate
Controller and Director,  Financial Reporting and Analysis.  He was appointed in
mid-1998 to the position of Deputy Controller. Prior to joining the Company, Mr.
Giamalis  held  senior  financial  positions  in the  insurance  and  technology
industries.  Previously, he served in public accounting positions,  including as
Senior Manager with  responsibility for insurance,  securities and middle market
clients for Deloitte & Touche. He holds a B.S. degree in business administration
and a Master of professional accountancy from West Virginia University.  He is a
member of the American  Institute and  Connecticut  Society of Certified  Public
Accountants.

RANDALL I. KIVIAT, 49, is Group Senior Vice President of Human Resources for the
Company.   He  oversees   human   resources  for  the  Company's   domestic  and
international  insurance  operations and has held this position since June 1999.
Mr.  Kiviat  joined  the  Company  in 1982 as  Assistant  Director  of  Employee
Benefits. He advanced to increasingly  responsible positions,  becoming Director
of Payroll and then  Director of  Employee  Benefits.  In 1993 he was named Vice
President of Human Resources Services.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Kiviat
was  Manager  of  Benefits  Administration  at  Kennecott  Corporation.  He is a
graduate of the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn.

EDWARD L. MORGAN, 56, has been Group Senior Vice President,  Corporate Relations
and Government Affairs of The Hartford since 1998. He was Senior Vice President,
Corporate  Relations  and  Government  Affairs of the Company from 1993 to 1998.
From  1991 to 1993,  he served  as Vice  President  and  Director  of  Corporate
Relations.  Prior to joining The Hartford,  Mr. Morgan held the position of Vice
President of Corporate Relations at Allstate Insurance Company.

MICHAEL S. WILDER,  58, has been Group Senior Vice President and General Counsel
of the Company since 1995.  He became Senior Vice  President in 1987 and General
Counsel in 1975.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The Hartford owns the land and buildings  comprising  its Hartford  location and
other  properties  within the  greater  Hartford,  Connecticut  area which total
approximately 1.6 million square feet. The Hartford's international subsidiaries
own  approximately  218 thousand  square feet of office space in the Netherlands
and 9 thousand square feet in other countries.  In addition, The Hartford leases
approximately  5.0  million  square  feet  throughout  the United  States and 54
thousand square feet in other countries. The Company believes its properties and
facilities are suitable and adequate for current operations.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Hartford is a defendant in various lawsuits arising out of its business.  In
the opinion of management,  final outcome of these matters,  after consideration
of  provisions  made  for  potential  losses  and  costs  of  defense,  will not
materially affect the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows of The Hartford.

The Hartford is involved in claims litigation  arising in the ordinary course of
business and  accounts for such  activity  through the  establishment  of policy
reserves.  As  further  discussed  above  and  in the  MD&A  under  the  section
Environmental   and  Asbestos   Claims,   The  Hartford   continues  to  receive
environmental  and  asbestos  claims  which  involve   significant   uncertainty
regarding  policy  coverage  issues.   Regarding  these  claims,   The  Hartford
continually  reviews its overall reserve  levels,  reserving  methodologies  and
reinsurance coverages.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders of The Hartford during the
fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.

PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE HARTFORD'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The  Hartford's  common  stock is traded on the New York Stock  Exchange  (NYSE)
under the trading symbol "HIG".

On May 21, 1998,  the Board of Directors  authorized a  two-for-one  stock split
effected in the form of a 100% stock  dividend  distributed  on July 15, 1998 to
shareholders  of record as of June 24, 1998.  The following  table  presents the
high and low closing prices for the common stock of The Hartford on the NYSE for
the periods indicated, and the quarterly dividends declared per share.

                           1st Qtr.  2nd Qtr.  3rd Qtr.  4th Qtr.
- -------------------------- --------- --------- --------- --------
Common Stock Price
   High                     $58.81     $65.06    $61.94   $53.44
   Low                       48.31      57.13     40.88    37.31
Dividends Declared            0.22       0.23      0.23     0.24
- -------------------------- --------- --------- --------- --------
Common Stock Price
   High                     $54.56     $57.50    $59.56   $57.75
   Low                       44.75      52.38     44.75    38.19
Dividends Declared            0.21       0.21      0.21     0.22
- -------------------------- --------- --------- --------- --------

As of February 29, 2000, there were approximately 145,000 shareholders.

                                     - 9 -

On October 21, 1999, The Hartford's Board of Directors approved a 4% increase in
the quarterly  dividend to $0.24 per share.  Dividend decisions are based on and
affected by a number of factors,  including the operating  results and financial
requirements of The Hartford and the impact of regulatory restrictions discussed
in the Capital  Resources  and  Liquidity  section of the MD&A under  "Liquidity
Requirements".

There are also  various  legal  limitations  governing  the  extent to which The
Hartford's insurance  subsidiaries may extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise
provide funds to The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. as discussed in the
Capital   Resources  and  Liquidity   section  of  the  MD&A  under   "Liquidity
Requirements".





                                     - 10 -


Item 7.      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
                            AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data, unless otherwise stated)

Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations  (MD&A) addresses the financial  condition of The Hartford  Financial
Services Group,  Inc. and its  subsidiaries  (The Hartford or the Company) as of
December  31,  1999,  compared  with  December  31,  1998,  and its  results  of
operations  for the three years ended  December  31, 1999,  1998 and 1997.  This
discussion  should  be read  in  conjunction  with  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements and related Notes beginning on page F-1.

Certain of the statements  contained herein (other than statements of historical
fact) are forward-looking  statements.  Such forward-looking statements are made
pursuant to the safe harbor  provisions  of the  Private  Securities  Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and include  estimates and  assumptions  related to economic,
competitive and legislative developments.  These forward-looking  statements are
subject  to change and  uncertainty  which are,  in many  instances,  beyond the
Company's  control and have been made based upon  management's  expectations and
beliefs  concerning  future  developments  and their  potential  effect upon The
Hartford.  There  can  be no  assurance  that  future  developments  will  be in
accordance  with  management's   expectations  or  that  the  effect  of  future
developments  on The Hartford will be those  anticipated by  management.  Actual
results could differ  materially from those expected by The Hartford,  depending
on the outcome of certain factors, including the possibility of general economic
and business  conditions  that are less favorable than  anticipated,  changes in
interest  rates or the stock  markets,  stronger  than  anticipated  competitive
activity,  more frequent or severe natural  catastrophes  than  anticipated  and
those described in the forward-looking statements herein.

Certain  reclassifications have been made to prior year financial information to
conform to the current year presentation.

INDEX

Consolidated Results of Operations: Operating Summary       11
North American Property & Casualty                          13
Commercial                                                  14
Personal                                                    15
Reinsurance                                                 16
Life                                                        17
International                                               20
Other Operations                                            22
Reserves                                                    22
Environmental and Asbestos Claims                           23
Investments                                                 25
Capital Markets Risk Management                             28
Capital Resources and Liquidity                             39
Regulatory Matters and Contingencies                        41
Effect of Inflation                                         43
Accounting Standards                                        43

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS: OPERATING SUMMARY



The Hartford defines "core earnings" as after-tax operational results excluding,
as applicable,  net realized capital gains or losses,  the cumulative  effect of
accounting changes,  allocated  Distribution items (for additional  information,
see Note 17 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements)  and certain other
items. Core earnings is an internal  performance  measure used by the Company in
the  management of its  operations.  Management  believes that this  performance
measure delineates the results of operations of the Company's ongoing businesses
in a manner that allows for a better  understanding of the underlying

                                     - 11 -

trends in the Company's current business.  However, core earnings should only be
analyzed  in  conjunction  with,  and not in lieu of,  net income and may not be
comparable to other performance measures used by the Company's competitors.

Revenues for 1999  decreased  $1.5  billion,  or 10%,  from 1998  primarily as a
result of the  November  1998 sale of United  Kingdom-based  London &  Edinburgh
Insurance  Group,  Ltd. (London & Edinburgh),  which was The Hartford's  largest
international subsidiary,  the declining block of leveraged corporate owned life
insurance (COLI) business and lower net realized capital gains. The decrease was
partially offset by earned premium growth in the Personal segment and higher fee
income in the Investment  Products  operation of the Life segment as a result of
increasing  account  values.  (For an analysis of net investment  income and net
realized capital gains, see the Investments section.)

In 1999,  core earnings  increased $21, or 3%, from 1998 primarily due to higher
fee income in the Investment Products operation as a result of increasing assets
under  management.  Partially  offsetting this increase were a decrease in North
American Property & Casualty net service fee and other income,  due primarily to
$55 of proceeds  received in 1998 related to the Industrial  Risk Insurance pool
(IRI transaction),  and lower International segment core earnings as a result of
the sale of London & Edinburgh.

Revenues for 1998 increased $1.6 billion,  or 12%, from 1997.  This  improvement
was due primarily to higher aggregate fees earned on growth in account values in
the Investment  Products and Individual  Life  operations  resulting from strong
sales and equity market appreciation, the recapture of an in force block of COLI
business  (referred to as MBL Recapture)  previously ceded to MBL Life Assurance
Co. of New Jersey (MBL Life),  an  increase in earned  premiums  and service fee
revenues in the Personal  segment and higher net  investment  income.  Partially
offsetting  these increases were lower net realized  capital gains. In addition,
revenues  for 1998  also  increased  as a result  of  proceeds  from the sale of
renewal rights and other considerations related to the IRI transaction.

In 1998,  core  earnings  increased  $67, or 9%, from 1997  primarily  due to an
increase  in  fees  earned  resulting  from  growth  in  account  values  in the
Investment  Products  and  Individual  Life  operations  due to strong sales and
equity  market  appreciation,  an increase in net service fee and other  income,
primarily as a result of the IRI transaction,  and higher net investment income.
Partially  offsetting  these increases were a decrease in underwriting  results,
primarily  the result of higher  catastrophe  losses,  as well as an increase in
other non-underwriting expenses.

NET REALIZED CAPITAL GAINS

See "Investment Results" in the Investments section.

EQUITY GAIN ON HLI INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING

Net income for 1997  includes a $368  equity  gain  resulting  from the  initial
public offering of Hartford Life, Inc. (HLI),  the holding company parent of The
Hartford's  significant life insurance  subsidiaries,  Class A common stock (The
Offering).  (For  additional  information,  see Note 2 of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements  and Capital  Resources and  Liquidity  section under "The
Offering".)

INCOME TAXES

The  effective  tax  rates  for  1999,  1998 and  1997  were  23%,  26% and 25%,
respectively,  excluding the impact of the HLI equity gain, as discussed  above,
in 1997.  The decrease in the effective tax rate for 1999 was due to an increase
in the proportionate  share of tax-exempt net investment income to total pre-tax
income for 1999 compared to 1998.  Tax-exempt interest earned on invested assets
was the  principal  cause of effective  rates lower than the 35% U.S.  statutory
rate. Income taxes paid (refunds received) in 1999, 1998 and 1997 were $41, $407
and $(37),  respectively.  (For additional information,  see Note 14 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.)

MINORITY INTEREST IN CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARY

Minority  interest in  consolidated  subsidiary  represents an  approximate  19%
minority interest in HLI's operating results. (For additional  information,  see
Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements and Capital Resources and
Liquidity section under "The Offering".)

PER COMMON SHARE

On May 21, 1998,  the Board of Directors  authorized a  two-for-one  stock split
effected in the form of a 100% stock  dividend  distributed  on July 15, 1998 to
shareholders of record as of June 24, 1998. The following  table  represents per
common share data and return on equity for the past three years:

                                        1999     1998      1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Basic earnings per share                $3.83    $4.36     $5.64
Weighted average common shares
  outstanding                           224.9    232.8     236.0
Diluted earnings per share              $3.79    $4.30     $5.58
Weighted average common shares
  outstanding and dilutive potential
  common shares                         227.5    236.2     238.9
Return on equity [1]                     15.3%   18.7%     28.3%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
[1] Calculated  by dividing net income by average  equity  excluding  unrealized
    gain, after-tax. In 1997, return on equity excluding the HLI equity gain (as
    discussed earlier) from net income was 20.5%.

SEGMENT RESULTS

The Hartford's reporting segments consist of Commercial,  Personal, Reinsurance,
Life,  International and Other  Operations.  While the measure of profit or loss
used by The Hartford's management in evaluating performance is core earnings for
the Life, International and Other Operations segments, the Commercial,  Personal
and Reinsurance  segments are evaluated by The Hartford's  management  primarily
based upon  underwriting  results.  While not considered a segment,  the Company
also reports and evaluates core earnings  results for North American  Property &
Casualty,  which include the combined  underwriting  results of the  Commercial,
Personal  and  Reinsurance  segments,  along with income and  expense  items not
directly  allocable  to these  segments  such as net

                                     - 12 -

investment income. Other Operations include operations which have ceased writing
new business. Also, included in Other Operations is the effect of an approximate
19% minority interest in HLI's operating results.

Certain  transactions  between  segments  occur  during the year that  primarily
relate to tax settlements, insurance coverage, expense reimbursements,  services
provided and capital  contributions.  Certain  reinsurance  stop loss agreements
exist between the segments which specify that one segment will reimburse another
for losses  incurred in excess of a predetermined  limit.  Also, one segment may
purchase  group annuity  contracts  from another to fund pension costs and claim
annuities to settle casualty claims.

The  following  is a summary of  underwriting  results by segment  within  North
American Property & Casualty.

UNDERWRITING RESULTS                1999      1998       1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Commercial                       $   (171)  $  (213)  $   (149)
Personal                               34        77         37
Reinsurance                           (48)      (36)       (14)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL                         $   (185)  $  (172)  $   (126)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

The following is a summary of core earnings and net income.

CORE EARNINGS                       1999      1998       1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
N. A. Property & Casualty        $    434   $   457   $    433
Life                                  467       386        306
International                          16        42         46
Other Operations                      (80)      (69)       (36)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
   CORE EARNINGS                 $    837   $   816   $    749
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

NET INCOME                          1999      1998       1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
N. A. Property & Casualty        $    448   $   604   $    583
Life                                  467       386        306
International                          27        92        110
Other Operations [1]                  (80)      (67)       333
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
   NET INCOME                    $    862   $ 1,015   $  1,332
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]   1997  includes  a $368  equity  gain  resulting  from the  initial  public
      offering of HLI.

A description of North American  Property & Casualty,  along with each reporting
segment,  as well as an analysis of the operating  results  summarized above, is
included on the following pages.  Reserves,  Environmental  and Asbestos Claims,
and Investments are discussed in separate sections.

NORTH AMERICAN PROPERTY & CASUALTY



As  discussed  above,  The  Hartford's  management  reviews  and  evaluates  the
performance  of the three segments  within North  American  Property & Casualty,
Commercial,  Personal  and  Reinsurance,  primarily on an  underwriting  results
basis.  The  combined  underwriting  results,  along  with  items  not  directly
allocable to the individual  segments,  are used in  determining  net income and
core  earnings  of North  American  Property  &  Casualty.  Items  not  directly
allocable to the individual segments include net investment income, net realized
capital  gains or losses,  other  non-underwriting  expenses,  income  taxes and
certain other items.

The following is a summary of North  American  Property & Casualty core earnings
by major component,  after-tax. Core earnings exclude net realized capital gains
and other items.

(after-tax)                     1999       1998        1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Underwriting results          $  (120)   $   (112)  $    (82)
Net service fee and
  other income                     12          52          3
Net investment income             684         656        619
Interest and other
  non-underwriting expenses[1]   (142)       (139)      (107)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
   CORE EARNINGS              $   434    $    457   $    433
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]   Excludes expenses related to service fees.

Underwriting  results are  discussed  in each of the  Commercial,  Personal  and
Reinsurance  segment  sections.  Net  investment  income  is  discussed  in  the
Investments  section.

                                     - 13 -

Core  earnings  in 1999 for North  American  Property  & Casualty  were $434,  a
decrease of $23, or 5%, from 1998.  The decrease was  primarily  the result of a
$40  decrease in net service fee and other  income,  due  primarily  to proceeds
received in 1998 related to the IRI  transaction  and an $8, or 7%,  decrease in
after-tax  underwriting  results.  Partially  offsetting  the  decrease  was  an
increase in net investment income of $28, or 4%.

Core  earnings  in 1998 for North  American  Property & Casualty  were $457,  an
increase of $24, or 6%, from 1997.  The increase was  primarily due to a $37, or
6%, increase in net investment  income and a $49 increase in net service fee and
other income (primarily as a result of the IRI transaction), partially offset by
a $30, or 37%,  decrease in  after-tax  underwriting  results and a $32, or 30%,
increase in interest and other  non-underwriting  expenses,  which was primarily
the result of an increase  in certain  corporate  benefit  and outside  services
expenses.

COMMERCIAL



Commercial  provides workers'  compensation,  property,  automobile,  liability,
marine,  agricultural and bond coverages to commercial  accounts  throughout the
United States and Canada. Excess and surplus lines business not normally written
by standard lines insurers is also provided.  Commercial is organized into three
customer  markets:  Business  Insurance,   Commercial  Affinity  and  Commercial
Specialty.

Business  Insurance  provides  standard  commercial  business for small accounts
(Select  Customer) and mid-sized  insureds (Key Accounts).  Commercial  Affinity
provides commercial risk management products and services to small and mid-sized
members of affinity groups and customers of financial  institutions.  Commercial
Specialty   provides  insurance  through  retailers  and  wholesalers  to  large
commercial  clients   (Major/National)  and  insureds  requiring  a  variety  of
specialized  coverages.  Its results also include the bond lines and First State
Management  Group,  a leading  underwriter  of excess and surplus lines business
produced primarily through wholesale brokers. Agricultural, livestock and marine
products are also included within Commercial Specialty.

Written  premiums  decreased  slightly in 1999  compared to 1998.  Solid premium
growth in The Hartford's small commercial  businesses resulted in growth of 15%.
These growth  businesses  represented  31% of the Commercial  segment's  written
premiums  in 1999  versus  27% in 1998.  Enhanced  product  offerings,  targeted
geographic  strategies and partnerships with other entities  continued to be the
primary drivers of these growth businesses. These increases,  however, were more
than  offset by  declines in the middle and large  national  account  businesses
primarily  due to intense price  competition  in the casualty  lines,  where The
Hartford's  disciplined  underwriting allowed business to move to other carriers
rather  than  underpricing  in order to retain  accounts.

Underwriting  results  improved $42, or 0.7 combined  ratio  points,  in 1999 as
compared with 1998. This  improvement can be attributed to a decline in the loss
ratio of 1.3 points resulting from underwriting initiatives and price increases.
Partially  offsetting this improvement was an increase in the other underwriting
expense ratio due to investments in growth areas, primarily Select Customer.

In 1998,  written premiums decreased slightly compared to 1997. Small commercial
business premiums grew 25%, and the bond and agricultural  lines experienced 14%
growth. Small commercial businesses  represented 27% of the Commercial segment's
written  premiums in 1998 versus 21% in 1997.  However,  premium growth in these
businesses  was more than offset by  declines  in the middle and large  national
account businesses due to intense competition.

In 1998,  underwriting  results  decreased  $64, or 1.7 combined  ratio  points,
compared  to 1997.  Increases  in  property  catastrophe  losses of $70,  or 2.1
combined ratio points,  were the primary  factor in the decline,  as catastrophe
experience was worse in 1998 as compared to the highly  favorable  experience in
1997.  In  addition,  intense  price  competition  in the mid-  and  large-sized
marketplace  resulted in reduced profit margins, as decreases in rate and price,
particularly in the workers'  compensation line, outpaced loss cost savings. The
Commercial  segment,  however,  continued  to  experience  the  benefit  of  its
extensive cost containment strategies which mitigate the rate and price pressure
on underwriting results.

OUTLOOK

Difficult market conditions and intense price competition within many markets of
the commercial sector are likely to continue into the foreseeable future despite
some favorable trends. Each

                                     - 14 -

market within the Commercial  segment has  implemented  plans to achieve greater
profitability  in a  marketplace  that has  experienced  relatively  flat growth
overall.  The segment has undertaken several major strategic actions,  with some
to be completed in 2000. Continued pricing and underwriting  actions,  primarily
in the mid-to-large account marketplace should have a positive impact on overall
profitability.  Management expects the impacts of these efforts to continue into
2000 and beyond.  Investments in such areas as technology,  product research and
development,  advertising  and staff  training have  continued,  in an effort to
heighten  brand   awareness,   increase  product   offerings,   further  develop
alternative distribution channels and improve productivity.  Management believes
the results of these and other  actions  taken may  counterbalance  the negative
external  factors in the commercial  market and position the Commercial  segment
for improved written premium growth in 2000 and beyond,  while  maintaining core
profitability.

PERSONAL



Personal provides automobile, homeowners, home-based business and fire coverages
to individuals across North America. Personal is organized to provide customized
products and services to the following markets: the membership of AARP through a
direct marketing operation; customers who prefer local agent involvement through
a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market and in the
non-standard  automobile market through Omni Insurance Group, Inc. (Omni), which
was  acquired in 1998;  customers  of Ford Motor  Company and Ford Motor  Credit
Company  (collectively,  Ford) as well as customers  of  financial  institutions
through an affinity  center  which  began in 1996 and is building  from the AARP
operation  competencies;  and customer service for all health insurance products
offered  through AARP's Health Care Options  effective  January 1, 1998.  AARP's
exclusive   licensing   arrangement   continues  through  2002  for  automobile,
homeowners and home-based business and through 2007 for Health Care Options. The
Ford contract is for a five-year term through 2004.  Management believes each of
these  agreements  provides the Personal  segment with an important  competitive
advantage.

Written  premiums  increased  $250,  or 11%, in 1999  compared  with 1998.  Omni
written premiums  increased $88, or 53%,  contributing 4% to the segment's total
written premium growth in 1999. As of December 31, 1999, non-standard automobile
coverage  through Omni was available in 33 states compared with 13 states at the
time of  acquisition  in 1998.  AARP  written  premiums  increased  $65,  or 5%,
contributing 3% to the segment's  total written  premium growth in 1999.  Agency
written  premium growth was $31, or 5%,  contributing  1% to the segment's total
written  premium growth in 1999. The Affinity unit  experienced  written premium
growth of $66, or 120%,  contributing  3% to the segment's total written premium
growth in 1999.  Written  premium  increases  in all the units were  achieved in
light of very competitive pricing in the personal lines market, primarily in the
personal  automobile  line.  Servicing  revenues from AARP's Health Care Options
unit declined by $38 in 1999 due to revenues related to the transfer of business
from the prior carrier in 1998.

Underwriting  results  decreased by $43, with a corresponding 2.5 point increase
in the combined  ratio,  when  compared to 1998.  The  decrease in  underwriting
results and increase in combined ratio resulted  primarily from increased  claim
and claim adjustment  expenses.  Loss experience in the property line was higher
in 1999 when compared to 1998 due to increases in both frequency and severity of
claims.  Claim  adjustment  expenses  increased  due  to  investments  in  claim
initiatives for automobile bodily injury, physical damage and property to reduce
loss costs in future periods.  Catastrophe losses impacted the combined ratio by
2.9 points in 1999 compared to 3.5 points in 1998.

Written  premiums  increased  $327,  or 17%,  in 1998  compared  with 1997.  The
acquisition of Omni accounted for $167, or 9%, of the written premium  increase.
Favorable underwriting  experience was passed through to AARP members in reduced
rates and,  despite the reduced  rates,  the  program  posted a written  premium
increase of $65, or 5%,  contributing  3% to the segment's total written premium
growth in 1998. Agency  experienced  substantial  premium growth  improvement in
1998 with an increase of $67, or 11%,  contributing  4% to the  segment's  total
written  premium  growth.  A  primary  driver  of this  premium  growth  was the
strategic  shift from homeowners to automobile  coverages,  which began in 1997.
The Affinity unit,  which was still in a start-up phase,  experienced  growth of
$28, or 105%, in 1998,  contributing  1% to the segment's  total written premium
growth.

Underwriting results improved by $40, with a corresponding 1.5 point improvement
in the combined  ratio in 1998 compared

                                     - 15 -

with 1997. The combined ratio decrease  resulted from loss cost  improvements in
automobile and homeowners from expanded cost containment initiatives,  effecting
the combined ratio by 3.8 points. Offsetting this improvement were significantly
higher property  catastrophes in 1998 of $71 compared to $32 in 1997,  impacting
the combined ratio by 1.8 points, and increased  underwriting expenses impacting
the  combined  ratio  by 0.5  points.  Property  catastrophe  and  other  severe
weather-related   experience  were  unusually  low  in  1997.  The  increase  in
underwriting  expenses was primarily  from  investments  in growth  initiatives,
acquisition  costs related to premium growth and from investment in the Affinity
unit   start-up   organization,   partially   offset  by  lower   dividends   to
policyholders.

OUTLOOK

Intense  competition and consolidation in the personal market will remain in the
foreseeable future.  Management  anticipates pricing will be moderately positive
in 2000 versus the reductions  that occurred in the last few years.  Significant
investments in claim  initiatives in 1999 are expected to favorably  impact loss
cost trends in 2000 and beyond.  Management  believes  the  Personal  segment is
positioned for continued  written premium growth through  multiple  distribution
channels.  Initiatives are being introduced,  as a result of research  findings,
which are  expected  to  attract  more AARP  members  to the  program.  In 1999,
Affinity  entered into an agreement  with Ford to market to its  customers.  The
Hartford  expects the Ford  program to be a major  market in the future.  In the
independent  agency channel,  investments in agency interface,  new products and
agency relations position The Hartford for premium growth. Omni will continue to
expand into more states and penetrate a broader base of agents.  Investments  in
such areas as advertising,  product research and development,  agency relations,
technology and staff training will  continue,  in an effort to further  heighten
brand  awareness,   increase  product  offerings,  further  develop  alternative
distribution channels, improve productivity and reduce the expense ratio.

REINSURANCE



The  Hartford  assumes  reinsurance  worldwide  through  its  thirteen  Hartford
Reinsurance  Company (HartRe) offices located in the United States,  Canada, the
United Kingdom,  France,  Italy,  Germany,  Spain, Hong Kong and Taiwan.  HartRe
primarily writes treaty reinsurance  through  professional  reinsurance  brokers
covering various property, casualty, specialty and marine classes of business.

Written  premiums  decreased $8, or 1%, in 1999  primarily due to an increase in
ceded  reinsurance  premium,  principally  as a  result  of  cessions  under  an
aggregate  stop loss treaty in 1999,  and the  non-recurrence  of a  significant
single  finite risk account  written in 1998.  These  decreases  were  partially
offset  by the  first  quarter  1999  acquisition  of  renewal  rights  for  the
reinsurance  business  of Vesta Fire  Insurance  Corp.,  a  subsidiary  of Vesta
Insurance Group Inc.  Written  premiums  increased $23, or 3%, in 1998 primarily
due to the acquisition of renewal rights for the reinsurance business of a large
Italian  insurance  company  and the  finite  risk  account  referred  to above.
Partially  offsetting  these  increases  were  reductions in North  American and
European  premiums caused by rate reductions  arising from market conditions and
the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange rates on Hong Kong premiums.

Underwriting  results for 1999  decreased  $12, with a  corresponding  1.5 point
increase in the  combined  ratio from 1998.  Excluding  the finite risk  account
referred to above,  which had no significant  impact on underwriting  results in
1998, the decrease in underwriting results was due primarily to loss development
in 1999 from business written  principally in 1998 in certain business  classes,
partially   offset  by  recoveries   under  the  aggregate   stop  loss  treaty.
Underwriting  results for 1998  decreased  $22, with a  corresponding  3.1 point
increase in the combined ratio,  from 1997 due primarily to the impact of higher
net property  catastrophe losses of $47, which were somewhat offset by increased
new business  premiums in finite  casualty which has a lower combined ratio than
traditional casualty lines.

OUTLOOK

The  reinsurance  market is highly  competitive  and prices  continue  to remain
relatively soft in most product lines in most parts of the world.  However, some
early positive  signs appear to be emerging  which  indicate  market pricing may
begin to improve in 2000 and continue into 2001.  Until market  pricing is fully
restored to more reasonable levels,  HartRe remains focused on writing long-term
profitable business,  even at the expense of premium growth. On a positive note,
responsible  buyers are looking to establish  core  relationships  with a select
group of financially strong reinsurers,  which possess  specialized  product and
geographic spread, service capabilities,  and expertise.  HartRe stands ready to
capitalize on its strengths in these areas in view of the changing marketplace.

                                     - 16 -

LIFE



The Life segment  consists of the following  reportable  operations:  Investment
Products,  Individual Life,  Employee  Benefits and COLI. In addition,  the Life
segment includes in an Other category its  international  operations,  which are
primarily located in Latin America,  and corporate items not directly  allocable
to any of its reportable operations.

On May 22, 1997, HLI, the holding  company parent of The Hartford's  significant
life subsidiaries, completed the initial public offering of approximately 19% of
its common stock.  (For additional  information,  see the Capital  Resources and
Liquidity section under "The Offering".)

Revenues of $5.5 billion in 1999 decreased $252, or 4%, from 1998, primarily due
to the declining block of leveraged COLI business. Excluding the COLI operation,
revenues  increased  $484,  or 11%, to $4.7 billion in 1999.  This  increase was
driven  primarily by the Investment  Products and Employee  Benefits  operations
where revenues increased $257 and $215,  respectively.  The Investment  Products
operation  experienced  higher fee income in the  individual  annuity and mutual
fund businesses as a result of increased assets under management.  The growth in
assets under  management  was  attributed to strong net cash flow, the result of
higher sales and favorable  persistency,  as well as equity market appreciation.
The Employee Benefits operation experienced higher premium revenue due to strong
sales and persistency.

Core earnings of $467 in 1999 increased $81, or 21%, from 1998, primarily driven
by the  Company's  increased  fee income  associated  with higher  assets  under
management in the Investment  Products  operation,  as well as continued  growth
across its other reportable operations.

Revenues of $5.8 billion in 1998 increased $1.1 billion,  or 23%, from 1997. The
increase was due to the continued growth of revenues in the Investment  Products
operation of $274 and the  Individual  Life operation of $57 as a result of fees
earned on higher assets under  management which increased due to strong net cash
flow  and  equity  market  appreciation.  Additionally,  revenues  in  the  COLI
operation increased $587 primarily due to the recapture in the fourth quarter of
1998 of an in force block of COLI business  previously ceded to MBL Life. Higher
revenues in the Employee  Benefits  operation of $109,  primarily  due to strong
sales and renewals, also contributed to the revenue increase.

Core earnings of $386 in 1998 increased  $80, or 26%, from 1997,  primarily as a
result of an increase in earnings in the  Investment  Products  operation of $64
and in the Individual  Life operation of $9, both of which were driven by higher
fees associated with growth in assets under management.  Additionally,  earnings
in the Employee Benefits operation  increased $13 principally due to an increase
in group insurance revenue and favorable mortality and morbidity experience.


                                     - 17 -




The following describes each operation, including products and services offered,
and analyzes the above results.

Investment Products
- -------------------

The Investment Products operation focuses on the savings and retirement needs of
the growing  number of  individuals  who are  preparing  for  retirement or have
already  retired  through the sale of individual  fixed and variable  annuities,
retail mutual funds, retirement plan services and other investment products. The
Company was ranked the number one writer of individual variable annuities in the
United States for 1999  according to Variable  Annuity and Research Data Service
(VARDS).  In addition,  during  1999,  seven of the twelve  retail  mutual funds
received  Morningstar  ratings  and, as of  December  31,  1999,  all seven have
three-, four- or five-star ratings.

Revenues in the Investment  Products operation of $2.0 billion in 1999 increased
$257, or 14%, from 1998. This increase was primarily driven by higher fee income
in the individual  annuity and retail mutual fund businesses.  Fees generated by
individual  annuities  increased $248, or 29%, while related account values grew
$18.2  billion,  or 26%, to $89.0 billion in 1999.  The growth in account values
was due, in part, to strong  individual  annuity sales of $10.9 billion in 1999,
as well as favorable  persistency and equity market  appreciation.  In addition,
fee income from other  investment  products  increased  $68,  or 59%,  primarily
driven by the Company's  continued  growth in its retail mutual fund operations.
The  substantial  growth in retail  mutual fund assets under  management of $3.9
billion,  or  154%,  was  primarily  due to  strong  sales of $3.3  billion  and
favorable  persistency as well as equity market  appreciation.  Associated  with
continued growth in this operation,  amortization of deferred policy acquisition
costs grew $104,  or 32%, and  operating  expenses  increased  $32, or 13%. Core
earnings of $330 in 1999 increased $64, or 24%, from 1998,  primarily due to the
operation's  growth in fee income as a result of the  increase  in assets  under
management, as well as increased operating efficiencies.

Revenues in 1998 of $1.8 billion  increased $274, or 18%, from 1997. This growth
was driven by individual  annuity  revenues,  which increased $268, or 31%, over
the prior year due to higher fee income  earned as a result of increased  assets
under  management.  Individual  variable  annuity account values increased $15.3
billion,  or 33%, to $62.2  billion as of December  31, 1998,  primarily  due to
continued  strong net cash flow of  individual  variable  annuities,  as well as
equity  market  appreciation.  Individual  variable  annuity  sales reached $9.9
billion and $9.7  billion in 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  Associated  with the
strong  sales and  continued  growth in  Investment  Products,  amortization  of
deferred policy  acquisition costs increased $76, or 30%, and operating expenses
increased  $52, or 27%,  over prior year  levels.  Substantial  growth in assets
under  management  in  1998,  coupled  with  continued  operating  efficiencies,
increased the  operation's  core earnings $64, or 32%, to $266 in 1998 from $202
in 1997.

Individual Life
- ---------------

The Individual Life operation, which focuses on the high-end estate and business
planning markets, sells a variety of life insurance products, including variable
life, universal life, interest-sensitive whole life and term life insurance.

Revenues  in the  Individual  Life  operation  were  slightly  higher in 1999 as
compared to 1998.  Fee income  increased  $59, or 18%, in 1999,  primarily  as a
result of an increase in life insurance in force of 9% to $66.7 billion in 1999,
as well as higher  variable life account values which increased $868, or 50%, to
$2.6 billion in 1999.  The higher fee income was partially  offset by a decrease
in premium  revenue  resulting  from the sale of HLI's  Canadian life  insurance
operations. Benefits, claims and expenses increased slightly in 1999 as compared
to 1998,  primarily due to higher  amortization of deferred  policy  acquisition
costs  associated  with growth in the operation,  partially  offset by favorable
mortality  experience.  Core earnings  increased  $6, or 9%, in 1999,  primarily
driven by increased fees associated with higher  insurance in force and variable
life account values, as well as favorable mortality as described above.

Revenues of $567 in 1998  increased $57, or 11%, from 1997, due to growth in fee
income  associated  with  increases in life insurance in force and variable life
account values.  Life insurance in force increased 10% to $61.1 billion in 1998;
and variable life account values increased $651, or 61%, to $1.7 billion in 1998
due to strong sales of $127 in 1998, a 30% increase  over prior year levels,  as
well as equity  market  appreciation.  Benefits,  claims  and  claim  adjustment
expenses and  amortization  of deferred costs  increased $18, or 7%, and

                                     - 18 -

$21, or 24%, respectively,  over prior year levels. The growth in the Individual
Life operation's account values,  particularly variable life, and life insurance
in force resulted in an increase in core earnings of $9, or 16%, in 1998.

Employee Benefits
- -----------------

The Employee Benefits operation sells group life and group disability  insurance
as well as other products including stop loss and supplementary medical coverage
to  employers  and employer  sponsored  plans.  According to the latest  results
published by Life  Insurance  Marketing and Research  Association  (LIMRA),  the
Company was the third  largest  provider of group  disability  insurance  in the
United States for the nine months ended September 30, 1999.

Revenues in the Employee  Benefits  operation of $2.0 billion in 1999  increased
$215, or 12%, from 1998. Revenues, excluding buyouts, increased $191, or 11%, in
1999 as a result of increased  premiums due to strong sales and persistency,  as
well as higher net investment  income.  Benefits,  claims and expenses increased
$211,  or 12%,  in 1999,  primarily  due to higher  benefits,  claims  and claim
adjustment  expenses  due to the growth in this  operation.  Excluding  buyouts,
total benefits,  claims and expenses increased $187, or 11%, and as a percentage
of  revenues  were  consistent  in  1999  as  compared  to  1998,  indicating  a
continuation  of favorable  mortality  and morbidity  experience.  The increased
revenues resulted in an increase in core earnings of $8, or 11%, in 1999.

Revenues of $1.8 billion in 1998 increased $109, or 6%, from 1997. This increase
in revenues  was driven by strong  sales of fully  insured  business,  excluding
buyouts,  of $397 in 1998,  which increased $68, or 21%,  compared to 1997. This
growth in new sales was driven by group life and group disability business where
sales, excluding buyouts, grew 20% compared to the prior year. Benefits,  claims
and expenses increased $101, or 6%, as compared to the prior year, primarily due
to higher benefits,  claims and claim adjustment  expenses  associated with this
growing  block of  business.  As a  result  of  increased  premium  revenue,  an
increased level of investment in tax-exempt  securities and favorable  mortality
and morbidity  experience,  core earnings  increased $13, or 22%, to $71 in 1998
from $58 in 1997.

Corporate Owned Life Insurance
- ------------------------------

The COLI operation  includes life insurance  products sold primarily for funding
of non-qualified  benefit and other postemployment  benefit programs provided by
corporations, and also includes business sold on a leveraged basis.

COLI revenues of $831 in 1999 decreased  $736, or 47%, from 1998.  This decrease
was primarily due to the  downsizing of the leveraged  COLI business  associated
with the Health Insurance  Portability and  Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPA Act
of 1996),  which  phased out the  deductibility  of  interest  expense on policy
loans.  Leveraged  COLI account values  decreased $3.4 billion,  or 37%, to $5.7
billion in 1999.  Benefits,  claims and expenses decreased $747, or 49%, to $784
for 1999 as compared to 1998,  primarily  attributable  to the downsizing of the
leveraged COLI business.  Core earnings increased $6, or 25%, in 1999, primarily
due  to  increases   associated   with  higher  variable  COLI  account  values.
Additionally,  leveraged COLI core earnings increased due to earnings associated
with the MBL business  recaptured in November 1998, as discussed earlier,  which
was partially  offset by decreases  associated with the reduction of the overall
leveraged COLI business.

Revenues  of $1.6  billion in 1998  increased  $587,  or 60%,  from  1997.  This
increase was  primarily  due to revenues of $541 related to the  recaptured  MBL
business,  as discussed  earlier.  In addition,  revenues  increased  due to fee
income on growing variable COLI account values,  partially offset by declines in
revenues  associated with the downsizing of the overall leveraged COLI business.
Benefits,  claims and expenses  increased  $593, or 63%, to $1.5 billion in 1998
from $938 in 1997 due primarily to the recaptured MBL business. Core earnings of
$24 in 1998  declined  $3,  or 11%,  from 1997 as the  growth  in the  Company's
variable COLI business was offset by the declining  block of leveraged  COLI the
Company had prior to the  passage of the HIPA Act of 1996.  The  recaptured  MBL
business had no impact on core earnings or net income in 1998.

OUTLOOK

Management believes that it has developed and implemented strategies to maintain
and  enhance its  position  as a market  leader  within the  financial  services
industry,  to continue the Life segment's  growth in assets under management and
fully insured  premium and to maximize  shareholder  value.  The Life segment is
well  positioned to assist  individuals in meeting their financial goals as they
increasingly save and plan for retirement, protect themselves and their families
against  disability or death and prepare their estates for an efficient transfer
of wealth between generations.  The Life segment's strong market position in its
primary  businesses,  which  aligns with these  growing  markets,  will  provide
opportunities to increase sales of the Life segment's products and services.

Certain proposed legislative initiatives which could impact the Life segment are
discussed in the Regulatory Matters and Contingencies section.

                                     - 19 -

INTERNATIONAL



The International segment includes direct insurance business written by Zwolsche
Algemeene  (Zwolsche)  located  in  the  Netherlands,  Belgium  and  Luxembourg,
Hartford  Seguros in Spain  (formerly  ITT Ercos),  People's  Insurance  Company
Limited (People's  Insurance),  of which The Hartford acquired a 49% interest in
January 1998, in Singapore and London & Edinburgh  Insurance Group, Ltd. (London
& Edinburgh) in the United  Kingdom,  until its sale by The Hartford in November
1998, as discussed below.  These companies offer property and casualty  products
in both personal and  commercial  lines as well as life  insurance  products and
services designed to meet the needs of local customers.




On November 16, 1998,  The Hartford  completed the sale of London & Edinburgh to
Norwich  Union,  a leading  provider of general and life insurance in the United
Kingdom. The Hartford received approximately $525, before costs of sale, for the
ongoing  operations of London & Edinburgh.  The Hartford  retained  ownership of
Excess Insurance Co. Ltd., London & Edinburgh's  property and casualty insurance
and reinsurance  subsidiary,  which  discontinued  writing new business in 1993.
Excess  Insurance  Co.  Ltd.  is included  in The  Hartford's  Other  Operations
segment.  The gain from the sale of London & Edinburgh  of $33,  after-tax,  has
been  reported  in the 1998  investment  results  of North  American  Property &
Casualty.   London  &  Edinburgh's   operating   results  are  included  in  the
International segment 1998 results through the date of sale and, therefore,  are
not comparable to current and prior year results.

In 1999,  International  revenues of $509 were $1.1 billion,  or 69%, lower than
1998,  primarily  due to the sale of  London  &  Edinburgh.  Excluding  London &
Edinburgh,  revenues decreased 4% over 1998. Revenues at Zwolsche decreased $38,
or 9%, over 1998 primarily due to a 73% decrease in net realized  capital gains.
The property and casualty market at Zwolsche  remained very  competitive in 1999
while life  business  continued to be  reasonably  priced.  Revenues at Hartford
Seguros  increased  $20,  or 21%,  over  1998 due  primarily  to 52%  growth  in
automobile  earned premiums,  offset somewhat by lower net investment income and
net  realized  capital  gains.  The growth in  automobile  business  in Spain is
attributable  to a new  centralized  agent  service  center  combined  with risk
segmentation and pricing  initiatives.  Life written premiums in Spain increased
due to further penetration of the existing agent distribution network.  People's
Insurance  contributed  $19 of revenues in 1999,  down 14% from $22 in 1998, due
primarily to lower earned premiums and net investment income.  This decrease was
primarily due to lower  investment  yields and a very  competitive  marketplace.
Excluding  London & Edinburgh,  there was a negative  foreign exchange impact on
total revenues of $14 in 1999, due mainly to weakness in the Euro.

Core earnings of $16 in 1999  decreased  $26, or 62%,  from 1998.  Excluding the
impact of London & Edinburgh,  core earnings in 1999  decreased $6, or 27%. Core
earnings  at  Zwolsche  decreased  $4, or 13%, as  property  and  casualty  core

                                     - 20 -

earnings  decreased  33% due to an increased  loss ratio,  lower net  investment
income  and  higher  expenses  associated  with  Year  2000 and Euro  conversion
initiatives.  Life core earnings at Zwolsche increased with continued  favorable
operating  performance  in savings and asset  management  product  areas. A core
earnings  loss at Hartford  Seguros  increased $5 from 1998  primarily  due to a
higher automobile loss ratio resulting from increased claims frequency.  Various
actions,  including  rate  increases  and a  more  strict  underwriting  policy,
including agent cancellations, have been implemented to remediate the situation.
The lower core earnings in International  for 1999 have been offset primarily by
lower home office expenses.  Additionally, a negative foreign exchange impact of
$1 on 1999 earnings resulted primarily from weakness in the Euro.

In 1998,  revenues of $1.6 billion  were $85, or 5%, lower than 1997,  primarily
due to the sale of London & Edinburgh  which reflects  operating  results to the
date of sale.  Excluding  London & Edinburgh,  revenue  growth over 1997 was 5%.
Market conditions in property and casualty business in the Netherlands were very
competitive,  resulting in nominal premium growth,  while life business produced
modest growth.  Zwolsche  revenue was down 4% due to lower net realized  capital
gains and a  negative  foreign  exchange  impact  due to  weakness  in the Dutch
Guilder.  Hartford Seguros  revenues were up significantly  due to 62% growth in
automobile  written  premiums.  Also,  People's  Insurance  contributed  $22  of
revenues in 1998.  Foreign exchange impacts on total revenues were negligible in
1998 as the strength in the Sterling offset weakness in the Dutch Guilder.

Core  earnings of $42 in 1998  decreased  $4, or 9%, from 1997.  The decrease in
core earnings from 1997 was due to declining automobile  underwriting results at
Hartford  Seguros,  a slightly  higher  casualty loss ratio and higher  expenses
related to Year 2000 and Euro conversion initiatives at Zwolsche and higher home
office expenses in Other. Partially offsetting these decreases was a $6 increase
at London & Edinburgh.  The  increase at London & Edinburgh  was due to improved
personal  lines  results,  including  automobile,  offset by higher  losses from
weather  events,  losses related to  professional  liability  claims and a lower
effective tax rate. A negative foreign exchange impact of $1 resulted  primarily
from weakness in the Dutch Guilder.

OUTLOOK

The outlook at Zwolsche for 2000 is for slow written  premium growth in property
and casualty due to continued soft market conditions.  Continued moderate growth
is  expected  for life  operations.  Growth  expectations  for life  savings and
pension  products in the  Netherlands  continue to be positive  due to their tax
advantages  and  the  expected   continuation  of  a  favorable   interest  rate
environment. An impending change in tax laws to be effective in 2001 is expected
to  remove  some of the tax  advantages  currently  available  to  certain  life
products.  This change will result in a shift of business away from certain life
insurance products to asset accumulation products. The asset management business
is expected to benefit from this change.  Zwolsche  will continue to explore the
viability of  opportunities  in both life and property and casualty  business in
the Netherlands during 2000 as the government continues to review moving certain
social  security  programs into the private sector.  In February 1998,  Zwolsche
obtained a bank  license to support the growth of the life and asset  management
business in the  Netherlands  and in 1999,  established an insurance  company in
Luxembourg to support the growth of its Belgium life  operation and to develop a
European cross-border operation in life and asset accumulation products.

The outlook for Hartford  Seguros is for slower growth in automobile in property
and casualty  business and significant  growth in life savings products due to a
recently  signed  distribution  agreement with the largest mutual fund in Spain.
Management  expects that  Hartford  Seguros will continue to build on its unique
centralized  service  business  model and  segmented  underwriting  and  pricing
skills.   Hartford  Seguros  is  reviewing  various   alternative   distribution
opportunities  and continues to enhance its strategy to grow its life  business.
The Spanish market is expected to have significant growth  opportunities in life
and savings products in the years ahead.

The  International  segment  continues to explore  acquisition  opportunities in
Western  Europe,  Latin America and Asia. The  investment in People's  Insurance
Company  is  intended  to  provide  a  base  of  operations  for  further  Asian
development in both life and property and casualty businesses.

                                     - 21 -

OTHER OPERATIONS



Other Operations  consist of the property and casualty  insurance  operations of
The Hartford  which have  discontinued  writing new business.  These  operations
primarily include First State Insurance Company,  Heritage  Reinsurance Company,
Ltd. and Excess Insurance Company Limited. The main focus of these operations is
the proper disposition of claims,  resolving disputes and collecting reinsurance
proceeds related largely to business underwritten and reinsured prior to 1985.

Revenues  decreased $11 in 1999 whereas they were  essentially flat in the prior
years.  Core earnings  were reduced by $86, $72 and $37 in 1999,  1998 and 1997,
respectively,  representing  the  approximate  19%  minority  interest  in HLI's
operating results. (For additional  information regarding HLI's results, see the
Life section.)  Excluding minority interest,  core earnings increased $3 in 1999
over 1998 and $2 in 1998 over 1997.

OUTLOOK

Except  for  the  uncertainties  related  to  dispute  resolution,   reinsurance
collection and those discussed in the Environmental and Asbestos Claims section,
management  does  not  anticipate  the  future  financial  performance  of Other
Operations  to have a  material  effect on the future  operating  results of the
Company.


RESERVES

The  Hartford  establishes  property  and  casualty  reserves to provide for the
estimated costs of paying claims made by policyholders or against policyholders.
These  reserves  include  estimates  for both claims that have been reported and
those that have been  incurred but not  reported,  and include  estimates of all
expenses  associated with  processing and settling these claims.  Estimating the
ultimate cost of future claims and claim adjustment expenses is an uncertain and
complex process. This estimation process is based largely on the assumption that
past developments are an appropriate  predictor of future events, and involves a
variety  of  actuarial  techniques  that  analyze  experience,  trends and other
relevant  factors.  The  uncertainties  involved with the reserving process have
become  increasingly  unpredictable due to a number of complex factors including
social and economic  trends and changes in the concepts of legal  liability  and
damage awards.  Accordingly,  final claim  settlements may vary from the present
estimates,  particularly  when those  payments may not occur until well into the
future.

The  Hartford  continually  reviews its  estimated  claims and claim  adjustment
expense  reserves  as  additional  experience  and other  relevant  data  become
available,   and  reserve  levels  are  adjusted  accordingly.   Adjustments  to
previously  established  reserves,  if any,  will be reflected in the  operating
results  of the  period in which the  adjustment  is made.  In the  judgment  of
management,  all information currently available has been properly considered in
the  reserves  established  for  claims  and claim  adjustment  expenses.  For a
discussion of environmental and asbestos claims and the uncertainties related to
these reserves, refer to the next section.

In  accordance  with the  insurance  laws and  regulations  under which the Life
segment  operates,   life  insurance  subsidiaries  of  The  Hartford  establish
actuarially  determined  reserves to meet their obligations on their outstanding
life and disability insurance contracts, as well as reserves for their universal
life and  investment  contracts.  Reserves  for life  insurance  and  disability
contracts  are based on  mortality  and  morbidity  tables in general use in the
United  States,  modified  to  reflect  The  Hartford's  experience.  Management
believes that these reserves,  with additions from premiums to be received,  and
with interest on such reserves  compounded  annually at certain

                                     - 22 -

assumed rates, will be sufficient to meet The Hartford's  policy  obligations at
their maturities or in the event of an insured's  death.  Reserves for universal
life insurance and investment  products represent policy account balances before
applicable surrender charges.

ENVIRONMENTAL AND ASBESTOS CLAIMS

The Hartford  continues to receive claims asserting  damages from  environmental
exposures and for injuries from asbestos and asbestos-related  products, both of
which  affect  North  American  Property  &  Casualty  and the Other  Operations
segments.  Environmental  claims  relate  primarily  to  pollution  and  related
clean-up costs.  With regard to these claims,  uncertainty  exists which impacts
the ability of insurers and  reinsurers  to estimate  the ultimate  reserves for
unpaid  losses  and  related  settlement  expenses.   The  Hartford  finds  that
conventional  reserving  techniques  cannot  estimate the ultimate cost of these
claims  because of inadequate  development  patterns and  inconsistent  emerging
legal  doctrine.  For the  majority  of  environmental  claims and many types of
asbestos claims,  unlike any other type of contractual claim, there is almost no
agreement or consistent  precedent to determine what, if any, coverage exists or
which,  if any,  policy years and insurers or reinsurers may be liable.  Further
uncertainty arises with  environmental  claims since claims are often made under
policies,  the existence of which may be in dispute, the terms of which may have
changed over many years,  which may or may not provide for legal defense  costs,
and which may or may not contain  environmental  exclusion  clauses  that may be
absolute or allow for fortuitous events. Courts in different  jurisdictions have
reached disparate  conclusions on similar issues and in certain  situations have
broadened the  interpretation  of policy coverage and liability issues. In light
of the extensive claim settlement process for environmental and asbestos claims,
involving  comprehensive fact gathering,  subject matter expertise and intensive
litigation, The Hartford established an environmental claims facility in 1992 to
defend itself aggressively against unwarranted claims and to minimize costs.

Within the property and casualty insurance  industry in the mid-1990s,  progress
was  made  in  developing  sophisticated,  alternative  methodologies  utilizing
company  experience  and  supplemental  databases  to assess  environmental  and
asbestos liabilities.  Consistent with The Hartford's practice of using the best
techniques to estimate the Company's  environmental  and asbestos  exposures,  a
study was  initiated  in April 1996.  The  Hartford,  utilizing  internal  staff
supplemented by outside legal and actuarial consultants,  completed the study in
October 1996.

The study included a review of identified  environmental and asbestos  exposures
of North  American  Property & Casualty,  along with the U.S.  exposures  of The
Hartford's  International segment and exposures of the Other Operations segment.
The methodology utilized a ground-up analysis of policy, site and exposure level
data for a representative  sample of The Hartford's  claims.  The results of the
evaluation  were  extrapolated  against the balance of the claim  population  to
estimate the Company's overall exposure for reported claims.

In addition to estimating  liabilities  on reported  environmental  and asbestos
claims,  The Hartford  estimated  reserves for claims  incurred but not reported
(IBNR).  The IBNR reserve was estimated using information on reporting  patterns
of  known  insureds,   characteristics  of  insureds  such  as  limits  exposed,
attachment points and number of coverage years involved,  third party costs, and
closed claims.

Included in The Hartford's  analysis of environmental and asbestos exposures was
a review of applicable reinsurance coverage.  Reinsurance coverage applicable to
the sample was used to estimate  the  reinsurance  coverage  that applied to the
balance  of the  reported  environmental  and  asbestos  claims  and to the IBNR
estimates.

An international  actuarial firm reviewed The Hartford's  approach and concluded
that the way the Company studied its exposures, the thoroughness of its analysis
and  the  way  The  Hartford  came  to  its  estimates   were   reasonable   and
comprehensive.

Upon  completion of the study and assessment of the results in October 1996, The
Hartford  determined  that its  environmental  and asbestos  reserves  should be
increased,  on an undiscounted basis, by $493 (net of reinsurance) and $292 (net
of reinsurance), respectively.

Reserve  activity for both reported and  unreported  environmental  and asbestos
claims, including reserves for legal defense costs, for the years ended December
31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, was as follows (net of reinsurance):

                                     - 23 -




The Hartford  believes that the  environmental and asbestos reserves reported at
December 31, 1999 are a reasonable  estimate of the ultimate remaining liability
for these claims based upon known facts,  current assumptions and The Hartford's
methodologies.  Future social,  economic,  legal or legislative developments may
alter the original  intent of policies  and the scope of coverage.  The Hartford
will continue to evaluate new  developments  and  methodologies,  as they become
available for use in supplementing  the Company's ongoing analysis and review of
its environmental and asbestos  exposures.  These future reviews may result in a
change in reserves, impacting The Hartford's results of operations in the period
in which the reserve estimates are changed.  While the effects of future changes
in facts,  legal and other issues could have a material effect on future results
of  operations,  The Hartford does not expect such changes would have a material
effect on its liquidity or financial condition.


                                     - 24 -

INVESTMENTS

An  important  element of the  financial  results of The  Hartford  is return on
invested assets. The Hartford's  investment portfolios are divided between North
American Property & Casualty,  Life,  International  and Other  Operations.  The
investment  portfolios are managed based on the underlying  characteristics  and
nature of each operation's  respective  liabilities and within  established risk
parameters.  (For a further  discussion on The  Hartford's  approach to managing
risks, see the Capital Markets Risk Management section.)

The  investment  portfolios  of  North  American  Property  &  Casualty,   Life,
International and Other Operations are managed by distinct  investment  strategy
groups.  They are  responsible  for monitoring and managing the  asset/liability
profile,  establishing  investment  objectives and guidelines,  and determining,
within  specified risk  tolerances and investment  guidelines,  the  appropriate
asset  allocation,   duration,   convexity  and  other  characteristics  of  the
portfolios. Hartford Investment Management Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., executes the investment plan of the
strategy  groups  for  North  American  Property  &  Casualty,  Life  and  Other
Operations, including the identification and purchase of securities that fulfill
the objectives of the strategy  groups.  Execution of  international  investment
plans is performed by each international subsidiary.

NORTH AMERICAN PROPERTY & CASUALTY

The investment  objective of North  American  Property & Casualty is to maximize
economic value while  generating  after-tax  income and sufficient  liquidity to
meet corporate and policyholder obligations. Investment strategies are developed
based on a variety of factors, including business needs, regulatory requirements
and tax considerations.

Total invested assets were $14.2 billion at December 31, 1999 and were comprised
of fixed  maturities  of $13.0  billion and other  investments  of $1.2 billion,
primarily  equity  securities.  At December 31, 1998, total invested assets were
$15.1 billion and were comprised of fixed  maturities of $14.3 billion and other
investments of $823, primarily equity securities.

                    Fixed Maturities by Type
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  1999               1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Type                       Fair Value Percent Fair Value Percent
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Municipal - tax-exempt      $  8,160   62.5%  $  8,804    61.5%
Corporate                      1,668   12.8%     2,119    14.8%
Commercial MBS                   696    5.3%       834     5.8%
Gov't/Gov't agencies - For.      606    4.7%       501     3.5%
ABS                              419    3.2%       500     3.5%
MBS - agency                     413    3.2%       348     2.4%
CMO                              228    1.8%       415     2.9%
Gov't/Gov't agencies - U.S.       34    0.3%        46     0.3%
Municipal - taxable               17    0.1%        24     0.2%
Short-term                       697    5.3%       663     4.6%
Redeemable preferred stock       109    0.8%        65     0.5%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
   Total fixed maturities   $ 13,047  100.0%  $ 14,319   100.0%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

In 1999, total invested assets for North American  Property & Casualty  declined
primarily  as a result  of the  impact  of  rising  interest  rates.  Among  the
portfolio  actions  taken  during the year were a  reduction  in  taxable  bonds
(primarily  Corporate,  Commercial  MBS and CMO  securities)  and an increase in
limited partnership investments.

The  taxable  equivalent  duration  of the  December  31,  1999  fixed  maturity
portfolio was 5.0 years  compared to 4.8 years at December 31, 1998.  The change
in taxable  equivalent  duration  was  primarily  due to the  purchase of longer
duration  securities and an increase in interest  rates.  Duration is defined as
the market price  sensitivity  of the portfolio to parallel  shifts in the yield
curve.

INVESTMENT RESULTS

The table below summarizes North American Property & Casualty results.

                                          1999     1998      1997
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Net investment income, before-tax      $   853  $   824   $   777
Net investment income, after-tax[1]    $   684  $   656   $   619

Yield on average invested assets,
  before-tax [2]                           6.0%      5.8%     5.9%
Yield on average invested assets,
  after-tax [1] [2]                        4.8%      4.6%     4.7%
Net realized capital gains, before-tax $    22  $    231  $   231
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
[1]   Due to the significant holdings in tax-exempt  investments,  after-tax net
      investment income and yield are included.
[2]   Represents net investment  income  (excluding net realized  capital gains)
      divided by average invested assets at cost (fixed  maturities at amortized
      cost).

For the year ended December 31, 1999,  both before- and after-tax net investment
income  increased by 4% over 1998.  These  increases  were  primarily  due to an
increase  in  income  from  limited  partnership  investments,  as  well  as the
significant  reallocation  of assets in the fourth  quarter of 1998 from  equity
securities to fixed maturities,  which also positively impacted both before- and
after-tax yields.

For the year ended December 31, 1998,  both before- and after-tax net investment
income  increased  by 6% over  1997.  This  increase  was the  result  of higher
invested asset levels as a result of repayment of allocated  advances by HLI. In
addition,   the  reallocation  of  assets  from  equities  to  fixed  maturities
throughout  the  year  positively   impacted  both  before-  and  after-tax  net
investment  income.  After-tax net investment income was also favorably impacted
by the reallocation from taxable to tax-exempt bonds. The decline in before- and
after-tax yields on average invested assets reflected  declining interest rates,
primarily impacting taxable bonds.

Net realized  capital gains for the year ended  December 31, 1999 decreased from
the prior year, primarily as a result of opportunities taken in 1998 in a strong
equity market.  Net realized  capital gains for 1999 were partially  offset by a
$9,  after-tax,  other than  temporary  impairment  of asset  backed  securities
securitized and serviced by Commercial  Financial Services,  Inc. (CFS). The CFS
securities were sold in August of 1999 at a nominal gain.

Net realized  capital gains for 1998 were unchanged from 1997.  During 1998, net
gains from the sale of fixed  maturities  and

                                     - 25 -

equity securities were partially offset by a $7, after-tax, other than temporary
impairment  of the CFS  securities.  Net  realized  capital  gains for 1998 also
included a $33, after-tax gain from the sale of London & Edinburgh.

LIFE

The primary  investment  objective of the Life segment's  general  account is to
maximize after-tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters, including
the management of the interest rate  sensitivity of invested  assets relative to
that of  policyholder  obligations,  as  discussed  in the Capital  Markets Risk
Management section under "Market Risk - Life Operations - Interest Rate Risk".

Invested assets, excluding separate accounts,  totaled $21.8 billion at December
31, 1999 and were comprised of $17.0 billion of fixed  maturities,  $4.2 billion
of policy loans and other  investments  of $529. At December 31, 1998,  invested
assets  totaled  $24.9  billion  and were  comprised  of $17.7  billion of fixed
maturities,  $6.7 billion of policy  loans and other  investments  of $503.  The
decrease in invested  assets was primarily due to the decline in leveraged  COLI
business (as discussed in the COLI section) and a rise in interest rates. Policy
loans are  secured by the cash  value of the life  policy and do not mature in a
conventional   sense,   but  expire  in  conjunction  with  the  related  policy
liabilities.

                    Fixed Maturities by Type
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  1999               1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Type                       Fair Value Percent Fair Value Percent
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

Corporate                   $  7,737   45.4%  $  7,898    44.6%
ABS                            2,508   14.7%     2,465    13.9%
Commercial MBS                 2,112   12.4%     2,036    11.5%
Municipal - tax-exempt         1,108    6.5%       916     5.2%
MBS - agency                     853    5.0%       503     2.9%
CMO                              592    3.5%       831     4.7%
Gov't/Gov't agencies - For.      339    2.0%       530     3.0%
Gov't/Gov't agencies - U.S.      229    1.3%       166     0.9%
Municipal - taxable              165    1.0%       223     1.3%
Short-term                     1,346    7.9%     2,119    12.0%
Redeemable preferred stock        46    0.3%         5     --
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
   Total fixed maturities   $ 17,035  100.0%  $ 17,692   100.0%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

During 1999, the Life segment  continued its  investment  strategy of increasing
its  allocation  to  municipal  tax-exempt  securities  with  the  objective  of
increasing  after-tax  yields,  and also increasing its allocation to Commercial
MBS and  MBS-agency.  The decrease in short-term  investments as of December 31,
1999 as  compared  to 1998 is  primarily  related to the  funding  of  scheduled
liability maturities and reallocation into other asset sectors.

As of December 31, 1999 and 1998,  approximately 21.5% and 22.8%,  respectively,
of the Life  segment's  fixed  maturities  were  invested  in private  placement
securities  (including Rule 144A offerings).  Private  placement  securities are
generally  less liquid than public  securities.  However,  covenants for private
placements  are designed to compensate for liquidity  risk.  Most of the private
placement  securities  in  the  segment's  portfolio  are  rated  by  nationally
recognized rating agencies.

INVESTMENT RESULTS

The table below summarizes the Life segment's results.

(before-tax)                          1999     1998     1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Net investment income - ex. policy
     loans                          $ 1,171  $ 1,166   $ 1,111
Policy loan income                      391      789       425
                                   -----------------------------
Net investment income - total       $ 1,562  $ 1,955   $ 1,536
Yield on average invested assets[1]     6.7%      7.9%     7.6%
Net realized capital losses         $    (5) $    --   $    --
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]   Represents net investment  income  (excluding net realized capital losses)
      divided by average invested assets at cost (fixed  maturities at amortized
      cost). In 1998,  average invested assets were calculated  assuming the MBL
      Recapture proceeds were received on January 1, 1998.

For the year ended December 31, 1999,  total  before-tax  net investment  income
decreased  20% from 1998,  primarily  due to a decrease  in policy  loan  income
resulting from the decrease in leveraged COLI business.  The decline in yield on
average  invested  assets was due to the  decrease in policy loan income and the
decline in policy loan weighted average interest rate to 7.5% for 1999 from 9.9%
for 1998.

For the year ended December 31, 1998,  total  before-tax  net investment  income
increased  27% from 1997,  primarily  due to an  increase  in policy loan income
resulting  from the 1998 MBL  Recapture.  The  increase  in  yields  on  average
invested  assets was due to the  increase in policy loan income and, to a lesser
extent, an increase in fixed maturities rated BBB.

Net realized capital gains on the sale of equity securities and fixed maturities
for the year ended December 31, 1999 partially  offset a $32,  after-tax,  other
than temporary impairment of asset backed securities securitized and serviced by
CFS. The CFS securities were sold in August of 1999 for a nominal gain.

There were no net realized  capital gains or losses for the year ended  December
31, 1998, unchanged from 1997. During 1998, realized capital gains from the sale
of fixed  maturities  and equity  securities  were offset by after-tax  realized
capital  losses,  including  $21 related to an other than  temporary  impairment
associated with the CFS securities.

INTERNATIONAL

The  investment   objectives  of  the  International  segment  are  to  generate
appropriate  after-tax  income and  sufficient  liquidity to meet  corporate and
policyholder obligations.  Investments are made with durations and in currencies
that reflect the nature of each company's liabilities.

Invested assets,  excluding separate accounts, were $1.1 billion at December 31,
1999 and were  comprised of fixed  maturities of $734 and other  investments  of
$361, primarily equity securities. At December 31, 1998, invested assets totaled
$1.2  billion  and  were  comprised  of  fixed  maturities  of  $844  and  other
investments of $350, primarily equity securities.

                                     - 26 -


                    Fixed Maturities by Type
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  1999               1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Type                       Fair Value Percent Fair Value Percent
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

Gov't/Gov't agencies - For. $    475   64.7%  $    611    72.4%
Corporate                        130   17.7%       109    12.9%
ABS                               16    2.2%       --      --
Short-term                       113   15.4%       124    14.7%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
   Total fixed maturities   $    734  100.0%  $    844   100.0%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

INVESTMENT RESULTS

The table below summarizes the International segment's results.

(before-tax)                          1999     1998      1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

Net investment income              $     65  $   164  $    185
Yield on average invested assets[1]     6.1%      7.0%     7.2%
Net realized capital gains         $     17  $    70  $     95
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]   Represents net investment  income  (excluding net realized  capital gains)
      divided by average invested assets at cost (fixed  maturities at amortized
      cost).

For the year ended December 31, 1999, before-tax net investment income decreased
60% from 1998,  primarily  due to the effects of the London & Edinburgh  sale in
November 1998. Excluding London & Edinburgh,  net investment income decreased 6%
compared  to 1998,  mainly due to  weaknesses  in the Dutch  Guilder and overall
lower yields in Asia. Yield on average invested assets decreased to 6.1%, mainly
due to lower short-term interest rates in certain international markets.

For the year ended December 31, 1998, before-tax net investment income decreased
11% from  1997,  primarily  as a  result  of the  sale of  London  &  Edinburgh.
Excluding  London & Edinburgh,  net  investment  income  increased 13% despite a
continued  trend of lower yields in Europe.  This growth was primarily due to an
increase in life business at Zwolsche in the  Netherlands and the acquisition of
The Hartford's 49% interest in People's Insurance in Singapore in January 1998.

Net realized  capital gains at December 31, 1999 decreased from 1998,  primarily
due to the further weakening of the equity market in the Netherlands.

The  decrease in net realized  capital  gains in 1998 was  primarily  due to the
weakening of the equity market in the Netherlands.

OTHER OPERATIONS

The  investment  objective of Other  Operations is to ensure the full and timely
payment of all liabilities. The ongoing strategy is to match asset and liability
cash flows in the early years and to match asset and liability  durations in the
long-term.

Invested  assets  were $2.1  billion and $2.5  billion at December  31, 1999 and
December  31,  1998,  respectively,  and were  substantially  comprised of fixed
maturities.


                    Fixed Maturities by Type
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                  1999               1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Type                       Fair Value Percent Fair Value Percent
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

Corporate                   $  1,306   63.4%  $  1,603    64.7%
Commercial MBS                   185    9.0%       145     5.9%
ABS                              161    7.8%       224     9.0%
Gov't/Gov't agencies - U.S.       67    3.2%        82     3.3%
Gov't/Gov't agencies - For.       59    2.9%        50     2.0%
Municipal - taxable               37    1.8%        40     1.6%
MBS - agency                      32    1.6%        41     1.7%
CMO                               12    0.6%        20     0.8%
Short-term                       193    9.4%       262    10.6%
Redeemable preferred stock         7    0.3%         9     0.4%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
   Total fixed maturities   $  2,059  100.0%  $  2,476   100.0%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

INVESTMENT RESULTS

The table below summarizes the Other Operations results.

(before-tax)                          1999     1998      1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

Net investment income               $   147  $   159   $   157
Yield on average invested assets[1]     6.5%      6.6%     6.7%
Net realized capital gains          $    --  $     3   $     1
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]   Represents net investment  income  (excluding net realized  capital gains)
      divided by average invested assets at cost (fixed  maturities at amortized
      cost).

For the year ended December 31, 1999, before-tax net investment income decreased
8%, primarily due to the reduction in invested assets as a result of the funding
of runoff  liabilities.  Yield on average invested assets also declined slightly
compared to the prior period.

For the year ended December 31, 1998, both before-tax net investment  income and
yield on average invested assets remained  relatively flat compared to the prior
year.

SEPARATE ACCOUNT PRODUCTS

Separate  account  products  are  those  for  which a  separate  investment  and
liability account is maintained on behalf of the policyholder. Separate accounts
reflect two  categories of risk  assumption:  non-guaranteed  separate  accounts
totaling  $102.6  billion and $81.3  billion as of  December  31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively,  wherein the policyholder  assumes  substantially all the risk and
reward; and guaranteed separate accounts totaling $9.1 billion and $10.3 billion
as  of  December  31,  1999  and  1998,   respectively,   wherein  The  Hartford
contractually  guarantees  either a minimum  return or the account  value to the
policyholder.

Investment  objective varies by fund account type, as outlined in the applicable
fund prospectus or separate account plan of operations.  Non-guaranteed separate
account products include variable  annuities,  variable life insurance contracts
and COLI.  Guaranteed  separate account products  primarily  consist of modified
guaranteed  individual  annuities and modified  guaranteed life  insurance,  and
generally  include  market  value  adjustment  features to mitigate  the risk of
disintermediation.

                                     - 27 -

CAPITAL MARKETS RISK MANAGEMENT

The Hartford has a disciplined  approach to managing risks  associated  with its
capital markets and asset/liability management activities.  Investment portfolio
management  is organized to focus  investment  management  expertise on specific
classes of investments,  while asset/liability  management is the responsibility
of separate and  distinct  risk  management  units  supporting  the property and
casualty and life operations.  Derivative instruments are utilized in accordance
with  established  Company policy and regulatory  requirements and are monitored
internally and reviewed by senior management.

The Company is exposed to two primary sources of investment and  asset/liability
management risk:  credit risk,  relating to the uncertainty  associated with the
ability of an obligor or  counterparty  to make  timely  payments  of  principal
and/or interest,  and market risk, relating to the market price and/or cash flow
variability associated with changes in interest rates, securities prices, market
indices,  yield curves or currency exchange rates. The Company does not hold any
financial instruments purchased for trading purposes.

CREDIT RISK

The Hartford has established investment credit policies that focus on the credit
quality of obligors and counterparties,  limit credit concentrations,  encourage
diversification  and  require  frequent  creditworthiness  reviews.   Investment
activity,  including  setting of policy and defining  acceptable risk levels, is
subject to regular review and approval by senior  management and frequent review
by the Company's Finance Committee.

The Company  invests  primarily in  securities  rated  investment  grade and has
established exposure limits, diversification standards and review procedures for
all credit risks including borrower,  issuer and counterparty.  Creditworthiness
of specific  obligors is determined by an internal credit assessment and ratings
assigned by nationally  recognized ratings agencies.  Obligor,  asset sector and
industry  concentrations  are subject to  established  limits and monitored on a
regular interval.

The Company's derivatives  counterparty exposure policy establishes market-based
credit limits,  favors long-term financial stability and  creditworthiness,  and
typically requires credit  enhancement/credit  risk reducing agreements.  Credit
risk is  measured  as the amount  owed to the  Company  based on current  market
conditions  and  potential  payment  obligations  between  the  Company  and its
counterparties.   Credit  exposures  are  quantified  weekly  and  netted,   and
collateral is pledged to and held by, or on behalf of, the Company to the extent
the current value of derivatives exceeds exposure policy thresholds.

The Hartford is not exposed to any significant  credit  concentration  risk of a
single issuer.

The following  tables  identify fixed  maturity  securities for the property and
casualty operations,  including international and other operations, and the life
operations, including international operations and guaranteed separate accounts,
by credit quality. The ratings referenced in the tables are based on the ratings
of a nationally  recognized rating organization or, if not rated, assigned based
on the Company's internal analysis of such securities.

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY OPERATIONS

As of December 31, 1999 and 1998,  over 95% of the fixed maturity  portfolio was
invested in securities rated investment grade.

               Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                  1999               1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Credit Quality             Fair Value Percent Fair Value Percent
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

 U.S. Gov't/Gov't agencies  $    650    4.2%  $    805     4.7%
 AAA                           6,045   39.2%     6,570    38.2%
 AA                            3,278   21.2%     3,209    18.7%
 A                             2,613   16.9%     3,409    19.8%
 BBB                           1,240    8.0%     1,508     8.8%
 BB & below                      658    4.3%       682     3.9%
 Short-term                      958    6.2%     1,016     5.9%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
   Total fixed maturities   $ 15,442  100.0%  $ 17,199   100.0%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

LIFE OPERATIONS

As of December 31, 1999 and 1998,  over 97% of the fixed maturity  portfolio was
invested in securities rated investment grade.

               Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                  1999               1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Credit Quality             Fair Value Percent Fair Value Percent
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

 U.S. Gov't/Gov't agencies  $  2,404    9.1%  $  2,596     9.3%
 AAA                           3,868   14.7%     3,907    14.0%
 AA                            3,219   12.2%     2,716     9.7%
 A                             8,731   33.1%     8,878    31.8%
 BBB                           5,816   22.1%     7,019    25.2%
 BB & below                      559    2.1%       492     1.8%
 Short-term                    1,772    6.7%     2,298     8.2%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
   Total fixed maturities   $ 26,369  100.0%  $ 27,906   100.0%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

MARKET RISK

The Hartford has several  objectives in managing market risk associated with its
property and casualty and life operations.  The property and casualty operations
attempt to maximize economic value while generating appropriate after-tax income
and sufficient  liquidity to meet corporate and  policyholder  obligations.  The
property and casualty  operations  have  material  exposure to interest rate and
equity market risk. The life operations are responsible for maximizing after-tax
returns  within  acceptable  risk  parameters  including  the  management of the
interest  rate   sensitivity  of  invested   assets  to  that  of   policyholder
obligations.  The life operations have material market exposure to interest rate
risk  associated  with its fixed maturity  portfolios.  The Company  continually
monitors these exposures and makes  portfolio  adjustments to manage these risks
within established limits.

Upward  movement in market  interest rates during 1999 resulted in a significant
decline in the unrealized  appreciation of the

                                     - 28 -

fixed income  security  portfolio  from 1998, to an unrealized  loss position at
December 31, 1999. However,  The Hartford's asset allocation,  and therefore its
exposure  to market  risk,  has not  changed  materially  from its  position  at
December 31, 1998.

The  Company  analyzes   interest  rate  risk  using  various  models  including
multi-scenario  cash flow  projection  models  that  forecast  cash flows of the
liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments.

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

The Hartford  utilizes a variety of  derivative  instruments,  including  swaps,
caps,  floors,  forwards and exchange traded futures and options,  in accordance
with Company policy and regulatory requirements in order to achieve one of three
Company approved objectives:  to hedge risk arising from interest rate, price or
currency  exchange  rate  volatility;   to  manage  liquidity;   or  to  control
transaction  costs. The Company does not make a market or trade  derivatives for
the express purpose of earning trading profits.

The  Company  uses  derivative  instruments  in its  management  of market  risk
consistent   with  four  risk   management   strategies:   hedging   anticipated
transactions, hedging liability instruments, hedging invested assets and hedging
portfolios of assets and/or  liabilities.  (For additional  information on these
strategies along with tables reflecting outstanding derivative instruments,  see
the Property and Casualty Operations and Life Operations discussions below.)

Derivative  activities are monitored by an internal  compliance  unit,  reviewed
frequently by senior management and reported to the Company's Finance Committee.
The notional amounts of derivative  contracts represent the basis upon which pay
or  receive  amounts  are  calculated  and are not  reflective  of credit  risk.
Notional  amounts  pertaining  to  derivative  instruments  for both general and
guaranteed separate accounts at December 31, 1999 and 1998, totaled $9.8 billion
and $11.3 billion, respectively.

The following  discussions focus on the key market risk exposures within each of
the property and casualty and life operations.


PROPERTY AND CASUALTY OPERATIONS

Interest Rate Risk
- ------------------

The  primary  exposure  to  interest  rate  risk in the  property  and  casualty
operations relates to its fixed maturity investments. Changes in market interest
rates  directly  impact the market value of the fixed  maturity  securities.  In
addition,  but to a lesser  extent,  interest  rate risk exists on debt  issued.
Derivative instruments are used periodically to manage interest rate risk and as
a result,  their  value will change as market  rates  change,  generally  in the
opposite  direction  of the item being  hedged.  The total  notional  amounts of
derivatives  used for hedging  interest  rate risk as of  December  31, 1999 and
1998, were $136 and $75, respectively.

The principal amounts of the fixed and variable rate fixed maturity  portfolios,
along with the respective  weighted average coupons (WAC) by estimated  maturity
year at December 31, 1999,  are  reflected in the following  table.  Comparative
totals are  included as of December 31, 1998.  Expected  maturities  differ from
contractual  maturities  due to  call or  prepayment  provisions.  The  weighted
average coupon on variable rate securities is based on spot rates as of December
31, 1999 and 1998,  and is based  primarily  on London  Interbank  Offered  Rate
(LIBOR).  Callable  bonds and  notes  are  primarily  municipal  bonds,  and are
distributed  to either call dates or maturity  depending on which date  produces
the most conservative  yield. Asset backed securities,  collateralized  mortgage
obligations  and mortgage  backed  securities  are  distributed to maturity year
based on  estimates  of the rate of future  prepayments  of  principal  over the
remaining life of the securities. These estimates are developed using prepayment
speeds  contained in broker  consensus  data.  Such  estimates  are derived from
prepayment speeds  previously  experienced at interest rate levels projected for
the  underlying  collateral.  Actual  prepayment  experience may vary from these
estimates.  Financial  instruments  with  certain  leverage  features  have been
included in each of the fixed maturity  categories.  These  instruments have not
been  separately  displayed as they were immaterial to the property and casualty
operations' investment portfolio.

                                     - 29 -





The following  table  provides  information  as of December 31, 1999 on interest
rate swaps used to manage  interest rate risk on fixed  maturities  and presents
notional  amounts with weighted  average pay and receive rates by maturity year.
Comparative  totals are included as of December 31, 1998.  The weighted  average
pay rate is based on spot rates as of December 31, 1999 and 1998.

                                     - 30 -





The table below provides information as of December 31, 1999 on debt obligations
and  QUIPS and  reflects  principal  cash  flows and  related  weighted  average
interest rate by maturity year.  Comparative  totals are included as of December
31, 1998.



Equities Price Risk
- -------------------

The property and casualty operations hold a diversified portfolio of investments
in equity securities  representing  firms in various  countries,  industries and
market segments  ranging from small market  capitalization  stocks to Standard &
Poor's  500  stocks.  The risk  associated  with  these  securities  relates  to
potential decreases in value resulting from changes in equity prices.

The  operations  occasionally  use equity  futures to hedge  against a change in
value on the anticipated  purchase or sale of equity securities.  As of December
31, 1999 and 1998,  there were no  outstanding  derivative  instruments  hedging
equity price risk.

The following  table reflects equity  securities  owned at December 31, 1999 and
1998, grouped by major market type.


                              1999                1998
                       ----------------------------------------
                       FAIR VALUE PERCENT  FAIR VALUE  PERCENT
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
EQUITY SECURITIES
  Domestic
   Large cap           $   519      45.8%   $   390       42.2%
   Midcap/small cap        114      10.0%       105       11.3%
  Foreign
   EAFE [1]/Canadian       465      41.0%       411       44.3%
   Emerging                 36       3.2%        20        2.2%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
     TOTAL             $ 1,134     100.0%  $    926      100.0%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
[1] Europe, Australia, Far East countries index.

Currency Exchange Risk
- ----------------------

Currency  exchange  risk within the  property and  casualty  operations  relates
primarily  to  translating  both  profits  and  net  equity  investment  in  its
international subsidiaries from the subsidiary's local currency to U.S. dollars.
The following table represents the property and casualty  operations' net equity
investments in its primary foreign  subsidiaries,  the related

                                     - 31 -

foreign  currency and the impact to the net equity  investment  based upon a 10%
change in foreign currency rates at December 31, 1999 and 1998. The property and
casualty  operations  also had  immaterial  exposures to the  Singapore  Dollar,
British Sterling and Spanish Peseta.

                                   Impact of 10%
                     Net Equity       Changes
Company              Investment    -10%    +10%     Currency [1]
- ------------------- ------------- ------- -------- -------------
 Zwolsche               $279       $(28)    $28        Euro
 Zwolsche               $348       $(35)    $35      Guilder
- ------------------- ------------- ------- -------- -------------
[1]   On  January  1,  1999,  the  Netherlands  became a member of the  European
      Monetary Union and its currency,  the Dutch  Guilder,  was replaced by the
      Euro.

Currency exchange risk also exists with respect to investments in foreign equity
securities. Forward foreign contracts with a notional amount of $48 and $43 were
used to manage this risk at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

LIFE OPERATIONS

Interest Rate Risk
- ------------------

The life  operations'  general  and  guaranteed  separate  account  exposure  to
interest  rate risk  relates to the market  price  and/or cash flow  variability
associated with changes in market interest rates.  Changes in interest rates can
potentially   impact  the  life   operations'   profitability.   Under   certain
circumstances of interest rate volatility,  the life operations could be exposed
to  disintermediation  risk and  reduction in net interest rate spread or profit
margins.  For  the  life  operations'   non-guaranteed  separate  accounts,  the
Company's exposure is not significant as the policyholder assumes  substantially
all of the investment risk.

The life operations'  general account and guaranteed separate account investment
portfolios  primarily  consist of investment grade,  fixed maturity  securities,
including  corporate bonds, asset backed securities,  commercial mortgage backed
securities and collateralized mortgage obligations.  The fair value of these and
the life operations' other invested assets fluctuates  depending on the interest
rate  environment  and other  general  economic  conditions.  During  periods of
declining   interest  rates,   paydowns  on  mortgage   backed   securities  and
collateralized  mortgage  obligations  increase as the underlying  mortgages are
prepaid. During such periods, the Company generally will not be able to reinvest
the proceeds of any such prepayments at comparable  yields.  Conversely,  during
periods of rising interest rates,  the rate of prepayments  generally  declines,
exposing the Company to the possibility of  asset/liability  cash flow and yield
mismatch. (For further discussion of the Company's risk management techniques to
manage this market risk, see the "Asset and Liability Management Strategies Used
to Manage Market Risk" discussed below.)

As described  above,  the life  operations  hold a  significant  fixed  maturity
portfolio  that includes both fixed and variable  rate  features.  The following
table  reflects  the  principal  amounts  of the life  operations'  general  and
guaranteed  separate account fixed and variable rate fixed maturity  portfolios,
along with the respective weighted average coupons by estimated maturity year at
December  31,  1999.  Comparative  totals are  included as of December 31, 1998.
Expected maturities differ from contractual maturities due to call or prepayment
provisions.  The weighted average coupon on variable rate securities is based on
spot rates as of December 31, 1999 and 1998,  and is  primarily  based on LIBOR.
Callable  bonds and notes are  distributed  to  either  call  dates or  maturity
depending  on which date  produces  the most  conservative  yield.  Asset backed
securities,  collateralized  mortgage obligations and mortgage backed securities
are  distributed  to  maturity  year  based on  estimates  of the rate of future
prepayments  of  principal  over the  remaining  life of the  securities.  These
estimates are developed using  prepayment  speeds  provided in broker  consensus
data. Such estimates are derived from prepayment speeds  previously  experienced
at the interest rate levels  projected  for the  underlying  collateral.  Actual
prepayment experience may vary from these estimates.  Financial instruments with
certain  leverage  features  have been  included  in each of the fixed  maturity
categories.  These  instruments have not been separately  displayed because they
were immaterial to the life investment portfolio.


                                     - 32 -




                                     - 33 -

The table below provides information as of December 31, 1999 on debt obligations
and  TruPS and  reflects  principal  cash  flows and  related  weighted  average
interest rate by maturity year.  Comparative  totals are included as of December
31, 1998.




Asset and Liability Management Strategies Used to Manage Market Risk
- --------------------------------------------------------------------

The life operations  employ several risk management tools to quantify and manage
market risk arising from their investments and interest  sensitive  liabilities.
For certain portfolios, management monitors the changes in present value between
assets and  liabilities  resulting from various  interest rate  scenarios  using
integrated  asset/liability  measurement  systems and a proprietary  system that
simulates the impacts of parallel and non-parallel yield curve shifts.  Based on
this current and prospective  information,  management  implements risk reducing
techniques to improve the match between assets and liabilities.

Derivatives  play an important role in  facilitating  the management of interest
rate risk, creating opportunities to efficiently fund obligations, hedge against
risks that affect the value of certain  liabilities and adjust broad  investment
risk  characteristics as a result of any significant changes in market risks. As
an end user of  derivatives,  the life  operations use a variety of derivatives,
including swaps, caps, floors,  forwards and  exchange-traded  financial futures
and  options,  in order to hedge  exposure  primarily  to interest  rate risk on
anticipated  investment  purchases or existing assets and liabilities.  Notional
amounts  pertaining  to  derivatives  totaled  $9.6 billion at December 31, 1999
($6.3 billion related to insurance  investments and $3.3 billion related to life
insurance  liabilities).  At December 31, 1998,  notional amounts  pertaining to
derivatives totaled $11.2 billion ($6.0 billion related to insurance investments
and  $5.2  billion  related  to  life  insurance  liabilities).  The  strategies
described below are used to manage the aforementioned risks.

Anticipatory Hedging -- For certain liabilities,  life operations commits to the
price of the  product  prior to receipt of the  associated  premium or  deposit.
Anticipatory hedges are executed to offset the impact of changes in asset prices
arising from interest rate changes pending the receipt of premium or deposit and
the subsequent purchase of an asset. These hedges involve taking a long position
in interest  rate futures or entering  into an interest  rate swap with duration
characteristics   equivalent  to  the  associated   liabilities  or  anticipated
investments. The notional amounts of anticipatory hedges as of December 31, 1999
and 1998 were $314 and $712, respectively.

Liability  Hedging -- Several products  obligate the life operations to credit a
return to the  contractholder  which is indexed to a market rate. To hedge risks
associated  with  these  products,   the  life  operation  enters  into  various
derivative contracts.  Interest rate swaps are used to convert the contract rate
into a rate that  trades in a more liquid and  efficient  market.  This  hedging
strategy enables the life operations to customize  contract terms and conditions
to customer  objectives and satisfies the operation's  asset/liability  matching
policy.  Interest rate swaps are used to convert  certain fixed  contract  rates
into floating rates,  thereby allowing them to be appropriately  matched against
floating rate assets. Additionally, interest rate caps are used to hedge against
the  risk  of  contractholder   disintermediation  in  a  rising  interest  rate
environment.  The notional amounts of derivatives used for liability  hedging as
of December 31, 1999 and 1998 were $3.3 billion and $5.2 billion, respectively.

Asset  Hedging  -- To meet the  various  life  policyholder  obligations  and to
provide  cost-effective  prudent  investment  risk  diversification,   the  life
operations  may  combine  two or  more  financial  instruments  to  achieve  the
investment  characteristics  of a  fixed  maturity  security  or that  match  an
associated  liability.   The  use  of  derivative  instruments  in  this  regard
effectively  transfers  unwanted  investment risks or attributes to others.  The
selection of the appropriate  derivative  instruments  depends on the investment
risk,  the liquidity and  efficiency of the market,  and the asset and liability
characteristics.  The  notional  amounts of asset hedges as of December 31, 1999
and 1998, were $4.8 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively.

Portfolio Hedging -- The life operation  periodically  compares the duration and
convexity of its  portfolios of assets to their  corresponding  liabilities  and
enters  into  portfolio  hedges to reduce  any  difference  to  desired  levels.
Portfolio  hedges reduce the mismatch  between assets and liabilities and offset
the  potential  impact to cash flows  caused by changes in interest  rates.  The
notional amounts of portfolio hedges as of December

                                     - 34 -

31, 1999 and 1998, were $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively.

The  following  tables  provide   information  as  of  December  31,  1999  with
comparative  totals for  December  31, 1998 on  derivative  instruments  used in
accordance with the aforementioned hedging strategies.  For interest rate swaps,
caps and floors,  the tables present  notional amounts with weighted average pay
and  receive  rates for swaps and  weighted  average  strike  rates for caps and
floors by maturity year. For interest rate futures,  the table presents contract
amount and weighted  average  settlement  price by expected  maturity year. Life
operations uses option contracts to hedge debt instruments that totaled $254 and
$110 in notional  amounts  and $(50) and $(20) in carrying  value as of December
31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.







                                     - 35 -




                                     - 36 -

Currency Exchange Risk
- ----------------------

The life operations have immaterial currency exposures to the Brazilian Real and
Argentine Peso.

Life Insurance Liability Characteristics
- ----------------------------------------

Life  operations'  insurance  liabilities,  other than  non-guaranteed  separate
accounts,  are  primarily  related  to  accumulation  vehicles  such as fixed or
variable annuities and investment contracts and other insurance products such as
long-term disability and term life insurance.

Asset Accumulation Vehicles

While  interest  rate risk  associated  with these  insurance  products has been
reduced  through  the use of market  value  adjustment  features  and  surrender
charges,  the primary  risk  associated  with these  products is that the spread
between  investment  return  and  credited  rate may not be  sufficient  to earn
targeted returns.

Fixed Rate -- Products in this  category  require the life  operations  to pay a
fixed  rate for a  certain  period  of time.  The cash  flows  are not  interest
sensitive  because the  products  are  written  with a market  value  adjustment
feature and the  liabilities  have  protection  against the early  withdrawal of
funds through surrender  charges.  Product examples include fixed rate annuities
with a market value adjustment and fixed rate guaranteed  investment  contracts.
Contract duration is dependent on the policyholder's choice of guarantee period.

Indexed  --  Products  in this  category  are  similar  to the fixed  rate asset
accumulation  vehicles  but  require the life  operations  to pay a rate that is
determined  by an external  index.  The amount  and/or timing of cash flows will
therefore  vary based on the level of the  particular  index.  The primary risks
inherent  in these  products  are  similar to the fixed rate asset  accumulation
vehicles, with an additional risk that changes in the index may adversely affect
profitability.  Product examples include indexed-guaranteed investment contracts
with an estimated duration of up to two years.

Interest Credited -- Products in this category credit interest to policyholders,
subject to market conditions and minimum guarantees. Policyholders may surrender
at book  value but are  subject to  surrender  charges  for an  initial  period.
Product  examples  include  universal  life  contracts  and the general  account
portion of the life operations' variable annuity products. Liability duration is
short- to intermediate-term.

Other Insurance Products

Long-term  Pay Out  Liabilities  -- Products in this  category are  long-term in
nature and may contain significant actuarial (including mortality and morbidity)
pricing  and cash flow  risks.  The cash  flows  associated  with  these  policy
liabilities  are not interest rate sensitive but do vary based on the timing and
amount of benefit payments. The primary risks associated with these products are
that the benefits will exceed expected  actuarial pricing and/or that the actual
timing  of the  cash  flows  differ  from  those  anticipated,  resulting  in an
investment  return lower than that assumed in pricing.  Product examples include
structured  settlement  contracts,  on-benefit annuities (i.e., the annuitant is
currently  receiving  benefits  thereon)  and  long-term  disability  contracts.
Contract duration is generally five to ten years.

Short-term  Pay Out  Liabilities -- These  liabilities  are short-term in nature
with a duration of less than one year. The primary risks  associated  with these
products are determined by the non-investment contingencies such as mortality or
morbidity  and  the  variability  in the  timing  of the  expected  cash  flows.
Liquidity is of greater  concern  than for the  long-term  pay out  liabilities.
Products  include  individual  and  group  term  life  insurance  contracts  and
short-term disability contracts.

Management  of  the  duration  of  investments   with  respective   policyholder
obligations  is  an  explicit  objective  of  the  life  operations'  management
strategy.  The estimated cash flows of insurance policy  liabilities  based upon
internal  actuarial  assumptions  as of December  31, 1999 are  reflected in the
table below by expected  maturity  year.  Comparative  totals are  included  for
December 31, 1998.

                                     - 37 -







Sensitivity to Changes in Interest Rates
- ----------------------------------------

For liabilities  whose cash flows are not  substantially  affected by changes in
interest  rates  (fixed   liabilities)  and  where   investment   experience  is
substantially  absorbed  by the  life  operations,  the  sensitivity  of the net
economic value (discounted present value of asset cash flows less the discounted
present  value of liability  cash flows) of those  portfolios to 100 basis point
shifts  in  interest  rates  are  shown in the  following  tables.  These  fixed
liabilities represented about 55% of the life operations' general and guaranteed
separate  account  liabilities  at  December  31, 1999 and 1998.  The  remaining
liabilities generally allow the life operation significant flexibility to adjust
credited rates to reflect actual investment  experience and thereby pass through
a substantial portion of actual investment  experience to the policyholder.  The
fixed  liability  portfolios  are  managed  and  monitored  relative  to defined
objectives and are analyzed regularly by management for internal risk management
purposes using scenario simulation techniques, and evaluated annually consistent
with regulatory requirements.

                                Change in Net Economic Value
                                   1999                1998
                           ----------------------------------------
Basis point shift            - 100     + 100     - 100     + 100
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
 Amount                    $     (4)  $     (5)  $     7  $   (16)
 Percent of liability value   (0.03)%    (0.03)%    0.05%   (0.10)%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     - 38 -


CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

Capital resources and liquidity  represent the overall financial strength of The
Hartford and its ability to generate strong cash flows from each of the business
segments  and borrow funds at  competitive  rates to meet  operating  and growth
needs. The capital structure of The Hartford consists of debt, minority interest
and equity summarized as follows as of December 31:




CAPITALIZATION

The  Hartford's  total  capitalization,  excluding  unrealized  gain  (loss)  on
securities,  net of  tax,  increased  by $129 in 1999  from  1998.  This  change
primarily was the result of earnings,  partially offset by dividends declared on
The Hartford's  common stock and the effect of treasury stock  acquired,  net of
reissuances for incentive and stock purchase plans.

The Hartford's total  capitalization,  excluding  unrealized gain on securities,
net of tax,  increased  by $499 as of December 31, 1998  compared to 1997.  This
change  primarily  was the result of earnings  and  additional  net  borrowings,
partially  offset by dividends  declared on The Hartford's  common stock and the
net effect of treasury stock acquired.

THE OFFERING

Pursuant to the initial public  offering on May 22, 1997 (the Offering) of Class
A common stock of Hartford Life, Inc.  (HLI),  the holding company parent of The
Hartford's  significant life insurance  subsidiaries,  HLI sold to the public 26
million  shares at  $28.25  per share and  received  proceeds,  net of  offering
expenses, of $687.

The 26 million shares sold in the Offering represented  approximately 19% of the
equity  ownership in HLI and  approximately  4% of the combined  voting power of
HLI's Class A and Class B common stock. The Hartford owns all of the 114 million
outstanding  shares of Class B common stock of HLI,  representing  approximately
81% of the equity ownership in HLI and  approximately 96% of the combined voting
power of HLI's Class A and Class B common stock. Holders of Class A common stock
generally  have  identical  rights to the holders of Class B common stock except
that the  holders  of Class A common  stock are  entitled  to one vote per share
while  holders of Class B common  stock are  entitled to five votes per share on
all matters submitted to a vote of HLI's stockholders. Also, each share of Class
B common  stock is  convertible  into one share of Class A common stock (a) upon
the  transfer of such share of Class B common  stock by the holder  thereof to a
non-affiliate  (except  where the shares of Class B common stock so  transferred
represent 50% or more of all the outstanding shares of common stock,  calculated
without  regard to the difference in voting rights between the classes of common
stock) or (b) in the event  that the  number  of shares of  outstanding  Class B
common stock is less than the 50% of all the common stock then  outstanding.  As
of December 31,  1999,  The Hartford  continued to maintain an  approximate  81%
equity ownership in HLI.

In  connection  with the Offering,  The Hartford  reported a $368 equity gain in
1997 related to the increased value of its equity  ownership in HLI.  Management
used the proceeds from the Offering to reduce certain debt outstanding,  to fund
growth  initiatives  and for other general  corporate  purposes.  The Hartford's
current intent is to continue to beneficially own at least 80% of HLI, but it is
under no contractual obligation to do so.

DEBT

Total  debt in 1998  increased  $56  compared  to 1997.  The  Hartford  used the
proceeds of these net additional borrowings for general corporate purposes. (For
additional  information  regarding  Debt,  see Note 6 of  Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements.)

                                     - 39 -


COMPANY  OBLIGATED  MANDATORILY  REDEEMABLE  PREFERRED  SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY
TRUSTS HOLDING SOLELY JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES (QUIPS AND TRUPS)

For  a  discussion  of  Company  Obligated   Mandatorily   Redeemable  Preferred
Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely Junior  Subordinated  Debentures,
see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Stock  Split in the Form of a Stock  Dividend  - For a  discussion  of the stock
split in the  form of a stock  dividend,  see  Note 8 of  Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Dividends  -  The  Hartford   declared  $209  and  paid  $207  in  dividends  to
shareholders in 1999 and declared $199 and paid $197 in 1998.

On October 21, 1999, The Hartford's Board of Directors approved a 4% increase in
the  quarterly  dividend  to  $0.24  per  share,  payable  January  3,  2000  to
shareholders of record as of December 1, 1999.

Treasury Stock - In December 1997, The Hartford's Board of Directors  authorized
the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of the Company's  outstanding  common stock
over a three-year  period beginning with the first quarter of 1998. The Hartford
completed the $1.0 billion repurchase  authorization during 1999 by repurchasing
9.2  million  shares of its common  stock in the open  market at a total cost of
$453.  In  October  1999,  The  Hartford's  Board of  Directors  authorized  the
repurchase  of up to an  additional  $1.0 billion of the  Company's  outstanding
common stock. This repurchase  authorization was initiated in November 1999 when
the prior repurchase  authorization granted in December 1997 was completed,  and
covers a three-year  period.  As of December 31, 1999, The Hartford  repurchased
3.1  million  shares of its common  stock in the open  market at a total cost of
$143 under this repurchase  authorization.  Some of the repurchased  shares were
reissued pursuant to certain stock-based benefit plans.

Unrealized  Gain  (Loss) -  Unrealized  gain (loss) on  securities,  net of tax,
decreased by $1.0 billion as of December 31, 1999 compared to December 31, 1998.
The change resulted primarily from the impact of increased interest rates on the
fixed maturity portfolio.

RATINGS

The following table summarizes The Hartford's significant U.S. member companies'
financial ratings from the major independent rating organizations as of February
29, 2000.


                             A.M.  DUFF &   STANDARD
                             BEST  PHELPS   & POOR'S  MOODY'S
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Insurance Ratings:
  Hartford Fire               A+     AA        AA       Aa3
  Hartford Life Insurance
   Company                    A+     AA+       AA       Aa3
  Hartford Life & Accident    A+     AA+       AA       Aa3
  Hartford Life & Annuity     A+     AA+       AA       Aa3
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Other Ratings:
  The Hartford Financial
   Services Group, Inc.:
   Senior debt                a+     A+        A         A2
   Commercial paper          --      D-1      A-1       P-1
  Hartford Capital I and
   II quarterly income
   preferred securities       a+      A       BBB+       a2
  Hartford Life, Inc.:
   Senior debt                a+     A+        A         A2
   Commercial paper          --      D-1      A-1       P-1
  Hartford Life, Inc.:
   Capital I trust
   preferred securities       a+      A       BBB+       a2
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

LIQUIDITY REQUIREMENTS

The liquidity requirements of The Hartford have been and will continue to be met
by funds from  operations  as well as the  issuance of  commercial  paper,  debt
securities and its credit facility. The principal sources of operating funds are
premiums  and  investment  income as well as  maturities  and sales of  invested
assets.  The Hartford  Financial Services Group, Inc. is a holding company which
receives  operating  cash flow in the form of dividends  from its  subsidiaries,
enabling it to service debt,  pay dividends on its common stock and pay business
expenses.

Dividends to The Hartford  Financial  Services Group, Inc. from its subsidiaries
are restricted.  The payment of dividends by  Connecticut-domiciled  insurers is
limited  under the insurance  holding  company laws of  Connecticut.  These laws
require  notice to and  approval  by the state  insurance  commissioner  for the
declaration or payment of any dividend,  which, together with other dividends or
distributions  made within the preceding  twelve months,  exceeds the greater of
(i) 10% of the insurer's policyholder surplus as of December 31 of the preceding
year or (ii) net income (or net gain from operations,  if such company is a life
insurance company) for the twelve-month period ending on the thirty-first day of
December last  preceding,  in each case  determined  under  statutory  insurance
accounting  policies.  In addition,  if any dividend of a  Connecticut-domiciled
insurer exceeds the insurer's earned surplus,  it requires the prior approval of
the Connecticut Insurance Commissioner.

The  insurance  holding  company  laws of the other  jurisdictions  in which The
Hartford's  insurance  subsidiaries  are  incorporated  (or deemed  commercially
domiciled)  generally contain similar  (although in certain  instances  somewhat
more restrictive) limitations on the payment of dividends.

                                     - 40 -

The maximum  amount of  statutory  dividends  which may be paid to The  Hartford
Financial Services Group, Inc. from its insurance  subsidiaries in 2000, without
prior approval, is $1.0 billion.

The primary uses of funds are to pay claims, policy benefits, operating expenses
and commissions,  and to purchase new investments. In addition, The Hartford has
a  policy  of  carrying  a  significant   short-term   investment  position  and
accordingly  does not  anticipate  selling  intermediate-  and  long-term  fixed
maturity  investments  to meet any  liquidity  needs.  (For a discussion  of the
Company's investment objectives and strategies,  see the Investments and Capital
Markets Risk Management sections.)

RISK-BASED CAPITAL

The National  Association  of  Insurance  Commissioners  (NAIC) has  regulations
establishing  minimum  capitalization  requirements  based on risk-based capital
(RBC)  formulas  for  both  property  and  casualty  and  life  companies.   The
requirements   consist  of  formulas,   which   identify   companies   that  are
undercapitalized  and require specific regulatory actions. RBC is calculated for
property   and  casualty   companies   after   adjusting   capital  for  certain
underwriting,  asset,  credit and off-balance  sheet risks.  The RBC formula for
life companies establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business,
asset and interest rate risks.  As of December 31, 1999,  each of The Hartford's
insurance  subsidiaries  within North American  Property & Casualty and the Life
segment had more than sufficient capital to meet the NAIC's RBC requirements.

CASH FLOW

                                 1999       1998        1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by
  operating activities        $     891  $     907  $   2,045
Net cash provided by (used
  for) investing activities   $   2,279  $     411  $  (2,247)
Net cash (used for) provided
  by financing activities     $  (3,104) $  (1,340) $     239
Cash - end of year            $     182  $     123  $     140
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Operating cash flow  decreased  slightly in 1999 compared to 1998. The change in
both  investing and financing cash flows was primarily the result of an increase
in  disbursements  for investment  type contracts  related to the leveraged COLI
block of business.

During 1998, the decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily
the  result  of lower  underwriting  cash  flows,  due in part to  higher  claim
payments on  catastrophes,  an  increase in income  taxes paid and timing in the
settlement of other  receivables  and payables.  The decrease in cash (used for)
provided by financing  activities  was primarily the result of proceeds from the
HLI offering in May 1997,  treasury stock  purchases in 1998 in accordance  with
the  Company's  share  repurchase  program  and a  decrease  in  investment-type
contracts written in the Life segment. The change in cash provided by (used for)
investing  activities  primarily  reflects net investment  proceeds used to fund
financing activities.

Operating  cash  flows in each of the last  three  years  have  been  more  than
adequate to meet liquidity requirements.

ACQUISITIONS

On August 26, 1998,  HLI  completed  the purchase of all  outstanding  shares of
PLANCO   Financial   Services,   Inc.   (PLANCO)  and  its  affiliate,   PLANCO,
Incorporated.  PLANCO,  a primary  distributor  of HLI's annuity and  investment
products,  is the nation's  largest  wholesaler of individual  annuities and has
played a significant role in HLI's growth over the past decade. As a wholesaler,
PLANCO  distributes HLI's annuity and investment  products,  including fixed and
variable annuities,  mutual funds and single premium variable life insurance, as
well  as  providing  sales  support  to  registered  representatives,  financial
planners  and  broker-dealers  at  brokerage  firms and banks  across the United
States.  The  acquisition was accounted for as a purchase and  accordingly,  the
results of PLANCO's operations have been included in The Hartford's consolidated
financial statements from the closing date of the transaction.

On February 12, 1998,  The Hartford  completed  the purchase of all  outstanding
shares  of  Omni,  a  holding  company  of  two   non-standard   auto  insurance
subsidiaries  licensed in 25 states and the District of  Columbia.  The Hartford
paid cash of $31.75 per share, plus transaction  costs, for a total of $189. The
acquisition was reported as a purchase transaction and accordingly,  the results
of Omni's operations have been included in The Hartford's consolidated financial
statements from the closing date of the transaction.

REGULATORY MATTERS AND CONTINGENCIES

LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES

The  business of  insurance  is  primarily  regulated  by the states and is also
affected by a range of legislative developments at the state and federal levels.
Passage in November 1999 of the  Gramm-Leach-Bliley  Act (the Financial Services
Modernization Act), which permits affiliations among banks,  insurance companies
and securities firms, may have competitive,  operational and other  implications
for the  Company.  In  particular,  the  measure  includes  privacy  protections
requiring all financial  services  providers to disclose their privacy  policies
and restrict the sharing of personal information for marketing purposes. Various
states  are  considering  even more  restrictive  privacy  measures  that  could
potentially affect the Company's operations. Medical records are also subject to
new privacy  safeguards  under  guidelines  proposed by the U.S.  Department  of
Health and Human  Services.  These and  similar  measures  proposed at the state
level could affect the Company's ability to manage medical claims.

                                     - 41 -

Enactment of the Financial  Services  Modernization Act at the federal level has
focused  renewed  attention on state  regulation of  insurance.  Elements of the
insurance  industry  are  involved in a  countrywide  initiative  to  streamline
regulatory  procedures,   notably  the  elimination  of  rate  and  form  filing
requirements for property-casualty lines. Altogether, about half the states have
considered a variety of such measures, which could result in reduced transaction
costs and improved speed to market.

Current and proposed  Federal measures which may  significantly  affect the life
insurance  business include tax law changes  affecting the tax treatment of life
insurance  products  and its  impact on the  relative  desirability  of  various
personal  investment  vehicles,  medical testing for insurability,  and proposed
legislation to prohibit the use of gender in  determining  insurance and pension
rates and benefits.  In  particular,  President  Clinton's  2000 federal  budget
proposal contains certain recommendations for modifying tax rules related to the
treatment of COLI by contractholders which, if enacted as described,  could have
a material  adverse impact on the Company's sales of these products.  The budget
proposal also includes  provisions which would result in a significant  increase
in the  "DAC  tax" on  certain  of the  Company's  products,  apply a tax to the
Company's  policyholder  surplus  account and  increase  taxes on  property  and
casualty  insurance  companies.  It is too early to determine  whether these tax
proposals,  in their  current  form,  will  ultimately  be enacted by  Congress.
Therefore,  the potential impact to the Company's financial condition or results
of operations cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.

Congress  continues to debate  reform of the Superfund  hazardous  waste cleanup
program and the creation of a centralized mechanism for handling asbestos injury
claims.  Both proposals have the potential to reduce claim  exposures;  however,
enactment of such  legislation  may not occur in the current  Congress.  Pending
legislation  to end abusive  class-action  lawsuits would also have a beneficial
impact, but prospects for near-term enactment are likewise uncertain.  So-called
"patient  protection"  legislation  introduced  in  Congress  and in many states
includes provisions permitting lawsuits against health maintenance organizations
(HMOs)  for  denial of  coverage.  Although  the  Company  is not a health  care
provider,  passage of such  legislation  could affect medical claim costs to the
extent that HMOs were constrained from aggressively managing care.

INSOLVENCY FUND

In all states,  insurers  licensed to transact  certain classes of insurance are
required to become members of an insolvency  fund. In most states,  in the event
of the  insolvency  of an insurer  writing  any such class of  insurance  in the
state,  all  members  of the fund are  assessed  to pay  certain  claims  of the
insolvent insurer. A particular state's fund assesses its members based on their
respective  written  premiums in the state for the classes of insurance in which
the insolvent insurer is engaged. Assessments are generally limited for any year
to one or two percent of premiums written per year depending on the state.  Such
assessments paid by The Hartford approximated $4 in 1999, $12 in 1998 and $19 in
1997.

NAIC PROPOSALS

The NAIC  developed  several  model  laws  and  regulations,  including  a Model
Investment Law and amendments to the Model Holding Company System Regulatory Act
(the Holding Act Amendments).  The Model Investment Law defines the investments,
which are  permissible  for property and casualty and life insurers to hold, and
the Holding Act Amendments address the types of activities in which subsidiaries
and affiliates  may engage.  The NAIC adopted these models in 1997 and 1996, but
the laws have not been enacted for insurance companies domiciled in the State of
Connecticut,  such as  Hartford  Fire  Insurance  Company.  Even if  enacted  in
Connecticut or other states in which The Hartford's  insurance  subsidiaries are
domiciled,  it is expected that these laws will neither significantly change The
Hartford's  investment  strategies  nor have any material  adverse effect on The
Hartford's liquidity or financial position.

The  NAIC  adopted  the   Codification   of  Statutory   Accounting   Principles
(Codification) in September 1998. The proposed  effective date for the statutory
accounting  guidance  is  January  1,  2001.  It is  expected  that  each of The
Hartford's  domiciliary states will adopt Codification and the Company will make
the necessary changes required for implementation. The Company is in the process
of determining the impact,  if any, that Codification will have on the statutory
financial statements of The Hartford's insurance subsidiaries.

DEPENDENCE ON CERTAIN THIRD PARTY RELATIONSHIPS

The Company  distributes  its  annuity,  life and certain  property and casualty
insurance  products  through  a  variety  of  distribution  channels,  including
broker-dealers, banks, wholesalers, its own internal sales force and other third
party organizations. The Company periodically negotiates provisions and renewals
of these relationships and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain
acceptable  to the  Company  or  such  third  parties.  An  interruption  in the
Company's  continuing  relationship  with certain of these third  parties  could
materially affect the Company's ability to market its products. During the first
quarter of 1999, the Company modified its existing,  exclusive contract with one
such  third  party,   Putnam  Mutual  Funds  Corp.  (Putnam)  to  eliminate  the
exclusivity  provision  which  will  allow  both  parties  to pursue  new market
opportunities.  Putnam is  contractually  obligated  to support  and service the
related  annuity in force block of business  and to market,  support and service
new business. However, there can be no assurance that this contract modification
will not adversely  impact the Company's  ability to distribute  Putnam  related
products.

YEAR 2000

In General

The Year 2000 issue  relates to the ability or inability  of computer  hardware,
software  and  other  information  technology  (IT)  systems,  as well as non-IT
systems,   such  as   equipment   and   machinery   with   imbedded   chips  and
microprocessors,  to properly process information and data containing or related
to

                                     - 42 -

dates  beginning  with the Year  2000 and  beyond.  The Year 2000  issue  exists
because,  historically,  many IT and non-IT  systems  that are in use today were
developed  years ago when a year was  identified  using a  two-digit  date field
rather than a four-digit  date field.  As  information  and data  containing  or
related to the century date are  introduced  to date  sensitive  systems,  these
systems may recognize  the Year 2000 as "1900," or not at all,  which may result
in systems processing information incorrectly.  This, in turn, may significantly
and adversely  affect the integrity and reliability of information  databases of
IT systems,  may cause the  malfunctioning  of certain non-IT  systems,  and may
result in a wide variety of adverse consequences to a company. In addition, Year
2000 problems that occur with third parties with which a company does  business,
such as suppliers, computer vendors, distributors and others, may also adversely
affect any given company.

The  integrity and  reliability  of The  Hartford's  IT systems,  as well as the
reliability  of its non-IT  systems,  are  integral  aspects  of The  Hartford's
business.  The Hartford issues insurance policies,  annuities,  mutual funds and
other  financial  products to individual and business  customers,  nearly all of
which contain date  sensitive  payment  dates.  In addition,  various IT systems
support  communications  and other systems that integrate The Hartford's various
business   segments  and  field  offices,   including  The  Hartford's   foreign
operations.  The Hartford also has business  relationships  with numerous  third
parties that affect virtually all aspects of The Hartford's business, including,
without limitation, suppliers, computer hardware and software vendors, insurance
agents and brokers, securities broker-dealers,  banks and other distributors and
servicers of financial  products,  many of which provide date  sensitive data to
The Hartford, and whose operations are important to The Hartford's business.

Internal and Third Party Year 2000 Efforts

Beginning in 1990, The Hartford began working on making its IT systems Year 2000
ready,  either  through  installing  new  programs or replacing  systems.  These
efforts were  completed by the end of 1999,  including the internal and external
integrated  testing of such  systems.  In  addition,  The  Hartford's  Year 2000
efforts  included  assessing  the  potential  impact  on The  Hartford  of third
parties' Year 2000 readiness.

Status and Contingency Plans

As of February 29, 2000, The Hartford had not experienced any Year  2000-related
business  interruptions  arising  either  from its own systems or those of third
parties.  However,  The Hartford has developed certain contingency plans so that
if,  despite its Year 2000 efforts,  Year 2000 problems  ultimately  arise,  the
impact of such problems may be avoided or minimized.  The  contingency  planning
process involved  identifying  reasonably likely business  disruption  scenarios
that, if they were to occur, could create  significant  problems in the critical
functions of each business segment. Each business segment has developed plans to
respond to such  problems so that  critical  business  functions may continue to
operate with minimal  disruption.  Contingency  planning also included assessing
the  dependency of The Hartford's  critical  business on third parties and their
Year 2000  readiness.  These plans were  reviewed and simulated on an integrated
basis, where  appropriate,  and will continue to be evaluated.  Furthermore,  in
many contexts, Year 2000 issues are dynamic, and ongoing assessments of business
functions,  vulnerabilities  and risks must be made.  As such,  new  contingency
plans may be needed in the future and/or  existing plans may need to be modified
as circumstances warrant.

Year 2000 Costs

The after-tax costs of The Hartford's Year 2000 efforts that were incurred prior
to January 1, 1998 were not material to The  Hartford's  financial  condition or
results of  operations.  For the years ended  December  31,  1999 and 1998,  the
after-tax costs were approximately $17 and $23,  respectively.  These costs were
expensed as incurred. The Hartford does not expect to incur significant costs in
2000 related to its Year 2000 efforts.

Insurance Claims

As an insurer,  The Hartford  has  received  and expects to receive  claims from
insureds who have  incurred or may incur losses as a result of Year 2000 issues.
Insurance coverage,  if any, will depend upon the provisions of the policies and
the facts and  circumstances  of each claim.  The  Hartford  does not  currently
believe that the claim and claim adjustment expenses related to such claims will
have a material  impact upon The  Hartford's  financial  condition or results of
operations.


EFFECT OF INFLATION

The rate of  inflation as measured by the change in the average  consumer  price
index has not had a material effect on the revenues or operating  results of The
Hartford during the three most recent fiscal years.


ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

For a discussion of accounting  standards,  see Note 1 of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements.

                                     - 43 -




ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information  required by this item is said forth in the Capital Markets Risk
Management  section of the  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules elsewhere herein.

ITEM  9.  CHANGES  IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE HARTFORD

Certain of the information  called for by Item 10 is set forth in the definitive
proxy  statement  for  the  2000  annual  meeting  of  shareholders  (the  Proxy
Statement) filed or to be filed by The Hartford with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 120 days after the end of the last fiscal year covered by this
Form 10-K under the  caption  "Item 1.  Election of  Directors  - Directors  and
Nominees"  and "Stock  Ownership of  Directors,  Executive  Officers and Certain
Shareholders - Compliance  with Section 16(a) of the Securities  Exchange Act of
1934" and is incorporated herein by reference.  Additional  information required
by Item 10 regarding The Hartford's executive officers is set forth in Item 1 of
this Form 10-K under the caption  "Executive  Officers of The  Hartford"  and is
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information  called for by Item 11 is set forth in the Proxy Statement under
the captions  "Compensation  of Executive  Officers" and "The Board of Directors
and its  Committees - Directors'  Compensation"  and is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information  called for by Item 12 is set forth in the Proxy Statement under
the caption  "Stock  Ownership  of  Directors,  Executive  Officers  and Certain
Shareholders" and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

None.

PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  Documents filed as a part of this report:

      1. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.  See Index to Consolidated Financial
Statements elsewhere herein.

      2. CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.  See Index to Consolidated
Financial Statement Schedules elsewhere herein.

      3. EXHIBITS. See Exhibit Index elsewhere herein.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K - On October 21, 1999,  The  Hartford  filed a report on
Form 8-K under Item 5, Other Events,  reporting  that its Board of Directors had
authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of outstanding  common stock,  and
had increased the quarterly dividend.

(c)  See Item 14(a)(3).

(d)  See Item 14(a)(2).


                                     - 44 -

            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES




                                                                         Page(s)
Report of Management                                                      F-1
Report of Independent Public Accountants                                  F-2
Consolidated  Statements  of Income for the three years ended
  December 31, 1999                                                       F-3
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998              F-4
Consolidated  Statements of Changes in Stockholders'  Equity
  for the three years ended December 31, 1999                             F-5-6
Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows for the three years
  ended  December  31, 1999                                               F-7
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                F-8-29
Summary of Investments - Other Than Investments in Affiliates             S-1
Condensed  Financial  Information of The Hartford Financial
   Services Group, Inc.                                                   S-2-3
Supplementary Insurance Information                                       S-4
Reinsurance                                                               S-5
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                                         S-6
Supplemental  Information  Concerning Property and Casualty
   Insurance Operations                                                   S-7




                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT


     The  management  of The Hartford  Financial  Services  Group,  Inc. and its
     subsidiaries   (The  Hartford)  is  responsible  for  the  preparation  and
     integrity  of  information  contained  in  the  accompanying   consolidated
     financial statements and other sections of the Annual Report. The financial
     statements are prepared in accordance  with generally  accepted  accounting
     principles,  and,  where  necessary,  include  amounts  that  are  based on
     management's  informed judgments and estimates.  Management  believes these
     statements present fairly The Hartford's  financial position and results of
     operation, and that any other information contained in the Annual Report is
     consistent with the financial statements.

     Management has made available The Hartford's  financial records and related
     data to Arthur Andersen LLP,  independent public accountants,  in order for
     them  to  perform  an  audit  of  The  Hartford's   consolidated  financial
     statements. Their report appears on page F-2.

     An essential element in meeting management's financial  responsibilities is
     The Hartford's system of internal controls.  These controls,  which include
     accounting  controls and the  internal  auditing  program,  are designed to
     provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded,  and transactions
     are properly  authorized,  executed and recorded.  The controls,  which are
     documented  and  communicated  to employees in the form of written codes of
     conduct and  policies  and  procedures,  provide for careful  selection  of
     personnel  and  for  appropriate  division  of  responsibility.  Management
     continually monitors for compliance, while The Hartford's internal auditors
     independently   assess  the   effectiveness   of  the   controls  and  make
     recommendations  for  improvement.  Also,  Arthur  Andersen  LLP took  into
     consideration The Hartford's system of internal controls in determining the
     nature, timing and extent of their audit tests.

     Another important element is management's recognition of its responsibility
     for  fostering  a  strong,  ethical  climate,  thereby  ensuring  that  The
     Hartford's  affairs are  transacted  according to the highest  standards of
     personal  and  professional  conduct.  The  Hartford  has  a  long-standing
     reputation of integrity in business conduct and utilizes  communication and
     education to create and fortify a strong compliance culture.

     The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of The Hartford,  composed of
     independent  directors,  meets  periodically with the external and internal
     auditors  to  evaluate  the  effectiveness  of  work  performed  by them in
     discharging   their  respective   responsibilities   and  to  ensure  their
     independence and free access to the Committee.


                                      F-1





                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


     To The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.:

     We  have  audited  the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  of The
     Hartford  Financial  Services Group, Inc. (a Delaware  corporation) and its
     subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related Consolidated
     Statements of Income,  Changes in  Stockholders'  Equity and Cash Flows for
     each of the three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,  1999.  These
     consolidated  financial  statements and the schedules referred to below are
     the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our responsibility is to
     express an opinion on these financial statements and the schedules based on
     our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance  with  auditing  standards  generally
     accepted in the United  States.  Those  standards  require that we plan and
     perform  the  audit  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  the
     financial statements are free of material  misstatement.  An audit includes
     examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
     in  the  financial  statements.   An  audit  also  includes  assessing  the
     accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
     well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
     that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
     present fairly,  in all material  respects,  the financial  position of The
     Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries as of December
     31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
     for each of the  three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,  1999 in
     conformity  with  accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the United
     States.

     Our  audits  were made for the  purpose  of forming an opinion on the basic
     financial statements taken as a whole. The schedules listed in the Index to
     Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  Schedules  are  presented for the
     purpose of complying with the Securities  and Exchange  Commission's  rules
     and are not part of the basic  financial  statements.  These schedules have
     been  subjected  to the  auditing  procedures  applied in the audits of the
     basic  financial  statements  and,  in our  opinion,  fairly  state  in all
     material  respects the  financial  data required to be set forth therein in
     relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.



                                                            Arthur Andersen LLP

     Hartford, Connecticut
     January 31, 2000


                                      F-2



    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                      F-3




See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                      F-4






See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                      F-5







See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                      F-6





See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                      F-7


                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Dollar
       amounts in millions except per share data unless otherwise stated)


1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

(A)  BASIS OF PRESENTATION

The Hartford  Financial  Services Group, Inc. and its consolidated  subsidiaries
(The Hartford or the Company)  provide  property and casualty and life insurance
to  both   individual  and  commercial   customers  in  the  United  States  and
internationally.

On  November  16,  1998,   The  Hartford   completed  the  sale  of  its  United
Kingdom-based  London & Edinburgh  Insurance  Group,  Ltd.  (London & Edinburgh)
subsidiary to Norwich Union, a leading provider of general and life insurance in
the  United  Kingdom.  For  purposes  of these  financial  statements,  London &
Edinburgh's  operating  results  are  included  in The  Hartford's  Consolidated
Statements of Income through the date of sale. (For additional information,  see
Note 18.)

The  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  prepared  on the  basis of
generally  accepted  accounting  principles  which  differ  materially  from the
accounting prescribed by various insurance regulatory authorities.  All material
intercompany  transactions and balances  between The Hartford,  its subsidiaries
and affiliates have been eliminated.

The  preparation  of  financial   statements,   in  conformity  with  accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States,  requires management to make
estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets and
liabilities  and disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities at the date of
the  financial  statements  and the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

The most significant estimates include those used in determining deferred policy
acquisition  costs and the liability for future policy  benefits,  unpaid claims
and claim  adjustment  expenses.  Although some variability is inherent in these
estimates, management believes the amounts provided are adequate.

Certain  reclassifications have been made to prior year financial information to
conform to the current year classification of transactions and accounts.

(B)  ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

Effective  January 1, 1999, The Hartford adopted Statement of Position (SOP) No.
98-1,  "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software  Developed or Obtained for
Internal  Use".  This SOP provides  guidance on accounting for costs of internal
use software and in  determining  whether  software is for internal use. The SOP
defines  internal  use  software  as  software  that  is  acquired,   internally
developed,  or modified  solely to meet internal needs and identifies  stages of
software  development  and accounting for the related costs incurred  during the
stages.  Adoption  of this SOP did not have a material  impact on the  Company's
financial condition or results of operations.

Effective  January 1, 1999,  The Hartford  adopted SOP No. 97-3,  "Accounting by
Insurance and Other  Enterprises for  Insurance-Related  Assessments".  This SOP
addresses  accounting by insurance and other enterprises for assessments related
to insurance  activities  including  recognition,  measurement and disclosure of
guaranty fund or other assessments. Adoption of this SOP did not have a material
impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

In November  1998, the Emerging  Issues Task Force (EITF)  reached  consensus on
Issue 98-15,  "Structured  Notes Acquired for a Specific  Investment  Strategy".
This Issue  requires  companies to account for  structured  notes acquired for a
specific  investment  strategy as a unit.  Affected  companies that entered into
these notes prior to  September  25, 1998 are required to either  restate  prior
period  financial  statements  to conform with the  prescribed  unit  accounting
model, or disclose the related impact on earnings for all periods  presented and
cumulatively  over the life of the instruments had the registrant  accounted for
the structure as a unit.  Net income for the year ended  December 31, 1999 would
have  been  approximately  $2  lower,  and  cumulatively  over  the  life of the
instrument  would  have  been  $22  higher  had the  Company  accounted  for its
structured note transaction as a unit, based upon the consensus  reached in EITF
98-15.

The  Hartford's  cash flows  were not  impacted  by  adopting  these  changes in
accounting principles.

(C) FUTURE ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In June 1999, the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement
of Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS) No. 137,  "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments  and Hedging  Activities  - Deferral of the  Effective  Date of FASB
Statement No. 133".  This  statement  amends SFAS No. 133 to defer its effective
date for one year,  to fiscal  years  beginning  after  June 15,  2000.  Initial
application  for  The  Hartford  will  begin  January  1,  2001.  SFAS  No.  133
establishes  accounting  and  reporting  guidance  for  derivative  instruments,
including  certain  derivative  instruments  embedded  in other  contracts.  The
standard  requires,  among other things,  that all derivatives be carried on the
balance  sheet at fair value.  The  standard  also  specifies  hedge  accounting
criteria under which a derivative can qualify for special  accounting.  In order
to receive special accounting,  the derivative instrument must qualify as either
a hedge of the fair  value or the  variability  of the cash flow of a  qualified
asset or  liability.  Special  accounting  for  qualifying  hedges  provides for
matching the timing of gain or loss  recognition on the hedging  instrument with
the  recognition of the  corresponding  changes in value of the hedged item. The
Company  has  reviewed  its  derivative  holdings  and  is  in  the  process  of
quantifying  the impact of SFAS No.  133.  The  Company is also  assessing  what
actions, if any, need to be taken to minimize potential volatility, while at the
same time

                                      F-8

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(C) FUTURE ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (CONTINUED)

maintaining the economic protection needed to support the goals of its business.

In October 1998, The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants  (AICPA)
issued SOP 98-7, "Accounting for Insurance and Reinsurance Contracts That Do Not
Transfer Insurance Risk". This SOP provides guidance on the method of accounting
for insurance and  reinsurance  contracts that do not transfer  insurance  risk,
defined in the SOP as the deposit  method.  This SOP is effective  for financial
statements for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999 and is not expected to
have a  material  impact on the  Company's  financial  condition  or  results of
operations.

(D)  INVESTMENTS

The  Hartford's  investments  in both fixed  maturities,  which  include  bonds,
redeemable  preferred stock and commercial paper, and equity  securities,  which
include common and non-redeemable preferred stocks, are classified as "available
for sale" in accordance with SFAS No. 115,  "Accounting for Certain  Investments
in Debt and Equity  Securities".  Accordingly,  these  securities are carried at
fair value with the after-tax  difference  from cost reflected in  Stockholders'
Equity as a component of accumulated other  comprehensive  income.  Policy loans
are carried at outstanding balance which approximates fair value. Other invested
assets consist  primarily of partnership  investments which are accounted for by
the equity method. Non-partnership other invested assets are valued at amortized
cost.  Net  realized  capital  gains and losses,  after  deducting  the life and
pension  policyholders'  share,  are reported as a component of revenues and are
determined on a specific  identification  basis. The Company's accounting policy
for impairment  recognition of investments requires recognition of an other than
temporary  impairment  charge on a security if it is determined that the Company
is unable to recover all amounts due under the  contractual  obligations  of the
security.  In  addition,  for  securities  expected  to be sold,  an other  than
temporary  impairment  charge is  recognized  if the Company does not expect the
fair value of a  security  to  recover  to cost or  amortized  cost prior to the
expected date of sale. Once an impairment charge has been recorded,  the Company
then  continues  to review  the other than  temporary  impaired  securities  for
appropriate valuation on an ongoing basis.

(E)  DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

HEDGE  ACCOUNTING - The Hartford  utilizes a variety of derivative  instruments,
including swaps, caps, floors, forwards and exchange traded futures and options,
in accordance  with Company  policy and in order to achieve one of three Company
approved objectives: to hedge risk arising from interest rate, price or currency
exchange rate volatility;  to manage liquidity; or to control transaction costs.
The Company is considered an "end user" of  derivative  instruments  and as such
does not make a market or trade in these  instruments for the express purpose of
earning trading profits.  The Hartford's  accounting for derivative  instruments
used to manage risk is in accordance  with the concepts  established in SFAS No.
80,  "Accounting  for  Futures  Contracts",   SFAS  No.  52,  "Foreign  Currency
Translation",  AICPA  SOP 86-2,  "Accounting  for  Options",  and  various  EITF
pronouncements. Written options are used, in all cases in conjunction with other
assets and derivatives,  as part of the Company's asset and liability management
strategy. Derivative instruments are carried at values consistent with the asset
or liability being hedged. Derivative instruments used to hedge fixed maturities
or equities are carried at fair value with the  after-tax  difference  from cost
reflected  in  Stockholders'   Equity  as  a  component  of  accumulated   other
comprehensive  income.  Derivative  instruments  used to hedge  liabilities  are
carried at cost.  In June 1998,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 133,  "Accounting  for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities".  Initial application of SFAS No.
133, as amended,  for The Hartford will begin for the first quarter of 2001. For
further  discussion of SFAS No. 133, as amended,  see (c) Future Adoption of New
Accounting Standards.

Derivative  instruments  must be designated at inception as a hedge and measured
for  effectiveness  both at inception and on an ongoing  basis.  The  Hartford's
correlation  threshold for hedge  designation  is 80% to 120%.  If  correlation,
which is  assessed  monthly  or  quarterly,  and  measured  based  on a  rolling
three-month average, falls outside the range of 80% to 120%, hedge accounting is
terminated.  Derivative  instruments  used to create a synthetic asset must meet
synthetic accounting criteria including designation at inception and consistency
of terms between the synthetic and the instrument  being  replicated.  Synthetic
instrument  accounting,  consistent  with industry  practice,  provides that the
synthetic asset is accounted for like the financial instrument it is intended to
replicate.  Derivative  instruments which fail to meet risk management  criteria
are marked to market with the impact reflected in the Consolidated Statements of
Income.

FUTURES  - Gains or  losses  on  financial  futures  contracts  entered  into in
anticipation  of the future  receipt of product cash flows are deferred  and, at
the time of the ultimate purchase,  reflected as an adjustment to the cost basis
of the purchased  asset.  Gains or losses on futures used in invested asset risk
management  are deferred  and  adjusted  into the cost basis of the hedged asset
when the  futures  contracts  are closed,  except for  futures  used in duration
hedging  which are  deferred  and  adjusted  into the cost basis on a  quarterly
basis.  The  adjustments  to the cost basis are  amortized  into net  investment
income over the remaining asset life.

FORWARD  COMMITMENTS  - Open forward  commitment  contracts are marked to market
through  Stockholders'  Equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income.  Such  contracts are recorded at settlement by recording the purchase of
the specified  securities at the  previously  committed  price.  Gains or losses
resulting from the termination of the forward  commitment  contracts  before the
delivery  of the  securities  are  recognized  immediately  in the  Consolidated
Statements of Income as a component of net investment income.

                                      F-9

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(E)  DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

OPTIONS - The cost of options entered into as part of a risk management strategy
are adjusted into the basis of the  underlying  asset or liability and amortized
over  the  remaining  life of the  hedge.  Gains  or  losses  on  expiration  or
termination are adjusted into the basis of the underlying asset or liability and
amortized over the remaining life.

INTEREST  RATE SWAPS - Interest  rate swaps  involve  the  periodic  exchange of
payments without the exchange of underlying  principal or notional amounts.  Net
receipts  or  payments  are  accrued  and  recognized  over the life of the swap
agreement as an adjustment to income. Should the swap be terminated, the gain or
loss is adjusted into the basis of the asset or liability and amortized over the
remaining life. Should the hedged asset be sold or liability  terminated without
terminating  the  swap  position,  any  swap  gains or  losses  are  immediately
recognized in earnings.  Interest  rate swaps  purchased in  anticipation  of an
asset purchase  (anticipatory  transaction)  are recognized  consistent with the
underlying asset components such that the settlement  component is recognized in
the  Consolidated  Statements  of  Income  while the  change in market  value is
recognized as an unrealized gain or loss.

INTEREST  RATE  CAPS  AND  FLOORS  -  Premiums  paid on  purchased  floor or cap
agreements and the premium  received on issued cap or floor agreements (used for
risk  management)  are  adjusted  into  the  basis  of the  applicable  asset or
liability and  amortized  over the asset or liability  life.  Gains or losses on
termination  of such  positions  are  adjusted  into the  basis of the  asset or
liability and amortized over the remaining  life. Net payments are recognized as
an  adjustment  to income  or basis  adjusted  and  amortized  depending  on the
specific hedge strategy.

FORWARD EXCHANGE AND CURRENCY SWAPS CONTRACTS - Forward  exchange  contracts and
foreign currency swaps are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 52. Changes
in the spot rate of instruments  designated as hedges of the net investment in a
foreign  subsidiary  are  reflected  in  Stockholders'  Equity as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income.

(F)  SEPARATE ACCOUNTS

The Company maintains separate account assets and liabilities which are reported
at fair value.  Separate  account assets are segregated from other  investments,
and investment income and gains and losses accrue directly to the policyholders.
Separate  accounts  reflect two  categories of risk  assumption:  non-guaranteed
separate  accounts,  wherein the  policyholder  assumes the investment risk, and
guaranteed  separate  accounts,  wherein  the Company  contractually  guarantees
either a minimum return or the account value to the policyholder.

(G)  DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS

PROPERTY  AND  CASUALTY   INSURANCE   OPERATIONS  -  Policy  acquisition  costs,
representing commissions, premium taxes and certain other underwriting expenses,
are deferred and  amortized  over policy  terms.  Estimates of future  revenues,
including net investment  income and tax benefits,  are compared to estimates of
future costs,  including  amortization of policy acquisition costs, to determine
if business currently in force is expected to result in a net loss.

LIFE INSURANCE OPERATIONS - Policy acquisition costs,  including commissions and
certain other  expenses  associated  with acquiring  business,  are deferred and
amortized  over  the  estimated  lives of the  contracts,  generally  20  years.
Generally,  acquisition costs are deferred and amortized using the retrospective
deposit method.  Under the retrospective  deposit method,  acquisition costs are
amortized in  proportion  to the present  value of expected  gross  profits from
surrender  charges,  investment,  mortality  and expense  margins.  Actual gross
profits can vary from management's estimates resulting in increases or decreases
in the rate of amortization.  Management  periodically  updates these estimates,
when appropriate,  and evaluates the recoverability of the deferred  acquisition
cost  asset.  When  appropriate,  management  revises  its  assumptions  on  the
estimated gross profits of these contracts,  and the cumulative amortization for
the books of business are reestimated  and readjusted by a cumulative  charge or
credit to income.

(H) FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS, UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE  OPERATIONS - The Hartford  establishes reserves
to provide for the  estimated  costs of paying claims made by  policyholders  or
against  policyholders.  These reserves  include  estimates for both claims that
have been  reported  and those that have been  incurred  but not reported to The
Hartford and include  estimates of all expenses  associated  with processing and
settling these claims.  This estimation process is primarily based on historical
experience and involves a variety of actuarial  techniques  which analyze trends
and other relevant factors.  Certain liabilities for unpaid claims,  principally
for permanently disabled claimants,  terminated reinsurance treaties and certain
contracts that fund loss run-offs for unrelated parties, have been discounted to
present  value.  A  reconciliation  of  liabilities  for unpaid claims and claim
adjustment expenses follows:

                                      F-10

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(H) FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS, UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
                                   (CONTINUED)

                                  For the years ended December 31,
                                   ------------------------------
                                     1999      1998      1997
                                   ------------------------------
BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
  CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
  EXPENSES-GROSS                    $16,449   $18,376   $18,303
Reinsurance recoverables              3,286     4,348     4,414
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
  CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
  EXPENSES-NET                       13,163    14,028    13,889
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ADD PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS
  AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
     Current year                     4,953     5,404     5,065
     Prior years [1]                   (171)     (152)       98
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS
  AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES       4,782     5,252     5,163
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
LESS PAYMENTS
     Current year                     2,216     2,275     1,961
     Prior years                      2,945     2,876     3,039
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL PAYMENTS                        5,161     5,151     5,000
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Foreign currency translation            (41)       (1)      (24)
Reserves resulting from                  --        86        --
  acquisitions
Other [2]                                --    (1,051)       --
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
  CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
  EXPENSES-NET                       12,743    13,163    14,028
Reinsurance recoverables              3,271     3,286     4,348
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
   CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
   EXPENSES-GROSS                   $16,014   $16,449   $18,376
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]   Excludes the effects of foreign exchange adjustments.
[2]   1998 includes  $1,067  related to the sale of London & Edinburgh (see Note
      18).

The  Company  has an  exposure  to  catastrophe  losses  which  can be caused by
significant  events  including  hurricanes,  severe winter storms,  earthquakes,
windstorms  and  fires.   The  frequency  and  severity  of   catastrophes   are
unpredictable, and the exposure to a catastrophe is a function of both the total
amount  insured in an area  affected by the event and the severity of the event.
Catastrophes generally impact limited geographic areas; however,  certain events
may produce significant damage in heavily populated areas. The Company generally
seeks to reduce its  exposure to  catastrophe  losses  through  individual  risk
selection and the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance.

LIFE INSURANCE  OPERATIONS - Liabilities for future policy benefits are computed
by the net level premium  method using interest  assumptions  ranging from 3% to
11% and withdrawal,  mortality and morbidity assumptions appropriate at the time
the policies were issued. Claim reserves, which are the result of sales of group
long-term and short-term  disability,  stop loss, and Medicare  supplement,  are
stated at amounts  determined by estimates on individual  cases and estimates of
unreported claims based on past experience.

The following table displays the development of the claim reserves  (included in
future policy benefits in the Consolidated  Balance Sheets) resulting  primarily
from group disability products.

                                 For the years ended December 31,
                                 --------------------------------
                                    1999      1998       1997
                                 --------------------------------
BEGINNING CLAIM RESERVES-GROSS     $1,938     $1,746    $1,496
Reinsurance recoverables              125         71        53
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
BEGINNING CLAIM RESERVES-NET        1,813      1,675     1,443
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
INCURRED EXPENSES RELATED TO
     Current year                   1,013        902       890
     Prior years                      (33)       (48)      (51)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL INCURRED                        980        854       839
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
PAID EXPENSES RELATED TO
     Current year                     360        334       274
     Prior years                      430        382       333
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL PAID                            790        716       607
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING CLAIM RESERVES-NET           2,003      1,813     1,675
Reinsurance recoverables              125        125        71
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING CLAIM RESERVES-GROSS        $2,128     $1,938    $1,746
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

(I)  OTHER POLICYHOLDER FUNDS AND BENEFITS PAYABLE

Other  policyholder  funds and benefits  payable include reserves for investment
contracts  without  life  contingencies,  corporate  owned  life  insurance  and
universal life insurance contracts.  These reserves are based on account values,
which represent the balance that accrues to the benefit of policyholders.

(J)  REVENUE RECOGNITION

PROPERTY AND  CASUALTY  INSURANCE  OPERATIONS - Property and casualty  insurance
premiums  are  earned  principally  on a pro rata  basis  over the  lives of the
policies and include  accruals for ultimate  premium revenue  anticipated  under
auditable and  retrospectively  rated policies.  Unearned premiums represent the
portion of premiums  written  applicable to the  unexpired  terms of policies in
force.   Unearned   premiums  also  include   estimated  and  unbilled   premium
adjustments.

LIFE  INSURANCE  OPERATIONS - Revenues for  investment  and universal  life-type
contracts  consist  of  policy  charges  for  the  cost  of  insurance,   policy
administration and surrender charges assessed to policy account balances and are
recognized  in  the  period  in  which  services  are  provided.   Premiums  for
traditional life insurance  policies are recognized as revenues ratably over the
policy  period.  Realized  capital  gains and  losses on  security  transactions
associated with the Company's immediate  participation  guaranteed contracts are
excluded from revenues and deferred since, under the terms of the contracts, the
realized gains and losses will be credited to  policyholders  in future years as
they are entitled to receive them.

                                      F-11

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(K)  FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

Foreign  currency  translation  gains and losses are reflected in  Stockholders'
Equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive  income.  Balance sheet
accounts are  translated  at the  exchange  rates in effect at each year end and
income  statement  accounts  are  translated  at the  average  rates of exchange
prevailing  during  the  year.  The  national  currencies  of the  international
operations are generally their functional currencies.

2.  THE OFFERING

Pursuant to the initial public  offering on May 22, 1997 (the Offering) of Class
A common stock of Hartford Life, Inc.  (HLI),  the holding company parent of The
Hartford's  significant life insurance  subsidiaries,  HLI sold to the public 26
million  shares at  $28.25  per share and  received  proceeds,  net of  offering
expenses, of $687.

The 26 million shares sold in the Offering represented  approximately 19% of the
equity  ownership in HLI and  approximately  4% of the combined  voting power of
HLI's Class A and Class B common stock. The Hartford owns all of the 114 million
outstanding  shares of Class B common stock of HLI,  representing  approximately
81% of the equity ownership in HLI and  approximately 96% of the combined voting
power of HLI's Class A and Class B common stock. Holders of Class A common stock
generally  have  identical  rights to the holders of Class B common stock except
that the  holders  of Class A common  stock are  entitled  to one vote per share
while  holders of Class B common  stock are  entitled to five votes per share on
all matters submitted to a vote of HLI's stockholders. Also, each share of Class
B common  stock is  convertible  into one share of Class A common stock (a) upon
the  transfer of such share of Class B common  stock by the holder  thereof to a
non-affiliate  (except  where the shares of Class B common stock so  transferred
represent 50% or more of all the outstanding shares of common stock,  calculated
without  regard to the difference in voting rights between the classes of common
stock) or (b) in the event  that the  number  of shares of  outstanding  Class B
common stock is less than the 50% of all the common stock then  outstanding.  As
of December 31,  1999,  The Hartford  continued to maintain an  approximate  81%
equity ownership in HLI.

In connection  with the Offering,  The Hartford  reported a $368 gain related to
the  increased  value of its equity  ownership  in HLI. The  Hartford's  current
intent is to continue to  beneficially  own at least 80% of HLI, but it is under
no contractual obligation to do so.


3.  INVESTMENTS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS



                                      F-12

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

3.  INVESTMENTS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)






                                      F-13


             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

3.  INVESTMENTS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)



                                      F-14


The amortized  cost and estimated  fair value of fixed  maturity  investments at
December  31,  1999  by  estimated  maturity  year  are  shown  below.  Expected
maturities  differ  from  contractual  maturities  due  to  call  or  prepayment
provisions.  Asset backed  securities,  including mortgage backed securities and
collateralized  mortgage obligations,  are distributed to maturity year based on
the Company's  estimates of the rate of future prepayments of principal over the
remaining  lives  of  the  securities.   These  estimates  are  developed  using
prepayment  speeds provided in broker consensus data. Such estimates are derived
from prepayment speeds experienced at the interest rate levels projected for the
applicable  underlying  collateral.  Actual prepayment  experience may vary from
these estimates.

                                      Amortized
Maturity                                 Cost       Fair Value
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
One year or less                     $     4,176   $     4,162
Over one year through five years           8,853         8,761
Over five years through ten years         10,097         9,840
Over ten years                            10,527        10,112
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
    TOTAL                            $    33,653   $    32,875
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

(F)  SALES OF FIXED MATURITY AND EQUITY SECURITY INVESTMENTS

Sales of fixed maturities,  excluding short-term fixed maturities, for the years
ended  December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997  resulted in proceeds of $9.8  billion,
$9.2  billion and $13.4  billion,  gross gains of $245,  $230 and $264 and gross
losses of $(311),  $(302) and  $(223),  respectively.  Sales of equity  security
investments  for the years ended  December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997  resulted in
proceeds of $1.3 billion,  $2.2 billion and $1.5  billion,  gross gains of $124,
$636 and $343 and gross losses of $(19), $(334) and $(64), respectively.


(G)  CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

The Hartford is not exposed to any significant  credit  concentration  risk of a
single issuer greater than 10% of stockholders' equity.

(H)  DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

The Hartford  utilizes a variety of  derivative  instruments,  including  swaps,
caps,  floors,  forwards and exchange traded futures and options,  in accordance
with  Company  policy  and in order to  achieve  one of three  Company  approved
objectives: to hedge risk arising from interest rate, price or currency exchange
rate volatility;  to manage  liquidity;  or to control  transactions  costs. The
Company is considered an "end user" of derivative instruments and, as such, does
not make a market  or trade in these  instruments  for the  express  purpose  of
earning trading profits.

The  Company  uses  derivative  instruments  in its  management  of market  risk
consistent   with  four  risk   management   strategies:   hedging   anticipated
transactions, hedging liability instruments, hedging invested assets and hedging
portfolios of assets and/or liabilities.

The Company's derivatives  counterparty exposure policy establishes market-based
credit limits,  favors long-term financial stability and  creditworthiness,  and
typically requires credit  enhancement/credit  risk reducing agreements.  Credit
risk is  measured  as the amount owed to The  Hartford  based on current  market
conditions  and  potential  payment  obligations  between  the  Company  and its
counterparties.   Credit  exposures  are  quantified  weekly  and  netted,   and
collateral  is pledged to or held by the  Company to the extent that the current
value of derivative instruments exceeds exposure policy thresholds.

                                      F-14

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

3.  INVESTMENTS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(H)  DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

Derivative  activities are monitored by an internal  compliance  unit,  reviewed
frequently  by  senior  management  and  reported  to  The  Hartford's   Finance
Committee. The notional amounts of derivative contracts represent the basis upon
which pay or receive  amounts are  calculated  and are not  reflective of credit
risk.   Notional  amounts  pertaining  to  derivative   instruments   (excluding
guaranteed separate accounts) totaled $7.7 billion at December 31, 1999 and 1998
($5.7 billion and $5.0 billion primarily related to insurance  investments,  and
$2.0 billion and $2.7 billion on life insurance liabilities), respectively.

A summary  of  derivative  instruments  for The  Hartford,  segregated  by major
investment  and liability  category,  was as follows as of December 31, 1999 and
1998:








                                      F-15

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

3.  INVESTMENTS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(H)  DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

A  reconciliation  between  notional amounts as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 by
derivative type and strategy is as follows:




4.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

SFAS No. 107, "Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial  Instruments",  requires
disclosure  of fair value  information  of  financial  instruments.  For certain
financial  instruments  where  quoted  market  prices are not  available,  other
independent  valuation techniques and assumptions are used. Because considerable
judgment is used, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of amounts that
could be realized in a current market  exchange.  SFAS No. 107 excludes  certain
financial instruments from disclosure, including insurance contracts, other than
financial guarantees and investment  contracts.  The Hartford uses the following
methods and  assumptions in estimating the fair value of each class of financial
instrument.

Fair value for fixed maturities and marketable  equity  securities  approximates
those quotations  published by applicable stock exchanges or received from other
reliable sources.

For policy loans, carrying amounts approximate fair value.

Fair value for other invested  assets,  which primarily  consist of partnerships
and trusts,  is based on external market  valuations from  partnership and trust
management.

Other  policyholder  funds  and  benefits  payable  fair  value  information  is
determined by  estimating  future cash flows,  discounted at the current  market
rate.

For short-term debt, carrying amounts approximate fair value.

Fair  value for  long-term  debt and QUIPS and TruPS  (which  represent  company
obligated  mandatorily  redeemable  preferred  securities of  subsidiary  trusts
holding solely junior  subordinated  debentures) is based on external  valuation
using discounted future cash flows at current market interest rates.

The fair value of  derivative  financial  instruments,  including  swaps,  caps,
floors,  futures,  options  and  forward  commitments,  is  determined  using an
internal pricing model that is similar to external valuation models.

The carrying amounts and fair values of The Hartford's financial  instruments at
December 31, 1999 and 1998 were as follows:

                                 1999                 1998
                          -------------------  -------------------
                           Carrying      Fair   Carrying      Fair
                             Amount     Value     Amount     Value
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Assets
 Fixed maturities           $32,875   $32,875    $35,331   $35,331
 Equity securities            1,286     1,286      1,066     1,066
 Policy loans                 4,222     4,222      6,687     6,687
 Other investments              758       774        612       681
Liabilities
 Other policyholder
  funds and benefits
  payable [1]               $11,991   $11,416    $11,723   $11,740
 Short-term debt                 31        31         31        31
 Long-term debt               1,548     1,505      1,548     1,653
 QUIPS/TruPS                  1,250     1,082      1,250     1,285
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
[1]   Excludes corporate owned life insurance (COLI),  reinsurance  recoverables
      and universal  life  insurance  contracts  with a carrying  amount of $4.9
      billion and $8.0 billion at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.


                                      F-16




             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

5.  SEPARATE ACCOUNTS

The Hartford maintained separate account assets and liabilities  totaling $111.7
billion and $91.6 billion at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively, which are
reported at fair value. Separate account assets, which are segregated from other
investments, reflect two categories of risk assumption:  non-guaranteed separate
accounts  totaling  $102.6  billion and $81.3  billion at December  31, 1999 and
1998,  respectively,  wherein the policyholder  assumes the investment risk, and
guaranteed separate accounts totaling $9.1 billion and $10.3 billion at December
31, 1999 and 1998,  respectively,  wherein The Hartford contractually guarantees
either a minimum  return or the account value to the  policyholder.  Included in
the non-guaranteed  category were policy loans totaling $860 and $1.8 billion at
December 31, 1999 and 1998,  respectively.  Net investment income (including net
realized  capital gains and losses) and interest  credited to  policyholders  on
separate  account  assets are not  reflected in the  Consolidated  Statements of
Income.

Separate account management fees and other revenues were $1.1 billion,  $911 and
$699 in 1999,  1998 and 1997,  respectively.  The guaranteed  separate  accounts
include  fixed  market  value  adjusted  (MVA)  individual  annuity and modified
guaranteed life insurance. The average credited interest rate on these contracts
was 6.5% and 6.6% at December 31, 1999 and 1998,  respectively.  The assets that
support these  liabilities  were  comprised of $8.9 billion and $10.1 billion in
fixed maturities as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.  The portfolios
are segregated from other investments and are managed to minimize  liquidity and
interest  rate  risk.  In  order  to  minimize  the  risk  of  disintermediation
associated  with early  withdrawals,  fixed MVA annuity and modified  guaranteed
life insurance  contracts  carry a graded  surrender  charge as well as a market
value  adjustment.  Additional  investment  risk is hedged  using a  variety  of
derivatives  which totaled $(96) and $41 in carrying  value and $2.1 billion and
$3.6 billion in notional amounts as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.





(A)  SHORT-TERM DEBT

The  Hartford's  commercial  paper ranks  equally with its other  unsecured  and
unsubordinated  indebtedness.  As of December 31, 1999,  The Hartford had a $1.5
billion five-year revolving credit facility with two years remaining with thirty
participating  banks. This facility is available for general corporate  purposes
and to provide additional support to the Company's  commercial paper program. At
December 31, 1999, there were no outstanding borrowings under the facility.

As of December  31,  1999,  HLI  maintained a $250  five-year  revolving  credit
facility comprised of four participatory banks. This facility,  which expires in
2003,  is available  for general  corporate  purposes and to provide  additional
support to HLI's commercial  paper program.  As of December 31, 1999, there were
no outstanding borrowings under the facility or commercial paper program.

(B)  LONG-TERM DEBT

The  Hartford's  long-term  debt  securities  are unsecured  obligations  of The
Hartford  and  rank on a parity  with all  other  unsecured  and  unsubordinated
indebtedness.  On October 11, 1995,  The Hartford  filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission a shelf  registration  statement for the potential offering
and sale of up to an aggregate  $1.0 billion in debt  securities  and  preferred
stock. On October 2, 1996, this shelf registration  statement was amended for an
additional $1.25 billion of securities.  The amended registration statement also
expanded  the  type of  securities  which  could be  offered  under  this  shelf
registration statement by including provisions for the offering of common stock,
depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts,  stock purchase units and
junior subordinated  deferrable  interest  debentures of the Company,  preferred
securities  of any of the  Hartford  Trusts (see Note 7) and  guarantees  by the
Company with respect to the preferred securities of any of the Hartford Trusts.

                                      F-17

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

6.  DEBT (CONTINUED)

(B)  LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)

On November 2, 1998, The Hartford  issued and sold $200 of unsecured  redeemable
long-term  debt in the form of 6.375% notes due November 1, 2008 under its shelf
registration.  Interest  on the  notes  is  payable  semi-annually  on May 1 and
November  1 of each year,  commencing  May 1, 1999.  The  Hartford  used the net
proceeds  from the sale of the notes for the  repayment  of $200 of  outstanding
commercial  paper which was incurred to fund the repayment of the Company's $200
8.20% Senior Notes due at their maturity on October 15, 1998.

The Hartford had $1.05 billion remaining on this shelf  registration at December
31, 1999.

On June 8, 1998, HLI filed an omnibus registration statement with the Securities
and  Exchange  Commission  for the  issuance  of up to $1.0  billion of debt and
equity  securities,  including up to $350 of  previously  registered  but unsold
securities.  HLI had $750 remaining on this shelf  registration  on December 31,
1999.

Interest  expense  incurred  related to short- and long-term  debt totaled $114,
$125 and $131 for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

7.    COMPANY  OBLIGATED   MANDATORILY   REDEEMABLE   PREFERRED   SECURITIES  OF
      SUBSIDIARY TRUSTS HOLDING SOLELY JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES (QUIPS AND
      TRUPS)

On June 29, 1998,  Hartford  Life Capital I, a special  purpose  Delaware  trust
formed by HLI,  issued  10,000,000,  7.2% Trust Preferred  Securities,  Series A
(Series A  Preferred  Securities).  The  proceeds  from the sale of the Series A
Preferred  Securities  were  used  to  acquire  $250  of 7.2%  Series  A  Junior
Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest Debentures (Junior  Subordinated  Debentures)
issued by HLI. HLI used the proceeds from the offering for the retirement of its
outstanding  commercial  paper, for acquisitions and for other general corporate
purposes.

The Series A Preferred  Securities  represent undivided  beneficial interests in
Hartford  Life  Capital  I's  assets,   which  consist   solely  of  the  Junior
Subordinated Debentures. HLI owns all of the beneficial interests represented by
Series A Common  Securities  of  Hartford  Life  Capital I.  Holders of Series A
Preferred  Securities  are  entitled to receive  cumulative  cash  distributions
accruing  from June 29,  1998,  the date of issuance,  and payable  quarterly in
arrears  commencing  July  15,  1998 at the  annual  rate of 7.2% of the  stated
liquidation amount of $25.00 per Series A Preferred Security.  Holders of Series
A Preferred  Securities  generally have no voting rights. The Series A Preferred
Securities  are subject to  mandatory  redemption  upon  repayment of the Junior
Subordinated Debentures at maturity or upon earlier redemption.

HLI has the right to redeem the Junior  Subordinated  Debentures (i) in whole or
in part on or after  June 30,  2003,  or (ii) at any  time,  in whole but not in
part, in certain  circumstances upon the occurrence of certain specified events,
in either case at a redemption price equal to accrued and unpaid interest on the
Junior Subordinated Debentures so redeemed to the date fixed for redemption plus
the principal  amount  thereof.  In addition,  prior to June 30, 2003, HLI shall
have the right to redeem  the Junior  Subordinated  Debentures  at any time,  in
whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the accrued and unpaid interest
on the  Junior  Subordinated  Debentures  so  redeemed  to the  date  fixed  for
redemption,  plus the  greater  of (a) the  principal  amount  thereof or (b) an
amount  equal  to the  present  value  on the  redemption  date of the  interest
payments that would have been paid through June 20, 2003, after discounting that
amount on a quarterly basis from the originally  scheduled date for payment, and
the present value on the redemption date of principal,  after  discounting  that
amount on a quarterly  basis from June 30, 2003,  at a discount rate tied to the
interest rate on U.S. Treasury securities maturing on June 30, 2003.

The Junior  Subordinated  Debentures bear interest at the annual rate of 7.2% of
the principal amount, payable quarterly in arrears commencing June 29, 1998, and
mature on June 30, 2038.  The Junior  Subordinated  Debentures are unsecured and
rank junior and subordinate in right of payment to all present and future senior
debt  of HLI  and  are  effectively  subordinated  to all  existing  and  future
liabilities of its subsidiaries.

HLI has the  right at any  time,  and from time to time,  to defer  payments  of
interest on the Junior  Subordinated  Debentures  for a period not  exceeding 20
consecutive  quarters  up to the  debentures'  maturity  date.  During  any such
period, interest will continue to accrue and HLI may not declare or pay any cash
dividends or  distributions  on, or purchase,  HLI's  capital stock nor make any
principal,  interest or premium  payments on or repurchase  any debt  securities
that rank pari passu with or junior to the Junior Subordinated  Debentures.  HLI
will have the  right at any time to  dissolve  the  Trust  and cause the  Junior
Subordinated  Debentures  to be  distributed  to the  holders  of the  Series  A
Preferred Securities and the Series A Common Securities.  HLI has guaranteed, on
a subordinated  basis, all of the Hartford Life Capital I obligations  under the
Series A Preferred Securities, including payment of the redemption price and any
accumulated and unpaid distributions upon dissolution, winding up or liquidation
to the extent funds are available.

On January 19,  1996,  The  Hartford and several  wholly-owned  special  purpose
trusts  (Hartford  Trusts)  formed by The Hartford filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission a shelf  registration  statement for the potential offering
and sale of $500 of debt  securities  and  preferred  stock,  including up to an
aggregate  $500  Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest  Debentures  of  The
Hartford and Preferred Securities of the Hartford Trusts.

                                      F-18

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

7.    COMPANY  OBLIGATED   MANDATORILY   REDEEMABLE   PREFERRED   SECURITIES  OF
      SUBSIDIARY TRUSTS HOLDING SOLELY JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES (QUIPS AND
      TRUPS) (CONTINUED)

On February 28,  1996,  Hartford  Capital I, a special  purpose  Delaware  trust
formed by The Hartford,  issued 20,000,000  Series A, 7.7% Cumulative  Quarterly
Income  Preferred  Securities  (Hartford  Series A  Preferred  Securities).  The
proceeds from the sale of Hartford  Series A Preferred  Securities  were used to
acquire $500 of Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable Interest  Debentures,  Series A
(Hartford Junior Subordinated Debentures),  issued by The Hartford. The Hartford
used the proceeds from the sale of such debentures for the partial  repayment of
outstanding commercial paper and short-term bank indebtedness.

Hartford Series A Preferred  Securities represent undivided beneficial interests
in the assets of Hartford  Capital I. The  Hartford  owns all of the  beneficial
interests  represented  by Series A Common  Securities  of  Hartford  Capital I.
Holders of  Hartford  Series A  Preferred  Securities  are  entitled  to receive
preferential  cumulative cash distributions  accruing from February 28, 1996 and
payable  quarterly  in arrears  commencing  March 31, 1996 at the annual rate of
7.7% of the  liquidation  amount  of  $25.00  per  Hartford  Series A  Preferred
Security.  Holders of Hartford Series A Preferred Securities have limited voting
rights.  The  Hartford  Series A Preferred  Securities  are subject to mandatory
redemption  upon  repayment of the Hartford  Junior  Subordinated  Debentures at
maturity or their earlier redemption.

The Hartford has the right to redeem the Hartford Junior Subordinated Debentures
(i) at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the accrued
and unpaid interest on the Hartford Junior  Subordinated  Debentures so redeemed
to the date fixed for redemption,  plus the greater of (a) the principal  amount
thereof and (b) an amount equal to the interest  and  principal  that would have
been  payable  after the  redemption  date,  discounting  that  amount on a U.S.
Treasury rate basis to a present  value,  or (ii) on or after February 28, 2001,
in whole or part, at a redemption price equal to the accrued and unpaid interest
on the Hartford Junior Subordinated Debentures so redeemed to the date fixed for
redemption plus 100% of the principal  amount thereof,  or (iii) at any time, in
whole, but not in part, upon the occurrence of certain  specified  events,  at a
redemption price equal to the accrued and unpaid interest on the Hartford Junior
Subordinated Debentures so redeemed to the date fixed for redemption,  plus 100%
of the principal amount thereof, in each case subject to certain conditions.

The Hartford Junior Subordinated  Debentures bear interest at the annual rate of
7.7% of the principal amount,  payable quarterly in arrears commencing March 31,
1996,  and  mature on  February  28,  2016.  The  Hartford  Junior  Subordinated
Debentures are unsecured and rank junior and  subordinate in right of payment to
all senior debt of The Hartford and are effectively subordinated to all existing
and future liabilities of its subsidiaries.

The Hartford has the right to defer payments of interest on the Hartford  Junior
Subordinated  Debentures by extending the interest  payment  period for up to 20
consecutive  quarters for each deferral period,  up to the maturity date. During
any such  period,  interest  will  continue to accrue and The  Hartford  may not
declare or pay any cash  dividends or  distributions  on The  Hartford's  common
stock nor make any principal,  interest or premium payments on or repurchase any
debt  securities  that rank pari  passu  with or junior to the  Hartford  Junior
Subordinated  Debentures.  In  the  event  of  failure  to pay  interest  for 30
consecutive  days  (subject  to the  deferral  of any due date in the case of an
extension period),  the Hartford Junior Subordinated  Debentures will become due
and payable.  The Hartford has guaranteed,  on a subordinated  basis, all of the
Hartford Capital I obligations under the Hartford Series A Preferred Securities,
including  to  pay  the  redemption   price  and  any   accumulated  and  unpaid
distributions to the extent of available funds and upon dissolution,  winding up
or liquidation, but only to the extent that Hartford Capital I has funds to make
such payments.

On October 30,  1996,  Hartford  Capital II, a special  purpose  Delaware  trust
formed by The Hartford,  issued 20,000,000 Series B, 8.35% Cumulative  Quarterly
Income Preferred Securities (Series B Preferred Securities).  The material terms
of the Series B Preferred  Securities are substantially the same as the Hartford
Series A Preferred  Securities described above, except for the rate and maturity
date. The proceeds from the sale of the Series B Preferred  Securities were used
to acquire $500 of Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures,  Series B
(Series B  Debentures),  issued by The  Hartford.  The Series B Debentures  bear
interest at the annual rate of 8.35% of the principal  amount payable  quarterly
in arrears  commencing  December 31, 1996,  and mature on October 30, 2026.  The
Hartford  used  the  proceeds  from  the  sale of such  debentures  for  general
corporate purposes.

Interest expense incurred with respect to the Series A Preferred  Securities and
Series B Preferred  Securities totaled  approximately $100, $91 and $82 in 1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively.

8.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

(A)  COMMON STOCK

On May 21, 1998, The Hartford's  shareholders approved an increase in the number
of authorized  common shares from 200,000,000 to 400,000,000.  On that date, the
Board of Directors  declared a two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a
100% stock dividend distributed on July 15, 1998 to shareholders of record as of
June 24, 1998. Agreements concerning stock options and other commitments payable
in shares of the Company's  common stock either  provide for the issuance of the
additional  shares  due to the  declaration  of the  stock  split  or have  been
modified to reflect the stock split. In

                                      F-19

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

8.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)

addition,  retroactive  adjustments  to treasury  stock and  additional  paid-in
capital have been made to reflect the stock  split.  All  references  to issued,
outstanding and weighted average shares,  as well as per share amounts,  reflect
the stock split in the consolidated  financial statements and related notes. Par
value per common share remained unchanged at $0.01.

In December 1997, The Hartford's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of
up to $1.0 billion of the Company's  outstanding  common stock over a three-year
period beginning with the first quarter of 1998. The Hartford completed the $1.0
billion repurchase  authorization during 1999 by repurchasing 9.2 million shares
of its common stock in the open market at a total cost of $453. In October 1999,
The  Hartford's  Board  of  Directors  authorized  the  repurchase  of  up to an
additional  $1.0  billion  of  the  Company's  outstanding  common  stock.  This
repurchase   authorization  was  initiated  in  November  1999  when  the  prior
repurchase  authorization  granted in December 1997 was completed,  and covers a
three-year period. As of December 31, 1999, The Hartford repurchased 3.1 million
shares of its common stock in the open market at a total cost of $143 under this
repurchase authorization.  Some of the repurchased shares were reissued pursuant
to certain  stock-based benefit plans. Shares repurchased in the open market are
carried at cost and reflected as a reduction to stockholders'  equity.  Treasury
shares  subsequently  reissued  are reduced  from  treasury  stock on a weighted
average cost basis.

(B)  PREFERRED STOCK

During 1995, pursuant to The Hartford's Rights Agreement dated as of November 1,
1995 between The Hartford and The Bank of New York as Rights Agent, The Hartford
authorized  the  issuance  of  50,000,000   shares  of  Series  A  Participating
Cumulative  Preferred  Stock  (Series A Preferred  Stock),  par value `$0.01 per
share.  The Company may not pay any common stock dividends  unless all preferred
dividend  requirements  on Series A Preferred  Stock (300,000  shares) have been
met.  The  holders  of Series A  Preferred  Stock  are  entitled  to  cumulative
dividends.  The holders of Series A Preferred Stock may not vote separately as a
class,  but may vote  together as one class with the holders of shares of common
stock. No shares were issued or outstanding at December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.


(C)  STATUTORY RESULTS

                               For the years ended December 31,
                              -----------------------------------
                                 1999        1998        1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
STATUTORY NET INCOME
  Property and casualty
    operations                $     315  $      497  $    1,822
  Life operations                   245         290         246
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
    TOTAL                     $     560  $      787  $    2,068
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
STATUTORY SURPLUS
  Property and casualty
    operations                $   4,678  $    6,705  $    6,025
  Life operations                 2,356       2,144       1,806
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
    TOTAL                     $   7,034  $    8,849  $    7,831
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

A significant  percentage of the consolidated  statutory  surplus is permanently
reinvested  or is subject to various  state and  foreign  government  regulatory
restrictions or other  agreements  which limit the payment of dividends  without
prior approval.  The maximum amount of statutory  dividends which may be paid to
The Hartford Financial  Services Group, Inc. from its insurance  subsidiaries in
2000, without prior approval, is $1.0 billion.

The domestic  insurance  subsidiaries of The Hartford  Financial Services Group,
Inc. prepare their statutory financial  statements in accordance with accounting
practices  prescribed by the applicable state insurance  department.  Prescribed
statutory  accounting practices include publications of the National Association
of  Insurance  Commissioners  (NAIC),  as well as state  laws,  regulations  and
general administrative rules.

The  NAIC  adopted  the   Codification   of  Statutory   Accounting   Principles
(Codification) in September 1998. The proposed  effective date for the statutory
accounting  guidance  is  January  1,  2001.  It is  expected  that  each of The
Hartford's  domiciliary states will adopt Codification and the Company will make
the necessary changes required for implementation. The Company is in the process
of determining the impact,  if any, that Codification will have on the statutory
financial statements of the insurance subsidiaries of The Hartford.

9.  EARNINGS PER SHARE

Earnings per share amounts have been computed in accordance  with the provisions
of  SFAS  No.  128,  "Earnings  per  Share".  The  following  tables  present  a
reconciliation of income and shares used in calculating basic earnings per share
to those used in calculating diluted earnings per share.



                                      F-20

                        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



Basic  earnings per share are computed  based on the weighted  average number of
shares  outstanding  during the year.  Diluted  earnings  per share  include the
dilutive  effect of outstanding  options,  using the treasury stock method,  and
also contingently issuable shares. Under the treasury stock method,  exercise of
options  is assumed  with the  proceeds  used to  purchase  common  stock at the
average market price for the period. The difference between the number of shares
assumed issued and number of shares  purchased  represents the dilutive  shares.
Contingently   issuable  shares  are  included  upon   satisfaction  of  certain
conditions related to the contingency.

10.  STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS

Under The Hartford 1995 Incentive  Stock Plan (the Plan),  awards granted may be
in the form of options,  non-qualified  or incentive  stock  options  qualifying
under  Section  422A  of  the  Internal  Revenue  Code,  performance  shares  or
restricted  stock,  or any  combination  of the  foregoing.  In addition,  stock
appreciation  rights may be granted in connection  with all or part of any stock
options  granted under the Plan.  The aggregate  number of shares of stock which
may be awarded is subject to a maximum limit of 35,906,158  shares applicable to
all awards for the  duration of the Plan and an annual limit  applicable  to all
awards  for any plan  year.  The  annual  limit  is  1.65%  of the  total of the
outstanding  shares  of common  stock  and  treasury  stock of The  Hartford  as
reported  in the Annual  Report on Form 10-K of the  Company for the fiscal year
ended immediately prior to any plan year. Any unused portion of the annual limit
for any plan year is carried forward and made available for awards in succeeding
plan years.  As of December 31,  1999,  the Company had not exceeded the maximum
and  annual  limits and had  2,915,463  shares to be  carried  forward  and made
available  for  future  awards.  Also,  no more  than  10,000,000  shares of The
Hartford common stock are  cumulatively  available for awards of incentive stock
options.  As of December  31, 1999,  The  Hartford had not issued any  incentive
stock options under the Plan.

Performance  awards of common stock granted  under the Plan become  payable upon
the attainment of specific  performance goals achieved over a three year period,
and restricted stock granted is subject to a restriction period. On a cumulative
basis,  no more than 20% of the aggregate  number of shares which may be awarded
under the Plan are available for performance shares and restricted stock.

All options  granted have an exercise price equal to the fair market value price
of the Company's common stock on the date of grant, and an option's maximum term
is ten years.  Certain  options  become  exercisable  over a three  year  period
commencing  with  the  date  of  grant,   while  certain  other  options  become
exercisable  upon the attainment of specified  market price  appreciation of the
Company's common shares or at seven years after the date of grant.

During the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company awarded special performance based
options and  restricted  stock to certain  key  executives  under the Plan.  The
awards vest only if the Company's stock trades at certain  predetermined  levels
for ten  consecutive  days by March 1, 2001.  Vested options cannot be exercised
nor restricted  shares disposed of until March 1, 2001. In May 1999, as a result
of the Company's stock trading at predetermined levels for ten consecutive days,
75% of the special  performance  based options and restricted stock vested. As a
result, the Company began recognizing  compensation expense and will continue to
recognize expense through March 1, 2001.

During the fourth quarter of 1996, the Company established The Hartford Employee
Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP).  Under this plan, eligible employees of The Hartford
may purchase common stock of the Company at a 15% discount from the lower of the
market  price at the  beginning or end of the  quarterly  offering  period.  The
Company may sell up to 5,400,000 shares of stock to eligible employees under the
ESPP, and 255,971,  220,911 and 268,688 shares were sold in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively. The weighted average fair value of the discount under the ESPP was
$9.99,  $12.20  and $9.23 in 1999,  1998 and 1997,  respectively.  Additionally,
during 1997, The Hartford  established employee stock purchase plans for certain
employees of the Company's international subsidiaries.

                                      F-21

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

10.  STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS (CONTINUED)

Under these plans,  participants  may purchase common stock of The Hartford at a
fixed price at the end of a three-year  period.  The Company applies  Accounting
Principles  Board Opinion No. 25 and related  interpretations  in accounting for
its  stock-based  compensation  plans.   Accordingly,   in  the  measurement  of
compensation  expense,  the  Company  utilizes  the excess of market  price over
exercise  price on the first date that both the number of shares and award price
are known.  For the years ended December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997,  compensation
expense related to the Company's two stock-based compensation plans was $16, $21
and  $5  after-tax,  respectively.  Had  compensation  cost  for  the  Company's
incentive  stock  plan and ESPP been  determined  based on the fair value at the
grant dates for awards under those plans  consistent with the method of SFAS No.
123,  "Accounting  for Stock-Based  Compensation",  the Company's net income and
earnings per share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated as
follows:


                                    1999      1998       1997
- -------------------------------- --------- ---------- ---------
Net income:
   As reported                      $862    $1,015     $1,332
   Pro forma [1] [2]                $834      $988     $1,319
Basic earnings per share:
   As reported                     $3.83     $4.36      $5.64
   Pro forma [1] [2]               $3.71     $4.24      $5.59
Diluted earnings per share:
   As reported                     $3.79     $4.30      $5.58
   Pro forma [1] [2]               $3.67     $4.19      $5.52
- -------------------------------- --------- ---------- ---------
[1]  The pro forma  disclosures  are not  representative  of the  effects on net
     income and earnings per share in future years.
[2]  Includes The Hartford's  ownership share of  compensation  costs related to
     HLI's  incentive  stock plan and employee stock purchase plan determined in
     accordance with SFAS No. 123.

The fair value of each option  grant is estimated on the date of the grant using
the  Black-Scholes  options-pricing  model with the following  weighted  average
assumptions  used for grants in 1999, 1998 and 1997:  dividend yield of 2.1% for
1999 and 1.7% for 1998 and 1997,  expected price  variability of 29.0% for 1999,
25.7% for 1998 and 22.1% for  1997,  risk-free  interest  rates of 5.08% for the
1999  grants,  4.89% for the 1998  grants  and 6.04%  for the 1997  grants;  and
expected  lives of seven  years for 1999,  five years for 1998 and six years for
1997.

A summary of the  status of  non-qualified  options  included  in the  Company's
incentive  stock plan as of December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997 and changes during
the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 is presented below:



The following table summarizes  information about stock options  outstanding and
exercisable (shares in thousands) at December 31, 1999:



                                      F-22

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


11.   PENSION PLANS AND  POSTRETIREMENT  HEALTH CARE AND LIFE INSURANCE  BENEFIT
      PLANS

The following tables set forth a reconciliation of beginning and ending balances
of the  benefit  obligation  and fair value of plan assets as well as the funded
status of The Hartford's defined benefit pension and postretirement  health care
and life insurance benefit plans for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998.
International plans represent an immaterial  percentage of total pension assets,
liabilities and expense and, for reporting purposes,  are combined with domestic
plans.








For measurement  purposes, a 7.1% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost
of covered  health care  benefits was assumed for 1999.  The rate was assumed to
decrease  gradually  to 5.0% for  2003  and  remain  at that  level  thereafter.
Increasing  (decreasing) the table of health care trend rates by one percent per
year would have the effect of increasing  (decreasing) the benefit obligation as
of December 31, 1999 by $8 ($8) and the annual net periodic expense for the year
then ended by $1 ($1), respectively, for the postretirement health care and life
insurance benefit plan.

Total pension cost for the years ended December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997 include
the following components:

                                      F-23

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

11.   PENSION PLANS AND  POSTRETIREMENT  HEALTH CARE AND LIFE INSURANCE  BENEFIT
      PLANS (CONTINUED)


The  Hartford  provides  certain  health care and life  insurance  benefits  for
eligible retired employees. The Hartford's contribution for health care benefits
will depend  upon the  retiree's  date of  retirement  and years of service.  In
addition,  the plan has a  defined  dollar  cap  which  limits  average  Company
contributions.  The Hartford has prefunded a portion of the health care and life
insurance   obligations  through  trust  funds  where  such  prefunding  can  be
accomplished on a tax effective basis.

12.  INVESTMENT AND SAVINGS PLAN

Substantially  all U.S.  employees are eligible to participate in The Hartford's
Investment and Savings Plan under which designated contributions may be invested
in  common  stock of The  Hartford,  HLI or  certain  other  investments.  These
contributions  are  matched,  up to 3%  of  compensation,  by  the  Company.  In
addition,  the  Company  allocates  0.5% of base  salary  to the  plan  for each
eligible  employee.  Matching  Company  contributions  are used to  acquire  The
Hartford's  common stock or, for HLI employees,  HLI's common stock. The cost to
The  Hartford  for the above plan was  approximately  $26, $24 and $22 for 1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively.

13.  REINSURANCE

The Hartford  cedes  insurance  to other  insurers in order to limit its maximum
loss. Such transfer does not relieve The Hartford of its primary liability.  The
Hartford also assumes reinsurance from other insurers.  Failure of reinsurers to
honor their  obligations  could result in losses to The  Hartford.  The Hartford
evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and monitors  concentrations
of credit risk.

For the year ended  December 31, 1998, due to the recapture of an in force block
of  business  previously  ceded  to  MBL  Life  Assurance  Co.  of  New  Jersey,
reinsurance  recoverables  of $4.8 billion were  exchanged for the fair value of
assets comprised of $4.3 billion in policy loans and $443 in other net assets.

The effect of reinsurance on property and casualty  premiums  written and earned
was as follows:

                            For the years ended December 31,
                          --------------------------------------
                               1999        1998         1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
PREMIUMS WRITTEN
     Direct               $    6,464   $   7,221   $    7,000
     Assumed                     833         866          932
     Ceded                      (585)       (633)        (770)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
       NET                $    6,712   $   7,454   $    7,162
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
PREMIUMS EARNED
     Direct               $    6,189   $   7,029   $    6,882
     Assumed                     827         872          900
     Ceded                      (528)       (656)        (782)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
       NET                $    6,488   $   7,245   $    7,000
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Reinsurance  cessions which reduce claims and claim expenses incurred were $565,
$115  and  $647  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  1999,   1998  and  1997,
respectively.

Life insurance net retained premiums were comprised of the following:

                              For the years ended December 31,
                            -------------------------------------
                                1999         1998        1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Gross premiums              $    4,165  $    4,121    $  3,519
Assumed                            154          98         165
Ceded                             (250)       (217)       (361)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
  NET RETAINED PREMIUMS     $    4,069  $    4,002    $  3,323
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

Life insurance recoveries,  which reduce death and other benefits,  approximated
$168,  $119 and $205 for the  years  ended  December  31,  1999,  1998 and 1997,
respectively.

The Hartford has no  significant  reinsurance-related  concentrations  of credit
risk.

                                      F-24

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

14.  INCOME TAX


Deferred tax assets (liabilities) include the following as of December 31:



No  additional  provision  was made  for U.S.  taxes  payable  on  undistributed
international  earnings  amounting to  approximately  $119 at December 31, 1999,
since these amounts are permanently reinvested.

A reconciliation  of the tax provision at the U.S. Federal statutory rate to the
provision for income taxes is as follows:




15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

(A)      LITIGATION

The Hartford is involved in various legal actions,  some of which involve claims
for substantial  amounts.  In the opinion of management,  the ultimate liability
with  respect to such  lawsuits,  after  consideration  of  provisions  made for
potential  losses and costs of  defense,  is not  expected to be material to the
consolidated  financial  condition,  results of  operations or cash flows of The
Hartford.

(B)      ENVIRONMENTAL AND ASBESTOS CLAIMS

Historically,   The  Hartford  has  found  it  difficult  to  estimate  ultimate
liabilities  related to  environmental  and asbestos claims due to uncertainties
surrounding  these  exposures.   Within  the  property  and  casualty  insurance
industry,  in the  mid-1990s,  progress  was made in  developing  sophisticated,
alternative

                                      F-25

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)

(B)      ENVIRONMENTAL AND ASBESTOS CLAIMS (CONTINUED)

methodologies  utilizing company experience and supplemental databases to assess
environmental  and  asbestos  liabilities.  A  study  which  incorporated  these
methodologies  was initiated by The Hartford in April 1996. The study included a
review of  identified  environmental  and asbestos  exposures of North  American
Property & Casualty, U.S. exposures of The Hartford's  International segment and
exposures of the Other Operations segment.  The methodology utilized a ground up
analysis of policy, site and exposure level data for a representative  sample of
The Hartford's claims.  The results of the evaluation were extrapolated  against
the balance of the claim  population to estimate the Company's  overall exposure
for reported claims.

In addition to estimating  liabilities  on reported  environmental  and asbestos
claims,  The Hartford  estimated  reserves for claims  incurred but not reported
(IBNR).  The IBNR reserve was estimated using information on reporting  patterns
of  known  insureds,   characteristics  of  insureds  such  as  limits  exposed,
attachment  points and number of coverage years involved,  third party costs and
closed claims.

Also included in The Hartford's analysis of environmental and asbestos exposures
was a review of applicable reinsurance coverage. Reinsurance coverage applicable
to the sample was used to estimate the reinsurance  coverage that applied to the
balance  of the  reported  environmental  and  asbestos  claims  and to the IBNR
estimates.

Upon  completion of the study and assessment of the results in October 1996, the
Company  determined  that its  environmental  and  asbestos  reserves  should be
increased,  on an undiscounted basis, by $493 (net of reinsurance) and $292 (net
of reinsurance), respectively, for the year ended December 31, 1996.

The Hartford  believes that the  environmental and asbestos reserves reported at
December 31, 1999, are a reasonable estimate of the ultimate remaining liability
for these claims based upon known facts,  current assumptions and The Hartford's
methodologies.  Future social,  economic,  legal or legislative developments may
continue to expand the  original  intent of policies  and the scope of coverage.
The Hartford will continue to evaluate new  developments  and  methodologies  as
they become  available for use in supplementing  the Company's  ongoing analysis
and review of its environmental and asbestos exposures. These future reviews may
result in a change in reserves,  impacting The Hartford's  results of operations
in the period in which the reserve  estimates are changed.  While the effects of
future changes in facts,  legal and other issues could have a material effect on
future  results of  operations,  The Hartford does not expect such changes would
have a material effect on its liquidity or financial condition.


(C )  LEASE COMMITMENTS

Total rental expense on operating leases was $187 in 1999, $188 in 1998 and $134
in 1997. Future minimum lease commitments are as follows:

2000                                              $       122
2001                                                      112
2002                                                       92
2003                                                       71
2004                                                       61
Thereafter                                                189
- ------------------------------------------------ --- -----------
  TOTAL                                           $       647
- ------------------------------------------------ --- -----------

(D)  TAX MATTERS

The Hartford's  federal income tax returns are routinely audited by the Internal
Revenue  Service.  The Company is  currently  under audit for the years 1996 and
1997. Management believes that adequate provision has been made in the financial
statements for items that may result from tax examinations and other tax related
matters for all open tax years.

16.  TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES

On December 19, 1995, ITT Corporation  (ITT)  distributed all of the outstanding
shares of common stock of The Hartford to the  shareholders  of ITT common stock
(the  Distribution).  As a result of the  Distribution,  The Hartford  became an
independent publicly traded company. Prior to the Distribution, The Hartford had
substantial dealings with ITT and its affiliates as described below.

The Distribution Agreement entered into by The Hartford, ITT Destinations, Inc.,
and ITT Industries, Inc. (the former ITT subsidiaries) addressed the disposition
of shared liabilities.  A shared liability is defined as a liability arising out
of, or related to, business  conducted by ITT prior to the Distribution that was
not otherwise specifically related to one of the former ITT subsidiaries.  Under
the Distribution Agreement, responsibility for shared liabilities generally will
be borne  equally by each of the former ITT  subsidiaries  (or any  successor to
each  former  ITT  subsidiary),  including  related  attorney's  fees and  other
out-of-pocket  expenses.  As of December 31, 1999, accruals had been established
for liabilities covered by this agreement.

17.  SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Hartford  provides  insurance and financial  services in the United  States,
Canada,  Western  Europe,  Latin  America  and Asia.  The  Hartford's  reporting
segments consist of Commercial,  Personal,  Reinsurance, Life, International and
Other  Operations.  While the  measure of profit or loss used by The  Hartford's
management   in   evaluating   performance   is  core  earnings  for  the  Life,
International  and Other  Operations  segments,  the  Commercial,  Personal  and
Reinsurance segments are evaluated by The Hartford's  management primarily based
upon underwriting results. The Hartford defines "core

                                      F-26

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

17.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

earnings"  as  after-tax  operational  results  excluding,  as  applicable,  net
realized capital gains or losses,  the cumulative effect of accounting  changes,
allocated  Distribution  items  (see  Note 16) and  certain  other  items.  Core
earnings  is an  internal  performance  measure  used  by  the  Company  in  the
management of its operations.  While not considered a segment,  the Company also
reports  and  evaluates  core  earnings  results for North  American  Property &
Casualty,  which include the combined  underwriting  results of the  Commercial,
Personal  and  Reinsurance  segments,  along with income and  expense  items not
directly  allocable to these  segments such as net  investment  income.  Certain
reinsurance  stop loss agreements  exist between the segments which specify that
one  segment  will  reimburse  another  for  losses  incurred  in  excess  of  a
predetermined limit.

The Commercial  segment provides workers'  compensation,  property,  automobile,
liability,  marine,  agricultural  and bond  coverages  to  commercial  accounts
throughout  the United States and Canada.  Excess and surplus lines business not
normally  written by standard  lines  insurers is also  provided.  The  Personal
segment provides automobile,  homeowners, home-based business and fire coverages
to individuals  throughout the United States.  The  Reinsurance  segment assumes
reinsurance  worldwide through its thirteen Hartford Reinsurance Company offices
located  in the  United  States,  Canada,  the United  Kingdom,  France,  Italy,
Germany, Spain, Hong Kong and Taiwan. HartRe primarily writes treaty reinsurance
through  professional  reinsurance brokers covering various property,  casualty,
specialty and marine classes of business.  The Life segment markets a variety of
insurance  and financial  services  which  provide  investment  products such as
individual  variable  annuities and market value adjusted fixed rate  annuities,
deferred  compensation plan services and mutual funds for savings and retirement
needs,  life insurance for income  protection and estate planning,  and employee
benefits  products such as group life, group disability and corporate owned life
insurance.  The International  segment consists of European companies offering a
variety of insurance products  (primarily property and casualty products in both
personal and commercial  lines)  designed to meet the needs of local  customers.
Other  Operations  include  operations  which have ceased  writing new business.
Also,  included in Other Operations is the effect of an approximate 19% minority
interest in HLI's operating results.

The following tables present revenues,  core earnings and total assets. Revenues
are  presented  by segment  and for total  North  American  Property & Casualty.
Underwriting  results are presented  for  Commercial,  Personal and  Reinsurance
segments while core earnings is presented for North American Property & Casualty
and the segments of Life,  International  and Other  Operations.  Total  assets,
which are not  allocated  to the  three  property  and  casualty  segments,  are
presented for North American Property & Casualty,  Life, International and Other
Operations. In addition,  revenues by geographical segment,  determined based on
customer location, are also provided.






                                      F-27

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

17.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)






                                      F-28

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

18.      ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS

(A)  ACQUISITIONS

On August 26, 1998,  HLI  completed  the purchase of all  outstanding  shares of
PLANCO   Financial   Services,   Inc.   (PLANCO)  and  its  affiliate,   PLANCO,
Incorporated.  PLANCO,  a primary  distributor  of HLI's annuity and  investment
products, has played a significant role in HLI's growth over the past decade. As
a  wholesaler,   PLANCO  distributes  HLI's  annuity  and  investment  products,
including fixed and variable annuities, mutual funds and single premium variable
life   insurance,   as  well  as   providing   sales   support   to   registered
representatives,  financial  planners and  broker-dealers at brokerage firms and
banks across the United States.  The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase
and  accordingly,  the results of PLANCO's  operations have been included in The
Hartford's  consolidated  financial  statements  from  the  closing  date of the
transaction.

On February 12, 1998,  The Hartford  completed  the purchase of all  outstanding
shares  of  Omni  Insurance  Group,  Inc.  (Omni),  a  holding  company  of  two
non-standard auto insurance  subsidiaries licensed in 25 states and the District
of Columbia. The Hartford paid cash of $31.75 per share, plus transaction costs,
for a total of $189. The acquisition was reported as a purchase  transaction and
accordingly,  the  results  of  Omni's  operations  have  been  included  in The
Hartford's  consolidated  financial  statements  from  the  closing  date of the
transaction.

(B)  DISPOSITIONS

On  November  16,  1998,   The  Hartford   completed  the  sale  of  its  United
Kingdom-based  London & Edinburgh  subsidiary  to Norwich  Union,  a provider of
general  and  life  insurance  in the  United  Kingdom.  The  Hartford  received
approximately $525, before costs of sale, and reported an after-tax net realized
capital gain of $33 related to the transaction.  The Hartford retained ownership
of Excess  Insurance  Co.  Ltd.,  London &  Edinburgh's  property  and  casualty
insurance and reinsurance subsidiary, which discontinued writing new business in
1993.


19.      QUARTERLY RESULTS FOR 1999 AND 1998  (UNAUDITED)


                                      F-29



                                      S-1




                                      S-2




                                      S-3



                                      S-4




                                      S-5




                                      S-6



                                      S-7

                                      II-1

                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                      THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL
                                                      SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                                                      By:  /s/ John N. Giamalis
                                                      --------------------------
                                                      John N. Giamalis
                                                      Senior Vice President and
                                                      Controller

Date:  March 24, 2000

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been  signed by the  following  persons in the  capacities  and on the dates
indicated.



                                      II-1

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                    FORM 10-K

                                 EXHIBITS INDEX

Exhibit #
- ---------

3.01    Amended  and  Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of The  Hartford
        Financial  Services Group, Inc. ("The Hartford"),  amended effective May
        21, 1998, was filed as Exhibit 3.01 to The Hartford's  Form 10-Q for the
        quarterly  period  ended  June 30,  1998 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

3.02    Amended By-Laws of The Hartford,  amended  effective  February 18, 1999,
        were filed as Exhibit  3.02 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal
        year ended December 31, 1998 and are incorporated herein by reference.

4.01    Amended and Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  and By-Laws of The
        Hartford (included as Exhibits 3.01 and 3.02, respectively).

4.02    Rights  Agreement  dated as of November 1, 1995 between The Hartford and
        The Bank of New York as Rights  agent was filed as  Exhibit  4.02 to The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

4.03    Form of  certificate  of the voting  powers,  preferences  and  relative
        participating,   optional  and  other  special  rights,  qualifications,
        limitations  or  restrictions  of  Series  A  Participating   Cumulative
        Preferred  Stock of The  Hartford  (attached  as Exhibit A to the Rights
        Agreement that is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.02 hereto).

4.04    Form of Right Certificate (attached as Exhibit B to the Rights Agreement
        that is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.02 hereto).

4.05    Indenture  dated as of May 15, 1991  between The  Hartford and The Chase
        Manhattan Bank (National  Association),  as trustee, with respect to The
        Hartford's 8.20% Notes due October 15, 1998, 7.25% Notes due December 1,
        1996, and 8.30% Notes due December 1, 2001 (incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 4(b) to The Hartford's Form 10 filed on May 9, 1991, as amended,
        file no. 0-19277).

4.06    Forms of The  Hartford's  8.20% Notes due October 15, 1998,  7.25% Notes
        due December 1, 1996 and 8.30% Notes due  December 1, 2001  (included in
        the Indenture incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.05 hereto).

4.07    Senior Indenture, dated as of October 20, 1995, between The Hartford and
        The Chase  Manhattan  Bank  (National  Association),  as  trustee,  with
        respect to The  Hartford's  6.375%  Notes Due  November  1, 2002,  7.30%
        Debentures  Due  November 1, 2015 and 6.375%  Notes Due November 1, 2008
        (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.08 to The Hartford's  Report on
        Form 8-K dated November 15, 1995).

4.08    Forms of The  Hartford's  6.375%  Notes Due  November  1, 2002 and 7.30%
        Debentures due November 1, 2015  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibits
        4.09 and 4.10, respectively,  of The Hartford's Report on Form 8-K dated
        November 15, 1995).

4.09    Form of The  Hartford's  6.375%  Notes due November 1, 2008 was filed as
        Exhibit  4.09 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
        December 31, 1998 and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.10    Junior  Subordinated  Indenture,  dated as of February 28, 1996, between
        The Hartford and Wilmington Trust Company,  as Trustee,  with respect to
        The Hartford's 7.70% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures,
        Series A, due  February  28,  2016  ("Junior  Debentures")  was filed as
        Exhibit  4.09 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
        December 31, 1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.11    Supplemental  Indenture  No. 1 dated as of February 28, 1996 between The
        Hartford and Wilmington Trust Company,  as Trustee,  with respect to the
        Junior Debentures, was filed as Exhibit 4.10 to The Hartford's Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is  incorporated  herein
        by reference.

                                      II-2


                           EXHIBITS INDEX (continued)

Exhibit #
- ---------

4.12    Form of The Hartford's  7.70% Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest
        Debenture,  Series A, due February 28, 2016  (included in the  Indenture
        incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.09 hereto).

4.13    Amended and Restated  Trust  Agreement  dated as of February 28, 1996 of
        Hartford  Capital I, relating to the 7.70%  Cumulative  Quarterly Income
        Preferred  Securities,  Series A ("Preferred  Securities")  was filed as
        Exhibit  4.12 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
        December 31, 1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.14    Agreement as to Expenses and  Liabilities  dated as of February 28, 1996
        between The Hartford and Hartford Capital I was filed as Exhibit 4.13 to
        The Hartford's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and
        is incorporated herein by reference.

4.15    Preferred  Security  Certificate  for  Hartford  Capital I (included  as
        Exhibit E of the Trust  Agreement  incorporated  by reference as Exhibit
        4.12 hereto).

4.16    Guarantee  Agreement  dated as of February 28, 1996 between The Hartford
        and Wilmington Trust, as trustee,  relating to The Hartford's  guarantee
        of the Preferred Securities, was filed as Exhibit 4.15 to The Hartford's
        Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended   December  31,  1995  and  is
        incorporated herein by reference.

4.17    Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of October 30, 1996, between The
        Hartford and Wilmington Trust Company,  as Trustee,  with respect to The
        Hartford's 8.35% Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest  Debentures,
        Series B, due October 30, 2026 ("Series B Junior  Debentures") was filed
        as Exhibit  4.16 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
        December 31, 1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.18    Form of The Hartford's  8.35% Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest
        Debenture,  Series B, due  October  30, 2026 was filed as Exhibit 4.2 to
        The  Hartford's  Form 8-K dated  November  4,  1996 and is  incorporated
        herein by reference.

4.19    Amended and  Restated  Trust  Agreement  dated as of October 30, 1996 of
        Hartford Capital II, relating to the 8.35%  Cumulative  Quarterly Income
        Preferred  Securities,  Series B, ("Series B Preferred  Securities") was
        filed as Exhibit 4.1 to The  Hartford's  Form 8-K dated November 4, 1996
        and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.20    Agreement  as to Expenses and  Liabilities  dated as of October 30, 1996
        between The Hartford  and Hartford  Capital II (included as Exhibit D of
        Exhibit 4.18 that is incorporated by reference herein).

4.21    Preferred  Security  Certificate  for  Hartford  Capital II (included as
        Exhibit E of Exhibit 4.18 that is incorporated by reference herein).

4.22    Guarantee  Agreement  dated as of October 30, 1996  between The Hartford
        and Wilmington Trust, as trustee,  relating to The Hartford's  guarantee
        of the Series B Preferred  Securities,  was filed as Exhibit 4.21 to The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

10.01   Distribution Agreement among ITT Corporation, ITT Destinations, Inc. and
        The Hartford was filed as Exhibit 10.01 to The Hartford's  Form 10-K for
        the fiscal year ended  December 31, 1995 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

10.02   Intellectual  Property  License  Agreement  among ITT  Corporation,  ITT
        Destinations,  Inc. and The  Hartford was filed as Exhibit  10.02 to The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

10.03   Tax Allocation Agreement among ITT Corporation,  ITT Destinations,  Inc.
        and The Hartford was filed as Exhibit 10.03 to The Hartford's  Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is  incorporated  herein
        by reference.

10.04   Form of Trade  Name and  Service  Mark  License  Agreement  between  ITT
        Corporation  and  The  Hartford  was  filed  as  Exhibit  10.04  to  The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.


                                      II-3

                           EXHIBITS INDEX (continued)

Exhibit #
- ---------

10.05   License Assignment Agreement among ITT Destinations,  Inc., The Hartford
        and  Nutmeg  Insurance  Company  was  filed  as  Exhibit  10.05  to  The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

10.06   License  Assignment  Agreement  among  ITT  Destinations,  Inc.,  Nutmeg
        Insurance  Company  and  Hartford  Fire  Insurance  Company was filed as
        Exhibit  10.06 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
        December 31, 1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.07   Employee Benefit Services and Liability Agreement among ITT Corporation,
        ITT  Destinations,  Inc. and The Hartford was filed as Exhibit  10.07 to
        The Hartford's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and
        is incorporated herein by reference.

10.08   Debt  allocation  agreement  dated as of  November  1, 1995  between ITT
        Corporation and The Hartford,  and related Fourth Supplemental Indenture
        dated as of November 1, 1995 among ITT  Corporation,  The  Hartford  and
        State Street Bank and Trust Company, as successor trustee, were filed as
        Exhibit  10.10 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
        December 31, 1995 and are incorporated herein by reference.

10.09   Five-Year  Competitive  Advance and Revolving Credit Facility  Agreement
        dated as of December  20,  1996 among The  Hartford,  the Lenders  named
        therein and The Chase Manhattan Bank as  Administrative  Agent was filed
        as Exhibit 10.11 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
        December 31, 1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.10   364 Day  Competitive  Advance and Revolving  Credit  Facility  Agreement
        dated as of December  20,  1996 among The  Hartford,  the lenders  named
        therein and The Chase Manhattan Bank as  Administrative  Agent was filed
        as Exhibit 10.12 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
        December 31, 1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.

*10.11  Employment  Agreement dated July 1, 1997 between The Hartford and Ramani
        Ayer was  filed as  Exhibit  10.01 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-Q for the
        quarterly period ended September 30, 1997 and is incorporated  herein by
        reference.

*10.12  Employment  Agreement  dated July 1, 1997 between  Hartford  Life,  Inc.
        ("Hartford  Life"),  The  Hartford  and  Lowndes  A.  Smith was filed as
        Exhibit 10.02 to The Hartford's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
        September 30, 1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

*10.13  Employment  Agreement  dated July 1, 1997 between The Hartford and David
        K. Zwiener was filed as Exhibit  10.03 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-Q for
        the quarterly period ended September 30, 1997 and is incorporated herein
        by reference.

*10.14  Form  of  Employment  Protection  Agreement  between  The  Hartford  and
        fourteen  executive  officers of The Hartford was filed as Exhibit 10.15
        to The Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
        and is incorporated herein by reference.

*10.15  The Hartford 1996 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee  Directors,  as
        amended,  was filed as Exhibit 10.15 to The Hartford's Form 10-K for the
        fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  1998 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

*10.16  The Hartford 1995 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended February 16, 2000, is
        filed herewith.


*10.17  The Hartford 1996 Deferred  Restricted Stock Unit Plan, as amended,  was
        filed as Exhibit 10.17 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year
        ended December 31, 1998 and is incorporated herein by reference.

*10.18  The Hartford 1996 Deferred  Compensation Plan was filed as Exhibit 10.18
        to The Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
        and is incorporated herein by reference.

*10.19  The Hartford 1997 Senior  Executive  Severance Pay Plan I, revised as of
        October 15, 1998 was filed as Exhibit 10.19 to The Hartford's  Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 and is  incorporated  herein
        by reference.

*10.20  The Hartford  Executive  Severance  Pay Plan,  revised as of February 1,
        1999,  was filed as Exhibit  10.20 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the
        fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  1998 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

* Management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement.

                                      II-4

                           EXHIBITS INDEX (continued)

Exhibit #
- ---------

10.21   Master Intercompany Agreement among Hartford Life, The Hartford and with
        respect to  Articles VI and XII,  Hartford  Fire  Insurance  Company was
        filed as  Exhibit  10.01 to  Hartford  Life's  Form  10-Q  filed for the
        quarterly  period  ended  June 30,  1997 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

10.22   Tax Sharing Agreement among The Hartford and its subsidiaries, including
        Hartford Life,  was filed as Exhibit 10.02 to Hartford  Life's Form 10-Q
        filed for the quarterly  period ended June 30, 1997 and is  incorporated
        herein by reference.

10.23   Management  Agreement  between  Hartford Life Insurance  Company and The
        Hartford Investment  Management  Company,  was filed as Exhibit 10.03 to
        Hartford Life's Form 10-Q filed for the quarterly  period ended June 30,
        1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.24   Management  Agreement  among certain  subsidiaries  of Hartford Life and
        Hartford  Investment  Services,  Inc.,  was  filed as  Exhibit  10.04 to
        Hartford Life's Form 10-Q filed for the quarterly  period ended June 30,
        1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.25   Sublease  Agreement between Hartford Fire Insurance Company and Hartford
        Life was filed as Exhibit  10.05 to Hartford  Life's Form 10-Q filed for
        the quarterly  period ended June 30, 1997 and is incorporated  herein by
        reference.

10.26   1997 Hartford Life, Inc.  Incentive  Stock Plan,  amended as of February
        16, 2000,  was filed as Exhibit  10.06 to Hartford  Life's Form 10-K for
        the fiscal year ended  December 31, 1999 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

10.27   1997  Hartford  Life,  Inc.  Deferred  Restricted  Stock Unit  Plan,  as
        amended,  was filed as Exhibit 10.08 to Hartford  Life's Form 10-K filed
        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 and is  incorporated  herein
        by reference.

10.28   1997  Hartford  Life,  Inc.   Restricted  Stock  Plan  for  Non-Employee
        Directors,  as amended,  was filed as Exhibit  10.09 to Hartford  Life's
        Form 10-K  filed for the  fiscal  year ended  December  31,  1998 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

12.01   Statement Re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges is filed
        herewith.

21.01   Subsidiaries of The Hartford  Financial  Services  Group,  Inc. is filed
        herewith.

23.01   Consent of Arthur  Andersen LLP to the  incorporation  by reference into
        The Hartford's  Registration Statements on Forms S-8 and Form S-3 of the
        report of Arthur  Andersen LLP contained in this Form 10-K regarding the
        audited financial statements is filed herewith.

27.01   Financial Data Schedule is filed herewith.


                                      II-5





                   The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.

           17,000,000 Shares of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     THE HARTFORD 1995 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                PLAN INFORMATION

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

             THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING
            SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES
                                  ACT OF 1933.

The Prospectus covers such additional  securities as may be issuable as a result
of  anti-dilution  provisions  contained  in the  instruments  pursuant to which
securities covered by the Prospectus are issued.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THESE  SECURITIES  HAVE NOT BEEN APPROVED OR  DISAPPROVED  BY THE SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE  COMMISSION OR ANY STATE  SECURITIES  COMMISSION NOR HAS THE SECURITIES
AND  EXCHANGE  COMMISSION  OR ANY STATE  SECURITIES  COMMISSION  PASSED UPON THE
ACCURACY OR ADEQUACY OF THE PROSPECTUS.  ANY REPRESENTATION TO THE CONTRARY IS A
CRIMINAL OFFENSE.



FOR NORTH CAROLINA RESIDENTS:

THESE  SECURITIES  HAVE NOT BEEN APPROVED OR DISAPPROVED BY THE  COMMISSIONER OF
INSURANCE FOR THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA, NOR HAS THE COMMISSIONER OF INSURANCE
RULED UPON THE ACCURACY OR THE ADEQUACY OF THIS DOCUMENT.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

February 16, 2000



         Additional  information  about The Hartford 1995  Incentive  Stock Plan
(the "Plan") and its administration may be obtained without charge by written or
oral  request to the Manager of Stock Option Plan  Administration,  The Hartford
Financial Services Group, Inc. ("The Hartford"),  Hartford Plaza,  Hartford,  CT
06115, telephone number (860) 547-5000.

                              AVAILABLE INFORMATION

         The Hartford will  provide,  without  charge,  upon the written or oral
request of any person to whom this Prospectus is delivered, a copy of any of the
following  documents,  all of  which  are  incorporated  by  reference  in  this
Prospectus:

         (a)      The  Hartford's  latest  Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with
                  the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  (the  "Commission")
                  pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
                  Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act");

         (b)      All other reports filed  pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
                  the  Exchange  Act since the end of the fiscal year covered by
                  the Form 10-K referred to in (a) above; and

         (c)      The   description   of  the  Common   Stock   contained  in  a
                  registration statement filed under the Exchange Act, including
                  any amendment or report filed for the purpose of updating such
                  description.

         All documents  subsequently  filed with the  Commission by The Hartford
         pursuant to Sections  13(a),  13(c),  14 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act,
         after  the date  hereof  and prior to the  filing  of a  post-effective
         amendment which indicates that all securities offered have been sold or
         which  deregisters all securities then remaining unsold shall be deemed
         to be  incorporated  by  reference in the  Prospectus  and to be a part
         thereof from the date of filing such documents.

         In addition,  The  Hartford  will  provide,  without  charge,  upon the
         written  or oral  request  of any  person  to whom this  Prospectus  is
         delivered, the following documents:

         (a)      When  updating  information  is  furnished,   a  copy  of  all
                  documents  previously  delivered  containing Plan  information
                  that then constitute part of this Prospectus; and

         (b)      A  copy  of  whichever  of  the   following   was   previously
                  distributed  pursuant to Rule  428(b)(2)  under the Securities
                  Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"):

                  (i)      The   Hartford's   annual   report  to   stockholders
                           containing the information  required by Rule 14a-3(b)
                           under the Exchange Act for its latest fiscal year;

                  (ii)     The  Hartford's  annual  report  on Form 10-K for its
                           latest fiscal year; or

                                     - 2 -


                  (iii)    The latest  prospectus  filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)
                           under  the  Securities  Act  that  contains   audited
                           financial statements for The Hartford's latest fiscal
                           year.


         Any  statement  contained  in a document  incorporated  or deemed to be
         incorporated  by  reference  in the  Prospectus  shall be  deemed to be
         modified or  superseded  for purposes of the  Prospectus  to the extent
         that  a  statement   contained  in  the  Prospectus  or  in  any  other
         subsequently   filed  document  which  also  is  or  is  deemed  to  be
         incorporated by reference in the Prospectus modifies or supersedes such
         statement.  Any such  statement so modified or superseded  shall not be
         deemed,  except as so modified or  superseded,  to constitute a part of
         the  Prospectus.  Any such  document,  as well as The  Hartford's  most
         recent  annual  report  to   shareholders   and  any  other  report  or
         communication  distributed to The Hartford shareholders generally,  may
         be obtained without charge by written or oral request to the Manager of
         Stock  Option  Plan  Administration,   The  Hartford,  Hartford  Plaza,
         Hartford, CT 06115, telephone number: (860) 547-5000.


                                

           General Information.............................................    4
           The Hartford 1995 Incentive Stock Plan..........................    5
           Administration..................................................   24
           Federal Tax Treatment...........................................   24

                                     - 3 -

                               GENERAL INFORMATION

         The Plan contains limits on the aggregate number of shares which may be
awarded  for the  duration  of the Plan and the  number  of  shares  that may be
awarded in any one year.  The maximum  limit  applicable to all share awards for
the duration of the Plan (the "Maximum  Limit") is fifteen  percent (15%) of the
total of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock and treasury stock as
reported in the Annual  Report on Form 10-K of The  Hartford for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1997 (35,906,158 shares),  such issued and outstanding shares
having been  adjusted for the  two-for-one  stock split on the common stock that
occurred  effective  July 15,  1998.  The annual limit  applicable  to all share
awards for any Plan year (the  "Annual  Limit") is 1.65  percent  (1.65%) of the
total of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock and treasury stock as
reported in the Annual  Report on Form 10-K of The  Hartford for the fiscal year
ending  immediately prior to any Plan year (the "Reported  Shares").  Any unused
portion of the Annual  Limit for any Plan year shall be carried  forward  and be
made available for awards in succeeding  Plan years.  In addition,  no more than
10,000,000 shares may be available for incentive stock options, and no more than
20% of the total may be available for awards of restricted  stock or performance
shares  under the Plan.  The Plan  limits the award of stock  options to any one
person in any year to no more than the lesser of (i) 10% of 1.5% (i.e., .15%) of
the Reported Shares for that year and (ii) 1,000,000 shares; except that for the
initial  plan year each  individual  employee  may  receive in  addition  to the
foregoing  limit a number of  substitute  stock  options  equal to the lesser of
(x)1,050,000  and (y) the  number  of stock  options  required  to  replace  ITT
Corporation  stock options  surrendered by such employee in connection  with the
spin-off by ITT  Corporation  of the shares of The  Hartford to ITT  Corporation
shareholders.

         The  Plan  permits  the  committee  administering  the  Plan  to  award
performance shares and restricted stock, as well as non-qualified  stock options
and  incentive  stock  options,  with  or  without  stock  appreciation  rights.
Reference is made to the text of the Plan herein for a complete  description  of
awards  permitted  under the Plan and the  relevant  provisions  and  conditions
applicable  thereto.  The Plan does not contain any  provision  prohibiting  the
cancellation and reissuance of stock options at a lower option price.

         The  prospectus  also covers shares of Common Stock that may be subject
to  stock  options,   restricted  stock  awards  and  other  awards  granted  in
substitution  for stock  options,  restricted  stock  awards  and  other  awards
previously granted by ITT Corporation ("Substitute Awards"). The prospectus does
not, however,  cover resales of Common Stock acquired pursuant to the provisions
of the Plan.  Resales may be subject to restrictions  or limitations  imposed by
the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

         Neither  the Plan nor the  Substitute  Awards are subject to any of the
provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.  Furthermore,
Section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code relating to certain qualified  pension,
profit-sharing  and  stock  bonus  plans  does  not  apply  to the  Plan  or the
Substitute Awards.


                                     - 4 -

         Plan   participants   receive   information   with   respect  to  their
participation,  including  the date of grant,  the  exercise  price,  the amount
exercisable  and  the  expiration  date,  as  well  as  applicable   information
concerning  whatever  performance  shares or restricted stock may be relevant to
them.

         Set forth below is the text of the Plan.




                     THE HARTFORD 1995 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN


         1.       PURPOSE

                  The purpose of The Hartford  1995  Incentive  Stock Plan is to
         motivate and reward  superior  performance on the part of Key Employees
         of The Hartford  Financial  Services Group,  Inc. and its  subsidiaries
         ("The  Hartford")  and to thereby  attract and retain Key  Employees of
         superior  ability.  In  addition,  the  Plan  is  intended  to  further
         opportunities  for stock  ownership by such Key Employees and Directors
         (as defined below) in order to increase their  proprietary  interest in
         The  Hartford  and, as a result,  their  interest in the success of the
         Company.  Awards will be made, in the discretion of the  Committee,  to
         Key  Employees  (including  officers  and  directors  who are  also Key
         Employees)  whose  responsibilities  and decisions  directly affect the
         performance of any Participating Company and its subsidiaries, and also
         to Directors.  Such  incentive  awards may consist of stock options and
         stock appreciation rights payable in stock or cash for Key Employees or
         Directors, and performance shares,  restricted stock or any combination
         of the foregoing for Key Employees, as the Committee may determine.

         2.       DEFINITIONS

                  When used herein, the following terms shall have the following
         meanings:


                  "Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

                  "Annual Limit" means the maximum number of shares of Stock for
         which  Awards  may be  granted  under  the  Plan in each  Plan  Year as
         provided in Section 3 of the Plan.

                  "Award" means an award granted to any Key Employee or Director
         in accordance  with the  provisions of the Plan in the form of Options,
         Rights,  Performance  Shares or Restricted Stock, or any combination of
         the foregoing, as applicable.


                                     - 5 -

                  "Award Agreement" means the written agreement  evidencing each
         Award granted under the Plan.

                  "Beneficial   Owner"   means  any  Person  who,   directly  or
         indirectly,  has the  right to vote or  dispose  of or has  "beneficial
         ownership"  (within  the  meaning of Rule  13d-3  under the Act) of any
         securities  of a  company,  including  any such right  pursuant  to any
         agreement,  arrangement or  understanding  (whether or not in writing),
         provided that: (i) a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of
         -------------
         any security as a result of an agreement,  arrangement or understanding
         to vote such  security  (A) arising  solely  from a revocable  proxy or
         consent  given in  response to a public  proxy or consent  solicitation
         made pursuant to, and in accordance  with,  the Act and the  applicable
         rules and regulations thereunder, or (B) made in connection with, or to
         otherwise  participate in, a proxy or consent  solicitation made, or to
         be made, pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable provisions
         of the Act and the  applicable  rules and  regulations  thereunder,  in
         either case  described in clause (A) or (B) above,  whether or not such
         agreement, arrangement or understanding is also then reportable by such
         Person on Schedule  13D under the Act (or any  comparable  or successor
         report);  and (ii) a Person  engaged in business as an  underwriter  of
         securities  shall  not be  deemed  to be the  Beneficial  Owner  of any
         security acquired through such Person's  participation in good faith in
         a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of forty days after
         the date of such acquisition.

                  "Beneficiary"   means   the   beneficiary   or   beneficiaries
         designated  pursuant  to  Section  10 to receive  the  amount,  if any,
         payable under the Plan upon the death of an Award Recipient.

                  "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

                  "Change of Control"  means the  occurrence of an event defined
         in Section 9 of the Plan.

                  "Code"  means the  Internal  Revenue  Code of 1986,  as now in
         effect or as hereafter amended.  (All citations to sections of the Code
         are to such  sections  as they  may  from  time to time be  amended  or
         renumbered.)

                  "Committee" means the Compensation and Personnel  Committee of
         the Board or such other  committee as may be designated by the Board to
         administer the Plan.

                  "Company" means The Hartford and its successors and assigns.


                                     - 6 -

                  "Director"  means  a  member  of the  Board  of  The  Hartford
         Financial   Services  Group,  Inc.  who  is  not  an  employee  of  any
         Participating Company.

                  "Eligible   Employee"   means  an   Employee   employed  by  a
         Participating Company;  provided,  however, that except as the Board of
         Directors  or the  Committee,  pursuant to  authority  delegated by the
         Board  of  Directors,  may  otherwise  provide  on  a  basis  uniformly
         applicable to all persons similarly situated, "Eligible Employee" shall
         not include any  "Ineligible  Person,"  which includes (i) a person who
         (A) holds a position with the Company's "HARTEMP" Program, (B) is hired
         to work for a  Participating  Company  through a  temporary  employment
         agency, or (C) is hired to a position with a Participating Company with
         notice on his or her date of hire that the position will terminate on a
         certain  date;  (ii) a person  who is a  leased  employee  (within  the
         meaning of Code Section  414(n)(2))  of a  Participating  Company or is
         otherwise employed by or through a temporary help firm,  technical help
         firm,  staffing firm,  employee leasing firm, or professional  employer
         organization,  regardless  of whether  such  person is an Employee of a
         Participating  Company,  and (iii) a person who performs services for a
         Participating  Company as an independent  contractor or under any other
         non-employee  classification,  or who is classified by a  Participating
         Company  as,  or  determined  by a  Participating  Company  to  be,  an
         independent   contractor,   regardless   of  whether   such  person  is
         characterized or ultimately  determined by the Internal Revenue Service
         or  any  other  Federal,  State  or  local  governmental  authority  or
         regulatory  body to be an  employee of a  Participating  Company or its
         affiliates for income or wage tax purposes or for any other purpose.

                  Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary,  if
         any person is an Ineligible Person, or otherwise does not qualify as an
         Eligible  Employee,  or otherwise is ineligible to  participate  in the
         Plan,  and such  person is later  required  by a court or  governmental
         authority  or  regulatory  body to be  classified  as a  person  who is
         eligible to participate in the Plan,  such person shall not be eligible
         to participate in the Plan, notwithstanding such classification, unless
         and until designated as an Eligible  Employee by the Committee,  and if
         so designated,  the  participation  of such person in the Plan shall be
         prospective only.

                  "Employee"   means  any  person   regularly   employed   by  a
         Participating  Company,  but shall not include any person who  performs
         services for a  Participating  Company as an independent  contractor or
         under any other non-employee classification,  or who is classified by a
         Participating  Company as, or determined by a Participating  Company to
         be, an independent contractor.

                  "Fair  Market  Value",   unless  otherwise  indicated  in  the
         provisions of this Plan,  means, as of any date, the composite  closing
         price for one share of Stock on the New York Stock  Exchange  or, if no
         sales of Stock have taken  place on such date,  the  composite  closing
         price on the most recent date on which selling prices were quoted,  the
         determination to be made in the discretion of the Committee.


                                     - 7 -

                  "Incentive  Stock Option" means a stock option qualified under
         Section 422 of the Code.

                  "Key  Employee"  means an Employee  (including  any officer or
         director who is also an Employee) of any  Participating  Company who is
         an Eligible Employee and whose  responsibilities and decisions,  in the
         judgment  of the  Committee,  directly  affect the  performance  of the
         Company and its subsidiaries.

                  "Option"  means an option  awarded under Section 5 of the Plan
         to purchase  Stock of the  Company,  which  option may be an  Incentive
         Stock Option or a non-qualified stock option.

                  "Participating Company" means the Company or any subsidiary or
         other affiliate of the Company; provided,  however, for Incentive Stock
         Options  only,   "Participating  Company"  means  the  Company  or  any
         corporation  which at the time such  Option is granted  qualifies  as a
         "subsidiary" of the Company under Section 424(f) of the Code.

                  "Performance  Share" means a  performance  share awarded under
         Section 6 of the Plan.

                  "Person"  has the  meaning  ascribed  to such term in  Section
         3(a)(9) of the Act,  as  supplemented  by Section  13(d)(3) of the Act;
         provided,  however,  that Person shall not include (i) the Company, any
         subsidiary  of  the  Company  or any  other  Person  controlled  by the
         Company,  (ii) any trustee or other fiduciary holding  securities under
         any employee  benefit plan of the Company or of any  subsidiary  of the
         Company, or (iii) a corporation owned,  directly or indirectly,  by the
         stockholders of the Company in  substantially  the same  proportions as
         their ownership of securities of the Company.

                  "Plan" means The Hartford  1995  Incentive  Stock Plan, as the
         same may be amended, administered or interpreted from time to time.

                  "Plan Year" means the calendar year.

                  "Retirement" means eligibility to receive immediate retirement
         benefits under a Participating Company pension plan.

                  "Restricted  Stock" means Stock awarded under Section 7 of the
         Plan subject to such restrictions as the Committee deems appropriate or
         desirable.

                  "Right" means a stock appreciation right awarded in connection
         with an Option under Section 5 of the Plan.


                                     - 8 -

                  "Stock"  means  the  common  stock  ($.01  par  value)  of The
         Hartford.

                  "Total Disability" means the complete and permanent  inability
         of a Key  Employee to perform all of his or her duties  under the terms
         of his or her employment with any Participating  Company, as determined
         by the Committee upon the basis of such evidence, including independent
         medical  reports  and  data,  as the  Committee  deems  appropriate  or
         necessary.

                  "Transferee"  means any person or entity to whom or to which a
         non-qualified  stock  option  has  been  transferred  and  assigned  in
         accordance with Section 5(h) of the Plan.

         3.       SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

                  The  aggregate  number of shares of Stock which may be awarded
         under the Plan shall be subject to a maximum  limit  applicable  to all
         Awards  for the  duration  of the Plan (the  "Maximum  Limit"),  and an
         annual  limit  applicable  to all Awards for any Plan Year (the "Annual
         Limit").  The Maximum Limit shall be fifteen percent (15%) of the total
         of the issued and  outstanding  shares of Stock and  treasury  Stock as
         reported  in the  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K of the  Company  for the
         fiscal year ended December 31, 1997 (35,906,158 shares),such issued and
         outstanding shares having been adjusted for the two-for-one stock split
         on the Stock that occurred  effective  July 15, 1998.  The Annual Limit
         shall  be  1.65  percent  (1.65%)  of  the  total  of  the  issued  and
         outstanding  shares of the Stock and treasury  Stock as reported in the
         Annual  Report on Form 10-K of the  Company  for the fiscal year ending
         immediately prior to any Plan Year (the "Reported Shares").  Any unused
         portion of the Annual Limit for any Plan Year shall be carried  forward
         and be made available for awards in succeeding Plan Years.

                  In addition to the foregoing,  in no event shall more than ten
         million  (10,000,000)  shares of Stock be  cumulatively  available  for
         Awards of Incentive Stock Options under the Plan, and provided further,
         that no more than twenty percent (20%) of the total number of shares on
         a  cumulative  basis  shall  be  available  for  Restricted  Stock  and
         Performance Share Awards. For any Plan Year, no individual employee may
         receive an Award of Options for more than the lesser of (i) ten percent
         (10%) of one and a half  percent  (1.5%)  (i.e.,  .15%) of the Reported
         Shares and (ii) 1,000,000  shares;  except that, for the Plan Year that
         follows the Distribution Date, each individual  employee may receive in
         addition to the  foregoing  limit that number of stock options equal to
         the  lesser of (x)  1,050,000  and (y) the number of  substitute  stock
         options required to replace ITT Corporation  stock options  surrendered
         by such employee in connection  with the spin-off by ITT Corporation of
         the shares of The Hartford to ITT Corporation shareholders.


                                     - 9 -

                  Subject to the above limitations, shares of Stock to be issued
         under the Plan may be made  available  from the authorized but unissued
         shares,  or shares  held by the  Company  in  treasury  or from  shares
         purchased in the open market.

                  For the  purpose of  computing  the total  number of shares of
         Stock  available  for  Awards  under the Plan,  there  shall be counted
         against the foregoing limitations the number of shares of Stock subject
         to issuance  upon  exercise or  settlement  of Awards and the number of
         shares of Stock which equal the value of performance  share Awards,  in
         each case  determined as at the dates on which such Awards are granted.
         If  any  Awards  under  the  Plan  are  forfeited,  terminated,  expire
         unexercised,  are settled in cash in lieu of Stock or are exchanged for
         other  Awards,  the shares of Stock which were  theretofore  subject to
         such Awards shall again be  available  for Awards under the Plan to the
         extent of such forfeiture, termination,  expiration, cash settlement or
         exchange of such Awards. Further, any shares that are exchanged (either
         actually or  constructively) by optionees as full or partial payment to
         the Company ofthe purchase  price of shares being acquired  through the
         exercise of a stock option  granted under the Plan may be available for
         subsequent Awards.

         4.       GRANT OF AWARDS AND AWARD AGREEMENTS

                  (a) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall
         (i) determine  and  designate  from time to time those Key Employees or
         groups of Key  Employees  to whom Awards are to be  granted,  and those
         Directors to whom Options and Rights may be granted; (ii) determine the
         form or  forms  of  Award to be  granted  to any Key  Employee  and any
         Director;  (iii)  determine  the  amount  or  number of shares of Stock
         subject to each Award;  and (iv)  determine the terms and conditions of
         each Award.

                  (b) Each Award  granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a
         written  Award  Agreement.  Such  agreement  shall  be  subject  to and
         incorporate  the express terms and conditions,  if any,  required under
         the Plan or required by the Committee.

         5.       STOCK OPTIONS AND RIGHTS

                  (a) With respect to Options and Rights,  the  Committee  shall
         (i) authorize the granting of Incentive  Stock  Options,  non-qualified
         stock  options,  or  a  combination  of  Incentive  Stock  Options  and
         non-qualified  stock  options;  (ii)  authorize  the granting of Rights
         which  may be  granted  in  connection  with all or part of any  Option
         granted  under this  Plan,  either  concurrently  with the grant of the
         Option or at any time thereafter  during the term of the Option;  (iii)
         determine  the number of shares of Stock  subject to each Option or the
         number of shares of Stock that shall be used to determine  the value of
         a Right;  and (iv)  determine  the time or times when and the manner in
         which each Option or Right shall be exercisable and the duration of the
         exercise period.


                                     - 10 -

                  (b) Any option issued  hereunder  which is intended to qualify
         as an Incentive  Stock Option shall be subject to such  limitations  or
         requirements as may be necessary for the purposes of Section 422 of the
         Code or any  regulations  and rulings  thereunder  to the extent and in
         such form as determined by the Committee in its discretion.

                  (c) The exercise period for a  non-qualified  stock option and
         any related Right shall not exceed ten years and two days from the date
         of grant, and the exercise period for an Incentive Stock Option and any
         related Right shall not exceed ten years from the date of grant.

                  (d) The  Option  price per share  shall be  determined  by the
         Committee  at the time any Option is granted and shall be not less than
         the Fair  Market  Value of one share of Stock on the date the Option is
         granted.

                  (e) No part of any Option or Right may be exercised  until the
         Key Employee who has been granted the Award shall have  remained in the
         employ of a  Participating  Company for such  period  after the date of
         grant as the  Committee  may  specify,  if any, and the  Committee  may
         further require exercisability in installments.

                  (f) Except as provided in Section 9, the purchase price of the
         shares as to which an Option  shall be  exercised  shall be paid to the
         Company at the time of exercise  either in cash or Stock  already owned
         by the optionee  having a total Fair Market Value equal to the purchase
         price,  or a  combination  of cash and Stock having a total fair market
         value,  as so determined,  equal to the purchase  price.  The Committee
         shall determine  acceptable methods for tendering Stock as payment upon
         exercise of an Option and may impose such  limitations and prohibitions
         on the use of Stock to exercise an Option as it deems appropriate.

                  (g) In case of a Key Employee's termination of employment, the
         following provisions shall apply:

                           (A) If a Key  Employee who has been granted an Option
         shall die  before  such  Option has  expired,  his or her Option may be
         exercised  in  full by (i)  the  person  or  persons  to  whom  the Key
         Employee's  rights under the Option pass by will,  or if no such person
         has such right, by his or her executors or administrators;  (ii) his or
         her  Transferee(s)  (with respect to non-qualified  stock options);  or
         (iii) his or her Beneficiary  designated pursuant to Section 10, at any
         time, or from time to time, within five years after the date of the Key
         Employee's death or within such other period, and subject to such terms
         and  conditions as the  Committee  may specify,  but not later than the
         expiration date specified in Section 5(c) above.

                           (B)  If  the  Key   Employee's   employment   by  any
         Participating  Company  terminates  because of his or her Retirement or
         Total Disability,  he or she may exercise his or her Options in full at
         any time, or from time to time, within five years after the date of the


                                     - 11 -

         termination of his or her employment,  or within such other period, and
         subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may specify,  but
         not later than the expiration date specified in Section 5(c) above. Any
         such Options not fully exercisable immediately prior to such optionee's
         retirement shall become fully  exercisable upon such retirement  unless
         the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall otherwise determine.

                           (C)  Except  as  provided  in  Section  9, if the Key
         Employee shall voluntarily  resign before eligibility for Retirement or
         he or she is terminated for cause as determined by the  Committee,  the
         Options or Rights shall be canceled  coincident with the effective date
         of the termination of employment.

                           (D)  Except  as  provided  in  Section  9,  if a  Key
         Employee's  employment  terminates for any other reason,  he or she may
         exercise  his or her  Options,  to the extent that he or she shall have
         been  entitled  to do so at the date of the  termination  of his or her
         employment at any time, or from time to time, within three months after
         the date of the  termination of his or her  employment,  or within such
         other period, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee
         may  specify,  but not later  than the  expiration  date  specified  in
         Section 5(c) above.

                  (h) Except as  provided  in this  Section  5(h),  no Option or
         Right granted under the Plan shall be  transferable  other than by will
         or by the laws of descent and distribution.  During the lifetime of the
         optionee,  an  Option  or Right  shall be  exercisable  only by the Key
         Employee or Director, to whom the Option or Right is granted (or his or
         her estate or designated  Beneficiary).  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
         all or a portion of a non-qualified stock option may be transferred and
         assigned by such persons  designated by the Committee,  to such persons
         designated by the Committee,  and upon such terms and conditions as the
         Committee  may from time to time  authorize  and  determine in its sole
         discretion.

                  (i) Except as provided in Section 9, if a  Director's  service
         on the Board terminates for any reason,  including without  limitation,
         termination due to death,  disability or retirement,  such Director may
         exercise  any Option or Right  granted to him or her only to the extent
         determined  by the  Committee  as set  forth in such  Director's  Award
         Agreement and/or any administrative rules or other terms and conditions
         adopted by the Committee from time to time applicable to such Option or
         Right granted to such Director.

                  (j) With respect to an Incentive  Stock Option,  the Committee
         shall specify such terms and  provisions as the Committee may determine
         to be  necessary  or  desirable  in order to qualify  such Option as an
         "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.


                                     - 12 -

                  (k) With  respect  to the  exercisability  and  settlement  of
         Rights:

                           (i) Upon  exercise  of a  Right,  a Key  Employee  or
         Director  shall be entitled,  subject to such terms and  conditions the
         Committee  may  specify,  to receive  upon  exercise  thereof  all or a
         portion  of the  excess  of (A) the Fair  Market  Value of a  specified
         number of shares of Stock at the time of exercise, as determined by the
         Committee,  over (B) a specified  amount  which  shall not,  subject to
         Section  5(d),  be less than the Fair  Market  Value of such  specified
         number  of  shares  of Stock at the time  the  Right is  granted.  Upon
         exercise  of a  Right,  payment  of such  excess  shall  be made as the
         Committee  shall  specify in cash,  the issuance or transfer to the Key
         Employee or Director of whole  shares of Stock with a Fair Market Value
         at such time equal to any excess,  or a combination  of cash and shares
         of Stock with a combined  Fair  Market  Value at such time equal to any
         such excess,  all as determined by the Committee.  The Company will not
         issue a  fractional  share of Stock and,  if a  fractional  share would
         otherwise  be  issuable,  the Company  shall pay cash equal to the Fair
         Market Value of the fractional share of Stock at such time.

                           (ii) In the event of the exercise of such Right,  the
         Company's  obligation in respect of any related  Option or such portion
         thereof will be discharged by payment of the Right so exercised.

         6.       PERFORMANCE SHARES

                  (a) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall
         (i) determine  and  designate  from time to time those Key Employees or
         groups of Key Employees to whom Awards of Performance  Shares are to be
         made, (ii) determine the Performance Period (the "Performance  Period")
         and Performance Objectives (the "Performance Objectives") applicable to
         such Awards,  (iii)  determine  the form of settlement of a Performance
         Share and (iv)  generally  determine  the terms and  conditions of each
         such  Award.  At any date,  each  Performance  Share shall have a value
         equal to the  Fair  Market  Value  of a share  of  Stock at such  date;
         provided that the Committee may limit the aggregate amount payable upon
         the  settlement  of any Award.  The  maximum  award for any  individual
         employee in any given year shall be 200,000 Performance Shares.

                  (b) The Committee shall determine a Performance  Period of not
         less than two nor more than five years. Performance Periods may overlap
         and Key  Employees  may  participate  simultaneously  with  respect  to
         Performance  Shares  for  which  different   Performance   Periods  are
         prescribed.

                  (c) The Committee shall  determine the Performance  Objectives
         of Awards of Performance Shares.  Performance  Objectives may vary from
         Key Employee to Key Employee and between  groups of Key  Employees  and
         shall be based upon one or more of the following objective criteria, as
         the Committee deems appropriate,  which may be (i) determined solely by
         reference  to  the  performance  of  the  Company,  any  subsidiary  or


                                     - 13 -

         affiliate  of  the  Company  or  any  division  or  unit  of any of the
         foregoing,  or (ii) based on comparative performance of any one or more
         of the following  relative to other  entities:  (A) earnings per share,
         (B) return on equity,  (C) cash flow, (D) return on total capital,  (E)
         return on assets,  (F) economic  value added,  (G) increase in surplus,
         (H)  reductions  in  operating  expenses,  (I)  increases  in operating
         margins,  (J) earnings before income taxes and depreciation,  (K) total
         shareholder return, (L) return on invested capital, (M) cost reductions
         and savings,  (N) earnings before  interest,  taxes,  depreciation  and
         amortization ("EDITDA"), (O) pre-tax operating income, (P) productivity
         improvements, or (Q) a Key Employee's attainment of personal objectives
         with respect to any of the foregoing criteria or other criteria such as
         growth   and   profitability,    customer   satisfaction,    leadership
         effectiveness, business development, negotiating transactions and sales
         or  developing  long term  business  goals.  If during  the course of a
         Performance  Period  there shall  occur  significant  events  which the
         Committee  expects  to  have a  substantial  effect  on the  applicable
         Performance  Objectives  during such period,  the  Committee may revise
         such Performance Objectives.

                  (d) At the  beginning of a Performance  Period,  the Committee
         shall  determine  for each Key Employee or group of Key  Employees  the
         number of Performance  Shares or the  percentage of Performance  Shares
         which  shall be paid to the Key  Employee or member of the group of Key
         Employees if the applicable  Performance Objectives are met in whole or
         in part.

                  (e)  If  a  Key   Employee   terminates   service   with   all
         Participating  Companies during a Performance  Period because of death,
         Total Disability,  Retirement,  or under other  circumstances where the
         Committee  in its sole  discretion  finds that a waiver would be in the
         best interests of the Company,  that Key Employee may, as determined by
         the Committee, be entitled to payment in settlement of such Performance
         Shares at the end of the  Performance  Period  based upon the extent to
         which the  Performance  Objectives  were  satisfied  at the end of such
         period and prorated for the portion of the  Performance  Period  during
         which the Key  Employee  was  employed  by any  Participating  Company;
         provided,  however, the Committee may provide for an earlier payment in
         settlement  of such  Performance  Shares in such  amount and under such
         terms and conditions as the Committee  deems  appropriate or desirable.
         If a Key Employee  terminates service with all Participating  Companies
         during  a  Performance  Period  for any  other  reason,  then  such Key
         Employee  shall not be  entitled  to any  Award  with  respect  to that
         Performance Period unless the Committee shall otherwise determine.

                  (f) Each Award of a  Performance  Share shall be paid in whole
         shares of Stock,  or cash, or a combination of Stock and cash either as
         a lump sum  payment  or in annual  installments,  all as the  Committee
         shall determine,  with payment to commence as soon as practicable after
         the end of the relevant Performance Period.


                                     - 14 -

         7.       RESTRICTED STOCK

                  (a) Except as provided in Section 9, Restricted Stock shall be
         subject to a restriction  period (after which  restrictions will lapse)
         which shall mean a period  commencing  on the date the Award is granted
         and  ending  on  such  date  as  the  Committee  shall  determine  (the
         "Restriction  Period").  The  Committee  may  provide  for the lapse of
         restrictions in installments  where deemed  appropriate and it may also
         require the  achievement  of  predetermined  performance  objectives in
         order for such shares to vest.

                  (b) Except when the Committee determines otherwise pursuant to
         Section  7(d),  if  a  Key  Employee  terminates  employment  with  all
         Participating  Companies  for any reason  before the  expiration of the
         Restriction  Period,  all shares of  Restricted  Stock still subject to
         restriction  shall  be  forfeited  by the Key  Employee  and  shall  be
         reacquired by the Company.

                  (c) Except as otherwise  provided in this Section 7, no shares
         of  Restricted  Stock  received  by  a  Key  Employee  shall  be  sold,
         exchanged,  transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of
         during the Restriction Period.

                  (d) In cases of death,  Total  Disability  or Retirement or in
         cases  of  special  circumstances,  the  Committee  may,  in  its  sole
         discretion  when it finds that a waiver would be in the best  interests
         of the Company,  elect to waive any or all remaining  restrictions with
         respect to such Key Employee's Restricted Stock.

                  (e) The Committee may require, under such terms and conditions
         as it deems  appropriate or desirable,  that the certificates for Stock
         delivered  under  the  Plan may be held in  custody  by a bank or other
         institution, or that the Company may itself hold such shares in custody
         until the  Restriction  Period  expires or until  restrictions  thereon
         otherwise  lapse,  and may  require,  as a  condition  of any  Award of
         Restricted  Stock that the Key  Employee  shall have  delivered a stock
         power endorsed in blank relating to the Restricted Stock.

                  (f) Nothing in this  Section 7 shall  preclude a Key  Employee
         from  exchanging  any  shares  of  Restricted   Stock  subject  to  the
         restrictions  contained  herein for any other  shares of Stock that are
         similarly restricted.

                  (g) Subject to Section  7(e) and Section 8, each Key  Employee
         entitled to receive  Restricted  Stock under the Plan shall be issued a
         certificate  for  the  shares  of  Stock.  Such  certificate  shall  be
         registered  in  the  name  of the  Key  Employee,  and  shall  bear  an
         appropriate legend reciting the terms, conditions and restrictions,  if
         any,  applicable  to such  Award and shall be  subject  to  appropriate
         stop-transfer orders.


                                     - 15 -

         8.       CERTIFICATES FOR AWARDS OF STOCK

                  (a) The Company  shall not be required to issue or deliver any
         certificates  for  shares  of Stock  prior to (i) the  listing  of such
         shares on any stock  exchange on which the Stock may then be listed and
         (ii) the completion of any registration or qualification of such shares
         under any  federal or state law,  or any  ruling or  regulation  of any
         government  body  which  the  Company  shall,  in its sole  discretion,
         determine to be necessary or advisable.

                  (b) All  certificates  for shares of Stock delivered under the
         Plan  shall  also be  subject  to such  stop-transfer  orders and other
         restrictions  as the  Committee  may deem  advisable  under the  rules,
         regulations,  and other  requirements  of the  Securities  and Exchange
         Commission,  any stock exchange upon which the Stock is then listed and
         any applicable  federal or state securities laws, and the Committee may
         cause a legend or legends to be placed on any such certificates to make
         appropriate   reference   to  such   restrictions.   In   making   such
         determination,  the  Committee  may rely upon an opinion of counsel for
         the Company.

                  (c) Except for the  restrictions  on  Restricted  Stock  under
         Section 7, each Key  Employee who receives  Stock in  settlement  of an
         Award of Stock,  shall  have all of the  rights of a  shareholder  with
         respect  to such  shares,  including  the right to vote the  shares and
         receive dividends and other  distributions.  No Key Employee awarded an
         Option, a Right or Performance Share, and no Director awarded an Option
         or Right,  shall have any right as a  shareholder  with  respect to any
         shares covered by his or her Option,  Right or Performance  Share prior
         to the date of issuance to him or her of a certificate or  certificates
         for such shares.

         9.       CHANGE OF CONTROL

                  (a) For purposes of this Plan, a Change of Control shall occur
         if:

                           (i) a report on Schedule  13D shall be filed with the
         Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13(d) of the Act
         disclosing  that any Person,  other than the Company or a subsidiary of
         the Company or any employee  benefit plan sponsored by the Company or a
         subsidiary of the Company is the Beneficial  Owner of twenty percent or
         more of the  outstanding  stock of the Company  entitled to vote in the
         election of directors of the Company;

                           (ii)  any  Person   other  than  the   Company  or  a
         subsidiary of the Company or any employee benefit plan sponsored by the
         Company or a subsidiary of the Company shall purchase  shares  pursuant
         to a tender offer or exchange offer to acquire any stock of the Company
         (or  securities  convertible  into stock) for cash,  securities  or any
         other consideration, provided that after consummation of the offer, the
         Person in question is the Beneficial  Owner of fifteen  percent or more
         of the  outstanding  stock  of the  Company  entitled  to  vote  in the
         election  of  directors  of the  Company  (calculated  as  provided  in
         paragraph  (d) of Rule  13d-3  under  the Act in the case of  rights to
         acquire stock);


                                     - 16 -

                           (iii) the  stockholders  of the Company shall approve
         (A) any  consolidation  or  merger  in  which  the  Company  is not the
         continuing  or  surviving  corporation  or pursuant to which  shares of
         stock of the Company  entitled to vote in the  election of directors of
         the Company would be converted into cash, securities or other property,
         other than a consolidation or merger of the Company in which holders of
         such stock of the Company  immediately  prior to the  consolidation  or
         merger have the same  proportionate  ownership  of common  stock of the
         surviving  corporation  entitled to vote in the  election of  directors
         immediately after the consolidation or merger as immediately before, or
         (B) any sale, lease,  exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or
         a series  of  related  transactions)  of all or  substantially  all the
         assets of the Company; or

                           (iv) within any 12 month period, the persons who were
         directors  of the  Company  immediately  before the  beginning  of such
         period (the  "Incumbent  Directors")  shall cease (for any reason other
         than death) to constitute at least a majority of the Board or the board
         of  directors  of any  successor  to the  Company,  provided  that  any
         director  who was not a director at the  beginning of such period shall
         be deemed to be an Incumbent  Director if such director (A) was elected
         to the Board by, or on the  recommendation  of or with the approval of,
         at least  two-thirds of the  directors who then  qualified as Incumbent
         Directors  either  actually or by prior  operation of this clause (iv),
         and  (B)  was not  designated  by a  Person  who  has  entered  into an
         agreement  with the Company to effect a  transaction  described  in the
         immediately preceding paragraph (iii).

                  (b)  Notwithstanding  any  provisions  in  this  Plan  to  the
         contrary, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control:

                           (i) Each Option and related Right  outstanding on the
         date such Change of Control occurs,  and which is not then fully vested
         and exercisable,  shall immediately vest and become  exercisable to the
         full extent of the original grant for the remainder of its term.

                           (ii) The surviving or resulting  corporation  may, in
         its  discretion,  provide for the  assumption  or  replacement  of each
         outstanding  Option and related  Right  granted under the Plan on terms
         which are no less  favorable to the optionee  than those  applicable to
         the Options and Rights  immediately prior to the Change of Control.  If
         the surviving or resulting  corporation offers to assume or replace the
         Options and Rights,  the  optionee may elect to have his or her Options
         and Rights assumed or replaced, in whole or in part, or to surrender on
         the date the Change of Control occurs his or her Options and Rights, in
         whole or in part,  for cash equal to the excess of the Formula Price as
         defined in Section 9(b)(v) hereof over the exercise price.

                  (iii) In the event the successor corporation does not offer to
         assume or replace the  outstanding  Options and Rights as  described in
         Section 9(b)(ii) hereof, each Option and Right will be exercised on the
         date such Change of Control  occurs for cash equal


                                     - 17 -

         to the excess of the Formula Price as defined in Section 9(b)(v) hereof
         over the exercise price.

                           (iv) If an employee elects to have his or her Options
         and Rights  assumed or replaced in  accordance  with clause (ii) above,
         and within the three (3) year period  following  the date of the Change
         of Control either of the following  occurs:  (A) the employment of such
         employee is  involuntarily  terminated  other than in a Termination For
         Just  Cause  (as  defined  below),  or (B)  such  employee  voluntarily
         terminates  employment  in a  Termination  For Good  Reason (as defined
         below);  then such  employee's  assumed or replaced  Options and Rights
         shall remain exercisable in whole or in part for seven (7) months after
         the date of such  termination  (or until the  expiration  date for such
         Options and Rights,  if earlier).  Such assumed or replaced Options and
         Rights may be exercised  for cash equal to the higher of (1) the excess
                                                        ------
         of the Fair Market Value of the successor corporation's common stock on
         the date of such  termination  over the exercise price for such Options
         and Rights,  or (2) the excess of the Formula Price (as defined  below)
         of the Company's Stock on the date the Change of Control  occurred over
         the exercise price for such Options and Rights.

                           (v)  The  following   definitions   shall  apply  for
         purposes of this Section 9 only:
                                    ----

         "Base  Salary"  means the amount an  employee is entitled to receive as
         wages or salary on an annualized basis,  excluding all bonus, overtime,
         and  incentive  compensation,  payable by the Company or the  successor
         corporation,  as the case may be, as  consideration  for the employee's
         services, and including earned but deferred wages or salary.

         "Formula  Price" means the highest of (A) the highest  composite  daily
                                    -------
         closing  price of the Stock  during  the period  beginning  on the 60th
         calendar  day prior to the Change of Control  and ending on the date of
         such Change of Control,  (B) the highest gross price paid for the Stock
         during the same period of time, as reported in a report on Schedule 13D
         filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission,  or (C) the highest
         gross price paid or to be paid for a share of Stock  (whether by way of
         exchange,   conversion,   distribution  upon  merger,   liquidation  or
         otherwise)  in any of the  transactions  set forth in this  Section  as
         constituting  a Change  of  Control;  provided  that in the case of the
         exercise  of any such  Right  related  to an  Incentive  Stock  Option,
         "Formula  Price"  shall mean the Fair Market  Value of the Stock at the
         time of such exercise.

         "Required Base Salary" means with respect to any employee the higher of
         (a) the employee's  Base Salary as in effect  immediately  prior to the
         Change of Control,  or (b) the employee's highest Base Salary in effect
         at any time thereafter.

         "Target  Bonus" means the annual bonus of an employee  determined  as a
         percentage  of annual  base  salary  based on the annual  target  bonus
         percentage  established  for the  employee


                                     - 18 -

         under the Executive Bonus Program or the Performance  Share Program (or
         any other similar or successor plan,  policy or program) for a calendar
         year,  or if no annual  target bonus  percentage  has been  established
         under  the  applicable  bonus  plan,  policy or  program,  based on the
         highest  actual  bonus  percentage  awarded to the  employee  under the
         applicable  bonus plan,  policy or program  during the three  preceding
         full calendar years.

         "Termination  For  Good  Reason"  means  a  voluntary   termination  of
         employment  by an  employee  because  of the  occurrence  of any of the
         following  (A) a reduction  in the  employee's  Base  Salary  below the
         Required Base Salary;  (B) a greater than 10% reduction in the level of
         the Total  Compensation  offered to the employee in  comparison  to the
         Total  Compensation  enjoyed by the employee  immediately  prior to the
         Change of  Control;  or (C) the  successor  corporation  requiring  the
         employee to be based at any office or location  more than 50 miles from
         the location at which he or she performed services immediately prior to
         the Change of  Control,  except for travel  reasonably  required in the
         performance of the employee's job responsibilities.

         "Termination For Just Cause" means a termination of employment based on
         fraud,  misappropriation  or  embezzlement  on the part of the employee
         which results in a final conviction of a felony.

         "Total  Compensation" means the aggregate of an employee's Base Salary,
         Target  Bonus,  and the value of any long-term  incentive  compensation
         award (including any option award) made to the employee under this Plan
         or the 1997 Hartford Life, Inc.  Incentive Stock Plan (or any successor
         plan,  policy or program),  such value to be  determined as of the date
         such award was made.


                           (vi)  The   restrictions   applicable  to  shares  of
         Restricted  Stock  held by Key  Employees  pursuant  to Section 7 shall
         lapse  upon  the  occurrence  of a  Change  of  Control,  and  such Key
         Employees  shall  be  entitled  to  elect,  at any time  during  the 60
         calendar days following such Change of Control,  to receive immediately
         after  the date the Key  Employee  makes  such  election  either of the
         following: (A) unrestricted certificates for all of such shares, or (B)
         a lump sum cash amount equal to the number of such shares multiplied by
         the Formula Price.  If a Key Employee does not make any election during
         the foregoing 60 day period,  such Key Employee shall be deemed to have
         made the election  described in Section  9(b)(vi)(A) as of the 60th day
         of such period,  and unrestricted  certificates shall be issued to such
         Key  Employee  immediately  following  such day as described in Section
         9(b)(vi)(A) hereof.


                                     - 19 -

                           (vii) If a Change of Control occurs during the course
         of a Performance  Period  applicable to an Award of Performance  Shares
         pursuant  to  Section  6, then a Key  Employee  shall be deemed to have
         satisfied  the  Performance  Objectives  effective  on the date of such
         occurrence.  Such Key Employee shall be paid, immediately following the
         occurrence  of such Change of Control,  a lump sum cash amount equal to
         the  number  of  outstanding  Performance  Shares  awarded  to such Key
         Employee multiplied by the Formula Price.

                  (c) In  the  event  of a  Change  of  Control,  no  amendment,
         suspension or termination of the Plan thereafter shall impair or reduce
         the rights of any person with respect to any award made under the Plan.

         10.      BENEFICIARY

                  (a) Each Key Employee,  Director  and/or his or her Transferee
         may file with the Company a written  designation of one or more persons
         as the  Beneficiary who shall be entitled to receive the Award, if any,
         payable under the Plan upon his or her death. A Key Employee,  Director
         or  Transferee  may  from  time to time  revoke  or  change  his or her
         Beneficiary designation without the consent of any prior Beneficiary by
         filing a new designation  with the Company.  The last such  designation
         received by the Company shall be controlling;  provided,  however, that
         no  designation,  or change or revocation  thereof,  shall be effective
         unless received by the Company prior to the Key Employee's,  Director's
         or Transferee's  death, as the case may be, and in no event shall it be
         effective as of a date prior to such receipt.

                  (b) If no such  Beneficiary  designation  is in  effect at the
         time of a Key Employee's, Director's or Transferee's death, as the case
         may be, or if no  designated  Beneficiary  survives  the Key  Employee,
         Director or Transferee or if such  designation  conflicts with law, the
         Key Employee's,  Director's or Transferee's estate, as the case may be,
         shall be entitled to receive the Award, if any,  payable under the Plan
         upon his or her death.  If the Committee is in doubt as to the right of
         any person to receive  such  Award,  the Company may retain such Award,
         without  liability  for  any  interest  thereon,  until  the  Committee
         determines the rights  thereto,  or the Company may pay such Award into
         any  court of  appropriate  jurisdiction  and such  payment  shall be a
         complete discharge of the liability of the Company therefor.

         11.      ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN

                  (a) Each member of the Committee shall be both a member of the
         Board and both a  "non-employee  director"  within the  meaning of Rule
         16b-3 under the Act or  successor  rule or  regulation  and an "outside
         director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.


                                     - 20 -

                  (b) All decisions,  determinations or actions of the Committee
         made or taken  pursuant to grants of authority  under the Plan shall be
         made or taken in the sole  discretion  of the  Committee  and  shall be
         final, conclusive and binding on all persons for all purposes.

                  (c) The  Committee  shall  have  full  power,  discretion  and
         authority to interpret,  construe and  administer the Plan and any part
         thereof, and its interpretations and constructions  thereof and actions
         taken thereunder shall be, except as otherwise determined by the Board,
         final, conclusive and binding on all persons for all purposes.

                  (d) The  Committee's  decisions and  determinations  under the
         Plan  need  not be  uniform  and  may be  made  selectively  among  Key
         Employees, whether or not such Key Employees are similarly situated.

                  (e) The Committee may, in its sole  discretion,  delegate such
         of its powers as it deems appropriate to the chief executive officer or
         other  members of senior  management,  except that Awards to  executive
         officers  shall  be  made  solely  by the  Committee  or the  Board  of
         Directors.

                  (f)  If a  Change  of  Control  has  not  occurred  and if the
         Committee  determines  that a Key Employee has taken action inimical to
         the best interests of any Participating  Company, the Committee may, in
         its sole discretion,  terminate in whole or in part such portion of any
         Option (including any related Right) as has not yet become  exercisable
         at the time of termination,  terminate any Performance  Share Award for
         which the  Performance  Period has not been  completed or terminate any
         Award of  Restricted  Stock for which the  Restriction  Period  has not
         lapsed.

         12.      AMENDMENT, EXTENSION OR TERMINATION

                  The Board may, at any time,  amend or terminate  the Plan and,
         specifically,  may  make  such  modifications  to the  Plan as it deems
         necessary to avoid the  application  of Section  162(m) of the Code and
         the  Treasury  regulations  issued  thereunder.  However,  no amendment
         applicable to Incentive  Stock  Options  shall,  without  approval by a
         majority of the Company's stockholders,  (a) alter the group of persons
         eligible  to  participate  in the Plan,  or (b) except as  provided  in
         Section 13  increase  the  maximum  number of shares of Stock which are
         available  for  Awards  under the  Plan.  If a Change  of  Control  has
         occurred,  no amendment or  termination  shall impair the rights of any
         person with respect to a prior Award.


                                     - 21 -

         13.      ADJUSTMENTS IN EVENT OF CHANGE IN COMMON STOCK

                  In the event of any reorganization,  merger, recapitalization,
         consolidation,    liquidation,    stock    dividend,    stock    split,
         reclassification,  combination of shares, rights offering,  split-up or
         extraordinary  dividend  (including a spin-off) or divestiture,  or any
         other change in the  corporate  structure or shares,  the Committee may
         make such  adjustment in the Stock subject to Awards,  including  Stock
         subject  to  purchase  by  an  Option,  or  the  terms,  conditions  or
         restrictions  on Stock or Awards,  including the price payable upon the
         exercise of such Option and the number of shares  subject to restricted
         stock awards, as the Committee deems equitable.

         14.      SUBSTITUTE AWARDS

                  The  Committee  shall be authorized  to issue  substitute  The
         Hartford  stock  options and related  rights to those key  employees of
         Participating  Companies who surrender  options to acquire stock in ITT
         Corporation.  The Committee may make a determination as to the exercise
         price and  number of such  substitute  options as it may  determine  in
         order to preserve the economic value of the surrendered ITT options and
         related rights in the aggregate amount not to exceed 16,000,000 shares.
         Subject to this  limitation,  shares of The Hartford Common Stock to be
         issued  upon the  exercise  of  substitute  stock  options  may be made
         available  from  authorized  but  unissued  shares or from  treasury or
         shares held by The Hartford in shares purchased in the open market.

                  The maximum  number of substitute  The Hartford  stock options
         and  related  rights that may be granted to an  individual  employee is
         1,050,000  or such lower  number as may be  necessary  to preserve  the
         economic value of the surrendered ITT options and related rights by any
         such individual employee.

                  The terms  and  conditions  of each  substitute  stock  award,
         including,  without limitation,  the expiration date of the option, the
         time or times when,  and the manner in which,  each  substitute  option
         shall be exercisable,  the duration of the exercise period,  the method
         of  exercise,  settlement  and  payment,  and the rules in the event of
         termination, shall be the same as those of the surrendered ITT award.

                  The Committee  shall also be  authorized  to issue  substitute
         grants  of The  Hartford  Restricted  Stock to  replace  shares  of ITT
         restricted stock  surrendered by employees of Participating  Companies.
         Such  substitute  shares  shall  be  subject  to  the  same  terms  and
         conditions  as  the  surrendered   shares  of  ITT  restricted   stock,
         including,  without  limitation,  the  restriction  period  of such ITT
         shares.


                                     - 22 -

         15.      MISCELLANEOUS

                  (a) Except as provided  in Section 9,  nothing in this Plan or
         any Award granted hereunder shall confer upon any employee any right to
         continue in the employ of any Participating Company or interfere in any
         way with the right of any Participating Company to terminate his or her
         employment at any time. No Award payable under the Plan shall be deemed
         salary or compensation for the purpose of computing  benefits under any
         employee benefit plan or other arrangement of any Participating Company
         for the benefit of its  employees  unless the Company  shall  determine
         otherwise. No Key Employee shall have any claim to an Award until it is
         actually granted under the Plan. To the extent that any person acquires
         a right to receive  payments  from the  Company  under this Plan,  such
         right  shall be no  greater  than the  right  of an  unsecured  general
         creditor of the  Company.  All payments to be made  hereunder  shall be
         paid from the  general  funds of the Company and no special or separate
         fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to
         assure  payment of such amounts except as provided in Section 7(e) with
         respect to Restricted Stock.

                  (b)  The  Committee  may  cause  to be  made,  as a  condition
         precedent  to the  payment  of any  Award,  or  otherwise,  appropriate
         arrangements  with the Key Employee or his or her Beneficiary,  for the
         withholding of any federal, state, local or foreign taxes.

                  (c) The Plan and the grant of Awards  shall be  subject to all
         applicable  federal and state laws,  rules, and regulations and to such
         approvals by any government or regulatory agency as may be required.

                  (d) The terms of the Plan  shall be binding  upon the  Company
         and its successors and assigns.

                  (e) Captions preceding the sections hereof are inserted solely
         as a matter of  convenience  and in no way define or limit the scope or
         intent of any provision hereof.


         16.      EFFECTIVE DATE, TERM OF PLAN AND SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL

                  The effective  date of the Plan shall be December 19, 1995. No
         Award  shall be granted  under  this Plan after the Plan's  termination
         date. The Plan's termination date shall be the earlier of: (a) December
         31,  2005,  or (b) the  date on which  the  Maximum  Limit is  reached;
         provided,  however,  that the Plan will continue in effect for existing
         Awards as long as any such Award is outstanding.

                                     - 23 -

                                 ADMINISTRATION

                  The  Plan is  administered  by a  Committee  of the  Board  of
         Directors of The Hartford, presently designated as the Compensation and
         Personnel Committee,  the members of which serve during the pleasure of
         the Board.  The  Committee is composed of directors  none of whom is an
         officer or  employee  of The  Hartford  and none of whom is eligible to
         receive any award under the Plan.


                              FEDERAL TAX TREATMENT

                  The following is a brief summary of the current Federal income
         tax rules generally  applicable to options,  stock appreciation rights,
         performance shares and restricted stock.  Awardees should consult their
         own tax  advisors  as to the  specific  Federal,  state  and  local tax
         consequences applicable to them.

                    A. OPTIONS AND STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS

                  Options  granted  under the Plan may be  either  non-qualified
         options or "incentive  stock options"  qualifying under Section 422A of
         the Internal Revenue Code.

         Non-qualified Options

                  An optionee is not subject to Federal income tax upon grant of
         a  non-qualified  option.  At the time of exercise,  the optionee  will
         realize compensation income (subject to withholding) to the extent that
         the then fair market value of the stock exceeds the option  price.  The
         amount of such income will constitute an addition to the optionee's tax
         basis in the optioned stock.  Sale of the shares will result in capital
         gain or loss  (long-term  or  short-term  depending  on the  optionee's
         holding period). The Hartford is entitled to a Federal tax deduction at
         the same  time  and to the  same  extent  that  the  optionee  realizes
         compensation income.


                                     - 24 -

         Incentive Stock Options ("ISOs")

                  Options  under the Plan  denominated  as ISOs are  intended to
         constitute  incentive  stock options under Section 422A of the Internal
         Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. An optionee is not subject to Federal
         income tax upon either the grant or exercise of an ISO. If the optionee
         holds the shares  acquired  upon  exercise  for at least one year after
         issuance  of the  optioned  shares  and until at least two years  after
         grant of the option, then the difference between the amount realized on
         a subsequent  sale or other taxable  disposition  of the shares and the
         option price will constitute  long-term capital gain or loss. To obtain
         favorable tax treatment,  an ISO must be exercised  within three months
         after termination of employment (other than by retirement,  disability,
         or death) with The Hartford or a 50%  subsidiary.  To obtain  favorable
         tax  treatment,  an ISO  must  be  exercised  within  three  months  of
         retirement or within one year of cessation of employment for disability
         (with no limitation in the case of death),  notwithstanding  any longer
         exercise  period  permitted  under the terms of the Plan.  The Hartford
         will not be  entitled to a Federal tax  deduction  with  respect to the
         grant or exercise of the ISO.

                  If the optionee sells the shares  acquired under an ISO before
         the  requisite  holding  period,  he will  be  deemed  to  have  made a
         "disqualifying disposition" of the shares and will realize compensation
         income  in the  year of  disposition  equal to the  lesser  of the fair
         market value of the shares at exercise or the amount  realized on their
         disposition  over the  option  price of the  shares.  (However,  if the
         disposition is by gift or by sale to a related party,  the compensation
         income must be measured by the value of the shares at exercise over the
         option price.) Any gain recognized upon a disqualifying  disposition in
         excess of the ordinary income portion will constitute either short-term
         or long-term capital gain. In the event of a disqualifying disposition,
         The Hartford  will be entitled to a Federal tax deduction in the amount
         of the compensation income realized by the optionee.

                  The option  spread on the exercise of an ISO is an  adjustment
         in computing  alternative  minimum  taxable  income.  No  adjustment is
         required,  however, if the optionee made a disqualifying disposition of
         the shares in the same year as he is taxed on the exercise.

         Stock Appreciation Rights ("SARs")

                  SARs may have been  awarded to officers  and  directors of The
         Hartford  subject to Section  16(b) of the  Securities  Exchange Act of
         1934 with respect to both  incentive  stock  options and  non-qualified
         options granted under the Plan. An optionee is not taxed upon the grant
         of SARs. An optionee exercising SARs for cash will realize compensation
         income (subject to withholding) in the amount of the cash received. The
         Hartford  is entitled  to a tax  deduction  at the same time and to the
         same extent that the optionee realizes compensation income.


                                     - 25 -

                              B. PERFORMANCE SHARES

                  An  awardee  of  performance  shares  will  generally  realize
         compensation  income  (subject to  withholding)  when and to the extent
         that  payment  is made,  whether  in the form of cash or  shares of The
         Hartford  common stock.  To the extent that payment is made in the form
         of stock, income shall be measured by the then fair market value of the
         shares,  which shall  constitute an addition to the awardee's tax basis
         in  such  shares.  The  Hartford  will be  entitled  to a  Federal  tax
         deduction for the value of payment at the time of payment.

                               C. Restricted Stock

                  An  awardee  of  restricted   stock  will  generally   realize
         compensation  income  (subject to  withholding)  when and to the extent
         that the  restrictions on the shares lapse, as measured by the value of
         the shares at the time of lapse.  The awardee's  holding period for the
         shares will not commence  until the date of lapse,  and dividends  paid
         during the  restriction  period  will be treated as  compensation.  The
         income  realized  on  lapse  of the  restrictions  will  constitute  an
         addition to the awardee's tax basis in the shares.

                  In lieu of  deferred  recognition  of income,  the awardee may
         formally elect, within 30 days of award, to realize compensation income
         at the time of award, as measured by the fair market value of the stock
         on the date of award determined without regard to the restrictions. The
         income  realized  will  constitute  an addition to the tax basis of the
         shares.   In  the  case  of  such  election,   any   appreciation   (or
         depreciation)  on the shares  during the  restriction  period will give
         rise to capital gain (or capital  loss).  In the event that the awardee
         terminates  employment  during the restriction  period and forfeits his
         shares,  no deduction may be claimed and the taxes paid on award of the
         shares shall be forfeited.

                  The  Hartford  will be entitled to a Federal tax  deduction at
         the  same  time  and to the  same  extent  that  the  awardee  realizes
         compensation  income.  However,  if an  awardee  makes an  election  to
         realize  compensation  income at the time of the award and subsequently
         forfeits the shares of restricted  stock,  The Hartford must include as
         ordinary income the amount it previously  deducted in the year of grant
         with respect to such shares.

                        D. GOLDEN PARACHUTE TAX PENALTIES

                  Options,  SARs,  performance  shares or restricted stock which
         are granted,  accelerated or enhanced upon the occurrence of a takeover
         (i.e.,  a Change of Control  as defined in the Plan) may give rise,  in
         whole or in part, to "excess parachute  payments" within the meaning of
         Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code and, to such extent,  will be
         nondeductible  by The  Hartford  and subject to a 20% excise tax to the
         awardee.


                                     - 26 -






                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.01


                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                    -----------------------------------------


To The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.:

As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation of our
report  included  in  this  Form  10-K,  into  the  Company's  previously  filed
registration  statements  (i) on  Forms  S-3  (Registration  Nos.  33-98014  and
333-12617)  and (ii) on Forms S-8  (Registration  Nos.  33-80663,  33-80665  and
333-12563).


                                                             Arthur Andersen LLP



Hartford, Connecticut
March 24, 2000




