
10-K
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.


================================================================================
                                    FORM 10-K

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                             ----------------------

(Mark One)
[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934
        For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

                                       OR

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934 
        For the transition period from ____________ to ______________

                         Commission file number 0-19277

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                         13-3317783
(State or other jurisdiction of                         (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                      Identification Number)

                HARTFORD PLAZA, HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT 06115-1900
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (860) 547-5000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities  registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act: the following,  all
of which are registered on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.:

     Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share 
     6.375% Notes due November 1, 2002
     6.375% Notes due November 1, 2008 
     7.30% Debentures due November 1, 2015
     7.70% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities, Series A, issued by
           Hartford Capital I
     8.35% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities, Series B, issued by
           Hartford Capital II

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed  by  Section  13 or 15 (d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter  period that the  registrant
was  required  to file such  reports),  and (2) has been  subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No[ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the best
of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

As of February 26, 1999,  there were  outstanding  226,826,658  shares of Common
Stock, $0.01 par value per share, of the registrant.  The aggregate market value
of the  shares of Common  Stock held by  non-affiliates  of the  registrant  was
$12,180,499,554  based on the closing  price of $54.0625 per share of the Common
Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on February 26, 1999.

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Portions of the  Registrant's  definitive  proxy  statement  for its 1999 annual
meeting of shareholders  are  incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K.
================================================================================

                                    CONTENTS



        ITEM    DESCRIPTION                                                 PAGE

PART I    1     Business of The Hartford                                      2
          2     Properties                                                    9
          3     Legal Proceedings                                             9
          4     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders           9

PART II   5     Market for The Hartford's Common Stock and Related 
                Stockholder Matters                                           9
          6     Selected Financial Data                                      10
          7     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
                Condition and Results of Operations                          11
          7A    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   44
          8     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                  44
          9     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
                and Financial Disclosure                                     44

PART III  10    Directors and Executive Officers of The Hartford             44
          11    Executive Compensation                                       44
          12    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners 
                and Management                                               44
          13    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions               44

PART IV   14    Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and 
                Reports on Form 8-K                                          44
                Signatures                                                  II-1
                Exhibits Index                                              II-2


PART I

Item 1.  BUSINESS OF THE HARTFORD
(Dollar amounts in millions except for share data unless otherwise stated)

GENERAL

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.,  formerly ITT Hartford Group, Inc.,
and  its  subsidiaries  ("The  Hartford"  or the  "Company"),  headquartered  in
Connecticut,  are among the largest  providers  of both  property  and  casualty
insurance  and life  insurance  products  in the United  States.  Hartford  Fire
Insurance   Company,   founded  in  1810,  is  the  oldest  of  The   Hartford's
subsidiaries. The Hartford writes insurance and reinsurance in the United States
and internationally.  At December 31, 1998, total assets and total stockholders'
equity of The Hartford were $150.6 billion and $6.4 billion, respectively.

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation,  was formed
in December,  1985 as a wholly-owned  subsidiary of ITT Corporation  ("ITT"). On
December 19, 1995, ITT distributed all of the outstanding shares of The Hartford
Financial  Services Group, Inc. to ITT shareholders of record in an action known
herein as the  "Distribution".  As a result of the  Distribution,  The  Hartford
became an independent, publicly traded company.

Pursuant to the initial public  offering of Hartford  Life,  Inc.  ("HLI"),  the
holding company parent of The Hartford's significant life insurance subsidiaries
Class A common stock (the "Offering") on May 22, 1997, HLI sold to the public 26
million  shares at  $28.25  per share and  received  proceeds,  net of  offering
expenses, of $687.

The 26 million shares sold in the Offering represented  approximately 19% of the
equity  ownership in HLI and  approximately  4% of the combined  voting power of
HLI's Class A and Class B common stock. The Hartford owns all of the 114 million
outstanding  shares of Class B common stock of HLI,  representing  approximately
81% of the equity ownership in HLI and  approximately 96% of the combined voting
power of HLI's Class A and Class B common stock. Holders of Class A common stock
generally  have  identical  rights to the holders of Class B common stock except
that the  holders  of Class A common  stock are  entitled  to one vote per share
while  holders of Class B common  stock are  entitled to five votes per share on
all matters submitted to a vote of HLI's stockholders. Also, each share of Class
B common  stock is  convertible  into one share of Class A common stock (a) upon
the  transfer of such share of Class B common  stock by the holder  thereof to a
non-affiliate  (except  where the shares of Class B common stock so  transferred
represent 50% or more of all the outstanding shares of common stock,  calculated
without  regard to the difference in voting rights between the classes of common
stock) or (b) in the event  that the  number  of shares of  outstanding  Class B
common stock is less than the 50% of all the common stock then  outstanding.  As
of December 31,  1998,  The Hartford  continued to maintain an  approximate  81%
equity ownership in HLI.

In  connection  with the  Offering,  The  Hartford  reported a $368  equity gain
related to the increased  value of its equity  ownership in HLI. The  Hartford's
current intent is to continue to beneficially own at least 80% of HLI, but it is
under no contractual obligation to do so.

On  November  16,  1998,   The  Hartford   completed  the  sale  of  its  United
Kingdom-based  London & Edinburgh  Insurance Group,  Ltd. ("London & Edinburgh")
subsidiary to Norwich Union, a leading provider of general and life insurance in
the United Kingdom.  The Hartford received  approximately  $525, before costs of
sale, and reported an after-tax net realized  capital gain of $33 related to the
transaction.  The  Hartford  retained  ownership of Excess  Insurance  Co. Ltd.,
London & Edinburgh's property and casualty insurance and reinsurance subsidiary,
which discontinued writing new business in 1993.

As a holding  company,  The  Hartford  Financial  Services  Group,  Inc.  has no
significant  business  operations  of its  own  and,  therefore,  relies  on the
dividends from its insurance company subsidiaries, which are primarily domiciled
in  Connecticut,  as the  principal  source  of cash to  meet  its  obligations.
Additional  information  regarding  the  cash  flow and  liquidity  needs of The
Hartford  Financial  Services Group,  Inc. may be found in the Capital Resources
and  Liquidity  section of  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A").

REPORTING SEGMENTS

The Hartford's reporting segments consist of Commercial,  Personal, Reinsurance,
Life,  International and Other Operations.  While not considered a segment,  the
Company  also  reports  results for North  American  Property & Casualty,  which
includes  the  combined  underwriting  results of the  Commercial,  Personal and
Reinsurance segments, along with income and expense items not directly allocable
to these segments,  such as net investment income and net realized capital gains
and losses.  Other Operations  include  operations which have ceased writing new
business.  Also included in Other Operations is the effect of an approximate 19%
minority interest in HLI's operating results.  The following is a description of
each  segment,   including  a  discussion  of  principal  products,  methods  of
distribution  and  competitive  environments.   Additional  information  on  The
Hartford's  reporting  segments  may be  found in the MD&A on pages 11 to 44 and
Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

NORTH AMERICAN PROPERTY & CASUALTY

North  American  Property & Casualty is the ninth largest  property and casualty
insurance  operation in the United States based on written premiums for the year
ended  December 31, 1997,  according to A.M.  Best.  North  American  Property &
Casualty  generated $7.4 billion in revenues,  $6.1 billion in written  premiums
and $604 in net  income in 1998.  Total  assets  

                                     - 2 -

for North  American  Property & Casualty  were $21.6  billion as of December 31,
1998.

COMMERCIAL

The  Commercial  segment  provides  insurance  coverages to commercial  accounts
throughout  the United  States and Canada.  Commercial  is organized  into three
customer  markets:  Business  Insurance,   Commercial  Affinity  and  Commercial
Specialty.  Business Insurance provides standard  commercial  business for small
accounts (Select Customer) and mid-sized insureds.  Commercial Affinity provides
commercial risk  management  products and services to members of affinity groups
and customers of financial institutions. Commercial Specialty provides insurance
through  retailers  and  wholesalers  to large  commercial  clients and insureds
requiring a variety of specialized  coverages.  The Commercial  segment had $3.2
billion in written premiums and a $213 underwriting loss in 1998.

Principal Products
- - ------------------

The  Commercial  segment offers  workers'  compensation,  property,  automobile,
liability, marine, agricultural and bond coverages.

Methods of Distribution
- - -----------------------

The Commercial segment provides insurance products and services through its home
office  located in Hartford,  Connecticut,  and multiple  domestic  regional and
district  office  locations  and  insurance  centers.  The  segment  markets its
products nationwide  utilizing a variety of distribution  networks including the
use of approximately 5,700 independent agents,  wholesalers and direct marketing
including trade associations,  customers of financial  institutions and employee
groups.  Independent  agents,  who often  represent other companies as well, are
compensated on a commission basis and are not employees of The Hartford.

Competition
- - -----------

The commercial  insurance industry is a highly challenging  environment in which
the Commercial  segment competes with other stock companies,  mutual  companies,
self insurers and other underwriting  organizations.  Intense competition within
the financial  services  industry has created difficult market conditions in the
commercial industry. This competitive environment is created by tremendous price
competition, consolidation and globalization of companies, excess capital within
the commercial  insurance  industry,  exploration and utilization of alternative
distribution techniques and emphasis on cost containment and reduction.

PERSONAL

The Hartford ranks among the largest carriers of personal lines  insurance.  The
Personal  segment  provides  insurance  coverages to individuals  throughout the
United States. Personal is organized to provide customized products and services
to five markets:  the membership of The American  Association of Retired Persons
("AARP") through a direct marketing operation;  customers who prefer local agent
involvement  through a network of  independent  agents in the standard  personal
lines market and in the  non-standard  automobile  market through Omni Insurance
Group,  Inc.  ("Omni"),  which was  acquired  in 1998;  customers  of  financial
institutions through an affinity center which began in 1996 and customer service
for all health  insurance  products  offered  through AARP's Health Care Options
effective  January 1, 1998.  AARP's exclusive  licensing  arrangement  continues
through the year 2002 for  automobile,  homeowners and  home-based  business and
through 2007 for Health Care Options,  thus providing the Personal  segment with
an important  competitive  advantage.  The Personal  segment had $2.2 billion in
written premiums and $77 in underwriting income in 1998.

Principal Products
- - ------------------

The Personal segment provides  homeowners,  automobile,  home-based business and
fire coverages to individuals across North America,  including a special program
designed exclusively for members of AARP.

Methods of Distribution
- - -----------------------

The Personal  segment  reaches diverse  markets  through  multiple  distribution
channels.  The segment markets directly to the 33 million members of AARP, sells
its products through independent agents and also markets through affinity groups
and financial institutions.

Competition
- - -----------

The  personal  lines   marketplace   continues  to  become   increasingly   more
competitive, especially in the personal automobile line. The past few years have
produced favorable returns in personal lines, allowing companies to drive prices
down  and  utilize  varied  distribution   channels  to  increase   marketshare.
Multi-line  property  and  casualty  companies  are also  anxious to grow in the
personal  market to bolster  the impact of the soft  commercial  market.  In the
absence  of  renewal  price  increases,   consumer  shopping  declines,  forcing
companies to offer greater price  incentives and product features to attract new
prospects.  Agency  companies  wishing  to  grow  are  offering  agents  greater
incentives to move business from  competitors in order to increase  market share
in a stagnant market.

A major competitive advantage of the Personal segment is the exclusive licensing
arrangement with AARP to provide personal automobile,  homeowners and home-based
business  insurance  products  to its members  through the year 2002.  Favorable
"baby   boomer"   demographics   are  expected  to  increase   AARP   membership
significantly   during  this  period.   During  1996,  the  Personal   segment's
relationship  with AARP was further  strengthened when it was awarded a contract
to provide customer  service for all health  insurance  products offered through
AARP's Health Care Options effective January 1, 1998.

                                     - 3 -

REINSURANCE

The Hartford is a major global reinsurer,  with operations in the United States,
Canada,  the  United  Kingdom,   Spain,  Germany,  Hong  Kong  and  Taiwan.  The
Reinsurance  segment had $711 in written premiums and a $36 underwriting loss in
1998.

Principal Products
- - ------------------

The  Reinsurance   segment  offers  a  full  range  of  treaty  and  facultative
reinsurance products including property,  casualty,  marine,  fidelity,  surety,
finite risk and specialty coverages.

Methods of Distribution
- - -----------------------

The Reinsurance segment assumes insurance from other insurers, primarily through
reinsurance brokers in the worldwide reinsurance market.

Competition
- - -----------

The worldwide property and casualty reinsurance market is extremely competitive.
Deepening soft market  conditions make profitable  growth difficult to maintain.
Consolidation  in the  market  has  created  fewer,  but  stronger  competitors.
Finally,   nontraditional   solutions   could  reduce  demand  for   traditional
reinsurance products.

LIFE

The Life segment is conducted  principally by HLI, a leading financial  services
and  insurance  organization  providing  investment  products  such as  variable
annuities and mutual funds,  individual  and corporate  owned life insurance and
employee  benefits  products.  Among the fastest  growing  major life  insurance
groups for the past several  years,  The Hartford's  consolidated  domestic life
insurance operations are ranked as the fourth largest in the United States based
on statutory  assets as of December 31, 1997,  according to A.M.  Best's  latest
available  data.  Growth in the Life  segment's  total assets has been primarily
driven by variable annuity sales and equity market appreciation. The Company was
ranked  the number one writer of  individual  variable  annuities  in the United
States  for 1998  according  to  Variable  Annuity  and  Research  Data  Service
("VARDS")  with  a  10%  market  share.  In  addition,  mutual  fund  assets  of
approximately $2.5 billion at December 31, 1998 were more than double prior year
levels.  According to the latest results  published by Life Insurance  Marketing
and Research Association (LIMRA), the Company was the second largest provider of
group  disability  insurance  in the  United  States for the nine  months  ended
September  30, 1998. In addition,  in the past year,  the Life  segment's  total
assets have grown 21% to $122.0  billion at December 31, 1998.  The Life segment
generated $5.8 billion in revenues and earned $386 in 1998.

The Life  segment,  headquartered  in Simsbury,  Connecticut,  has the following
reportable operations:  Investment Products,  Individual Life, Employee Benefits
and Corporate Owned Life Insurance ("COLI"). The Life segment separately reports
its international operations and items that are not directly allocable to any of
its reportable operations in an Other category.

Principal Products
- - ------------------

The Investment Products operation focuses on the savings and retirement needs of
the growing  number of  individuals  who are  preparing  for  retirement or have
already retired. The variety of products sold within this operation reflects the
diverse  nature  of the  market.  These  products  include  individual  variable
annuities,  fixed market value  adjusted (MVA)  annuities,  retail mutual funds,
deferred  compensation  and  retirement  plan  services,  structured  settlement
contracts and other special  purpose  annuity  contracts.  The  Individual  Life
Insurance operation,  which focuses on the high end estate and business planning
markets,  sells a variety of life insurance  products,  including variable life,
universal  life,  interest-sensitive  whole  life and term life  insurance.  The
Employee Benefits  operation sells group life and group disability  insurance as
well as other products including stop loss and supplementary medical coverage to
employers  and  employer  sponsored  plans.  The COLI  operation  includes  life
insurance products sold for funding of other post employment  benefits and other
non-qualified benefit programs provided by corporations.

Methods of Distribution
- - -----------------------

The Life segment sells a variety of individual and group financial  services and
insurance products  primarily through  broker-dealers,  financial  institutions,
licensed agents, insurance brokers, associations and third party administrators,
often with the assistance of the Company's  internal sales force. The Investment
Products operation primarily  distributes  through  broker-dealers and financial
institutions  for  individual  sales,  and through  employees of the Company for
institutional sales. Securing an important  distribution channel in August 1998,
the  Company  purchased  all of  the  outstanding  shares  of  PLANCO  Financial
Services,  Inc. and its affiliate,  PLANCO,  Incorporated,  the nation's largest
wholesaler of annuities. The Individual Life Insurance operation distributes its
products through a sales office system of qualified life insurance professionals
who have access to an extensive  network of licensed  life  insurance  agents as
well  as  through   broker-dealers  and  independent  life  insurance  marketing
organizations.  The Employee  Benefits  operation uses an  experienced  group of
Company  employees  managed through a regional sales office system to distribute
its  products  through a variety of  distribution  outlets  including  insurance
agents, brokers, associations and third-party administrators. The COLI operation
uses a group of experienced  Company employees who work with specialized brokers
and consultants to distribute its products.

Competition
- - -----------

The Life  segment  competes  with  numerous  insurance  companies  in the United
States,  as well as certain  banks,  securities  brokerage  firms and investment
advisors who market  investment and  retirement-oriented  products.  Competitive
factors in the life insurance  industry include,  but are not limited to, price,
name recognition, quality of distribution systems and products offered, customer
service,  financial strength ratings

                                     - 4 -

and  claims-paying  ability  ratings.  In the individual  annuity market,  sales
volume  is also  dependent  on fund  performance,  an array of fund and  product
options, product design and credited rates. With a 10% market share, the Company
was rated the  number  one  writer of  individual  variable  annuities  for 1998
according to VARDS.

INTERNATIONAL

The Hartford's  International  segment  consists  primarily of Western  European
companies offering a variety of insurance products designed to meet the needs of
local  customers.  These  companies  include  Zwolsche  Algemeene  ("Zwolsche"),
located in the  Netherlands,  Belgium  and  Luxembourg,  ITT Ercos in Spain and,
until its sale by The Hartford in November 1998 as previously discussed,  London
& Edinburgh headquartered in the United Kingdom. In January 1998, a 49% interest
in People's  Insurance Company Limited  ("People's  Insurance") in Singapore was
acquired.  The International  segment generated $1.6 billion in revenues and $92
in net income in 1998. Assets totaled $2.5 billion at December 31, 1998.

Principal Products
- - ------------------

Zwolsche sells  property and casualty,  life and asset  management  products and
services.    Personal   lines   products   at   Zwolsche   include   automobile,
hospitalization  and homeowners.  Commercial lines products,  primarily property
coverage,  are sold to small to  medium-sized  clients.  Zwolsche life insurance
operations   offer  term  life,   mortgage,   savings  and   pension   products.
Additionally,  Zwolsche has an asset  management  business  offering  investment
services  through a range of mutual funds.  ITT Ercos provides both personal and
commercial lines property and casualty,  and life insurance  products.  London &
Edinburgh  offered both  personal  and  commercial  lines  property and casualty
insurance.   Personal  lines  included   automobile,   homeowners  and  creditor
(including  credit  life)  products.  Commercial  lines  included  property  and
liability  products sold to small to  medium-sized  clients.  London & Edinburgh
also provided  marine  products  within the London  market.  People's  Insurance
writes property and casualty products, primarily automobile.

Methods of Distribution
- - -----------------------

The International  segment conducts its business  primarily through  independent
brokers who are compensated on a commission basis. Zwolsche also distributes, as
did London & Edinburgh until its sale, its products  through  various  financial
institutions.

Competition
- - -----------

The United Kingdom and the Netherlands have  historically been open markets with
competitors  operating from around the world. While Spain has only opened up its
market  within the last fifteen  years,  it has  attracted  significant  foreign
capital  with  many of the  large  global  insurance  companies  establishing  a
presence,  to the extent that foreign capital now exceeds domestic capital. Each
market has its own unique  characteristics but, in general,  competition is very
strong in most  product  lines  with  pricing  set freely by the  market.  

OTHER OPERATIONS

The Hartford's Other Operations  consist of the property and casualty  insurance
operations  of The  Hartford  which have  ceased  writing  new  business.  These
operations  primarily include First State Insurance Company,  located in Boston,
Massachusetts,   Fencourt  and  Heritage  Reinsurance   Companies,   Ltd.,  both
headquartered in Bermuda,  and Excess Insurance Company Limited,  located in the
United Kingdom.

The primary objectives of Other Operations are the proper disposition of claims,
the resolution of disputes, and the collection of reinsurance proceeds primarily
related  to  policies  written  and  reinsured  prior  to 1985.  As such,  Other
Operations  have no new product  sales,  distribution  systems,  or  competitive
issues.

Included  in Other  Operations  is the  effect of an  approximate  19%  minority
interest in HLI's operating results.

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY RESERVES

The Hartford  establishes  reserves to provide for the estimated costs of paying
claims made by  policyholders or against  policyholders.  These reserves include
estimates  for both  claims  that have been  reported  and those  that have been
incurred  but not yet  reported to The  Hartford  and include  estimates  of all
expenses  associated with processing and settling these claims.  This estimation
process is primarily  based on historical  experience  and involves a variety of
actuarial techniques which analyze trends and other relevant factors.

The  Hartford  continually  reviews its  estimated  claims and claim  adjustment
expense  reserves  as  additional  experience  and other  relevant  data  become
available,  and reserve levels are adjusted  accordingly.  Such  adjustments are
reflected in net income of the period in which they are made. Further discussion
on The  Hartford's  property and casualty  reserves may be found in the Reserves
section of the MD&A.

The Hartford  continues to receive claims asserting  damages from  environmental
pollution   and  related   clean-up   costs  and  injuries   from  asbestos  and
asbestos-related  products. Due to deviations from past experience and a variety
of social,  economic and legal  issues,  the  Company's  ability to estimate the
future  policy  benefits,   unpaid  claims  and  claim  adjustment  expenses  is
significantly impacted. A study, which reviewed and identified environmental and
asbestos  exposures  in the United  States,  was  performed in 1996 and is fully
discussed in the Environmental and Asbestos Claims section of the MD&A.

Certain  liabilities for unpaid claims,  principally  for  permanently  disabled
claimants,  terminated reinsurance treaties and certain contracts that fund loss
run-offs for  unrelated  parties,  have been  discounted to present  value.  The
amount of the discount was  approximately  $423 and $449 as of December 31, 1998
and 1997, respectively,  and amortization of the discount had no material effect
on net income during 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

                                     - 5 -

In  the  judgment  of  The  Hartford's  management,  all  information  currently
available has been properly  considered in establishing  the reserves for unpaid
claims and claim adjustment expenses.

A reconciliation of liabilities for unpaid claims and claim adjustment  expenses
is  herein  referenced  from  Note  1(g)  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.  A table depicting the historical development of the liabilities for
unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses follows.








LIFE RESERVES

In accordance with applicable insurance regulations under which the Life segment
operates,  life insurance  subsidiaries  of The Hartford  establish and carry as
liabilities  actuarially  determined  reserves  which are calculated to meet The
Hartford's  future  obligations.  Reserves  for life  insurance  and  disability
contracts are based on actuarially recognized methods 

                                     - 6 -

using  prescribed  morbidity and  mortality  tables in general use in the United
States,  which are modified to reflect The  Hartford's  actual  experience  when
appropriate.  These  reserves are computed at amounts that,  with additions from
premiums to be received and with interest on such reserves  compounded  annually
at certain  assumed rates,  are expected to be sufficient to meet The Hartford's
policy  obligations at their  maturities or in the event of an insured's  death.
Reserves also include unearned premiums,  premium deposits,  claims incurred but
not  reported  and  claims  reported  but not yet  paid.  Reserves  for  assumed
reinsurance  are computed on bases  essentially  comparable to direct  insurance
reserves.

For The Hartford's  universal life and  interest-sensitive  whole life policies,
reserves are set according to premiums collected,  plus interest credited,  less
charges.  Other fixed death  benefit and  individual  life reserves are based on
assumed investment yield,  persistency,  mortality and morbidity as per commonly
used  actuarial  tables,  expenses and margins for adverse  deviations.  For the
Company's group disability policies, the level of reserves is based on a variety
of  factors  including  particular  diagnoses,  termination  rates  and  benefit
payments.

The  persistency of The  Hartford's  annuity and other  interest-sensitive  life
insurance  reserves is  enhanced by policy  restrictions  on the  withdrawal  of
funds.  Withdrawals in excess of allowable  penalty-free  amounts are assessed a
surrender charge during a penalty period, which is usually at least seven years.
Such surrender charge is initially a percentage of the accumulation value, which
varies by product,  and generally decreases gradually during the penalty period.
Surrender  charges are set at levels to protect The Hartford  from loss on early
terminations  and to reduce the likelihood of  policyholders  terminating  their
policies during periods of increasing  interest rates,  thereby  lengthening the
effective  duration of policy liabilities and improving the Company's ability to
maintain profitability on such policies.

The Hartford's  reserves  comply in all material  respects with state  insurance
department  statutory  requirements;  however,  in  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements,  life insurance reserves are determined in accordance with generally
accepted  accounting  principles,  which  may  vary  from  statutory  accounting
practices.

CEDED REINSURANCE

Consistent with normal industry  practice,  The Hartford cedes insurance risk to
reinsurance companies.  For property and casualty operations,  these reinsurance
arrangements   provide  greater   diversification  of  business  and  limit  The
Hartford's maximum net loss arising from large risks or catastrophes.

A major portion of The Hartford's property and casualty  reinsurance is effected
under general reinsurance contracts known as treaties, or, in some instances, is
negotiated on an individual risk basis,  known as facultative  reinsurance.  The
Hartford also has in-force excess of loss contracts with reinsurers that protect
it against a specified part or all of certain losses over stipulated amounts.

The ceding of insurance obligations does not discharge the original insurer from
its primary  liability to the  policyholder.  The original  insurer would remain
liable in those situations where the reinsurer is unable to meet the obligations
assumed  under  reinsurance  agreements.  The  Hartford has  established  strict
standards  that  govern  the  placement  of   reinsurance   and  monitors  ceded
reinsurance  security.  Virtually  all of The  Hartford's  property and casualty
reinsurance  is placed  with  reinsurers  that meet  strict  financial  criteria
established by a credit committee.

Consistent  with normal industry  practice,  HLI is involved in both the cession
and assumption of insurance with other insurance and reinsurance  companies.  As
of December 31, 1998, the maximum  amount of life insurance  retained on any one
life by any of the life operations is approximately $2.5,  excluding  accidental
death benefits.

INVESTMENT OPERATIONS

An important  element of the financial  results of The Hartford is the return on
invested  assets.  The Hartford's  investment  activities are primarily  divided
between property and casualty and life operations.  The investment portfolios of
both the  property and casualty  and life  operations  are managed  based on the
underlying characteristics and nature of their respective liabilities.

The  investment  objective of property and  casualty  operations  is to maximize
economic value while  generating  after-tax  income and sufficient  liquidity to
meet corporate and policyholder  obligations.  Property and casualty  investment
strategies are developed based on a variety of factors including business needs,
regulatory requirements and tax considerations.

The primary investment  objective of the life operation's  general account is to
maximize after-tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters, including
the management of the interest rate  sensitivity of invested  assets relative to
that of policyholder obligations.

For a further discussion of The Hartford's approach to managing risks, including
derivative  utilization,  see the Capital Markets Risk Management section of the
MD&A, as well as Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

REGULATION AND PREMIUM RATES

Insurance  companies are subject to  comprehensive  and detailed  regulation and
supervision  throughout the United States. The extent of such regulation varies,
but generally has its source in statutes which delegate regulatory,  supervisory
and administrative powers to state insurance departments. Such powers relate to,
among other things,  the standards of solvency that must be met and  maintained;
the licensing of insurers and their  agents;  the nature of and  limitations  on
investments; premium rates; claim handling and trade practices;  restrictions on
the size of risks  which  may be  insured  under a single  policy;  deposits  of
securities for the benefit of policyholders;  approval of policy forms; periodic
examinations of the affairs of companies;  annual and other reports  required to
be filed on the financial  condition of companies or for other purposes;  fixing

                                     - 7 -

maximum  interest  rates on life  insurance  policy loans and minimum  rates for
accumulation  of  surrender  values;  and the  adequacy  of  reserves  and other
necessary  provisions for unearned premiums,  unpaid claims and claim adjustment
expenses and other liabilities, both reported and unreported.

Regulatory  requirements  applying to property and casualty  premium  rates vary
from state to state,  but generally  provide that rates shall not be inadequate,
excessive  or  unfairly  discriminatory.  Rates  for  many  products,  including
automobile and homeowners insurance, are subject to prior regulatory approval in
many  states.  Ocean  marine  insurance  rates are exempt from rate  regulation.
Subject to regulatory requirements,  management determines the rates charged for
its policies.  Methods for arriving at rates vary by product,  exposure  assumed
and size of risk.

While premium rates in the property and casualty  insurance business are for the
most part subject to regulation,  such rates are not in most  instances  uniform
for all  insurers  within a given  jurisdiction,  or in all  jurisdictions.  The
Hartford is a member of various fire, casualty and surety rating  organizations.
For some lines of business,  The Hartford  uses the rates and rating plans which
are filed by these organizations in the various states, while for other lines of
business it uses loss cost data  published by such  organizations.  The Hartford
also  uses  its  own  independent   rates  or  otherwise   departs  from  rating
organization rates, where appropriate.

Most states have enacted  legislation that regulates  insurance  holding company
systems such as The Hartford.  This  legislation  provides  that each  insurance
company in the system is required to register with the  insurance  department of
its state of domicile  and furnish  information  concerning  the  operations  of
companies  within the holding  company  system which may  materially  affect the
operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system.
All transactions within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair
and  equitable.  Notice to the insurance  departments  is required  prior to the
consummation  of  transactions  affecting the ownership or control of an insurer
and of certain  material  transactions  between an insurer and any entity in its
holding  company system.  In addition,  certain of such  transactions  cannot be
consummated without the applicable insurance department's prior approval.

State  insurance   regulations   require  property  and  casualty   insurers  to
participate   in  assigned  risk  plans,   reinsurance   facilities   and  joint
underwriting  associations,  which are  mechanisms to provide risks with various
basic or minimum  insurance  coverage  when they are not  available in voluntary
markets.  Such  mechanisms  are  most  prevalent  for  automobile  and  workers'
compensation  insurance,  but a majority of states also mandate participation in
so-called  FAIR Plans or Windstorm  Plans  providing  basic  property  coverage.
Additionally, some states mandate such participation in facilities for providing
medical  malpractice  insurance.  Participation  is based  upon the  amount of a
company's  written  premiums in a particular  state for the classes of insurance
involved.

The extent of insurance  regulation on business outside the United States varies
significantly among the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries
have  minimal   regulatory   requirements,   while  others   regulate   insurers
extensively.   Foreign  insurers  in  many  countries  are  faced  with  greater
restrictions   than   domestic   competitors   domiciled   in  that   particular
jurisdiction.  The Hartford's international operations are comprised of insurers
licensed in their respective countries and, therefore,  are subject to generally
less  restrictive  domestic  insurance  regulations.  The Monetary  Authority of
Singapore,  the regulatory  body in Singapore,  does not currently allow foreign
companies to own a majority share of local companies.

RATINGS

Reference is made to the Capital  Resources  and  Liquidity  section of the MD&A
under "Ratings".

RISK-BASED CAPITAL

Reference is made to the Capital  Resources  and  Liquidity  section of the MD&A
under "Risk-based Capital".

LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES

Reference is made to the Regulatory Initiatives and Contingencies section of the
MD&A under "Legislative Initiatives".

INSOLVENCY FUND

Reference is made to the Regulatory Initiatives and Contingencies section of the
MD&A under "Insolvency Fund".

NAIC PROPOSALS

Reference is made to the Regulatory Initiatives and Contingencies section of the
MD&A under "NAIC Proposals".

YEAR 2000

Reference is made to the Regulatory Initiatives and Contingencies section of the
MD&A under "Year 2000".

EMPLOYEES

The Hartford had approximately 25,000 employees as of February 28, 1999.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE HARTFORD

Information about the executive  officers of The Hartford who are also directors
and/or  nominees for election as directors is set forth in The  Hartford's  1999
Proxy Statement.  In addition to those executive  officers who are listed in the
1999 Proxy Statement,  listed below are other Company  executive  officers,  the
majority of whom have served in similar  positions for The Hartford prior to the
Distribution (referred to herein as "Hartford Fire"):

JOSEPH H. GAREAU,  52, has been Executive  Vice  President and Chief  Investment
Officer of Hartford  Fire since 1993 and became  Executive  Vice  President  and
Chief Investment Officer of the Company in December 1995. Prior to that time, he
served as Senior Vice  President and Chief  Investment  Officer for the domestic
property and casualty  operations of Hartford

                                     - 8 -

Fire. Mr. Gareau was elected Vice President of Hartford Fire in 1987.

JOHN N.  GIAMALIS,  41, has been Senior Vice  President  and  Controller  of The
Hartford   since  December  1998.  He  joined  The  Hartford  in  January  1997,
functioning as Vice President and Corporate Controller and Director of Corporate
Financial  Reporting and Analysis.  Prior to joining The Hartford,  Mr. Giamalis
held senior financial  positions in the insurance and technology  industries and
served in public accounting as Senior Manager with Deloitte & Touche.

HELEN G.  GOODMAN,  58, has been  Senior  Vice  President,  Human  Resources  of
Hartford Fire since 1994 and became Group Senior Vice President, Human Resources
of the Company in December  1995.  Prior to that time,  she held the position of
Senior Vice President, Human Resources for Tambrands Inc.

EDWARD L. MORGAN,  55, has been Senior Vice President,  Corporate  Relations and
Government  Affairs of  Hartford  Fire since 1993 and became  Group  Senior Vice
President, Corporate Relations and Government Affairs of the Company in December
1995.  From 1991 to 1993, he served as Vice  President and Director of Corporate
Relations of Hartford Fire.  Prior to that time, Mr. Morgan held the position of
Vice President of Corporate Relations at Allstate Insurance Company.

MICHAEL S. WILDER,  57, has been Senior Vice  President  of Hartford  Fire since
1987 and General  Counsel of Hartford  Fire since 1975.  He became  Group Senior
Vice President and General Counsel of the Company in December 1995.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The Hartford owns the land and buildings  comprising  its Hartford  location and
other  properties  within the  greater  Hartford,  Connecticut  area which total
approximately 1.6 million square feet. The Hartford's international subsidiaries
own  approximately  218 thousand square feet of office space in the Netherlands,
12 thousand  square feet in Spain,  7 thousand  square feet in Singapore and 600
square feet of office space in the United  Kingdom.  In  addition,  The Hartford
leases approximately 5.0 million square feet throughout the United States and 24
thousand square feet in other countries.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Hartford is a defendant in various lawsuits arising out of its business.  In
the opinion of management,  final outcome of these matters,  after consideration
of  provisions  made  for  potential  losses  and  costs  of  defense,  will not
materially affect the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows of The Hartford.

The Hartford is involved in claims litigation  arising in the ordinary course of
business and  accounts for such  activity  through the  establishment  of policy
reserves.  As  further  discussed  above  and  in the  MD&A  under  the  section
Environmental   and  Asbestos   Claims,   The  Hartford   continues  to  receive
environmental  and  asbestos  claims  which  involve   significant   uncertainty
regarding  policy  coverage  issues.   Regarding  these  claims,   The  Hartford
continually  reviews its overall reserve  levels,  reserving  methodologies  and
reinsurance coverages.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders of The Hartford during the
fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.

PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE HARTFORD'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Hartford's  common stock is traded on the New York Stock  Exchange  ("NYSE")
under the trading symbol "HIG".

On May 21, 1998,  the Board of Directors  authorized a  two-for-one  stock split
effected in the form of a 100% stock  dividend  distributed  on July 15, 1998 to
shareholders  of record as of June 24, 1998.  The following  table  presents the
high and low closing prices for the common stock of The Hartford on the NYSE for
the periods indicated,  and the quarterly dividends declared per share, restated
to reflect the effect of the stock split.

                           1st Qtr.  2nd Qtr.  3rd Qtr.  4th Qtr.
- - -------------------------- --------- --------- --------- --------
Common Stock Price
   High                     $54.56     $57.50    $59.56   $57.75
   Low                       44.75      52.38     44.75    38.19
Dividends Declared            0.21       0.21      0.21     0.22
- - -------------------------- --------- --------- --------- --------
Common Stock Price
   High                     $40.38     $43.13    $44.00   $46.78
   Low                       32.81      34.31     39.88    39.72
Dividends Declared            0.20       0.20      0.20     0.20
- - -------------------------- --------- --------- --------- --------

As of February 26, 1999, there were approximately 55,000 shareholders of record.

On October 15, 1998, The Hartford's Board of Directors approved a 5% increase in
the quarterly  dividend to $0.22 per share.  Dividend decisions will be based on
and  affected  by a number of  factors,  including  the  operating  results  and
financial requirements of The Hartford and the impact of regulatory restrictions
discussed  in the  Capital  Resources  and  Liquidity  section of the MD&A under
"Liquidity Requirements".

There are also  various  legal  limitations  governing  the  extent to which The
Hartford's insurance  subsidiaries may extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise
provide funds to The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. as discussed in the
Capital   Resources  and  Liquidity   section  of  the  MD&A  under   "Liquidity
Requirements".

                                     - 9 -




Outlined in the table below are U.S.  Industry  Combined  Ratios for each of the
five years ended December 31:


                                     - 10 -


   ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
                            AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA, UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)

Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations  ("MD&A") addresses the financial condition of The Hartford Financial
Services Group,  Inc. and its subsidiaries  ("The Hartford" or the "Company") as
of December  31, 1998,  compared  with  December  31,  1997,  and its results of
operations  for the three years ended  December  31, 1998,  1997 and 1996.  This
discussion  should  be read  in  conjunction  with  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements and related Notes beginning on page F-1.

Certain of the statements  contained herein (other than statements of historical
fact) are forward-looking  statements.  Such forward-looking statements are made
pursuant to the safe harbor  provisions  of the  Private  Securities  Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and include  estimates and  assumptions  related to economic,
competitive and legislative developments.  These forward-looking  statements are
subject  to change and  uncertainty  which are,  in many  instances,  beyond the
Company's  control and have been made based upon  management's  expectations and
beliefs  concerning  future  developments  and their  potential  effect upon The
Hartford.  There  can  be no  assurance  that  future  developments  will  be in
accordance  with  management's   expectations  or  that  the  effect  of  future
developments  on The Hartford will be those  anticipated by  management.  Actual
results could differ  materially from those expected by The Hartford,  depending
on  the  outcome  of  certain  factors,   including  those  described  with  the
forward-looking statements herein.

Certain  reclassifications have been made to prior year financial information to
conform to the current year presentation.


INDEX

Consolidated Results of Operations: Operating Summary       11
North American Property & Casualty                          13
Commercial                                                  14
Personal                                                    15
Reinsurance                                                 16
Life                                                        17
International                                               20
Other Operations                                            22
Reserves                                                    23
Environmental and Asbestos Claims                           23
Investments                                                 25
Capital Markets Risk Management                             28
Capital Resources and Liquidity                             39
Regulatory Initiatives and Contingencies                    41
Effect of Inflation                                         43
Accounting Standards                                        43

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS:  OPERATING SUMMARY



The Hartford defines "core earnings" as after-tax operational results excluding,
as applicable,  net realized capital gains or losses,  the cumulative  effect of
accounting changes,  allocated  Distribution items (for additional  information,
see Note 16 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements)  and certain other
items. Core earnings is an internal  performance  measure used by the Company in
the  management of its  operations.  Management  believes that this  performance
measure delineates the results of operations of the Company's ongoing businesses
in a manner that allows for a better  understanding of the underlying  trends in
the Company's current business.  However,  core earnings should only be analyzed
in conjunction with, and not in lieu of, net income and may not be comparable to
other performance measures used by the Company's competitors.  

                                     - 11 -

Revenues for 1998 increased $1.6 billion,  or 12%, from 1997.  This  improvement
was due primarily to higher aggregate fees earned on growth in account values in
the Investment  Products and Individual  Life  operations  resulting from strong
sales and equity  market  appreciation,  the  recapture  of an in force block of
corporate  owned  life  insurance   ("COLI")  business   (referred  to  as  "MBL
Recapture")  previously  ceded to MBL Life  Assurance  Co. of New  Jersey  ("MBL
Life"),  an increase in earned premiums and service fee revenues in the Personal
segment and higher net investment income.  Partially  offsetting these increases
were lower net  realized  capital  gains.  In  addition,  revenues for 1998 also
increased  as a result of  proceeds  from the sale of  renewal  rights and other
considerations   related   to  the   Industrial   Risk   Insurance   pool  ("IRI
transaction").  (For an  analysis  of net  investment  income  and net  realized
capital gains, see the Investments section.)

In 1998,  core  earnings  increased  $67, or 9%, from 1997  primarily  due to an
increase  in  fees  earned  resulting  from  growth  in  account  values  in the
Investment  Products  and  Individual  Life  operations  due to strong sales and
equity market appreciation,  an increase in net other considerations,  primarily
as a result of the IRI transaction,  and higher net investment income. Partially
offsetting  these increases were a decrease in underwriting  results,  primarily
the  result  of  higher  catastrophe  losses,  as well as an  increase  in other
non-underwriting expenses.

Revenues for 1997 increased $884, or 7%, from 1996. The growth was primarily due
to increases in fee income earned on separate account assets,  higher group life
and disability sales and premium growth in the Reinsurance  segment and business
written under an exclusive licensing  arrangement with The American  Association
of Retired Persons ("AARP").  Partially  offsetting this increase was a decrease
in  COLI  premiums  as  a  result  of  the  Health  Insurance   Portability  and
Accountability  Act  of  1996  ("HIPA  Act  of  1996"),  which  phases  out  the
deductibility  of interest on policy loans under  leveraged  COLI by 1998, and a
decrease in premium in  mid-to-large  commercial  accounts  and agency  personal
lines.  Higher  net  investment  income  and net  realized  capital  gains  also
contributed to the revenue increase.

In 1997,  core earnings  increased  $212,  or 39%, from 1996  primarily due to a
reduction in domestic  property  catastrophe  and other  severe  weather-related
losses of $132,  after-tax.  Also  contributing  to the increase were higher net
investment income, growth in earnings in the Investment Products operation,  the
reduction  of incurred  environmental  and  asbestos  losses and a reduction  of
losses  on  guaranteed   investment  contract  ("GIC")  business.   Soft  market
conditions  related to automobile  insurance in the United Kingdom and increased
debt service costs partially offset the increase.

NET REALIZED CAPITAL GAINS

See "Investment Results" in the Investments section.

OTHER ITEMS

Net income for 1997  includes a $368  equity  gain  resulting  from the  initial
public  offering of Hartford Life, Inc.  ("HLI"),  the holding company parent of
The Hartford's  significant  life insurance  subsidiaries,  Class A common stock
("The  Offering").  (For  additional  information,   see  Note  2  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements and Capital  Resources and Liquidity section
under "The Offering".)

Net income for 1996 includes other charges related to environmental and asbestos
reserve  increases,  net of taxes, of $429 in North American Property & Casualty
and $81 in Other  Operations  (as  discussed in the  Environmental  and Asbestos
Claims section),  recognition of losses on GIC business of $169 (as discussed in
the Life section) and other,  primarily foreign tax-related items, of $2 in each
of North  American  Property & Casualty  and the Life  segment  and $10 in Other
Operations.

INCOME TAXES

The  effective  tax  rates  for  1998,  1997 and  1996  were  26%,  25% and 20%,
respectively,  excluding the impact of other items, as discussed  above, in 1997
and 1996. The increase in the effective tax rate for 1997 was due to a reduction
in the proportionate  share of tax-exempt net investment income to total pre-tax
income for 1997 compared to 1996.  Tax-exempt interest earned on invested assets
was the  principal  cause of effective  rates lower than the 35% U.S.  statutory
rate.  Income taxes paid  (refunds  received) in 1998,  1997 and 1996 were $407,
$(37) and $170, respectively.  (For additional information, see Note 14 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

MINORITY INTEREST IN CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARY

Minority  interest in  consolidated  subsidiary  represents an  approximate  19%
minority interest in HLI's operating results. (For additional  information,  see
Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements and Capital Resources and
Liquidity section under "The Offering".)

PER COMMON SHARE

On May 21, 1998,  the Board of Directors  authorized a  two-for-one  stock split
effected in the form of a 100% stock  dividend  distributed  on July 15, 1998 to
shareholders of record as of June 24, 1998. The following  table  represents per
common share data, restated to reflect the effect of the stock split, and return
on equity for the past three years:

                                        1998     1997      1996
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
Basic earnings per share                $4.36    $5.64    ($0.42)
Weighted average common shares
  outstanding                           232.8    236.0     234.5
Diluted earnings per share              $4.30    $5.58    ($0.42)
Weighted average common shares
  outstanding and dilutive potential
  common shares                         236.2    238.9     234.5
Return on equity [1]                     18.7%    28.3%     (2.3)%
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
[1] Calculated  by  dividing  net  income  (loss) by  average  equity  excluding
    unrealized  gain,  after-tax.  In 1997 and 1996,  return on equity excluding
    other  items (as  discussed  earlier)  from net income  (loss) was 20.5% and
    13.8%, respectively.

                                     - 12 -

SEGMENT RESULTS

The Hartford's reporting segments consist of Commercial,  Personal, Reinsurance,
Life,  International and Other  Operations.  While the measure of profit or loss
used by The Hartford's management in evaluating performance is core earnings for
the Life, International and Other Operations segments, the Commercial,  Personal
and Reinsurance  segments are evaluated by The Hartford's  management  primarily
based upon  underwriting  results.  While not considered a segment,  the Company
also reports and evaluates core earnings  results for North American  Property &
Casualty,  which include the combined  underwriting  results of the  Commercial,
Personal  and  Reinsurance  segments,  along with income and  expense  items not
directly  allocable  to these  segments  such as net  investment  income and net
realized  capital gains and losses.  Other Operations  include  operations which
have ceased  writing new  business.  Also,  included in Other  Operations is the
effect of an approximate 19% minority interest in HLI's operating results.

Certain  transactions  between  segments  occur  during the year that  primarily
relate to tax settlements, insurance coverage, expense reimbursements,  services
provided and capital  contributions.  Certain  reinsurance  stop loss agreements
exist between the segments which specify that one segment will reimburse another
for losses  incurred in excess of a predetermined  limit.  Also, one segment may
purchase  group annuity  contracts  from another to fund pension costs and claim
annuities to settle casualty claims.

The  following  is a summary of  underwriting  results by segment  within  North
American Property & Casualty.

                                    1998      1997       1996
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
Commercial                       $   (213)  $  (149)  $   (206)
Personal                               77        37       (110)
Reinsurance                           (36)      (14)       (10)
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL [1]                     $   (172)  $  (126)  $   (326)
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
[1] 1996 excludes the impact of a $660,  before-tax,  environmental and asbestos
charge.

The following is a summary of core earnings and net income (loss).

CORE EARNINGS                       1998      1997       1996
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
N. A. Property & Casualty        $    457   $   433   $    270
Life                                  386       306        200
International                          42        46         79
Other Operations                      (69)      (36)       (12)
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
   CORE EARNINGS                 $    816   $   749   $    537
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------

NET INCOME (LOSS)                   1998      1997       1996
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
N. A. Property & Casualty        $    604   $   583   $   (151)
Life                                  386       306         24
International                          92       110        127
Other Operations [1]                  (67)      333        (99)
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
   NET INCOME (LOSS)             $  1,015   $ 1,332   $    (99)
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------

[1] 1997 includes a $368 equity gain resulting from the initial public  offering
of HLI.

A description of North American  Property & Casualty,  along with each reporting
segment,  as well as an analysis of the operating  results  summarized above, is
included on the following pages.  Reserves,  Environmental  and Asbestos Claims,
and Investments are discussed in separate sections.




As  discussed  above,  The  Hartford's  management  reviews  and  evaluates  the
performance  of the three segments  within North  American  Property & Casualty,
Commercial,  Personal  and  Reinsurance,  primarily on an  underwriting  results
basis.  The

                                     - 13 -

combined  underwriting  results,  along with items not directly allocable to the
individual  segments,  are used in  determining  net income and core earnings of
North  American  Property  &  Casualty.  Items  not  directly  allocable  to the
individual  segments include net investment  income,  net realized capital gains
and losses,  other  non-underwriting  expenses,  income taxes and certain  other
items.

The following is a summary of North  American  Property & Casualty core earnings
by major component  after-tax.  Core earnings exclude net realized capital gains
and other items.

                                1998        1997       1996
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
Underwriting results [1]      $  (112)   $    (82)  $   (212)
Net other considerations           52           3         15
Net investment income             656         619        531
Interest and other non-
  underwriting expenses [2]      (139)       (107)       (64)
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
   CORE EARNINGS              $   457    $    433   $    270
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  1996 excludes the impact of a $429,  after-tax,  environmental and asbestos
     charge.
[2]  Excludes expenses related to other considerations.

Underwriting  results are  discussed  in each of the  Commercial,  Personal  and
Reinsurance  segment  sections.  Net  investment  income  is  discussed  in  the
Investments section.

Core  earnings  in 1998 for North  American  Property & Casualty  were $457,  an
increase of $24, or 6%, from 1997.  The increase was  primarily due to a $37, or
6%,  increase  in  net  investment  income  and  a $49  increase  in  net  other
considerations (primarily as a result of the IRI transaction),  partially offset
by a $30, or 37%, decrease in after-tax  underwriting results and a $32, or 30%,
increase in interest and other non-underwriting expenses.

Core  earnings  in 1997 for North  American  Property & Casualty  were $433,  an
increase of $163, or 60%,  from 1996.  The increase was primarily due to a $130,
or 61%,  improvement  in  after-tax  underwriting  results  and an $88,  or 17%,
increase in net investment  income,  partially offset by a $12, or 80%, decrease
in net other  considerations  and a $43, or 67%,  increase in interest and other
non-underwriting expenses.

Interest and other non-underwriting expenses increased $32 in 1998 from 1997 and
$43 in 1997 from 1996, on an after-tax basis. The increase in 1998 was primarily
the result of an increase  in certain  corporate  benefit  and outside  services
expenses,  while the 1997 increase was  primarily  the result of increased  debt
costs  from  additional  borrowings  and a  reallocation  of debt costs to North
American Property & Casualty.



Commercial  provides workers'  compensation,  property,  automobile,  liability,
marine,  agricultural and bond coverages to commercial  accounts  throughout the
United States and Canada. Excess and surplus lines business not normally written
by standard lines insurers is also provided.  Commercial is organized into three
customer  markets:  Business  Insurance,   Commercial  Affinity  and  Commercial
Specialty.  Business Insurance provides standard  commercial  business for small
accounts  ("Select  Customer")  and  mid-sized  insureds.   Commercial  Affinity
provides commercial risk management products and services to members of affinity
groups and customers of financial  institutions.  Commercial  Specialty provides
insurance  through  retailers and  wholesalers to large  commercial  clients and
insureds requiring a variety of specialized  coverages.  Its results include the
bond lines and First State Management Group, a leading underwriter of excess and
surplus  lines  business   produced   primarily   through   wholesale   brokers.
Agricultural,  livestock and marine products are also managed within  Commercial
Specialty.

Written  premiums  decreased  slightly in 1998  compared to 1997.  Solid premium
growth  in the small  commercial  businesses,  Select  Customer  and  Commercial
Affinity,  as well as in the bond and  agricultural  lines,  totaled 11% in 1998
compared to 1997.  These growth  businesses  represented  42% of the  Commercial
segment's  written  premiums and  contributed 4% to the segment's  total written
premium  growth.  Enhanced  product  offerings,  specific  geographic  expansion
strategies  and  partnerships  with other  entities were the primary  drivers of
these growth businesses.  These increases,  however,  were offset by declines in
the middle and large national account businesses  primarily due to intense price
competition  in the  casualty  lines,  where  disciplined  underwriting  allowed
business to move to other carriers rather than under pricing in order to

                                     - 14 -

retain accounts. In addition, the disposal of IRI in early 1998 and another unit
in late 1997, with combined written premiums of $53 in 1997,  contributed to the
lack of growth in the Commercial  segment.  Excluding the impact of the disposed
businesses,  1998 total Commercial written premiums would have increased 2% over
1997.

Underwriting  results  decreased $64, or 1.7 combined  ratio points,  in 1998 as
compared  with 1997.  Increases  in property  catastrophe  losses of $70, or 2.1
combined ratio points,  were the primary  factor in the decline,  as catastrophe
experience was worse in 1998 as compared to the highly  favorable  experience in
the  prior  year.  In  addition,  intense  price  competition  in  the  mid  and
large-sized  marketplace has resulted in reduced profit margins, as decreases in
rate and price,  particularly in the workers'  compensation  line, have outpaced
loss cost savings. The Commercial segment,  however, does continue to experience
the benefit of its extensive cost containment strategies which mitigate the rate
and price pressure on underwriting results.

Written  premiums  decreased  $63, or 2%, in 1997  compared  with 1996.  Premium
growth in several  markets  and lines of  business  including  Select  Customer,
Commercial  Affinity,  bond,  marine and  agriculture,  Specialty  Property  and
Specialty  Casualty  totaled 6% in 1997,  contributing 3% to the segment's total
written  premium growth rate.  However,  this total premium growth was more than
offset by a 23% decline in large national accounts caused by declining  workers'
compensation rates and intense price competition.

In 1997,  underwriting  results  improved  $57, or 1.3  combined  ratio  points,
compared  with  the  prior  year.  The  primary  factors   contributing  to  the
improvement   were   reductions  in  property   catastrophe   and  other  severe
weather-related  losses of $76 and a  reduction  of asbestos  and  environmental
incurred  losses  of $67.  Also,  favorable  loss and loss  expense  development
trends,  particularly in workers'  compensation  and other casualty lines,  were
generated through the execution of the segment's total cost containment strategy
which  included loss  prevention and avoidance,  early  reporting,  active claim
management  and  prompt  return  to  work  programs.  Partially  offsetting  the
favorable  losses  described  above,  was a $103  reduction in earned  premiums,
primarily from the declining written premiums from large national accounts.

OUTLOOK

Difficult market conditions and intense price competition within many markets of
the commercial  sector are likely to continue into the foreseeable  future.  The
combined  effects  of  excess  capital,  decreasing  demand  and  new  forms  of
competition  have  particularly  impacted the mid-to-large  commercial  accounts
markets over the past few years. In response to these conditions, the Commercial
segment has undertaken several major strategic  actions,  with many completed in
1998.  Pricing actions in the  mid-to-large  account  marketplace were initiated
during 1998 and are expected to have a positive impact on profitability in 1999.
Strategic  alliances  have been formed with several major  national and regional
banks,  insurance  and other  companies to market  commercial  products to their
customers.  Investments  in such  areas as  advertising,  product  research  and
development,  technology  and staff  training  have  continued,  in an effort to
heighten  brand   awareness,   increase  product   offerings,   further  develop
alternative distribution channels and improve productivity.  Management believes
the result of these and other  actions  taken may  counterbalance  the  negative
external  factors in the commercial  market and position the Commercial  segment
for improved written premium growth in 1999 and beyond,  while  maintaining core
profitability.




Personal provides automobile, homeowners, home-based business and fire coverages
to individuals  throughout  the United States.  Personal is organized to provide
customized products and services to five markets: the membership of AARP through
a direct  marketing  operation;  customers  who prefer  local agent  involvement
through a network of  independent  agents in the standard  personal lines market
and in the non-standard  automobile  market through Omni Insurance  Group,  Inc.
("Omni"),  which was  acquired  in 1998;  customers  of  financial  institutions
through an affinity  center  which  began in 1996 and is building  from the AARP
operation  competencies;  and customer service for all health insurance products
offered  through AARP's Health Care Options  effective  January 1, 1998.  AARP's
exclusive licensing  arrangement continues through the year 2002 for automobile,
homeowners  and  home-based  business and through 2007 for 


                                     - 15 -

Health Care  Options,  thus  providing  the  Personal  segment with an important
competitive advantage.

Written  premiums  increased  $327,  or 17%,  in 1998  compared  with 1997.  The
acquisition of Omni accounted for $167, or 9%, of the written premiums increase.
As of December 31, 1998,  non-standard  auto coverage through Omni was available
in 19  states  compared  with 13 states  at the time of  acquisition.  Favorable
underwriting experience was passed through to AARP members in reduced rates, and
the program posted a written premiums increase of $65, or 5%, contributing 3% to
the  segment's  total  written  premium  growth  in  1998.  Agency   experienced
substantial  premium growth improvement in 1998 with an increase of $67, or 11%,
contributing 4% to the segment's total written premium growth.  A primary driver
of this premium  growth was the  strategic  shift from  homeowners to automobile
coverages  which began in 1997. The Affinity unit,  which is still in a start-up
phase,  experienced  growth of $28,  or 105%,  in 1998,  contributing  1% to the
segment's total written premium growth.

Underwriting results improved by $40, with a corresponding 1.5 point improvement
in the combined  ratio,  in 1998 compared with 1997. The combined ratio decrease
resulted from loss cost  improvements in automobile and homeowners from expanded
cost  containment  initiatives,  effecting  the  combined  ratio by 3.8  points.
Offsetting this improvement were significantly  higher property  catastrophes in
1998 of $71 compared to $32 in 1997, impacting the combined ratio by 1.8 points,
and increased  underwriting expenses impacting the combined ratio by 0.5 points.
Property catastrophe and other severe  weather-related  experience was unusually
low  in  1997.  The  increase  in  underwriting   expenses  was  primarily  from
investments in growth  initiatives,  acquisition costs related to premium growth
and from investment in the Affinity unit start-up organization, partially offset
by lower dividends to policyholders.

Written premiums increased $29, or 2%, in 1997 compared to 1996 due primarily to
strong growth in AARP premiums of $78, or 7%,  contributing  4% to the segment's
total written  premium growth,  which benefited from the favorable  expansion of
this demographic group.  Partially offsetting the increase in AARP was a decline
in  Agency  premiums  of  $49,  or 7%,  contributing  a  reduction  of 3% to the
segment's total written premiums. The Agency decline in 1997 was due to the sale
of the Company's  Canadian  personal lines as well as disruption in the incoming
flow of  business  associated  with a major  strategic  shift in  emphasis  from
homeowners  to  automobile  coverages.  AARP  written  premiums of $1.3  billion
represented 67% of the 1997 Personal premiums, up from 64% in 1996.

Underwriting  results  improved by $147 in 1997 over 1996,  with a corresponding
6.6 point  improvement in the combined ratio. This improvement was primarily due
to  significantly  lower property  catastrophe and other severe  weather-related
losses of $137. Improved automobile and homeowners  profitability resulting from
expanded cost  containment  initiatives was partially offset by expenses related
to significant  investments in future growth  initiatives  and a $34 dividend to
policyholders  in  two  states  in  recognition  of  favorable   personal  lines
automobile results.

OUTLOOK

Intense  competition  in the  personal  markets  will remain in the  foreseeable
future,  primarily in the personal  automobile  line.  Several  major  strategic
actions  have been  initiated  over the past two years,  with many  completed in
1998.  Aggressive  entry  into  and  subsequent  expansion  in the  non-standard
personal  automobile  insurance market through the acquisition of Omni, in early
1998, provides the Personal segment with a highly-regarded and  well-established
franchise as a leverage for future growth. (For additional information,  see the
Capital Resources and Liquidity section under "Omni".) Strategic  alliances have
been formed with several major  national and regional  banks to market  personal
products to their  customers.  The Hartford  Customer  Services Group contracted
with AARP to service its group health  insurance  plan  partners and  recipients
beginning  January 1, 1998.  Investments in such areas as  advertising,  product
research and development,  agency relations,  technology and staff training have
continued, in an effort to heighten brand awareness, increase product offerings,
further develop alternative distribution channels and improve productivity. As a
result  of these and other  actions  taken,  management  believes  the  Personal
segment is positioned for continued written premium growth increases in 1999 and
beyond, while maintaining core profitability.



                                     - 16 -

The Hartford assumes reinsurance  worldwide through its ten Hartford Reinsurance
Company   ("HartRe")  offices  located  in  Hartford,   San  Francisco,   Miami,
Philadelphia,  Toronto,  London,  Madrid,  Munich, Hong Kong and Taipei.  HartRe
primarily writes treaty reinsurance  through  professional  reinsurance  brokers
covering various property, casualty, specialty and marine classes of business.

Written premiums  increased $23, or 3%, in 1998 primarily due to the acquisition
of renewal  rights for the  reinsurance  business of a large  Italian  insurance
company and a significant single finite risk account. Partially offsetting these
increases were reductions in North American and European premiums caused by rate
reductions arising from market conditions and the impact of unfavorable  foreign
exchange rates on Hong Kong premiums.  Written premiums  increased $117, or 20%,
in 1997 primarily due to the  acquisition in late 1996 of renewal rights for the
business of Security Re and San Francisco Re.

Underwriting  results for 1998 decreased $22, or 3.1 combined ratio points, from
1997 due  primarily to the impact of higher net property  catastrophe  losses of
$47,  which were somewhat  offset by increased  new business  premiums in finite
casualty  which has a lower  combined  ratio than  traditional  casualty  lines.
Underwriting  results for 1997 decreased $4, or 0.5 combined ratio points,  from
1996 as  favorable  worldwide  property  catastrophe  experience  was  offset by
increasingly competitive market conditions which softened premium rate levels.

OUTLOOK

The reinsurance  market is highly  competitive and prices remain relatively soft
in most product lines in most parts of the world.  While HartRe remains  focused
on its long-term  goals, the discipline of writing  profitable  business will be
maintained,  even  at  the  expense  of  premium  growth.  On a  positive  note,
responsible  buyers are looking to establish  core  relationships  with a select
group of financially  strong  reinsurers which possess  specialized  product and
geographic spread, service capabilities,  and expertise.  HartRe stands ready to
capitalize on these strengths in view of the changing marketplace.



The Life segment  consists of the following  reportable  operations:  Investment
Products, Individual Life, Employee Benefits and COLI. The Life segment includes
in an Other category its international  operations,  which are primarily located
in Latin  America,  and  corporate  items not  directly  allocable to any of its
reportable operations.

On May 22, 1997, HLI, the holding  company parent of The Hartford's  significant
life subsidiaries, completed the initial public offering of approximately 19% of
its common  stock.  (For  additional  information,  see  Capital  Resources  and
Liquidity section under "The Offering".)

Revenues  increased  $1.1  billion,  or 23%,  to $5.8  billion in 1998 from $4.7
billion in 1997. The increase was due to the continued growth of revenues in the
Investment  Products  operation of $274 and the Individual Life operation of $57
as a result of higher  aggregate  fees earned on growth in account values due to
strong sales and equity market appreciation.  Additionally, revenues in the COLI
operation  increased  $587 primarily due to the fourth quarter of 1998 recapture
of an in force  block of COLI  business  previously  ceded to MBL  Life.  Higher
revenues in the Employee  Benefits  operation of $109,  primarily  due to strong
sales and renewals, also contributed to the revenue increase.

Core  earnings  increased  $80,  or 26%,  to $386 in  1998  from  $306 in  1997,
primarily  as a result of an increase in  earnings  in the  Investment  Products
operation of $64 and in the Individual  Life operation of $9, both of which were
driven by fees earned on increased  separate  account assets due to strong sales
and equity market appreciation.  Additionally, earnings in the 

                                     - 17 -

Employee  Benefits  operation  increased $13  principally  due to an increase in
group insurance revenue and favorable mortality and morbidity experience.

Revenues  increased  $319,  or 7%, to $4.7  billion in 1997 from $4.4 billion in
1996. The growth was primarily due to the Investment  Products  operation  where
revenues  increased  $503 in 1997 from 1996 as a result of fee income  earned on
growth in separate  account assets due to strong annuity sales and equity market
appreciation.  Investment  Products revenues were also impacted by the segment's
GIC  business,  where  revenues  increased  $205,  primarily  as a result of net
realized capital losses in the third quarter of 1996. Additionally, strong sales
and renewals related to the Employee Benefits operation  contributed $237 to the
revenue  growth.  Partially  offsetting  these  increases was a decrease in COLI
revenues of $380 due to the HIPA Act of 1996, which virtually eliminated all new
sales of leveraged COLI.

Core  earnings  increased  $106,  or 53%,  to $306 in 1997  from  $200 in  1996,
primarily  as a result of an increase in  earnings  in the  Investment  Products
operation of $107. This growth was the result of increased  earnings of $51 from
individual  annuity  products  which was driven by fees earned on an increase in
total account value due to strong sales and equity market appreciation,  as well
as a reduction in losses of $50 in the GIC business as a result of actions taken
in the third  quarter  of 1996.  Earnings  in the  Employee  Benefits  operation
increased $13 principally due to growth in group insurance revenue and favorable
mortality and morbidity experience. In addition, earnings in the Individual Life
operation increased $12 due to fees earned on total account value which grew due
to strong  sales and equity  market  appreciation.  Partially  offsetting  these
increases  was a decrease in core  earnings of $27 in Other due  primarily to an
increase in capital  allocated  to the  operations,  as well as higher  interest
expense as a result of increased  indebtedness in conjunction with the Offering.
(For additional  information,  see Capital Resources and Liquidity section under
"The Offering" and "Debt".) In addition,  the 1997 results were impacted by a $6
operating loss related to the Life segment's international operations.




The following describes each operation, including products and services offered,
and analyzes the above results.

Investment Products
- - -------------------

The Investment Products operation focuses on the savings and retirement needs of
the growing  number of  individuals  who are  preparing  for  retirement or have
already  retired through the sale of individual  annuities and other  investment
products.  The individual annuity products offered include  individual  variable
annuities,  fixed market value adjusted  (MVA)  annuities and fixed and variable
immediate annuities. The other investment products offered include retail mutual
funds, deferred compensation and retirement plan services, structured settlement
contracts,  other special  purpose annuity  contracts and investment  management
services.  The Company was ranked the number one writer of  individual  variable
annuities  in the United  States for 1998  according  to  Variable  Annuity  and
Research Data Service (VARDS) with a 10% market share. In addition,  mutual fund
assets of approximately  $2.5 billion at December 31, 1998 were more than double
prior year levels.

Revenues in 1998  increased  $274,  or 18%, to $1.8 billion from $1.5 billion in
1997. This growth was driven by individual annuity revenues which increased $268
over the prior  year due to fee  income  earned on  growth in  separate  account
assets.  Average  individual  variable  annuity  account values  increased $14.9
billion, or 38%, to $54.6 billion in 1998 from $39.7 billion in 1997,  primarily
due to continued strong sales of individual variable annuities as well as equity
market appreciation.  Individual variable annuity sales reached $9.9 billion and
$9.7 billion in 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  Associated  with the strong sales
and continued  growth in Investment  Products,  amortization  of deferred  costs
increased  $76 and  other  expenses  increased  $107  over  prior  year  levels.
Substantial  growth  in total  average  account  values  in 1998,  coupled  with
continued operating  efficiencies,  increased the operation's core earnings $64,
or 32%, to $266 in 1998 from $202 in 1997.

Revenues  increased  $503,  or 50%, to $1.5 billion in 1997 from $1.0 billion in
1996. This increase was primarily due to improved  individual  annuity  revenues
which increased $253, reflecting a substantial increase in aggregate fees earned
as a 

                                     - 18 -

result of the  operation's  growing block of separate  account  assets.  Average
individual  variable  annuity  account values  increased  $13.1 billion to $39.7
billion in 1997 from $26.6  billion in 1996,  primarily  due to strong  sales of
individual  variable  annuities,  as  well as  equity  market  appreciation.  In
addition,  $205 of the revenue  increase was related to GIC business,  which was
primarily  impacted by $219 of net realized  capital losses in the third quarter
of  1996.  Associated  with  the  strong  sales  and  continued  growth  in this
operation,  benefits,  claims and  expenses  grew $67 over the prior year. A 27%
growth  in  total  average  account  value  in  1997,   coupled  with  operating
efficiencies  and a reduction in losses of $50  primarily as a result of actions
taken in the third quarter of 1996 related to GIC,  increased core earnings $107
to $202 in 1997 from $95 in 1996.

Individual Life
- - ---------------

The Individual Life operation, which focuses on the high end estate and business
planning markets, sells a variety of life insurance products, including variable
life, universal life, interest-sensitive whole life and term life insurance.

Revenues in 1998  increased  $57, or 11%, to $567 from $510 in 1997,  reflecting
the impact of applying  cost of insurance  charges and variable life fees earned
on the growing block of variable life  insurance.  Variable life average account
values  increased $562, or 67%, to $1.4 billion in 1998 from $840 in 1997 due to
strong sales of $127 in 1998, a 30% increase over prior year levels,  as well as
equity market appreciation. Total benefits, claims and claim adjustment expenses
and  amortization  of deferred costs increased $18 and $21,  respectively,  over
prior year levels. The growth in the Individual Life operation's account values,
particularly  variable life,  resulted in an increase in core earnings of $9, or
16%, in 1998.

Revenues in 1997  increased  $38, or 8%, to $510 from $472 in 1996. In the first
quarter of 1996,  a block of business  was assumed  from  Investors  Equity Life
Insurance   Company  which  increased  1996  revenues  by  $9.   Excluding  this
transaction,  1997  revenues  increased  $47,  or  10%,  as  compared  to  1996,
reflecting  the impact of applying  cost of insurance  charges and variable life
fees to a larger block of business. Total account values increased $555, or 17%,
to $3.8 billion in 1997 from $3.2 billion in 1996.  Total  benefits,  claims and
expenses  increased $19, or 5%, to $423 in 1997 from $404 in 1996. The growth in
the Individual  Life  operation's  account values,  particularly  variable life,
along with  favorable  mortality  experience  contributed to an increase in core
earnings of $12 in 1997.

Employee Benefits
- - -----------------

The Employee Benefits operation sells group life and group disability  insurance
as well as other products including stop loss and supplementary medical coverage
to  employers  and employer  sponsored  plans.  According to the latest  results
published by Life  Insurance  Marketing and Research  Association  (LIMRA),  the
Company was the second  largest  provider of group  disability  insurance in the
United States for the nine months ended September 30, 1998.

Revenues  increased  $109,  or 6%, to $1.8  billion in 1998 from $1.7 billion in
1997.  This  increase in revenues  was driven by strong  sales of fully  insured
business,  excluding  buyouts,  which were $397 in 1998,  an increase of $68, or
21%,  compared  to 1997.  This  growth in new sales was driven by group life and
group disability business where sales,  excluding buyouts,  grew 20% compared to
the prior  year.  Expenses  increased  $96, or 6%, as compared to the prior year
primarily  due  to  higher  benefits,   claims  and  claim  adjustment  expenses
associated with this growing block of business. As a result of increased premium
revenue, an increased level of investment in tax-exempt securities and favorable
mortality and morbidity experience,  core earnings increased $13, or 22%, to $71
in 1998 from $58 in 1997.

Similar  factors  generated  an increase  in  revenues of $237,  or 16%, to $1.7
billion in 1997 from $1.5  billion  in 1996.  Sales of fully  insured  business,
excluding  buyouts,  were $329 in 1997, an increase of $91, or 38%,  compared to
1996.  Expenses  increased $224, or 16%, as compared to the prior year primarily
due to higher benefits,  claims and claim adjustment expenses. As a result, core
earnings increased $13, or 29%, to $58 in 1997 from $45 in 1996.

Corporate Owned Life Insurance
- - ------------------------------

The COLI operation  includes life  insurance  products sold for funding of other
post employment  benefits and other  non-qualified  benefit programs provided by
corporations, and also includes business sold on a leveraged basis.

Revenues in this operation  increased $587, or 60%, to $1.6 billion in 1998 from
$980 in 1997. This increase was primarily due to revenues of $624 related to the
recapture of an in force block of leveraged  COLI  business from MBL Life in the
fourth quarter of 1998, as discussed  earlier.  In addition,  revenues increased
due to fee income on growing  variable COLI account values,  partially offset by
declines  in fees on  leveraged  COLI as that  block of  business  continues  to
decline due to the HIPA Act of 1996.  Benefits,  claims and  expenses  increased
$593, or 63%, to $1.5 billion in 1998 from $938 in 1997 due primarily to the MBL
Recapture  discussed  previously.  Core earnings  declined $3, or 11%, to $24 in
1998 from $27 in 1997 as the growth in the Company's  variable COLI business was
offset by the declining block of leveraged COLI. The MBL Recapture had no impact
on core earnings or net income in 1998.

COLI revenues decreased $380, or 28%, to $980 in 1997 from $1.4 billion in 1996.
Expenses  also  declined,  primarily  due to a $394  decrease  in  dividends  to
policyholders. These decreases were primarily the result of the HIPA Act of 1996
discussed above. Core earnings of $27 in 1997 were consistent with 1996.

OUTLOOK

Management believes that it has developed and implemented strategies to maintain
and  enhance its  position  as a market  leader  within the  financial  services
industry,  to continue the

                                     - 19 -

Life  segment's   asset  and  fully  insured  premium  growth  and  to  maximize
shareholder  value.  The Life  segment's  strong market  position in each of its
primary businesses, coupled with the growth potential management believes exists
in its markets,  provides  opportunities to increase sales of the Life segment's
products and services as individuals  increasingly save and plan for retirement,
protect  themselves and their families  against  disability or death and prepare
their estates for an efficient transfer of wealth between  generations.  Certain
proposed  legislative  initiatives  which  could  impact  the Life  segment  are
discussed in the Regulatory Initiatives and Contingencies section.



The International segment includes direct insurance business written by Zwolsche
Algemeene ("Zwolsche") located in the Netherlands,  Belgium and Luxembourg,  ITT
Ercos in Spain,  People's Insurance Company Limited ("People's  Insurance"),  of
which The Hartford  acquired a 49% interest in January  1998,  in Singapore  and
London & Edinburgh  Insurance Group,  Ltd.  ("London & Edinburgh") in the United
Kingdom,  until its sale by The Hartford in November  1998, as discussed  below.
These  companies  offer  property  and  casualty  products in both  personal and
commercial  lines as well as life  insurance  products and services  designed to
meet the needs of local  customers.  In  addition,  Other  primarily  represents
People's   Insurance  and  home  office   expenses   associated   with  managing
international operations.

On November 16, 1998,  The Hartford  completed the sale of London & Edinburgh to
Norwich  Union,  a leading  provider of general and life insurance in the United
Kingdom. The Hartford received approximately $525, before costs of sale, for the
ongoing  operations of London & Edinburgh.  The Hartford  retained  ownership of
Excess Insurance Co. Ltd., London & Edinburgh's  property and casualty insurance
and reinsurance  subsidiary,  which  discontinued  writing new business in 1993.
Excess  Insurance  Co.  Ltd.  is included  in The  Hartford's  Other  Operations
segment.  The gain from the sale of London & Edinburgh  of $33,  after-tax,  has
been reported in the investment  results of North American  Property & Casualty.
London & Edinburgh's operating results are included in the International segment
results  through the date of sale and,  therefore,  are not  comparable to prior
year results.

In 1998,  revenues of $1.6 billion  were $85, or 5%, lower than 1997,  primarily
due to the sale of London & Edinburgh  which reflects  operating  results to the
date of sale.  Excluding  London & Edinburgh,  revenue  growth over 1997 was 5%.
Market conditions in property and casualty business in the Netherlands were very
competitive,  resulting in nominal premium growth,  while life business produced
modest growth.  Zwolsche  revenue was down 4% due to lower net realized  capital
gains and a  negative  foreign  exchange  impact  due to  weakness  in the Dutch
Guilder.  ITT  Ercos  revenues  were  up  significantly  due  to 62%  growth  in
automobile  written  premiums.  Also,  People's  Insurance  contributed  $22  of
revenues in 1998.  Foreign exchange impacts on total revenues were negligible in
1998 as the strength in the Sterling offset weakness in the Guilder.

Core  earnings of $42 in 1998  decreased  $4, or 9%, from 1997.  The decrease in
core earnings from 1997 was due to declining automobile  underwriting results at
ITT Ercos, a slightly higher casualty loss ratio and higher expenses  related to
Year 2000 and Euro  conversion  initiatives  at Zwolsche  and higher home office
expenses in Other.  Partially  offsetting  these decreases were a $6 increase at
London and Edinburgh due to results  reflecting  operations  through the date of
sale.  The  increase at London & Edinburgh  was due to improved  personal  lines
results,  including  automobile,  offset by higher  losses from weather  events,
losses related to professional  liability claims and a lower effective tax rate.
A negative foreign exchange impact of $1 resulted primarily from weakness in the
Guilder.

In 1997, revenues of $1.7 billion were $138, or 9%, higher than 1996,  primarily
due to new business attributable to an agreement entered into at the end of 1996
with  Nationwide  Building  Society  ("Nationwide")  at  London &  Edinburgh  to
underwrite exclusively the homeowners business of Nationwide's customers. Growth
over 1996, excluding  Nationwide,  was dampened by soft market conditions in the
United Kingdom. In addition,  the U.S. dollar  strengthened  against the Guilder
and Peseta during 1997 compared to 1996,  while  weakening  against the Sterling
which overall had a negative foreign exchange impact on revenues of $17.


                                     - 20 -

Core earnings of $46 in 1997  decreased  $33, or 42%, from 1996. The decrease in
core earnings was due to a $33 decrease in after-tax underwriting results in the
automobile line at London & Edinburgh and unfavorable  foreign exchange of $5 in
the Netherlands, due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar.



London & Edinburgh
- - ------------------

As previously discussed, on November 16, 1998, the sale of London & Edinburgh to
Norwich Union was  completed and 1998 reported  results are for the period ended
at this date and,  therefore,  are not comparable to prior year results.  During
1998,  the United  Kingdom  market  continued to be very  competitive.  However,
revenue  growth  of  approximately  $70 in the  creditor  line of  business  and
revenues of approximately $40 from the addition of homeowners business more than
offset  reduced  growth in  automobile  and most  lines  within  the  commercial
business. For the ten month period ended October 31, 1998, property and casualty
revenue growth was 7%. During 1998,  foreign  exchange had a positive  impact on
revenues of $10.

Core  earnings  for the period ended  November  16, 1998 were $20.  During 1998,
improved  underwriting  results in personal  lines were offset by higher  losses
from weather events and losses  associated with  professional  liability claims.
While overall  operating  results  improved in 1998 versus the prior year,  soft
market conditions continued to prevail in most areas.

In 1997,  revenues at London & Edinburgh of $1.2 billion increased $169, or 16%,
over 1996. In local currency,  1997 revenues grew 10% overall with 25% growth in
net written  premiums.  The  increase in revenues  and net written  premiums was
primarily due to a new business  agreement  entered into at the end of 1996 with
Nationwide.  In 1997,  the  weakening  of the U.S.  dollar  against the Sterling
resulted in a positive foreign exchange impact on revenues of $59.

Core  earnings  for 1997 of $14  decreased  $34,  or 71%,  over  1996.  In local
currency, core earnings were down 72% as a result of a $31, after-tax,  decrease
in  the   underwriting   results  of  the   automobile   line,  due  to  reserve
strengthening.  The  foreign  exchange  impact  on core  earnings  for  1997 was
negligible.

Zwolsche
- - --------

In 1998,  revenues at Zwolsche of $413 decreased $19, or 4%, from 1997. In local
currency,  1998 total  revenues  decreased by 1%. The decrease in local currency
revenues was primarily due to a 22% decrease in net realized capital gains which
more  than  offset  net  written  premium  growth of 1% and 2% in  property  and
casualty and life operations,  respectively,  and overall net investment  income
growth of 11%. The property and casualty  market  remained very  competitive  in
1998 while the life business continued to be reasonably priced. Strengthening in
the U.S.  dollar  against the Guilder  resulted in a negative  foreign  exchange
impact on revenues of $14.

In 1998,  core  earnings at Zwolsche of $31 decreased $2, or 6%, from 1997. On a
local  currency  basis,  core  earnings also  decreased 6% from 1997.  Life core
earnings  increased  4% on a local  currency  basis,  with  continued  favorable
operating  performance in savings and asset management  product areas.  Property
and casualty  core  earnings on a local  currency  basis  decreased 18% due to a
slightly increased loss ratio and higher expenses  associated with Year 2000 and
Euro conversion  initiatives.  A  strengthening  U.S. dollar against the Guilder
negatively impacted core earnings by $1.

In 1997,  revenues at Zwolsche of $432 decreased $27, or 6%, over 1996. In local
currency,  1997  total  revenues  grew by 8% as a result  of 28%  growth  in net
realized capital gains and 9% net written premium growth in the life savings and
mortgage  product  lines.  All property and casualty lines were flat compared to
1996 net written  premium levels in local currency terms.  Strengthening  in the
U.S. dollar against the Guilder  resulted in a negative  foreign exchange impact
on revenues of $64.

In 1997,  core  earnings  of $33  improved  $1, or 3%,  over 1996 levels in U.S.
dollar terms. In local currency,  1997 core earnings  achieved 19% growth due to
strong  underwriting  results;  however,  this was offset by a negative  foreign
exchange impact on core earnings of $5.

ITT Ercos
- - ---------

In 1998,  revenues at ITT Ercos of $95  increased  $20, or 27%,  from 1997. On a
local  currency  basis,  revenues  also  increased  27% from 1997.  Property and
casualty net written  premiums  increased 38% on a local  currency  basis,  with
automobile business up 62%. This significant  increase was attributable to a new
centralized  agent service center  combined with risk  segmentation  and pricing
initiatives.  Life net written premiums  

                                     - 21 -

increased  12% on a local  currency  basis  due to  further  penetration  of the
existing agent distribution network.

In 1998,  the core  earnings  loss of $2 decreased $4 from 1997. In the property
and casualty business,  the combined ratio of 105.6 increased from 98.1 in 1997.
This increase was primarily due to a significantly  higher automobile loss ratio
that  resulted  from higher  claims due to  increased  frequency  and  severity.
Various  actions,  including rate increases and agent  cancellations,  have been
implemented to remediate this situation.

In 1997,  revenues  at ITT Ercos of $75  decreased  $3, or 4%, over 1996 in U.S.
dollars. In local currency, 1997 revenues grew by 13% overall with 27% growth in
net written  premiums of property and casualty  product  lines  together with 9%
growth in life  savings and mortgage  products.  Due to the  strengthening  U.S.
dollar, foreign exchange had an adverse effect of $12 on revenues.

In 1997, core earnings of $2 decreased $1, or 33%, from 1996. In local currency,
1997 core earnings  decreased 13%. Despite  improved  expense ratios,  operating
performance was down due to worsening underwriting  performance and lower yields
on the investment portfolio.  The strengthening of the U.S. dollar in 1997 had a
negligible foreign exchange impact on core earnings.

OUTLOOK

The outlook at Zwolsche for 1999 is for slow written  premium growth in property
and casualty due to continued soft market conditions.  Continued moderate growth
is  expected  for life  operations.  Growth  expectations  for life  savings and
pension  products in the  Netherlands  continues to be positive due to their tax
advantages and the expected continuation of a low interest rate environment. The
Company will continue to explore the viability of opportunities in both life and
property and casualty business in the Netherlands  during 1999 as the government
continues to review moving  certain  social  security  programs into the private
sector. In February 1998, Zwolsche obtained a bank license to support the growth
of the life and asset  management  business in the Netherlands and established a
company in Luxembourg to support the growth of its Belgium life operation.

The outlook for ITT Ercos in the Spanish market is for continued  strong growth,
primarily in automobile.  Management expects ITT Ercos will continue to build on
its unique  centralized  service  business model and segmented  underwriting and
pricing  skills.  ITT  Ercos  is  reviewing  various  alternative   distribution
opportunities  and has developed an enhanced strategy to grow its life business.
Management  expects the Spanish market to have growth  opportunities in life and
savings products in the years ahead.

The  International  segment  continues to explore  acquisition  opportunities in
Western  Europe,  Latin  America  and Asia.  People's  Insurance  is intended to
provide a base of operations for further Asian development.



Other  Operations  consist of property and casualty  operations  of The Hartford
which have discontinued writing new business. These operations primarily include
First State Insurance Company,  Fencourt  Reinsurance  Company,  Ltd.,  Heritage
Reinsurance  Company,  Ltd. and Excess Insurance  Company  Limited.  The primary
focus of  these  operations  is the  proper  disposition  of  claims,  resolving
disputes  and  collecting  reinsurance  proceeds  related  largely  to  business
underwritten and reinsured prior to 1985.

                                     - 22 -

Other items for 1997 consisted of a $368  non-taxable  equity gain following the
sale of approximately 19% of The Hartford's principal Life subsidiary, HLI. (For
additional information, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
and Capital  Resources and Liquidity  section under "The Offering".) Other items
in 1996  primarily  consisted  of an  increase  in  environmental  and  asbestos
reserves  at  First  State  Insurance   Company  of  $81  as  discussed  in  the
Environmental and Asbestos Claims section.

Revenues have remained flat since 1996. Core earnings included a decrease of $72
and $37 in 1998 and 1997,  respectively,  which  represented an approximate  19%
minority  interest  in HLI's  operating  results.  (For  additional  information
regarding HLI's results,  see the Life section.)  Excluding  minority  interest,
core earnings increased $2 in 1998 over 1997 and $13 in 1997 over 1996.

OUTLOOK

Except  for  the  uncertainties  related  to  dispute  resolution,   reinsurance
collection and those discussed in the Environmental and Asbestos Claims section,
management  does  not  anticipate  the  future  financial  performance  of Other
Operations  to have a  material  effect on the future  operating  results of the
Company.

RESERVES

The  Hartford  establishes  property  and  casualty  reserves to provide for the
estimated costs of paying claims made by policyholders or against policyholders.
These  reserves  include  estimates  for both claims that have been reported and
those that have been  incurred but not  reported,  and include  estimates of all
expenses  associated with  processing and settling these claims.  Estimating the
ultimate cost of future claims and claim adjustment expenses is an uncertain and
complex process. This estimation process is based largely on the assumption that
past developments are an appropriate  predictor of future events, and involves a
variety  of  actuarial  techniques  that  analyze  experience,  trends and other
relevant  factors.  The  uncertainties  involved with the reserving process have
become  increasingly  unpredictable due to a number of complex factors including
social and economic  trends and changes in the concepts of legal  liability  and
damage awards.  Accordingly,  final claim  settlements may vary from the present
estimates,  particularly  when those  payments may not occur until well into the
future.

The  Hartford  continually  reviews its  estimated  claims and claim  adjustment
expense  reserves  as  additional  experience  and other  relevant  data  become
available,   and  reserve  levels  are  adjusted  accordingly.   Adjustments  to
previously  established  reserves,  if any,  will be reflected in the  operating
results  of the  period in which the  adjustment  is made.  In the  judgment  of
management,  all information currently available has been properly considered in
the  reserves  established  for  claims  and claim  adjustment  expenses.  For a
discussion of environmental and asbestos claims and the uncertainties related to
these reserves, refer to the next section.

In  accordance  with the  insurance  laws and  regulations  under which the Life
segment  operates,   life  insurance  subsidiaries  of  The  Hartford  establish
actuarially  determined  reserves to meet their obligations on their outstanding
life and disability insurance contracts, as well as reserves for their universal
life and  investment  contracts.  Reserves  for life  insurance  and  disability
contracts  are based on  mortality  and  morbidity  tables in general use in the
United  States,  modified  to  reflect  The  Hartford's  experience.  Management
believes that these reserves,  with additions from premiums to be received,  and
with interest on such reserves  compounded  annually at certain  assumed  rates,
will be sufficient to meet The Hartford's policy obligations at their maturities
or in the event of an insured's death. Reserves for universal life insurance and
investment   products   represent  policy  account  balances  before  applicable
surrender charges.

ENVIRONMENTAL AND ASBESTOS CLAIMS

The Hartford  continues to receive claims asserting  damages from  environmental
exposures and for injuries from asbestos and asbestos-related  products, both of
which affect North American Property & Casualty along with the International and
Other Operations  segments.  Environmental  claims relate primarily to pollution
and related  clean-up  costs.  With regard to these claims,  uncertainty  exists
which  impacts the ability of insurers and  reinsurers  to estimate the ultimate
reserves for unpaid losses and related settlement  expenses.  The Hartford finds
that  conventional  reserving  techniques  cannot  estimate the ultimate cost of
these  claims  because  of  inadequate  development  patterns  and  inconsistent
emerging legal doctrine. For the majority of environmental claims and many types
of asbestos claims,  unlike any other type of contractual claim, there is almost
no agreement or consistent  precedent to determine what, if any, coverage exists
or which, if any, policy years and insurers or reinsurers may be liable. Further
uncertainty arises with  environmental  claims since claims are often made under
policies,  the existence of which may be in dispute, the terms of which may have
changed over many years,  which may or may not provide for legal defense  costs,
and which may or may not contain  environmental  exclusion  clauses  that may be
absolute or allow for fortuitous events. Courts in different  jurisdictions have
reached disparate  conclusions on similar issues and in certain  situations have
broadened the  interpretation  of policy coverage and liability issues. In light
of the extensive claim settlement process for environmental and asbestos claims,
involving  comprehensive fact gathering,  subject matter expertise and intensive
litigation, The Hartford established an environmental claims facility in 1992 to
defend itself aggressively against unwarranted claims and to minimize costs.

Within the property and casualty insurance  industry,  progress has been made in
developing sophisticated, alternative methodologies utilizing company experience
and supplemental

                                     - 23 -

databases to assess environmental and asbestos liabilities.  Consistent with The
Hartford's  practice  of using the best  techniques  to estimate  the  Company's
environmental and asbestos  exposures,  a study was initiated in April 1996. The
Hartford,  utilizing  internal staff supplemented by outside legal and actuarial
consultants, completed the study in October 1996. The study included a review of
identified  environmental  and asbestos  exposures of North American  Property &
Casualty,  along with the U.S. exposures of The Hartford's International segment
and exposures of the Other Operations segment. The methodology utilized a ground
up analysis of policy, site and exposure level data for a representative  sample
of The  Hartford's  claims.  The  results of the  evaluation  were  extrapolated
against the balance of the claim  population to estimate the  Company's  overall
exposure for reported claims.

In addition to estimating  liabilities  on reported  environmental  and asbestos
claims,  The Hartford  estimated  reserves for claims  incurred but not reported
("IBNR"). The IBNR reserve was estimated using information on reporting patterns
of  known  insureds,   characteristics  of  insureds  such  as  limits  exposed,
attachment points and number of coverage years involved,  third party costs, and
closed claims.

Included in The Hartford's  analysis of environmental and asbestos exposures was
a review of applicable reinsurance coverage.  Reinsurance coverage applicable to
the sample was used to estimate  the  reinsurance  coverage  that applied to the
balance  of the  reported  environmental  and  asbestos  claims  and to the IBNR
estimates.

An international  actuarial firm reviewed The Hartford's  approach and concluded
that the way the Company studied its exposures, the thoroughness of its analysis
and  the  way  The  Hartford  came  to  its  estimates   were   reasonable   and
comprehensive.

Upon  completion of the study and assessment of the results in October 1996, The
Hartford  determined  that its  environmental  and asbestos  reserves  should be
increased,  on an undiscounted basis, by $493 (net of reinsurance) and $292 (net
of reinsurance), respectively.

Reserve  activity for both reported and  unreported  environmental  and asbestos
claims, including reserves for legal defense costs, for the years ended December
31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, was as follows (net of reinsurance):





The Hartford's  pre-tax  operating  income has been impacted over the last three
years by  incurred  environmental  and  asbestos  claims  and  claim  adjustment
expenses,  net of  reinsurance,  as follows:  $6 in 1998, $2 in 1997 and $925 in
1996.

The Hartford  believes that the  environmental and asbestos reserves reported at
December 31, 1998 are a reasonable  estimate of the ultimate remaining liability
for these claims based upon known facts,  current assumptions and The Hartford's
methodologies.  Future social,  economic,  legal or legislative developments may
alter the original  intent of policies  and the scope of coverage.  The Hartford
will  continue to evaluate new  developments  and  methodologies  as they become
available for use in supplementing  the Company's ongoing analysis and review of
its environmental and asbestos  exposures.  These future reviews may result in a
change in reserves, impacting The Hartford's results of operations in the period
in which the reserve estimates are changed.  While the effects of future changes
in facts,  legal and other issues could have a material effect on future results
of  operations,  The Hartford does not expect such changes would have a material
effect on its liquidity or financial condition.

                                     - 24 -

INVESTMENTS

An  important  element of the  financial  results of The  Hartford  is return on
invested assets. The Hartford's  investment activities are divided between North
American Property & Casualty,  Life,  International  and Other  Operations.  The
investment  portfolios are managed based on the underlying  characteristics  and
nature of each operation's respective liabilities and managed within established
risk  parameters.  (For a  further  discussion  on The  Hartford's  approach  to
managing risks, see the Capital Markets Risk Management section.)

The  investment  portfolios  of  North  American  Property  &  Casualty,   Life,
International and Other Operations are managed by distinct  investment  strategy
groups which are  accountable to senior  management.  They are  responsible  for
monitoring and managing the  asset/liability  profile,  establishing  investment
objectives and guidelines, and determining, within specified risk tolerances and
investment guidelines, the appropriate asset allocation,  duration and convexity
characteristics of the portfolios.  Hartford  Investment  Management  Company, a
wholly owned subsidiary of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., executes
the  investment  plan of the  strategy  groups  for North  American  Property  &
Casualty,  Life and Other Operations,  including the identification and purchase
of securities that fulfill the objectives of the strategy groups.  International
subsidiaries    maintain    individual    investment   units   with   comparable
responsibilities.

NORTH AMERICAN PROPERTY & CASUALTY

The investment  objective of North  American  Property & Casualty is to maximize
the economic value while generating after-tax income and sufficient liquidity to
meet corporate and policyholder obligations. Investment strategies are developed
based on a variety of factors, including business needs, regulatory requirements
and tax considerations.

Total invested assets were $15.1 billion at December 31, 1998 and were comprised
of fixed  maturities of $14.3 billion and other  investments of $823,  primarily
equity  securities.  At December  31,  1997,  total  invested  assets were $15.0
billion and were comprised of fixed maturities of $13.5 billion and $1.5 billion
in other investments, primarily equity securities.

                   Fixed Maturities by Type
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                1998               1997
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
 Type                    Fair Value Percent Fair Value   Percent
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------

 Municipal - tax-exempt   $  8,804    61.5%  $  7,873    58.5%
 Corporate                   2,119    14.8%     2,257    16.8%
 Commercial MBS                834     5.8%       687     5.1%
 Gov't/Gov't agencies - For.   501     3.5%       459     3.4%
 ABS                           500     3.5%       559     4.2%
 CMO                           415     2.9%       483     3.6%
 MBS - agency                  348     2.4%       540     4.0%
 Gov't/Gov't agencies - U.S.    46     0.3%        32     0.2%
 Municipal - taxable            24     0.2%        31     0.2%
 Short-term                    663     4.6%       479     3.6%
 Redeemable pref'd stock        65     0.5%        56     0.4%
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
   Total fixed maturities $ 14,319   100.0%  $ 13,456   100.0%
================================================================

During 1998, North American Property & Casualty adjusted its investment strategy
to increase its allocation to municipal  tax-exempt  bonds while  decreasing its
allocation to agency mortgage backed securities  ("MBS") and corporate bonds. In
addition, the percentage ownership of equity securities to total invested assets
significantly decreased,  primarily as a result of continued opportunities taken
in a  favorable  equity  market  and the  redeployment  of these  funds to fixed
maturities.

The  taxable  equivalent  duration  of the  December  31,  1998  fixed  maturity
portfolio was 4.8 years compared to 4.7 years at December 31, 1997.  Duration is
defined as the market price  sensitivity of the portfolio to parallel  shifts in
the yield curve.

INVESTMENT RESULTS

The table below summarizes North American Property & Casualty results.

                                      1998     1997      1996
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------

Net investment income, before-tax   $   824  $   777  $   661
Net investment income, after-tax[1] $   658  $   619  $   531
Yield on average invested assets,
  before-tax [2]                        5.8%     5.9%     5.5%
Yield on average invested assets,
  after-tax [1] [2]                     4.6%     4.7%     4.4%
Net realized capital gains,         
before-tax                          $   231  $   231  $    15
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  Due to the significant  holdings in tax-exempt  investments,  after-tax net
     investment income and yield are included.
[2]  Represents net  investment  income  (excluding net realized  capital gains)
     divided by average  invested assets at cost (fixed  maturities at amortized
     cost).

For the year ended  December 31, 1998,  net  investment  income (both before and
after-tax)  increased  by 6% over 1997.  This  increase was the result of higher
invested asset levels as a result of repayment of allocated  advances by HLI. In
addition,   the  reallocation  of  assets  from  equities  to  fixed  maturities
throughout the year positively impacted both before and after-tax net investment
income.  After-tax  net  investment  income was also  favorably  impacted by the
reallocation  from  taxable  to  tax-exempt  bonds.  The  decline  in before and
after-tax yields on average invested assets reflects  declining  interest rates,
primarily impacting taxable bonds.

For the year ended December 31, 1997, before and after-tax net investment income
increased 18% and 17%,  respectively.  These  increases were primarily due to an
increase  in  invested  assets as a result of  increased  operating  cash  flow,
investment  of the  proceeds  from the 1996 sale of Quarterly  Income  Preferred
Securities  (QUIPS) and 1997 repayment of allocated  advances by HLI,  partially
offset by the 1997 North  American  Property & Casualty's  share of repayment of
short-term  debt. The increase in both before and after-tax yields was primarily
due to increased  allocations to higher yielding asset backed securities ("ABS")
and  commercial  MBS ("CMBS")  along with an increase in securities  rated below
investment grade.

Net realized  capital gains for 1998 were unchanged from 1997.  During the year,
net gains from the sale of fixed maturities and equity securities were partially
offset by a $7 after-tax  impairment of asset backed securities  securitized and
serviced  by  Commercial  Financial  Services,  Inc.  ("CFS").  (For  additional
information on CFS, see Note 15 of Notes to

                                     - 25 -

Consolidated  Financial  Statements under  "Investments".)  Net realized capital
gains also include a $33, after-tax gain from the sale of London & Edinburgh.

Net realized  capital gains increased to $231 in 1997 from $15 in 1996 primarily
as a result of opportunities  in a favorable equity market,  partially offset by
real estate writedowns of $31.

LIFE

The primary  investment  objective of the Life segment's  general  account is to
maximize after-tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters, including
the management of the interest rate  sensitivity of invested  assets relative to
that of  policyholder  obligations,  as  discussed  in the Capital  Markets Risk
Management section under "Market Risk - Life Operations - Interest Rate Risk".

Invested assets, excluding separate accounts,  totaled $24.9 billion at December
31, 1998 and were comprised of $17.7 billion of fixed  maturities,  $6.7 billion
of policy loans and other  investments  of $503. At December 31, 1997,  invested
assets  totaled  $21.0  billion  and were  comprised  of $16.8  billion of fixed
maturities,  $3.8 billion of policy loans and other  investments of $363. Policy
loans,  which  had a  weighted-average  interest  rate of 9.9%  and  11.2% as of
December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively, increased primarily as a result of the
MBL Recapture.  These loans are secured by the cash value of the life policy and
do not  mature in a  conventional  sense,  but  expire in  conjunction  with the
related policy liabilities.

                   Fixed Maturities by Type
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                1998               1997
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
 Type                    Fair Value Percent Fair Value Percent
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------

 Corporate                $  7,898    44.6%  $  7,970  47.3%
 ABS                         2,465    13.9%     3,199  19.0%
 Commercial MBS              2,036    11.5%     1,606   9.5%
 Municipal - tax-exempt        916     5.2%       171   1.0%
 CMO                           831     4.7%       978   5.8%
 Gov't/Gov't agencies - For.   530     3.0%       502   3.0%
 MBS - agency                  503     2.9%       514   3.1%
 Municipal - taxable           223     1.3%       267   1.6%
 Gov't/Gov't agencies - U.S.   166     0.9%       241   1.4%
 Short-term                  2,119    12.0%     1,395   8.3%
 Redeemable preferred Stock      5     --           5    --
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
   Total fixed maturities $ 17,692   100.0%  $ 16,848 100.0%
================================================================

During 1998, the Life segment, in executing its investment  strategy,  increased
its  allocation  to  municipal  tax-exempt  securities  with  the  objective  of
increasing  after-tax  yields,  and also  increased its allocation to CMBS while
decreasing its  allocation to ABS. The increase in short-term  investments as of
December 31, 1998 as compared to 1997 is primarily  related to the settlement of
the MBL  Recapture  in the fourth  quarter  1998 which  resulted  in  short-term
investment proceeds of approximately $300.

As of December 31, 1998 and 1997,  approximately 22.8% and 22.6%,  respectively,
of the Life  segment's  fixed  maturities  were  invested  in private  placement
securities  (including Rule 144A offerings).  Private  placement  securities are
generally  less liquid than public  securities.  However,  covenants for private
placements  are  designed  to  mitigate  liquidity  risk.  Most  of the  private
placement securities in the segment's portfolio are rated by rating agencies.

INVESTMENT RESULTS

The table below summarizes the Life segment's results.

(before-tax)                          1998     1997     1996
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------

Net investment income - ex. 
policy loans                        $ 1,166  $ 1,111   $ 1,053
Policy loan income                      789      425       477
                                   -----------------------------
Net investment income - total       $ 1,955  $ 1,536   $ 1,530
Yield on average invested assets [1]    7.9%     7.6%     7.7%
Net realized capital losses         $    --  $    --   $  (219)
================================================================
[1]  Represents net investment  income  (excluding net realized  capital losses)
     divided by average  invested assets at cost (fixed  maturities at amortized
     cost). In 1998,  average  invested assets were calculated  assuming the MBL
     Recapture proceeds were received on January 1, 1998.

For the year ended December 31, 1998,  total  before-tax  net investment  income
increased 27% from 1997, primarily due to an increase in policy loan income as a
result of the MBL Recapture.  The increase in yields on average  invested assets
was due to the  increase  in policy loan  income  and,  to a lesser  extent,  an
increase in fixed maturities rated BBB.

For the year ended  December 31,  1997,  the  decrease in  before-tax  yield was
primarily attributable to declining market interest rates.

There were no net realized  capital gains or losses for the year ended  December
31, 1998, unchanged from 1997. During 1998, realized capital gains from the sale
of fixed  maturities  and equity  securities  were offset by after-tax  realized
capital  losses  including  $21 related to the other than  temporary  impairment
charge associated with asset backed securities  securitized and serviced by CFS.
(For  additional  information  on CFS,  see  Note 15 of  Notes  to  Consolidated
Financial Statements under "Investments".)

The 1996 capital losses of $219 were primarily attributable to the writedown and
sale of certain securities within GIC.

INTERNATIONAL

The  investment   objectives  of  the  International  segment  are  to  generate
appropriate  after-tax  income and  sufficient  liquidity to meet  corporate and
policyholder  obligations.  The International  segment  primarily  comprises the
investment activities of Zwolsche, ITT Ercos and People's Insurance (acquired in
January  1998) which are engaged in property  and  casualty  and life  insurance
operations.  Investment  results of London & Edinburgh  were reflected in income
until its sale in November  1998.  Investments  are made with  durations  and in
currencies that reflect the nature of each company's liabilities.

Invested assets,  excluding separate accounts, were $1.2 billion at December 31,
1998 and were  comprised of fixed  maturities of $844 and other  investments  of
$350, primarily equity securities.  At December 31, 1997, invested assets, which
included  London & Edinburgh  of $1.7  billion,  totaled  $2.7  

                                     - 26 -

billion  and were  comprised  of fixed  maturities  of $2.3  billion  and  other
investments of $407, primarily equity securities.

                   Fixed Maturities by Type
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                1998               1997
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------
 Type                         Fair Value Percent Fair Value Percent
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------

 Gov't/Gov't agencies - For.    $    611    72.4%  $    829   36.5%
 Corporate                           109    12.9%       414   18.3%
 Gov't/Gov't agencies - U.S.          --      --         19    0.8%
 Short-term                          124    14.7%     1,007   44.4%
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total fixed maturities       $    844   100.0%  $  2,269  100.0%
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------

INVESTMENT RESULTS

The table below summarizes the International segment's results.

(before-tax)                           1998     1997      1996
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------

Net investment income              $    164  $   185  $    183
Yield on average invested assets [1]    7.0%     7.2%      7.4%
Net realized capital gains         $     70  $    95  $     73
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  Represents net  investment  income  (excluding net realized  capital gains)
     divided by average  invested assets at cost (fixed  maturities at amortized
     cost).

For the year ended  December 31,  1998,  net  investment  income  decreased  11%
primarily  as a result  of the sale of  London &  Edinburgh  in  November  1998.
Excluding  London & Edinburgh,  net  investment  income  increased 13% despite a
continued  trend of lower yields in Europe.  This growth was primarily due to an
increase in life business at Zwolsche in the  Netherlands and the acquisition of
The Hartford's 49% interest in People's Insurance in Singapore in January 1998.

For the year ended December 31, 1997, both net investment  income and yield were
relatively flat as compared to 1996.

The  decrease in net realized  capital  gains in 1998 was  primarily  due to the
weakening of the equity market in the  Netherlands.  Net realized  capital gains
increased  in 1997 from 1996 as a result of  opportunities  taken in a favorable
equity market.

OTHER OPERATIONS

The  investment  objective of Other  Operations is to ensure the full and timely
payment of all liabilities. The ongoing strategy is to match asset and liability
cash flows in the early years and to match asset and liability  durations in the
long-term.

Invested  assets were $2.5  billion at both  December  31, 1998 and December 31,
1997 and were mostly comprised of fixed maturities.


                   Fixed Maturities by Type
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                1998               1997
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
 Type                    Fair Value Percent Fair Value Percent
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------

 Corporate               $   1,603    64.7%  $  1,530   61.7%
 ABS                           224     9.0%       142    5.7%
 Commercial MBS                145     5.9%       149    6.0%
 Gov't/Gov't agencies - U.S.    82     3.3%        88    3.5%
 Gov't/Gov't agencies - For.    50     2.0%        83    3.3%
 MBS - agency                   41     1.7%        56    2.3%
 Municipal - taxable            40     1.6%        39    1.6%
 CMO                            20     0.8%        27    1.1%
 Short-term                    262    10.6%       357   14.4%
 Redeemable preferred Stock      9     0.4%         9    0.4%
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
   Total fixed maturities $  2,476   100.0%  $  2,480  100.0%
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------

INVESTMENT RESULTS

The table below summarizes the Other Operations results.

(before-tax)                          1998     1997      1996
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------

Net investment income               $   159   $   157   $   149
Yield on average invested assets [1]    6.6%      6.7%      6.5%
Net realized capital gains          $     3   $     1   $     5
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  Represents net  investment  income  (excluding net realized  capital gains)
     divided by average  invested assets at cost (fixed  maturities at amortized
     cost).

For the year ended December 31, 1998, both before-tax net investment  income and
yield on average invested assets remained  relatively flat compared to the prior
year.

For the year ended December 31, 1997, before-tax net investment income increased
5%, while before-tax yields increased  slightly.  The increase in net investment
income and yield was due  primarily  to an increase  in invested  assets and the
receipt of interest income in an arbitration settlement.

SEPARATE ACCOUNT PRODUCTS

Separate  account  products  are  those  for  which a  separate  investment  and
liability account is maintained on behalf of the policyholder. Separate accounts
reflect two  categories of risk  assumption:  non-guaranteed  separate  accounts
totaling $81.3 billion as of December 31, 1998, wherein the policyholder assumes
substantially all the risk and reward, and guaranteed separate accounts totaling
$10.3  billion as of  December  31,  1998,  wherein The  Hartford  contractually
guarantees either a minimum return or the account value to the policyholder.  As
of December 31, 1997, non-guaranteed separate accounts totaled $59.4 billion and
guaranteed separate accounts totaled $10.7 billion.

Investment  objective varies by fund account type, as outlined in the applicable
fund prospectus or separate account plan of operations.  Non-guaranteed separate
account products include variable  annuities,  variable life insurance contracts
and COLI.  Guaranteed  separate account products  primarily  consist of modified
guaranteed  individual  annuities and modified  guaranteed life  insurance,  and
generally  include  market  value  adjustment  features to mitigate  the risk of
disintermediation.

                                     - 27 -

CAPITAL MARKETS RISK MANAGEMENT

The Hartford has a disciplined  approach to managing risks  associated  with its
capital markets and asset/liability management activities.  Investment portfolio
management  is organized to focus  investment  management  expertise on specific
classes of investments while asset/liability management is the responsibility of
separate and distinct risk management units supporting the property and casualty
and life  operations.  Derivative  instruments  are utilized in accordance  with
established  Company policy and are monitored  internally and reviewed by senior
management.

The Company is exposed to two primary sources of investment and  asset/liability
management risk:  credit risk,  relating to the uncertainty  associated with the
ability of an obligor or  counterparty  to make  timely  payments  of  principal
and/or interest,  and market risk, relating to the market price and/or cash flow
variability associated with changes in interest rates, securities prices, market
indices,  yield curves or currency exchange rates. The Company does not hold any
financial instruments purchased for trading purposes.

CREDIT RISK

The Hartford has established investment credit policies that focus on the credit
quality of obligors and counterparties,  limit credit concentrations,  encourage
diversification  and  require  frequent  creditworthiness  reviews.   Investment
activity,  including  setting of policy and defining  acceptable risk levels, is
subject to regular review and approval by senior  management and frequent review
by the Company's Finance Committee.

The Company  invests  primarily in  securities  rated  investment  grade and has
established exposure limits, diversification standards and review procedures for
all credit risks including borrower,  issuer and counterparty.  Creditworthiness
of specific  obligors is determined by an internal credit assessment and ratings
assigned by nationally  recognized ratings agencies.  Obligor,  asset sector and
industry  concentrations  are subject to  established  limits and monitored on a
regular interval.

The Company's derivatives  counterparty exposure policy establishes market-based
credit limits,  favors long-term financial stability and  creditworthiness,  and
typically requires credit  enhancement/credit  risk reducing agreements.  Credit
risk is  measured  as the amount  owed to the  Company  based on current  market
conditions  and  potential  payment  obligations  between  the  Company  and its
counterparties.   Credit  exposures  are  quantified  weekly  and  netted,   and
collateral  is pledged to or held by the Company to the extent the current value
of derivatives exceed exposure policy thresholds.

The Hartford is not exposed to any significant  credit  concentration  risk of a
single issuer.

The following  tables  identify fixed  maturity  securities for the property and
casualty operations,  including international and other operations, and the life
operations, including international operations and guaranteed separate accounts,
by credit quality. The ratings referenced in the tables are based on the ratings
of a nationally  recognized rating organization or, if not rated, assigned based
on the Company's internal analysis of such securities.

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY OPERATIONS

As of December 31, 1998 and 1997,  over 95% of the fixed maturity  portfolio was
invested in securities rated investment grade.


              Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                1998               1997
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
 Credit Quality          Fair Value Percent Fair Value  Percent
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------

 U.S. Gov't/Gov't agencies $   805     4.7%  $  1,083    6.1%
 agencies
 AAA                         6,570    38.2%     6,337   35.4%
 AA                          3,209    18.7%     3,426   19.1%
 A                           3,409    19.8%     3,096   17.3%
 BBB                         1,508     8.8%     1,352    7.6%
 BB & below                    682     3.9%       767    4.3%
 Short-term                  1,016     5.9%     1,832   10.2%
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
   Total fixed maturities  $17,199   100.0%  $ 17,893  100.0%
================================================================

LIFE OPERATIONS

As of December 31, 1998 and 1997,  over 98% of the fixed maturity  portfolio was
invested in securities rated investment grade.

              Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                1998               1997
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
 Credit Quality          Fair Value Percent Fair Value Percent
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------

 U.S. Gov't/Gov't agencies $ 2,596     9.3%  $  2,907   10.6%
 agencies
 AAA                         3,907    14.0%     4,252   15.4%
 AA                          2,716     9.7%     2,990   10.9%
 A                           8,878    31.8%     9,351   33.9%
 BBB                         7,019    25.2%     5,966   21.7%
 BB & below                    492     1.8%       205    0.7%
 Short-term                  2,298     8.2%     1,880    6.8%
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
   Total fixed maturities  $27,906   100.0%  $ 27,551  100.0%
================================================================

MARKET RISK

The Hartford has several  objectives in managing market risk associated with its
property and casualty and life operations.  The property and casualty operations
attempt to maximize economic value while generating appropriate after-tax income
and sufficient  liquidity to meet corporate and  policyholder  obligations.  The
property and casualty  operations  have  material  exposure to interest rate and
equity market risk. The life operations are responsible for maximizing after-tax
returns  within  acceptable  risk  parameters  including  the  management of the
interest  rate   sensitivity  of  invested   assets  to  that  of   policyholder
obligations.  The life operations have material market exposure to interest rate
risk  associated  with its fixed maturity  portfolios.  The Company  continually
monitors these exposures and makes  portfolio  adjustments to manage these risks
within established limits.

The  Company  analyzes   interest  rate  risk  using  various  models  including
multi-scenario  cash flow  projection  models  that  

                                     - 28 -

forecast  cash  flows  of the  liabilities  and  their  supporting  investments,
including derivative instruments.

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

The Hartford  utilizes a variety of  derivative  instruments,  including  swaps,
caps,  floors,  forwards and exchange traded futures and options,  in accordance
with  Company  policy  and in order to  achieve  one of three  Company  approved
objectives: to hedge risk arising from interest rate, price or currency exchange
rate  volatility;  to manage  liquidity;  or to control  transaction  costs. The
Company does not make a market or trade  derivatives  for the express purpose of
earning trading profits.

The  Company  uses  derivative  instruments  in its  management  of market  risk
consistent   with  four  risk   management   strategies:   hedging   anticipated
transactions, hedging liability instruments, hedging invested assets and hedging
portfolios of assets and/or  liabilities.  (For additional  information of these
strategies along with tables reflecting outstanding derivative instruments,  see
the Property and Casualty Operations and Life Operations discussions below.)

Derivative  activities are monitored by an internal  compliance  unit,  reviewed
frequently by senior management and reported to the Company's Finance Committee.
The notional amounts of derivative  contracts represent the basis upon which pay
or  receive  amounts  are  calculated  and are not  reflective  of credit  risk.
Notional  amounts  pertaining  to  derivative  instruments  for both general and
guaranteed  separate  accounts at  December  31,  1998 and 1997,  totaled  $11.3
billion and $11.1 billion, respectively.

The following  discussions focus on the key market risk exposures within each of
the property and casualty and life operations.


PROPERTY AND CASUALTY OPERATIONS

Interest Rate Risk
- - ------------------

The  primary  exposure  to  interest  rate  risk in the  property  and  casualty
operations relates to its fixed maturity investments. Changes in market interest
rates  directly  impact the market value of the fixed  maturity  securities.  In
addition,  but to a lesser  extent,  interest  rate risk exists on debt  issued.
Derivative instruments are used periodically to manage interest rate risk and as
a result,  their  value will change as market  rates  change,  generally  in the
opposite  direction  of the item  being  hedged.  The total  notional  amount of
derivatives  used for hedging  interest  rate risk as of  December  31, 1998 and
1997, was $75 and $125, respectively.

The principal amounts of the fixed and variable rate fixed maturity  portfolios,
along with the respective weighted average coupons ("WAC") by estimated maturity
year at December 31, 1998,  are  reflected in the following  table.  Comparative
totals are  included as of December 31, 1997.  Expected  maturities  differ from
contractual  maturities  due to  call or  prepayment  provisions.  The  weighted
average coupon on variable rate securities is based on spot rates as of December
31, 1998 and 1997,  and is based  primarily  on London  Interbank  Offered  Rate
("LIBOR").  Callable  bonds and notes are  primarily  municipal  bonds,  and are
distributed  to either call dates or maturity  depending on which date  produces
the most conservative  yield. Asset backed securities,  collateralized  mortgage
obligations  and mortgage  backed  securities  are  distributed to maturity year
based on  estimates  of the rate of future  prepayments  of  principal  over the
remaining life of the securities. These estimates are developed using prepayment
speeds  contained in broker  consensus  data.  Such  estimates  are derived from
prepayment speeds  previously  experienced at interest rate levels projected for
the  underlying  collateral.  Actual  prepayment  experience may vary from these
estimates.  Financial  instruments  with  certain  leverage  features  have been
included in each of the fixed maturity  categories.  These  instruments have not
been  separately  displayed as they were immaterial to the property and casualty
operations' investment portfolio.

                                     - 29 -



The increase in fixed rate callable bonds from 1997 to 1998 was primarily due to
the reallocation of taxable bonds to tax-exempt municipal bonds. The decrease in
fixed rate other bonds was partially due to the sale of London & Edinburgh which
held over $1.6 billion in fixed  maturities  at December  31,  1997,  and to the
reallocation to tax-exempt bonds.

The following  table  provides  information  as of December 31, 1998 on interest
rate swaps used to manage  interest rate risk on 

                                     - 30 -

fixed  maturities and presents  notional  amounts with weighted  average pay and
receive rates by maturity year.  Comparative  totals are included as of December
31, 1997.  The  weighted  average pay rate is based on spot rates as of December
31, 1998 and 1997.




The table below provides information as of December 31, 1998 on debt obligations
and  QUIPS and  reflects  principal  cash  flows and  related  weighted  average
interest rate by maturity year.  Comparative  totals are included as of December
31, 1997.



Equities Price Risk
- - -------------------

The  property  and  casualty  operations  hold a well  diversified  portfolio of
investments  in  equity  securities  representing  firms in  various  countries,
industries and market segments ranging from small market  capitalization  stocks
to the Standard & Poor's 500 stocks.  The risk associated with these  securities
relates to potential decreases in value resulting from changes in equity prices.

The  operations  occasionally  use equity  futures to hedge  against a change in
value on the anticipated  purchase or sale of equity securities.  As of December
31, 1998 and 1997,  there were no  outstanding  derivative  instruments  hedging
equity price risk.

The following  table reflects equity  securities  owned at December 31, 1998 and
1997, grouped by major market type.


                               1998                 1997
                       Fair Value  Percent  Fair Value  Percent
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
Equity Securities
  Domestic
   Large cap           $      390    42.2%  $      793      45.5%
   Midcap/small cap           105    11.3%         293      16.8%
  Foreign
   EAFE [1]/Canadian          411    44.3%         562       32.3%
   Emerging                    20     2.2%          93        5.4%
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
     Total             $      926   100.0%  $    1,741      100.0%              
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
[1] Europe, Australia, Far East countries index.

While the  allocation  to major market types  remained  consistent  from 1997 to
1998,  total  equities  has  decreased  due  to  the  redeployment  from  equity
securities to fixed maturities.

Currency Exchange Risk
- - ----------------------

Currency  exchange  risk within the  property and  casualty  operations  relates
primarily  to  translating  both  profits  and  net  equity  investment  in  its
international subsidiaries from

                                     - 31 -

the subsidiary's local currency to U.S. dollars.  The following table represents
the property  and casualty  operations'  net equity  investments  in its primary
foreign  subsidiaries,  the related  foreign  currency and the impact to the net
equity  investment based upon a 10% change in foreign currency rates at December
31, 1998 and 1997.  The  property and casualty  operations  also had  immaterial
exposures to the Singapore Dollar, British Sterling and Spanish Peseta.

                                   Impact of 10%
                     Net Equity       Changes
Company              Investment    -10%    +10%     Currency [1]
- - ------------------- ------------- ------- -------- -------------
 Zwolsche               $348       $(35)    $35      Guilder
 London &
  Edinburgh             $362       $(36)    $36      Sterling
 Zwolsche                353        (35)     35      Guilder
- - ------------------- ------------- ------- -------- -------------
[1]  On  January  1,  1999,  the  Netherlands  and Spain  became  members of the
     European Monetary Union and their currencies,  the Guilder and Peseta, were
     replaced by the Euro.

Currency exchange risk also exists with respect to investments in foreign equity
securities. Forward foreign contracts with a notional amount of $43 and $51 were
used to manage this risk at December 31, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  Exposure
to currency  exchange  risk on the Sterling has  decreased  from 1997 due to the
sale of London & Edinburgh.

LIFE OPERATIONS

Interest Rate Risk
- - ------------------

The life  operations'  general  and  guaranteed  separate  account  exposure  to
interest  rate risk  relates to the market  price  and/or cash flow  variability
associated with changes in market interest rates.  Changes in interest rates can
potentially   impact  the  life   operations'   profitability.   Under   certain
circumstances of interest rate volatility,  the life operations could be exposed
to  disintermediation  risk and  reduction in net interest rate spread or profit
margins.  For  the  life  operations'   non-guaranteed  separate  accounts,  the
Company's exposure is not significant as the policyholder assumes  substantially
all of the investment risk.

The life operations'  general account and guaranteed separate account investment
portfolios  primarily  consist of investment grade,  fixed maturity  securities,
including  corporate bonds, asset backed securities,  commercial mortgage backed
securities and collateralized mortgage obligations.  The fair value of these and
the life operations' other invested assets fluctuates  depending on the interest
rate  environment  and other  general  economic  conditions.  During  periods of
declining   interest  rates,   paydowns  on  mortgage   backed   securities  and
collateralized  mortgage  obligations  increase as the underlying  mortgages are
prepaid. During such periods, the Company generally will not be able to reinvest
the proceeds of any such prepayments at comparable  yields.  Conversely,  during
periods of rising interest rates,  the rate of prepayments  generally  declines,
exposing the Company to the possibility of  asset/liability  cash flow and yield
mismatch. (For further discussion of the Company's risk management techniques to
manage this market risk, see the "Asset and Liability Management Strategies Used
to Manage Market Risk" discussed below.)

As described  above,  the life  operations  hold a  significant  fixed  maturity
portfolio  which includes both fixed and variable rate  features.  The following
table  reflects  the  principal  amounts  of the life  operations'  general  and
guaranteed  separate account fixed and variable rate fixed maturity  portfolios,
along with the respective weighted average coupons by estimated maturity year at
December  31,  1998.  Comparative  totals are  included as of December 31, 1997.
Expected maturities differ from contractual maturities due to call or prepayment
provisions.  The weighted average coupon on variable rate securities is based on
spot rates as of December 31, 1998 and 1997,  and is  primarily  based on LIBOR.
Callable  bonds and notes are  distributed  to  either  call  dates or  maturity
depending  on which date  produces  the most  conservative  yield.  Asset backed
securities,  collateralized  mortgage obligations and mortgage backed securities
are  distributed  to  maturity  year  based on  estimates  of the rate of future
prepayments  of  principal  over the  remaining  life of the  securities.  These
estimates are developed using  prepayment  speeds  provided in broker  consensus
data. Such estimates are derived from prepayment speeds  previously  experienced
at the interest rate levels  projected  for the  underlying  collateral.  Actual
prepayment experience may vary from these estimates.  Financial instruments with
certain  leverage  features  have been  included  in each of the fixed  maturity
categories.  These  instruments have not been separately  displayed because they
were immaterial to the life investment portfolio.

                                     - 32 -



                                     - 33 -

The table below provides information as of December 31, 1998 on debt obligations
and  TruPS and  reflects  principal  cash  flows and  related  weighted  average
interest rate by maturity year.  Comparative  totals are included as of December
31, 1997.





Asset and Liability Management Strategies Used to Manage Market Risk
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------

The life operations  employ several risk management tools to quantify and manage
market risk arising from its investments and interest sensitive liabilities. For
certain  portfolios,  management  monitors the changes in present  value between
assets and  liabilities  resulting from various  interest rate  scenarios  using
integrated  asset/liability  measurement  systems and a proprietary  system that
simulates the impacts of parallel and non-parallel yield curve shifts.  Based on
this current and prospective  information,  management  implements risk reducing
techniques to improve the match between assets and liabilities.

Derivatives  play an important role in  facilitating  the management of interest
rate risk, creating opportunities to efficiently fund obligations, hedge against
risks that affect the value of certain  liabilities and adjust broad  investment
risk  characteristics as a result of any significant changes in market risks. As
an end user of  derivatives,  the life  operations use a variety of derivatives,
including swaps, caps, floors,  forwards and  exchange-traded  financial futures
and  options,  in order to hedge  exposure  primarily  to interest  rate risk on
anticipated  investment  purchases or existing assets and liabilities.  Notional
amounts  pertaining  to  derivatives  totaled $11.2 billion at December 31, 1998
($6.0 billion related to insurance  investments and $5.2 billion related to life
insurance  liabilities).  At December 31, 1997,  notional amounts  pertaining to
derivatives totaled $10.9 billion ($6.6 billion related to insurance investments
and  $4.3  billion  related  to  life  insurance  liabilities).  The  strategies
described below are used to manage the aforementioned risks.

Anticipatory Hedging -- For certain liabilities,  life operations commits to the
price of the  product  prior to receipt of the  associated  premium or  deposit.
Anticipatory hedges are executed to offset the impact of changes in asset prices
arising from interest rate changes pending the receipt of premium or deposit and
the subsequent purchase of an asset. These hedges involve taking a long position
in interest  rate futures or entering  into an interest  rate swap with duration
characteristics   equivalent  to  the  associated   liabilities  or  anticipated
investments.  The notional amount of anticipatory hedges as of December 31, 1998
and 1997 was $712 and $255, respectively.

Liability  Hedging -- Several products  obligate the life operations to credit a
return to the  contractholder  which is indexed to a market rate. To hedge risks
associated  with  these  products,  the life  operation  typically  enters  into
interest  rate swaps to convert the  contract  rate into a rate that trades in a
more  liquid and  efficient  market.  This  hedging  strategy  enables  the life
operations to customize contract terms and conditions to customer objectives and
satisfies  the  operation's   asset/liability  matching  policy.   Additionally,
interest  rate  swaps are used to  convert  certain  fixed  contract  rates into
floating  rates,  thereby  allowing  them to be  appropriately  matched  against
floating  rate assets.  The notional  amount of  derivatives  used for liability
hedging  as  of  December  31,  1998  and  1997  was  $5.2  and  $4.3   billion,
respectively.

Asset  Hedging  -- To meet the  various  life  policyholder  obligations  and to
provide  cost  effective  prudent  investment  risk  diversification,  the  life
operations  may  combine  two or  more  financial  instruments  to  achieve  the
investment  characteristics  of a  fixed  maturity  security  or that  match  an
associated  liability.   The  use  of  derivative  instruments  in  this  regard
effectively  transfers  unwanted  investment risks or attributes to others.  The
selection of the appropriate  derivative  instruments  depends on the investment
risk,  the liquidity and  efficiency of the market,  and the asset and liability
characteristics. The notional amount of asset hedges as of December 31, 1998 and
1997, was $3.8 and $3.2 billion, respectively.

                                     - 34 -

Portfolio Hedging -- The life operation  periodically  compares the duration and
convexity of its  portfolios of assets to their  corresponding  liabilities  and
enters  into  portfolio  hedges to reduce  any  difference  to  desired  levels.
Portfolio  hedges reduce the mismatch  between assets and liabilities and offset
the  potential  impact to cash flows  caused by changes in interest  rates.  The
notional  amount of portfolio  hedges as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, was $1.5
and $3.1 billion, respectively.

The  following  tables  provide   information  as  of  December  31,  1998  with
comparative  totals for  December  31, 1997 on  derivative  instruments  used in
accordance with the aforementioned hedging strategies.  For interest rate swaps,
caps and floors,  the tables present  notional amounts with weighted average pay
and  receive  rates for swaps and  weighted  average  strike  rates for caps and
floors by maturity year. For interest rate futures,  the table presents contract
amount and weighted average settlement price by expected maturity year.





                                     - 35 -








                                     - 36 -



Currency Exchange Risk
- - ----------------------

The life operations have immaterial currency exposures to the Brazilian Real and
Argentine Peso.

Life Insurance Liability Characteristics
- - ----------------------------------------

Life  operations'  insurance  liabilities,  other than  non-guaranteed  separate
accounts,  are  primarily  related  to  accumulation  vehicles  such as fixed or
variable annuities and investment contracts and other insurance products such as
long-term disability and term life insurance.

Asset Accumulation Vehicles

While  interest  rate risk  associated  with these  insurance  products has been
reduced  through  the use of market  value  adjustment  features  and  surrender
charges,  the primary  risk  associated  with these  products is that the spread
between  investment  return  and  credited  rate may not be  sufficient  to earn
targeted returns.

Fixed Rate -- Products in this  category  require the life  operations  to pay a
fixed  rate for a  certain  period  of time.  The cash  flows  are not  interest
sensitive  because the  products  are  written  with a market  value  adjustment
feature and the  liabilities  have  protection  against the early  withdrawal of
funds through surrender  charges.  Product examples include fixed rate annuities
with a market value adjustment and fixed rate guaranteed  investment  contracts.
Contract duration is dependent on the policyholder's choice of guarantee period.

Indexed  --  Products  in this  category  are  similar  to the fixed  rate asset
accumulation  vehicles  but  require the life  operations  to pay a rate that is
determined  by an external  index.  The amount  and/or timing of cash flows will
therefore  vary based on the level of the  particular  index.  The primary risks
inherent  in these  products  are  similar to the fixed rate asset  accumulation
vehicles, with an additional risk that changes in the index may adversely affect
profitability.  Product examples include indexed-guaranteed investment contracts
with an estimated duration of up to two years.  

Interest Credited -- Products in this category credit interest to policyholders,
subject to market conditions and minimum guarantees. Policyholders may surrender
at book  value but are  subject to  surrender  charges  for an  initial  period.
Product  examples  include  universal  life  contracts  and the general  account
portion of the life operations' variable annuity products. Liability duration is
short to intermediate-term.

Other Insurance Products

Long-term  Pay Out  Liabilities  -- Products in this  category are  long-term in
nature and may contain significant actuarial (including mortality and morbidity)
pricing  and cash flow  risks.  The cash  flows  associated  with  these  policy
liabilities  are not interest rate sensitive but do vary based on the timing and
amount of benefit payments. The primary risks associated with these products are
that the benefits will exceed expected  actuarial pricing and/or that the actual
timing  of the  cash  flows  differ  from  those  anticipated,  resulting  in an
investment  return lower than that assumed in pricing.  Product examples include
structured  settlement  contracts,  on-benefit annuities (i.e., the annuitant is
currently  receiving  benefits  thereon)  and  long-term  disability  contracts.
Contract duration is generally 6 to 10 years.

Short-term  Pay Out  Liabilities -- These  liabilities  are short-term in nature
with a duration of less than one year. The primary risks  associated  with these
products are determined by the non-investment contingencies such as mortality or
morbidity  and  the  variability  in the  timing  of the  expected  cash  flows.
Liquidity is of greater  concern  than for the  long-term  pay out  liabilities.
Products  include  individual  and  group  term  life  insurance  contracts  and
short-term disability contracts.

Management  of  the  duration  of  investments   with  respective   policyholder
obligations  is  an  explicit  objective  of  the  life  operations'  management
strategy.  The estimated cash flows of insurance policy  liabilities  based upon
internal  actuarial  assumptions  as of December  31, 1998 are  reflected in the
table below by expected  maturity  year.  Comparative  totals are  included  for
December 31, 1997.

                                     - 37 -




Sensitivity to Changes in Interest Rates
- - ----------------------------------------

For liabilities  whose cash flows are not  substantially  affected by changes in
interest  rates  ("fixed   liabilities")  and  where  investment  experience  is
substantially  absorbed  by the  life  operations,  the  sensitivity  of the net
economic value (discounted present value of asset cash flows less the discounted
present  value of liability  cash flows) of those  portfolios to 100 basis point
shifts  in  interest  rates  are  shown in the  following  tables.  These  fixed
liabilities represented about 60% of the life operations' general and guaranteed
separate  account  liabilities  at  December  31, 1998 and 1997.  The  remaining
liabilities generally allow the life operation significant flexibility to adjust
credited rates to reflect actual investment  experience and thereby pass through
a substantial portion of actual investment  experience to the policyholder.  The
fixed  liability  portfolios  are  managed  and  monitored  relative  to defined
objectives and are analyzed regularly by management for internal risk management
purposes using scenario simulation techniques, and evaluated annually consistent
with regulatory requirements.

                                 Change in Net Economic Value
                                   1998                1997
                           -----------------------------------------
Basis point shift            - 100     + 100     - 100     + 100
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------
 Amount                    $      7  $    (16)  $     5  $    (10)
 Percent of liability value    0.05%    (0.10)%    0.03%    (0.06)%
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     - 38 -

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

Capital resources and liquidity  represent the overall financial strength of The
Hartford and its ability to generate strong cash flows from each of the business
segments  and borrow funds at  competitive  rates to meet  operating  and growth
needs. The capital structure of The Hartford consists of debt, minority interest
and equity for the past three years summarized as follows:




CAPITALIZATION

The Hartford's total  capitalization,  excluding  unrealized gain on securities,
net of tax,  increased  by $499 as of December 31, 1998  compared to 1997.  This
change  primarily  was the result of earnings  and  additional  net  borrowings,
partially  offset by dividends  declared on The Hartford's  common stock and the
effect of treasury stock  acquired,  net of reissuances  for incentive and stock
purchase plans.

The Hartford's total capitalization excluding unrealized gain on securities, net
of tax,  increased by $1.7 billion in 1997 from 1996. This change  primarily was
the result of earnings,  effects of the Offering (see below) and  additional net
borrowings,  partially  offset by dividends  declared on The  Hartford's  common
stock.  The  Company's  debt to equity and debt to  capitalization  ratios (both
excluding  unrealized  gain  on  securities,  net of  tax)  improved  in 1997 as
compared  to 1996,  primarily  as a result  of  earnings  and the  impact of the
Offering, partially offset by increased debt.

THE OFFERING

Pursuant  to the  initial  public  offering  of HLI  Class A common  stock  (the
"Offering") on May 22, 1997,  Hartford Life, Inc.  ("HLI"),  the holding company
parent of The Hartford's  significant life insurance  subsidiaries,  sold to the
public 26  million  shares at $28.25  per share and  received  proceeds,  net of
offering expenses, of $687.

The 26 million shares sold in the Offering represented  approximately 19% of the
equity  ownership in HLI and  approximately  4% of the combined  voting power of
HLI's Class A and Class B common stock. The Hartford owns all of the 114 million
outstanding  shares of Class B common stock of HLI,  representing  approximately
81% of the equity ownership in HLI and  approximately 96% of the combined voting
power of HLI's Class A and Class B common stock. Holders of Class A common stock
generally  have  identical  rights to the holders of Class B common stock except
that the  holders  of Class A common  stock are  entitled  to one vote per share
while  holders of Class B common  stock are  entitled to five votes per share on
all matters submitted to a vote of HLI's stockholders. Also, each share of Class
B common  stock is  convertible  into one share of Class A common stock (a) upon
the  transfer of such share of Class B common  stock by the holder  thereof to a
non-affiliate  (except  where the shares of Class B common stock so  transferred
represent 50% or more of all the outstanding shares of common stock,  calculated
without  regard to the difference in voting rights between the classes of common
stock) or (b) in the event  that the  number  of shares of  outstanding  Class B
common stock is less than the 50% of all the common stock then  outstanding.  As
of December 31,  1998,  The Hartford  continued to maintain an  approximate  81%
equity ownership in HLI.

In  connection  with the Offering,  The Hartford  reported a $368 equity gain in
1997 related to the increased value of its equity  ownership in HLI.  Management
used the proceeds from the Offering to reduce certain debt outstanding,  to fund
growth  initiatives  and for other general  corporate  purposes.  The Hartford's
current intent is to continue to beneficially own at least 80% of HLI, but it is
under no contractual obligation to do so.

DEBT

Total debt in 1998  increased $56 compared to a $241 increase in the prior year.
The Hartford used the proceeds of these net  additional  borrowings  for general
corporate purposes.  (For additional  information  regarding Debt, see Note 6 of
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.)  

                                     - 39 -

COMPANY  OBLIGATED  MANDATORILY  REDEEMABLE  PREFERRED  SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY
TRUSTS HOLDING SOLELY JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES ("QUIPS AND "TRUPS")

For  a  discussion  of  Company  Obligated   Mandatorily   Redeemable  Preferred
Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely Junior  Subordinated  Debentures,
see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Stock  Split in the Form of a Stock  Dividend  - For a  discussion  of the stock
split in the  form of a stock  dividend,  see  Note 8 of  Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Dividends  -  The  Hartford   declared  $199  and  paid  $197  in  dividends  to
shareholders in 1998, and declared $189 and paid $190 in 1997.

On October 15, 1998, The Hartford's Board of Directors approved a 5% increase in
the  quarterly  dividend  to  $0.22  per  share,  payable  January  4,  1999  to
shareholders of record as of December 1, 1998.

Treasury Stock - During 1998, The Hartford repurchased  10,759,773 shares of its
common stock in the open market at a total cost of $547 under the Company's $1.0
billion repurchase program announced in December 1997. Some of these repurchased
shares were reissued pursuant to certain stock-based benefit plans.

RATINGS

The following table summarizes The Hartford's significant U.S. member companies'
financial ratings from the major independent rating organizations as of February
19, 1999.

                             A.M.  Duff &   Standard
                             Best  Phelps   & Poor's  Moody's
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
Insurance Ratings:
  Hartford Fire               A+     AA        AA       Aa3
  Hartford Life Insurance
   Company                    A+     AA+       AA       Aa3
  Hartford Life & Accident    A+     AA+       AA       Aa3
  Hartford Life & Annuity     A+     AA+       AA       Aa3
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
Other Ratings:
  The Hartford Financial
   Services Group, Inc.:
   Senior debt                a+     A+        A         A2
   Commercial paper                  D-1      A-1       P-1
  Hartford Capital I and
   II quarterly income
   preferred securities       a+      A       BBB+       a2
  Hartford Life, Inc.:
   Senior debt                a+     A+        A         A2
   Commercial paper           --     D-1      A-1       P-1
  Hartford Life, Inc.:
   Capital I trust
   preferred securities       a+      A       BBB+       a2
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------

On February 8, 1999,  A.M. Best assigned  first time ratings of a+ ("strong") to
The Hartford  Financial Services Group,  Inc.'s senior debt,  Hartford Capital I
and II quarterly income preferred securities,  Hartford Life, Inc.'s senior debt
and Hartford Life, Inc.'s Capital I trust preferred securities.

LIQUIDITY REQUIREMENTS

The liquidity requirements of The Hartford have been and will continue to be met
by funds from  operations  as well as the  issuance of  commercial  paper,  debt
securities and its credit facility. The principal sources of operating funds are
premiums  and  investment  income as well as  maturities  and sales of  invested
assets.  The Hartford  Financial Services Group, Inc. is a holding company which
receives  operating  cash flow in the form of dividends  from its  subsidiaries,
enabling it to service debt,  pay dividends on its common stock and pay business
expenses.

Dividends to The Hartford  Financial  Services Group, Inc. from its subsidiaries
are restricted.  The payment of dividends by  Connecticut-domiciled  insurers is
limited  under the insurance  holding  company laws of  Connecticut.  These laws
require  notice to and  approval  by the state  insurance  commissioner  for the
declaration or payment of any dividend,  which, together with other dividends or
distributions  made within the preceding  twelve months,  exceeds the greater of
(i) 10% of the insurer's policyholder surplus as of December 31 of the preceding
year or (ii) net income (or net gain from operations,  if such company is a life
insurance company) for the twelve-month period ending on the thirty-first day of
December last  preceding,  in each case  determined  under  statutory  insurance
accounting  policies.  In addition,  if any dividend of a  Connecticut-domiciled
insurer exceeds the insurer's earned surplus,  it requires the prior approval of
the Connecticut Insurance Commissioner.

The  insurance  holding  company  laws of the other  jurisdictions  in which The
Hartford's  insurance  subsidiaries  are  incorporated  (or deemed  commercially
domiciled)  generally contain similar  (although in certain  instances  somewhat
more restrictive) limitations on the payment of dividends.

The  total  amount of  statutory  dividends  which  may be paid to The  Hartford
Financial  Services Group, Inc. by its insurance  subsidiaries in 1999,  without
prior approval, is $852.

The primary uses of funds are to pay claims, policy benefits, operating expenses
and commissions,  and to purchase new investments. In addition, The Hartford has
a  policy  of  carrying  a  significant   short-term   investment  position  and
accordingly  does  not  anticipate  selling  intermediate  and  long-term  fixed
maturity  investments  to meet any  liquidity  needs.  (For a discussion  of the
Company's investment objectives and strategies,  see the Investments and Capital
Markets Risk Management sections.)

RISK-BASED CAPITAL

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") adopted regulations
establishing  minimum  capitalization  requirements  based on risk-based capital
("RBC") formulas for both property and casualty  companies

                                     - 40 -

(effective December 31, 1994) and life companies  (effective December 31, 1993).
The  requirements   consist  of  formulas  which  identify  companies  that  are
undercapitalized  and require specific regulatory actions. RBC is calculated for
property   and  casualty   companies   after   adjusting   capital  for  certain
underwriting,  asset,  credit and off-balance  sheet risks.  The RBC formula for
life companies establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business,
asset and interest rate risks.  As of December 31, 1998,  each of The Hartford's
insurance  subsidiaries  within North American  Property & Casualty and the Life
segment had more than sufficient capital to meet the NAIC's RBC requirements.

CASH FLOW

                                  1998       1997        1996
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by
  operating activities        $     907   $   2,045  $     994
Net cash provided by (used
  for) investing activities   $     411   $  (2,247) $  (1,035)
Net cash (used for) provided
  by financing activities     $  (1,340)  $     239  $      59
Cash - end of year            $     123   $     140  $     112
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------

During 1998, the decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily
the  result  of lower  underwriting  cash  flows,  due in part to  higher  claim
payments on  catastrophes,  an  increase in income  taxes paid and timing in the
settlement of other  receivables  and payables.  The decrease in cash (used for)
provided by financing  activities  was primarily the result of proceeds from the
HLI offering in May 1997,  treasury stock  purchases in 1998 in accordance  with
the  Company's  share  repurchase  program  and a  decrease  in  investment-type
contracts written in the Life segment. The change in cash provided by (used for)
investing  activities  primarily  reflects net investment  proceeds used to fund
financing activities.

During 1997, cash provided by operating activities increased from the prior year
due primarily to strong revenue  growth in the Life segment  combined with lower
paid losses by North American Property & Casualty  resulting from lower property
catastrophe and other severe weather-related  losses. Cash provided by financing
activities  increased  from the  prior  year due to  proceeds  of the  Offering,
partially offset by declines in  investment-type  contracts  written in the Life
segment.  The  increase  in cash used for  investing  activities  reflected  the
investment  of the  additional  proceeds  generated by operating  and  financing
activities.

Operating  cash  flows in each of the last  three  years  have  been  more  than
adequate to meet liquidity requirements.

ACQUISITIONS

On August 26, 1998,  HLI  completed  the purchase of all  outstanding  shares of
PLANCO  Financial  Services,   Inc.   ("PLANCO")  and  its  affiliate,   PLANCO,
Incorporated.  PLANCO,  a primary  distributor  of HLI's annuity and  investment
products,  is the nation's  largest  wholesaler of individual  annuities and has
played a significant role in HLI's growth over the past decade. As a wholesaler,
PLANCO  distributes HLI's annuity and investment  products,  including fixed and
variable annuities,  mutual funds and single premium variable life insurance, as
well  as  providing  sales  support  to  registered  representatives,  financial
planners  and  broker-dealers  at  brokerage  firms and banks  across the United
States.  The acquisition  has been accounted for as a purchase and  accordingly,
the  results  of  PLANCO's  operations  have  been  included  in The  Hartford's
consolidated financial statements from the closing date of the transaction.

On February 12, 1998,  The Hartford  completed  the purchase of all  outstanding
shares  of Omni  Insurance  Group,  Inc.  ("Omni"),  a  holding  company  of two
non-standard auto insurance  subsidiaries licensed in 25 states and the District
of Columbia. The Hartford paid cash of $31.75 per share, plus transaction costs,
for a total of $189. The acquisition has been reported as a purchase transaction
and  accordingly,  the results of Omni's  operations  have been  included in The
Hartford's  consolidated  financial  statements  from  the  closing  date of the
transaction.

REGULATORY INITIATIVES AND CONTINGENCIES

LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES

Although  the  Federal  government  does not  directly  regulate  the  insurance
business,  Federal initiatives often have an impact on the insurance industry in
a variety of ways. Current and proposed Federal measures which may significantly
affect  the  life  insurance   business   include   medical   testing  for  life
insurability,  tax law changes  affecting  the tax  treatment of life  insurance
products  and its  impact  on the  relative  desirability  of  various  personal
investment  vehicles and proposed  legislation  to prohibit the use of gender in
determining insurance and pension rates and benefits.  In particular,  President
Clinton's   1999   Federal   Budget   Proposal    currently   contains   certain
recommendations  for  modifying  tax rules  related to the  treatment of COLI by
contractholders  which, if enacted as described,  could have a material  adverse
impact on the  Company's  sales of these  products.  The  budget  proposal  also
includes  provisions  which would result in a  significant  increase in the "DAC
tax" on certain of the Company's products and would apply a tax to the Company's
policyholder  surplus  account.  It is too early to determine  whether these tax
proposals  will  ultimately  be enacted by Congress.  Therefore,  the  potential
impact to the Company's  financial  condition or results of operations cannot be
reasonably  estimated at this time. Measures which may significantly  impact the
property and casualty  industry include possible  modifications to the Superfund
program,  the tax laws governing property and casualty  insurance  companies and
Federal  catastrophe fund legislation.  Measures which may significantly  impact
the company  overall  include  tort  reform,  privacy and new  restrictions  and
liability  for  managed  care  plans,  and  financial   services   modernization
legislation.

                                     - 41 -

INSOLVENCY FUND

In all states,  insurers  licensed to transact  certain classes of insurance are
required to become members of an insolvency  fund. In most states,  in the event
of the  insolvency  of an insurer  writing  any such class of  insurance  in the
state,  all  members  of the fund are  assessed  to pay  certain  claims  of the
insolvent insurer. A particular state's fund assesses its members based on their
respective  written  premiums in the state for the classes of insurance in which
the insolvent insurer is engaged. Assessments are generally limited for any year
to one or two percent of premiums written per year depending on the state.  Such
assessments  paid by The Hartford  approximated $23 in 1998, $19 in 1997 and $14
in 1996.

NAIC PROPOSALS

The NAIC  developed  several  model  laws  and  regulations,  including  a Model
Investment Law and amendments to the Model Holding Company System Regulatory Act
(the "Holding Act Amendments"). The Model Investment Law defines the investments
which are  permissible  for property and casualty and life insurers to hold, and
the Holding Act Amendments address the types of activities in which subsidiaries
and affiliates  may engage.  The NAIC adopted these models in 1997 and 1996, but
the laws have not been enacted for insurance companies domiciled in the State of
Connecticut,  such as  Hartford  Fire  Insurance  Company.  Even if  enacted  in
Connecticut or other states in which The Hartford's  subsidiaries are domiciled,
it is expected that these laws will neither  significantly change The Hartford's
investment  strategies  nor have any material  adverse  effect on The Hartford's
liquidity or financial position.

The NAIC adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting  Principles ("SAP") in
March, 1998. The proposed effective date for the statutory  accounting  guidance
is January 1,  2001.  It is  expected  that each of The  Hartford's  domiciliary
states will adopt SAP and the Company will make the necessary  changes  required
for implementation.  These changes are not anticipated to have a material impact
on the statutory financial statements of The Hartford.

DEPENDENCE ON CERTAIN THIRD PARTY RELATIONSHIPS

The Company  distributes  its  annuity,  life and certain  property and casualty
insurance  products  through  a  variety  of  distribution  channels,  including
broker-dealers, banks, wholesalers, its own internal sales force and other third
party marketing  organizations.  The Company periodically  negotiates provisions
and renewals of these  relationships,  and there can be no  assurance  that such
terms will  remain  acceptable  to the  Company or such  service  providers.  An
interruption  in the  Company's  continuing  relationship  with certain of these
third  parties  could  materially  affect  the  Company's  ability to market its
products.


YEAR 2000

IN GENERAL

The Year 2000 issue  relates to the ability or inability  of computer  hardware,
software and other  information  technology  ("IT")  systems,  as well as non-IT
systems,   such  as   equipment   and   machinery   with   imbedded   chips  and
microprocessors,  to properly process information and data containing or related
to dates  beginning  with the year 2000 and beyond.  The Year 2000 issue  exists
because,  historically,  many IT and non-IT  systems  that are in use today were
developed  years ago when a year was  identified  using a  two-digit  date field
rather than a four-digit  date field.  As  information  and data  containing  or
related to the century date are  introduced  to date  sensitive  systems,  these
systems may recognize the year 2000 as "1900",  or not at all,  which may result
in systems processing information incorrectly.  This, in turn, may significantly
and adversely  affect the integrity and reliability of information  databases of
IT systems,  may cause the  malfunctioning  of certain non-IT  systems,  and may
result in a wide variety of adverse consequences to a company. In addition, Year
2000 problems that occur with third parties with which a company does  business,
such as suppliers, computer vendors, distributors and others, may also adversely
affect any given company.

The  integrity and  reliability  of The  Hartford's  IT systems,  as well as the
reliability  of its non-IT  systems,  are  integral  aspects  of The  Hartford's
business.  The Hartford issues insurance policies,  annuities,  mutual funds and
other financial products to individual and business customers,  nearly all which
contain date sensitive data, such as policy  expiration  dates,  birth dates and
premium  payment dates. In addition,  various IT systems support  communications
and other systems that integrate The Hartford's  various  business  segments and
field offices,  including The Hartford's foreign  operations.  The Hartford also
has business relationships with numerous third parties that affect virtually all
aspects of The Hartford's business,  including,  without limitation,  suppliers,
computer hardware and software vendors, insurance agents and brokers, securities
broker-dealers  and other  distributors  of  financial  products,  many of which
provide date sensitive data to The Hartford,  and whose operations are important
to The Hartford's business.

INTERNAL YEAR 2000 EFFORTS AND TIMETABLE

Beginning in 1990, The Hartford began working on making its IT systems Year 2000
ready,  either  through  installing  new  programs or replacing  systems.  Since
January  1998,  The  Hartford's  Year 2000 efforts have focused on the remaining
Year 2000  issues  related  to IT and non-IT  systems  in all of The  Hartford's
business  segments.  These Year 2000  efforts  include the  following  five main
initiatives:  (1) identifying and assessing Year 2000 issues; (2) taking actions
to remediate IT and non-IT systems so that they are Year 2000 ready; (3) testing
IT and non-IT systems for Year 2000 readiness; (4) deploying such remediated and
tested  systems  back into their  respective  production  environments;  and (5)
conducting  internal  and external  integrated  testing of such  systems.  As of
December 31, 1998, The Hartford substantially  completed initiatives (1) through
(4) of its internal Year 2000 efforts.  The Hartford has 

                                     - 42 -

begun  initiative (5), and management  currently  anticipates that such activity
will continue into the fourth quarter of 1999.

Third Party Year 2000 Efforts and Timetable

The Hartford's Year 2000 efforts include  assessing the potential  impact on The
Hartford of third parties' Year 2000 readiness.  The Hartford's third party Year
2000 efforts include the following three main initiatives: (1) identifying third
parties  which  have  significant  business  relationships  with  The  Hartford,
including,   without  limitation,   insurance  agents,   brokers,   third  party
administrators,   banks  and  other  distributors  and  servicers  of  financial
products,  and  inquiring  of such  third  parties  regarding  their  Year  2000
readiness;  (2)  evaluating  such third  parties'  responses  to The  Hartford's
inquiries;  and (3) based on the evaluation of third party responses (or a third
party's failure to respond) and the  significance of the business  relationship,
conducting  additional activities with respect to third parties as determined to
be necessary in each case.  These activities may include  conducting  additional
inquiries,  more in-depth  evaluations  of Year 2000  readiness  and plans,  and
integrated IT systems testing.  The Hartford has completed the first third party
initiative and, as of early 1999, had substantially  completed  evaluating third
party  responses  received.  The Hartford has begun  conducting  the  additional
activities  described in initiative  (3), and management  currently  anticipates
that it will continue to do so through the end of 1999. However, notwithstanding
these third party Year 2000  efforts,  The  Hartford  does not have control over
these third parties and, as a result, The Hartford cannot currently determine to
what extent future operating results may be adversely affected by the failure of
these third parties to adequately address their Year 2000 issues.

Year 2000 Costs

The costs of The  Hartford's  Year 2000 program that were  incurred  through the
year ended  December  31,  1997 were not  material to The  Hartford's  financial
condition or results of operations.  The after-tax  costs of The Hartford's Year
2000  efforts  for the year ended  December  31,  1998 were  approximately  $23.
Management  currently  estimates that  after-tax  costs related to the Year 2000
program to be incurred in 1999 will be approximately $15 to $25. These costs are
being expensed as incurred.

Risks and Contingency Plans

If significant Year 2000 problems arise,  including  problems arising with third
parties,  failures of IT and non-IT  systems  could  occur,  which in turn could
result in substantial interruptions in The Hartford's business. In addition, The
Hartford's investing activities are an important aspect of its business, and The
Hartford may be exposed to the risk that issuers of investments  held by it will
be adversely  impacted by Year 2000 issues.  Given the uncertain  nature of Year
2000 problems that may arise, especially those related to the readiness of third
parties  discussed above,  management  cannot determine at this time whether the
consequences of Year 2000 related problems that could arise will have a material
impact on The Hartford's financial condition or results of operations.

The Hartford is in the process of developing  certain  contingency plans so that
if,  despite its Year 2000 efforts,  Year 2000 problems  ultimately  arise,  the
impact of such problems may be avoided or minimized. These contingency plans are
being  developed based on, among other things,  known or reasonably  anticipated
circumstances  and  potential  vulnerabilities.  The  contingency  planning also
includes  assessing the dependency of The  Hartford's  business on third parties
and their Year 2000 readiness.  The Hartford currently anticipates that internal
and external contingency plans will be substantially  complete by the end of the
second quarter of 1999. However, in many contexts, Year 2000 issues are dynamic,
and ongoing assessments of business functions, vulnerabilities and risks must be
made. As such, new contingency plans may be needed in the future and/or existing
plans may need to be modified as circumstances warrant.

Insurance Claims

As an insurer,  The  Hartford may incur  claims and claim  adjustment  expenses,
including  attorneys' fees and other legal expenses,  resulting from claims from
insureds who may incur losses as a result of Year 2000  problems.  To the extent
claims are made, insurance coverage,  if any, will depend upon the provisions of
the policies and the facts and  circumstances  of each claim. It is not possible
to determine in advance  whether and to what extent insureds would incur losses,
the amount of the losses,  or whether any such losses would be covered under The
Hartford's  insurance  policies.  Because  of this  uncertainty,  it is also not
possible  to  determine  in advance  whether  such  claims and claim  adjustment
expenses would have a material impact upon The Hartford's financial condition or
results of operations.

EFFECT OF INFLATION

The rate of  inflation as measured by the change in the average  consumer  price
index has not had a material effect on the revenues or operating  results of The
Hartford during the three most recent fiscal years.

ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

For a discussion of accounting  standards,  see Note 1 of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements.

                                     - 43 -

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information  required by this item is said forth in the Capital Markets Risk
Management  section of the  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules elsewhere herein.

ITEM  9.  CHANGES  IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE HARTFORD

Certain of the information  called for by Item 10 is set forth in the definitive
proxy  statement  for the  1999  annual  meeting  of  shareholders  (the  "Proxy
Statement")  filed or to be  filed  by The  Hartford  with  the  Securities  and
Exchange  Commission  within  120 days  after  the end of the last  fiscal  year
covered by this Form 10-K under the caption  "Item 1.  Election  of  Directors -
Directors  and  Nominees" and is  incorporated  herein by reference.  Additional
information  required by Item 10 regarding The Hartford's  executive officers is
set forth in Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the caption  "Executive  Officers of
The Hartford" and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information  called for by Item 11 is set forth in the Proxy Statement under
the captions  "Compensation  of Executive  Officers" and "The Board of Directors
and its  Committees - Directors'  Compensation"  and is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information  called for by Item 12 is set forth in the Proxy Statement under
the caption  "Stock  Ownership  of  Directors,  Executive  Officers  and Certain
Shareholders" and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

None.

PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  Documents filed as a part of this report:

     1. CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.  See Index to Consolidated Financial
Statements elsewhere herein.

     2. CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENT  SCHEDULES.  See Index to Consolidated
Financial Statement Schedules elsewhere herein.

     3.  Exhibits. See Exhibit Index elsewhere herein.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K - None

(c)  See Item 14(a)(3).

(d)  See Item 14(a)(2).

                                     - 44 -

            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES


                                                                         Page(s)
Report of Management                                                      F-1
Report of Independent Public Accountants                                  F-2
Consolidated  Statements  of Income for the three years 
  ended  December 31, 1998                                                F-3
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1998 and 1997              F-4
Consolidated  Statements of Stockholders'  Equity for 
  the three years ended December 31, 1998                                 F-5-6
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years 
  ended December 31, 1998                                                 F-7
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                F-8-30
Summary of Investments - Other Than Investments in Affiliates             S-1
Supplementary Condensed Financial Statements                              S-2-3
Supplementary Insurance Information                                       S-4
Reinsurance                                                               S-5
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                                         S-6
Supplemental Information Concerning Property and Casualty 
  Insurance Operations                                                    S-7




                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT


The  management  of  The  Hartford   Financial  Services  Group,  Inc.  and  its
subsidiaries  ("The  Hartford") is responsible for the preparation and integrity
of information contained in the accompanying  consolidated  financial statements
and other sections of the Annual Report.  The financial  statements are prepared
in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles,   and,  where
necessary, include amounts that are based on management's informed judgments and
estimates.  Management  believes these statements  present fairly The Hartford's
financial  position  and results of  operation,  and that any other  information
contained in the Annual Report is consistent with the financial statements.

Management has made available The Hartford's  financial records and related data
to Arthur Andersen LLP,  independent  public  accountants,  in order for them to
perform an audit of The  Hartford's  consolidated  financial  statements.  Their
report appears on page F-2.

An essential element in meeting management's  financial  responsibilities is The
Hartford's system of internal controls. These controls, which include accounting
controls and the internal auditing program,  are designed to provide  reasonable
assurance that assets are safeguarded, and transactions are properly authorized,
executed and recorded.  The controls,  which are documented and  communicated to
employees in the form of written  codes of conduct and policies and  procedures,
provide for careful  selection  of  personnel  and for  appropriate  division of
responsibility.  Management  continually  monitors  for  compliance,  while  The
Hartford's  internal  auditors  independently  assess the  effectiveness  of the
controls and make  recommendations  for improvement.  Also,  Arthur Andersen LLP
took  into   consideration   The  Hartford's  system  of  internal  controls  in
determining the nature, timing and extent of their audit tests.

Another important element is management's  recognition of its responsibility for
fostering  a strong,  ethical  climate,  thereby  ensuring  that The  Hartford's
affairs are  transacted  according  to the  highest  standards  of personal  and
professional  conduct. The Hartford has a long-standing  reputation of integrity
in business  conduct and  utilizes  communication  and  education  to create and
fortify a strong compliance culture.

The Audit  Committee  of the Board of  Directors  of The  Hartford,  composed of
non-employee  directors,  meets  periodically  with the  external  and  internal
auditors to evaluate the  effectiveness of work performed by them in discharging
their  respective  responsibilities  and to ensure their  independence  and free
access to the Committee.

                                      F-1

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


To The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.:

We have audited the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets of The Hartford
Financial Services Group, Inc. (a Delaware  corporation) and its subsidiaries as
of  December  31,  1998 and 1997,  and the related  Consolidated  Statements  of
Income,  Stockholders'  Equity and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1998. These consolidated  financial statements and the
schedules referred to below are the responsibility of the Company's  management.
Our  responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements and
the schedules based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the  financial  position  of The  Hartford
Financial  Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and
1997,  and the results of their  operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended  December 31, 1998 in conformity  with generally
accepted accounting principles.

Our  audits  were  made for the  purpose  of  forming  an  opinion  on the basic
financial  statements  taken as a whole.  The  schedules  listed in the Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules are presented for the purpose of
complying with the Securities and Exchange  Commission's  rules and are not part
of the basic  financial  statements.  These schedules have been subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and,
in our  opinion,  fairly  state in all  material  respects  the  financial  data
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic  financial  statements
taken as a whole.



                                                            Arthur Andersen LLP

Hartford, Connecticut
January 26, 1999


                                      F-2



See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                      F-3




See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                      F-4






See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                                  .

                                      F-5




See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                       F-6



Noncash Investing Activities
- - ----------------------------
Due to the  recapture of an in force block of business  previously  ceded to MBL
Life  Assurance  Co. of New  Jersey,  reinsurance  recoverables  of $4,546  were
exchanged  for the fair value of assets  comprised of $4,354 in policy loans and
$192 in other assets.


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                      F-7

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)


1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

(A)  BASIS OF PRESENTATION

The Hartford  Financial  Services Group, Inc. and its consolidated  subsidiaries
("The  Hartford"  or the  "Company")  provide  property  and  casualty  and life
insurance to both  individual and commercial  customers in the United States and
internationally.

On  November  16,  1998,   The  Hartford   completed  the  sale  of  its  United
Kingdom-based  London & Edinburgh  Insurance Group,  Ltd. ("London & Edinburgh")
subsidiary to Norwich Union, a leading provider of general and life insurance in
the  United  Kingdom.  For  purposes  of  these  financial  statements  London &
Edinburgh's  operating  results  are  included  in  The  Hartford's  results  of
operations through the date of sale. (For additional information, see Note 18.)

The  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  prepared  on the  basis of
generally  accepted  accounting  principles  which  differ  materially  from the
accounting prescribed by various insurance regulatory authorities.  All material
intercompany  transactions and balances  between The Hartford,  its subsidiaries
and affiliates have been eliminated.

The preparation of financial  statements,  in conformity with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  requires  management to make estimates and  assumptions
that affect the reported  amounts of assets and  liabilities  and  disclosure of
contingent  assets and  liabilities at the date of the financial  statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

The most significant estimates include those used in determining deferred policy
acquisition  costs and the liability for future policy  benefits,  unpaid claims
and claim  adjustment  expenses.  Although some variability is inherent in these
estimates, management believes the amounts provided are adequate.

Certain  reclassifications have been made to prior year financial information to
conform to the current year  classification  of  transactions  and accounts.  In
addition,  the consolidated financial statements have been restated to reflect a
two-for-one  stock split  effected in the form of a stock dividend (see Note 8).
Accordingly, all issued, outstanding and weighted average shares, as well as per
share amounts, have been adjusted.

(B)  CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

In November 1998, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF")  reached  consensus on
issue 98-15,  "Structured  Notes Acquired for a Specific  Investment  Strategy".
This issue  requires  companies to account for  structured  notes acquired for a
specific  investment  strategy,  as a unit. Affected companies that entered into
these notes prior to  September  25, 1998 are required to either  restate  prior
period  financial  statements  to conform with the  prescribed  unit  accounting
model, or disclose the related impact on earnings for all periods  presented and
cumulatively  over the life of the instruments had the registrant  accounted for
the structure as a unit. Had the Company  accounted for certain  structured note
transactions  as a unit,  based  upon  the  consensus  reached  in  EITF  98-15,
after-tax,  net  income  for the year ended  December  31,  1998 would have been
approximately $25 higher. Included in net income for the year ended December 31,
1998 was $26 of after-tax net realized  capital losses and  approximately  $1 of
after-tax  net   investment   income   related  to  combined   structured   note
transactions, which were accounted for in accordance with then current generally
accepted accounting principles.

In  October  1998,  The  American  Institute  of  Certified  Public  Accountants
("AICPA") issued  Statement of Position ("SOP") 98-7,  "Accounting for Insurance
and  Reinsurance  Contracts  That Do Not  Transfer  Insurance  Risk".  This  SOP
provides  guidance on the method of accounting  for  insurance  and  reinsurance
contracts that do not transfer insurance risk, defined in the SOP as the deposit
method.  This  SOP is  effective  for  financial  statements  for  fiscal  years
beginning  after June 15, 1999 and is not expected to have a material  impact on
the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement
of Financial  Accounting  Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities". The new standard establishes accounting and
reporting  guidance for derivative  instruments,  including  certain  derivative
instruments  embedded in other  contracts.  The standard  requires,  among other
things,  that all derivatives be carried on the balance sheet at fair value. The
standard also specifies hedge  accounting  criteria under which a derivative can
qualify for special  accounting.  In order to receive  special  accounting,  the
derivative  instrument  must  qualify as either a hedge of the fair value or the
variability  of the  cash  flow  of a  qualified  asset  or  liability.  Special
accounting  for  qualifying  hedges  provides for matching the timing of gain or
loss  recognition  on  the  hedging  instrument  with  the  recognition  of  the
corresponding  changes  in  value  of the  hedged  item.  SFAS  No.  133 will be
effective for fiscal years  beginning after June 15, 1999.  Initial  application
for The Hartford  will begin for the first  quarter of the year 2000.  While The
Hartford is currently in the process of quantifying  the impact of SFAS No. 133,
the Company is reviewing its derivative holdings in order to take actions needed
to  minimize  potential  volatility,  while at the  same  time  maintaining  the
economic protection needed to support the goals of its business.

In March  1998,  the AICPA  issued SOP No.  98-1,  "Accounting  for the Costs of
Computer  Software  Developed or Obtained for Internal  Use".  This SOP provides
guidance on accounting for


                                      F-8

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(B)  CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (CONTINUED)

costs of  internal  use  software  and in  determining  whether  software is for
internal  use.  The SOP  defines  internal  use  software  as  software  that is
acquired,  internally  developed,  or modified solely to meet internal needs and
identifies  stages of software  development and accounting for the related costs
incurred  during the  stages.  This  statement  is  effective  for fiscal  years
beginning  after December 15, 1998 and is not expected to have a material impact
on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

In February 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 132,  "Employers'  Disclosures  about
Pensions  and Other  Postretirement  Benefits".  The new  standard  revises  and
improves  disclosure   requirements  of  FASB  Statements  No.  87,  "Employers'
Accounting for Pensions",  No. 88,  "Employers'  Accounting for  Settlements and
Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits", and
No.  106,  "Employers'   Accounting  for  Postretirement   Benefits  Other  Than
Pensions".  SFAS No. 132 does not  change  the  recognition  or  measurement  of
pension  or   postretirement   benefit  plans,   but   standardizes   disclosure
requirements for pensions and other postretirement benefits,  eliminates certain
disclosures  and requires  additional  information,  including a  disclosure  of
changes in the benefit  obligation  and changes in the fair value of plan assets
by reconciling  beginning and ending balances.  The Company adopted SFAS No. 132
in 1998. For additional information, see Note 11.

Effective  January  1, 1998,  The  Hartford  adopted  SFAS No.  130,  "Reporting
Comprehensive  Income", which establishes standards for reporting and display of
comprehensive  income  and  its  components  in a full  set of  general  purpose
financial statements.  The objective of this statement is to report a measure of
all changes in equity of an enterprise that result from  transactions  and other
economic events of the period other than transactions with owners. Comprehensive
income is the total of net  income  and all other  nonowner  changes  in equity.
Accordingly,  the Company has reported  comprehensive income in the Consolidated
Statements of Stockholders' Equity.

In December  1997,  the AICPA issued SOP No. 97-3,  "Accounting by Insurance and
Other  Enterprises  for  Insurance-Related   Assessments".  This  SOP  addresses
accounting  by  insurance  and other  enterprises  for  assessments  related  to
insurance  activities  including  recognition,  measurement  and  disclosure  of
guaranty fund or other assessments.  SOP 97-3 will be effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1998, and is not expected to have a material impact
on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

In June 1997,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 131,  "Disclosures  about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related  Information".  The new standard requires public business
enterprises to disclose  certain  financial and  descriptive  information  about
reportable  operating  segments in annual financial  statements and in condensed
financial statements of interim periods. Operating segments are components of an
enterprise  about which  separate  financial  information  is available  that is
evaluated  regularly by the chief  operating  decision  maker in deciding how to
allocate resources and in assessing  performance.  SFAS No. 131 also establishes
standards for related disclosures about products and services,  geographic areas
and major  customers.  The Company  adopted SFAS No. 131 in 1998. For additional
information, see Note 17.

The  Hartford's  cash flows  were not  impacted  by  adopting  these  changes in
accounting principles.

(C)  INVESTMENTS

The  Hartford's  investments  in  fixed  maturities  include  bonds,  redeemable
preferred  stock and  commercial  paper which are  classified as "available  for
sale" and  accordingly  are carried at fair value with the after-tax  difference
from  cost  reflected  as  a  component  of  Stockholders'   Equity   designated
"unrealized gain (loss) on securities,  net of tax".  Equity  securities,  which
include common and  non-redeemable  preferred stocks,  are carried at fair value
with the  after-tax  difference  from cost  reflected in  Stockholders'  Equity.
Policy loans are carried at outstanding  balance which  approximates fair value.
Net realized  capital  gains and losses,  after  deducting  the life and pension
policyholders' share, are reported as a component of revenues and are determined
on  a  specific  identification  basis.  The  Company's  accounting  policy  for
impairment   recognition   requires  recognition  of  an  other  than  temporary
impairment  charge on a security if it is determined  that the Company is unable
to recover all amounts due under the contractual obligations of the security. In
addition, for securities expected to be sold, an other than temporary impairment
charge is recognized if the Company does not expect the fair value of a security
to recover to cost or amortized cost prior to the expected date of sale. Once an
impairment  charge has been  recorded,  the Company then continues to review the
other than temporary impaired securities for appropriate valuation on an ongoing
basis.

(D)  DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

The Hartford  utilizes a variety of  derivative  instruments,  including  swaps,
caps,  floors,  forwards and exchange traded futures and options,  in accordance
with  Company  policy  and in order to  achieve  one of three  Company  approved
objectives: to hedge risk arising from interest rate, price or currency exchange
rate  volatility;  to manage  liquidity;  or to control  transaction  costs. The
Company is considered an "end user" of derivative  instruments  and as such does
not make a market  or trade in these  instruments  for the  express  purpose  of
earning trading profits.  The Hartford's  accounting for derivative  instruments
used to manage risk is in accordance  with the concepts  established in SFAS No.
80,  "Accounting  for  Futures  Contracts",   SFAS  No.  52,  "Foreign  Currency
Translation",  AICPA  SOP 86-2,  "Accounting  for  Options",  and  various  EITF
pronouncements. Written options are used, in all cases in


                                      F-9

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(D)  DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

conjunction with other assets and derivatives as part of the Company's asset and
liability  management  strategy.  Derivative  instruments  are carried at values
consistent with the asset or liability being hedged. Derivative instruments used
to hedge  fixed  maturities  or  equities  are  carried  at fair  value with the
after-tax  difference from cost reflected in  Stockholders'  Equity.  Derivative
instruments  used to hedge other invested  assets or liabilities  are carried at
cost. In June 1998,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 133,  "Accounting  for  Derivative
Instruments and Hedging  Activities".  Initial application for The Hartford will
begin for the first quarter of the year 2000. For further discussion of SFAS No.
133, see (b) Changes In Accounting Principles.

Derivative  instruments  must be designated at inception as a hedge and measured
for  effectiveness  both at inception and on an ongoing  basis.  The  Hartford's
correlation  threshold for hedge  designation  is 80% to 120%.  If  correlation,
which is assessed  monthly and measured  based on a rolling three month average,
falls outside the range of 80% to 120%,  hedge  accounting  will be  terminated.
Derivative  instruments  used to create a  synthetic  asset must meet  synthetic
accounting criteria including  designation at inception and consistency of terms
between the synthetic and the instrument being replicated.  Synthetic instrument
accounting, consistent with industry practice, provides that the synthetic asset
is accounted  for like the  financial  instrument  it is intended to  replicate.
Derivative instruments which fail to meet risk management criteria are marked to
market with the impact reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

Gains or losses on financial  futures  contracts entered into in anticipation of
the future  receipt of product cash flows are  deferred  and, at the time of the
ultimate purchase, reflected as an adjustment to the cost basis of the purchased
asset.  Gains or losses on futures used in invested  asset risk  management  are
deferred and  adjusted  into the cost basis of the hedged asset when the futures
contracts  are closed,  except for futures  used in duration  hedging  which are
deferred and adjusted into the cost basis on a quarterly  basis. The adjustments
to the cost basis are amortized  into net  investment  income over the remaining
asset life.

Open forward  commitment  contracts are marked to market  through  Stockholders'
Equity.  Such  contracts are recorded at settlement by recording the purchase of
the specified  securities at the  previously  committed  price.  Gains or losses
resulting from the termination of the forward  commitment  contracts  before the
delivery  of the  securities  are  recognized  immediately  in the  Consolidated
Statements of Income as a component of net investment income.

The cost of  options  entered  into as part of a risk  management  strategy  are
adjusted into the basis of the underlying  asset or liability and amortized over
the remaining  life of the hedge.  Gains or losses on expiration or  termination
are adjusted into the basis of the  underlying  asset or liability and amortized
over the remaining life.

Interest  rate swaps  involve the  periodic  exchange  of  payments  without the
exchange of underlying  principal or notional amounts.  Net receipts or payments
are accrued and recognized  over the life of the swap agreement as an adjustment
to income. Should the swap be terminated,  the gain or loss is adjusted into the
basis of the asset or liability and amortized  over the remaining  life.  Should
the hedged asset be sold or liability  terminated  without  terminating the swap
position,  any swap  gains or losses are  immediately  recognized  in  earnings.
Interest   rate  swaps   purchased  in   anticipation   of  an  asset   purchase
("anticipatory transaction") are recognized consistent with the underlying asset
components such that the settlement  component is recognized in the Consolidated
Statements  of Income  while the  change in  market  value is  recognized  as an
unrealized gain or loss.

Premiums paid on purchased  floor or cap agreements and the premium  received on
issued cap or floor  agreements (used for risk management) are adjusted into the
basis of the  applicable  asset or  liability  and  amortized  over the asset or
liability  life.  Gains or losses on  termination of such positions are adjusted
into the basis of the asset or liability and amortized over the remaining  life.
Net payments are  recognized as an  adjustment  to income or basis  adjusted and
amortized depending on the specific hedge strategy.

Forward  exchange  contracts  and foreign  currency  swaps are  accounted for in
accordance with SFAS No. 52. Changes in the spot rate of instruments  designated
as hedges of the net  investment  in a foreign  subsidiary  are reflected in the
cumulative translation adjustments component of Stockholders' Equity.

(E)  SEPARATE ACCOUNTS

The Company maintains separate account assets and liabilities which are reported
at fair value.  Separate  account assets are segregated from other  investments,
and investment income and gains and losses accrue directly to the policyholders.
Separate  accounts  reflect two  categories of risk  assumption:  non-guaranteed
separate  accounts,  wherein the  policyholder  assumes the investment risk, and
guaranteed  separate  accounts,  wherein  the Company  contractually  guarantees
either a minimum return or the account value to the policyholder.

(F)  DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS

PROPERTY  AND  CASUALTY   INSURANCE   OPERATIONS  -  Policy  acquisition  costs,
representing commissions, premium taxes and certain other underwriting expenses,
are deferred and  amortized  over policy  terms.  Estimates of future  revenues,
including net investment  income and tax benefits,  are compared to estimates of
future costs,  including  amortization of policy acquisition costs, to determine
if business currently in force is expected to


                                      F-10

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(F)  DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS (CONTINUED)

result in a net loss.  No  revenue  deficiencies  have  been  determined  in the
periods presented.

LIFE INSURANCE OPERATIONS - Policy acquisition costs,  including commissions and
certain underwriting  expenses associated with acquiring business,  are deferred
and amortized  over the estimated  lives of the  contracts,  generally 20 years.
Generally,  acquisition costs are deferred and amortized using the retrospective
deposit method.  Under the retrospective  deposit method,  acquisition costs are
amortized in  proportion  to the present  value of expected  gross  profits from
surrender  charges,  investment,  mortality  and expense  margins.  Actual gross
profits can vary from management's estimates resulting in increases or decreases
in the rate of amortization.  Management  periodically  updates these estimates,
when appropriate,  and evaluates the recoverability of the deferred  acquisition
cost  asset.  When  appropriate,  management  revises  its  assumptions  on  the
estimated gross profits of these contracts,  and the cumulative amortization for
the books of business are reestimated  and readjusted by a cumulative  charge or
credit to income.

(G) FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS, UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE  OPERATIONS - The Hartford  establishes reserves
to provide for the  estimated  costs of paying claims made by  policyholders  or
against  policyholders.  These reserves  include  estimates for both claims that
have been  reported  and those that have been  incurred  but not reported to The
Hartford and include  estimates of all expenses  associated  with processing and
settling these claims.  This estimation process is primarily based on historical
experience and involves a variety of actuarial  techniques  which analyze trends
and other relevant  factors.  A reconciliation  of liabilities for unpaid claims
and claim adjustment expenses follows:


                                    For the years ended December
                                                31,
                                   ------------------------------
                                     1998      1997      1996
                                   ------------------------------
BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
  CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
  EXPENSES-GROSS                    $18,376   $18,303   $17,536
Reinsurance recoverables              4,348     4,414     4,939
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
  CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
  EXPENSES-NET                       14,028    13,889    12,597
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
ADD PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS
  AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
     Current year                     5,404     5,065     5,075
     Prior years [1]                   (152)       98     1,049
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS
  AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES       5,252     5,163     6,124
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
LESS PAYMENTS
     Current year                     2,275     1,961     2,082
     Prior years                      2,876     3,039     2,797
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL PAYMENTS                        5,151     5,000     4,879
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
Foreign currency translation             (1)      (24)       47
Reserves resulting from                  86        --        --
  acquisitions
Other [2]                            (1,051)       --        --
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
  CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
  EXPENSES-NET                       13,163    14,028    13,889
Reinsurance recoverables              3,286     4,348     4,414
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
   CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
   EXPENSES-GROSS                   $16,449   $18,376   $18,303
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  See Note 15(b)  Environmental and Asbestos Claims.  Excludes the effects of
     foreign exchange adjustments.
[2]  1998 includes  $1,067  related to the sale of London & Edinburgh  (see Note
     18).

The  Company  has an  exposure  to  catastrophe  losses  which  can be caused by
significant  events  including  hurricanes,  severe winter storms,  earthquakes,
windstorms  and  fires.   The  frequency  and  severity  of   catastrophes   are
unpredictable, and the exposure to a catastrophe is a function of both the total
amount  insured in an area  affected by the event and the severity of the event.
Catastrophes generally impact limited geographic areas; however,  certain events
may produce significant damage in heavily populated areas. The Company generally
seeks to reduce its  exposure to  catastrophe  losses  through  individual  risk
selection and the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance.

LIFE INSURANCE  OPERATIONS - Liabilities for future policy benefits are computed
by the net level premium  method using interest  assumptions  ranging from 3% to
11% and withdrawal,  mortality and morbidity assumptions appropriate at the time
the policies  were  issued.  Health  reserves,  which are the result of sales of
group long-term and short-term  disability,  stop loss,  Medicare supplement and
individual disability products, are stated at amounts determined by estimates on
individual  cases and estimates of unreported  claims based on past  experience.
Liabilities  for  universal  life-type  and  investment  contracts are stated at
policyholder account values before surrender charges.

The following table displays the development of the claim reserves  (included in
future policy benefits in the Consolidated  Balance Sheets) resulting  primarily
from group disability products.


                                      F-11

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(G)  FUTURE  POLICY  BENEFITS,  UNPAID  CLAIMS  AND  CLAIM  ADJUSTMENT  EXPENSES
(CONTINUED)

                                  For the years ended December
                                               31,
                                 --------------------------------
                                    1998      1997       1996
                                 --------------------------------
BEGINNING CLAIM RESERVES-GROSS     $1,746     $1,496    $1,254
Reinsurance recoverables               71         53        35
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
BEGINNING CLAIM RESERVES-NET        1,675      1,443     1,219
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
INCURRED EXPENSES RELATED TO
     Current year                     902        890       799
     Prior years                      (48)       (51)      (66)
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL INCURRED                        854        839       733
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
PAID EXPENSES RELATED TO
     Current year                     334        274       236
     Prior years                      382        333       273
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL PAID                            716        607       509
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING CLAIM RESERVES-NET           1,813      1,675     1,443
Reinsurance recoverables              125         71        53
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING CLAIM RESERVES-GROSS        $1,938     $1,746    $1,496
=================================================================

(H)  REVENUE RECOGNITION

PROPERTY AND  CASUALTY  INSURANCE  OPERATIONS - Property and casualty  insurance
premiums  are  earned  principally  on a pro rata  basis  over the  lives of the
policies and include  accruals for ultimate  premium revenue  anticipated  under
auditable and  retrospectively  rated policies.  Unearned premiums represent the
portion of premiums  written  applicable to the  unexpired  terms of policies in
force.   Unearned   premiums  also  include   estimated  and  unbilled   premium
adjustments.

LIFE  INSURANCE  OPERATIONS  - Revenues  for  universal  life-type  policies and
investment products consist of policy charges for the cost of insurance,  policy
administration and surrender charges assessed to policy account balances and are
recognized  in  the  period  in  which  services  are  provided.   Premiums  for
traditional life insurance policies are recognized as revenues when they are due
from policyholders.  Realized capital gains and losses on security  transactions
associated with the Company's immediate  participation  guaranteed contracts are
excluded from revenues and deferred,  since under the terms of the contracts the
realized gains and losses will be credited to  policyholders  in future years as
they are entitled to receive them.


(I)  FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

Foreign  currency  translation  gains and losses are reflected in  Stockholders'
Equity. Balance sheet accounts are translated at the exchange rates in effect at
each year end and income statement  accounts are translated at the average rates
of  exchange  prevailing  during  the  year.  The  national  currencies  of  the
international operations are generally their functional currencies.

2.  THE OFFERING

Pursuant to the initial public  offering of Hartford  Life,  Inc.  ("HLI"),  the
holding   company   parent  of  The   Hartford's   significant   life  insurance
subsidiaries, Class A common stock (the "Offering") on May 22, 1997, HLI sold to
the public 26 million shares at $28.25 per share and received  proceeds,  net of
offering expenses, of $687.

The 26 million shares sold in the Offering represented  approximately 19% of the
equity  ownership in HLI and  approximately  4% of the combined  voting power of
HLI's Class A and Class B common stock. The Hartford owns all of the 114 million
outstanding  shares of Class B common stock of HLI,  representing  approximately
81% of the equity ownership in HLI and  approximately 96% of the combined voting
power of HLI's Class A and Class B common stock. Holders of Class A common stock
generally  have  identical  rights to the holders of Class B common stock except
that the  holders  of Class A common  stock are  entitled  to one vote per share
while  holders of Class B common  stock are  entitled to five votes per share on
all matters submitted to a vote of HLI's stockholders. Also, each share of Class
B common  stock is  convertible  into one share of Class A common stock (a) upon
the  transfer of such share of Class B common  stock by the holder  thereof to a
non-affiliate  (except  where the shares of Class B common stock so  transferred
represent 50% or more of all the outstanding shares of common stock,  calculated
without  regard to the difference in voting rights between the classes of common
stock) or (b) in the event  that the  number  of shares of  outstanding  Class B
common stock is less than the 50% of all the common stock then  outstanding.  As
of December 31,  1998,  The Hartford  continued to maintain an  approximate  81%
equity ownership in HLI.

In connection  with the Offering,  The Hartford  reported a $368 gain related to
the  increased  value of its equity  ownership  in HLI. The  Hartford's  current
intent is to continue to  beneficially  own at least 80% of HLI, but it is under
no contractual obligation to do so.


                                      F-12

                        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)






                                      F-13

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

3.  INVESTMENTS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)





The amortized  cost and estimated  fair value of fixed  maturity  investments at
December 31, 1998 by estimated  maturity  year are shown to the right.  Expected
maturities  differ  from  contractual  maturities  due  to  call  or  prepayment
provisions.  Asset backed  securities,  including mortgage backed securities and
collateralized  mortgage obligations,  are distributed to maturity year based on
the Company's  estimates of the rate of future prepayments of principal over the
remaining  lives  of  the  securities.   These  estimates  are  developed  using
prepayment  speeds provided in broker consensus data. Such estimates are derived
from prepayment speeds experienced at the interest rate levels projected for the
applicable  underlying  collateral.  Actual prepayment  experience may vary from
these estimates.

                                      Amortized
Maturity                                 Cost       Fair Value
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
One year or less                     $     4,644   $     4,677
Over one year through five years           8,736         8,912
Over five years through ten years         10,759        11,236
Over ten years                            10,052        10,506
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                            $    34,191   $    35,331
=================================================================

Sales of fixed maturities,  excluding short-term fixed maturities, for the years
ended  December 31, 1998,  1997 and 1996  resulted in proceeds of $9.2  billion,
$13.4 billion and $11.3  billion,  gross gains of $230,  $264 and $161 and gross
losses of $(302), $(223)


                                      F-14

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

3.  INVESTMENTS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(E)  FIXED MATURITY INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)

and $(408),  respectively.  In 1996,  gross  realized  capital losses include an
other  than  temporary  impairment  of $137  related to the  Company's  block of
guaranteed  investment  contract business written prior to 1995. Sales of equity
security  investments  for the years  ended  December  31,  1998,  1997 and 1996
resulted in proceeds of $2.2 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion, gross gains
of  $636,  $343  and  $184  and  gross  losses  of  $(334),   $(64)  and  $(49),
respectively.

(F)  CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

The Hartford is not exposed to any significant  credit  concentration  risk of a
single issuer greater than 10% of stockholders' equity.

(G)  DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

The Hartford  utilizes a variety of  derivative  instruments,  including  swaps,
caps,  floors,  forwards and exchange traded futures and options,  in accordance
with  Company  policy  and in order to  achieve  one of three  Company  approved
objectives: to hedge risk arising from interest rate, price or currency exchange
rate volatility;  to manage  liquidity;  or to control  transactions  costs. The
Company is considered an "end user" of derivative instruments and, as such, does
not make a market  or trade in these  instruments  for the  express  purpose  of
earning trading profits.

The  Company  uses  derivative  instruments  in its  management  of market  risk
consistent   with  four  risk   management   strategies:   hedging   anticipated
transactions, hedging liability instruments, hedging invested assets and hedging
portfolios of assets and/or liabilities.

The Company's derivatives  counterparty exposure policy establishes market-based
credit limits,  favors long-term financial stability and  creditworthiness,  and
typically requires credit  enhancement/credit  risk reducing agreements.  Credit
risk is  measured  as the amount owed to The  Hartford  based on current  market
conditions  and  potential  payment  obligations  between  the  Company  and its
counterparties.   Credit  exposures  are  quantified  weekly  and  netted,   and
collateral  is pledged to or held by the Company to the extent the current value
of derivative instruments exceed exposure policy thresholds.

Derivative  activities are monitored by an internal  compliance  unit,  reviewed
frequently  by  senior  management  and  reported  to  The  Hartford's   Finance
Committee. The notional amounts of derivative contracts represent the basis upon
which pay or receive  amounts are  calculated  and are not  reflective of credit
risk.   Notional  amounts  pertaining  to  derivative   instruments   (excluding
guaranteed  separate  accounts)  totaled  $7.7  billion and $7.9  billion  ($5.0
billion and $5.8 billion  primarily related to life insurance  investments,  and
$2.7 billion and $2.1  billion on life  insurance  liabilities)  at December 31,
1998 and 1997, respectively.

A summary  of  derivative  instruments  for The  Hartford,  segregated  by major
investment  and liability  category,  was as follows as of December 31, 1998 and
1997:



                                      F-15

                        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



A  reconciliation  between  notional amounts as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 by
derivative type and strategy is as follows:



4.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

SFAS No. 107, "Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial  Instruments",  requires
disclosure  of fair value  information  of  financial  instruments.  For certain
financial  instruments  where  quoted  market  prices are not  available,  other
independent  valuation techniques and assumptions are used. Because considerable
judgment is used, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of amounts that
could be realized in a current market exchange. SFAS No. 107 excludes certain


                                      F-16

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

4.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

financial instruments from disclosure, including insurance contracts, other than
financial guarantees and investment  contracts.  The Hartford uses the following
methods and  assumptions in estimating the fair value of each class of financial
instrument.

Fair value for fixed maturities and marketable  equity  securities  approximates
those quotations  published by applicable stock exchanges or received from other
reliable sources.

For policy loans, carrying amounts approximate fair value.

Fair value for other invested  assets,  which primarily  consist of partnerships
and trusts,  is based on external market  valuations from  partnership and trust
management.

Other policy claims and benefits payable fair value information is determined by
estimating future cash flows, discounted at the current market rate.

For short-term debt, carrying amounts approximate fair value.

Fair  value for  long-term  debt and QUIPS and TruPS  (which  represent  company
obligated  mandatorily  redeemable  preferred  securities of  subsidiary  trusts
holding solely junior  subordinated  debentures) is based on external  valuation
using discounted future cash flows at current market interest rates.

The fair value of  derivative  financial  instruments,  including  swaps,  caps,
floors, futures, options and forward commitments,  is determined using a pricing
model which is validated through periodic comparison to dealer quoted prices.

The carrying amounts and fair values of The Hartford's financial  instruments at
December 31, 1998 and 1997 were as follows:

                                 1998                 1997
                          -------------------  -------------------
                          Carrying    Fair     Carrying  Fair
                           Amount    Value        Amount  Value
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------
ASSETS
 Fixed maturities           $35,331   $35,331    $35,053   $35,053
 Equity securities            1,066     1,066      1,922     1,922
 Policy loans                 6,687     6,687      3,759     3,759
 Other investments              612       681        388       463
LIABILITIES
 Other policy claims and
  benefits payable [1]      $11,723   $11,740    $11,769   $11,755
 Short-term debt                 31        31        291       294
 Long-term debt               1,548     1,653      1,482     1,530
 QUIPS/TruPS                  1,250     1,285      1,000     1,034
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  Excludes corporate owned life insurance ("COLI"),  reinsurance recoverables
     and  universal  life  insurance  contracts  with a carrying  amount of $8.0
     billion and $9.4 billion at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.


5.  SEPARATE ACCOUNTS

The Hartford maintained  separate account assets and liabilities  totaling $91.6
billion and $70.1 billion at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively, which are
reported at fair value. Separate account assets, which are segregated from other
investments, reflect two categories of risk assumption:  non-guaranteed separate
accounts totaling $81.3 billion and $59.4 billion at December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively,   wherein  the  policyholder  assumes  the  investment  risk,  and
guaranteed  separate  accounts  totaling  $10.3  billion  and $10.7  billion  at
December 31, 1998 and 1997,  respectively,  wherein The  Hartford  contractually
guarantees  either a minimum  return or the account  value to the  policyholder.
Included in the non-guaranteed  category were policy loans totaling $1.8 billion
and $1.9 billion at December  31, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  Net  investment
income  (including net realized capital gains and losses) and interest  credited
to   policyholders   on  separate  account  assets  are  not  reflected  in  the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

Separate account  management fees and other revenues were $911, $699 and $538 in
1998, 1997 and 1996,  respectively.  The guaranteed  separate  accounts  include
fixed market value adjusted ("MVA") individual  annuity and modified  guaranteed
life insurance.  The average credited  interest rate on these contracts was 6.6%
at December 31, 1998. The assets that support these  liabilities  were comprised
of $10.1 billion in fixed maturities as of December 31, 1998. The portfolios are
segregated  from other  investments  and are managed to minimize  liquidity  and
interest  rate  risk.  In  order  to  minimize  the  risk  of  disintermediation
associated  with early  withdrawals,  fixed MVA annuity and modified  guaranteed
life insurance  contracts  carry a graded  surrender  charge as well as a market
value  adjustment.  Additional  investment  risk is hedged  using a  variety  of
derivatives  which  totaled $41 and $119 in carrying  value and $3.6 billion and
$3.2 billion in notional amounts as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.


                                      F-17

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



(A)  SHORT-TERM DEBT

The  Hartford's  commercial  paper ranks  equally with its other  unsecured  and
unsubordinated  indebtedness.  As of December 31, 1998,  The Hartford had a $1.5
billion  five-year  revolving  credit  facility with three years  remaining with
thirty  participating  banks.  This facility is available for general  corporate
purposes and to provide  additional  support to the Company's  commercial  paper
program.  At December 31, 1998,  there were no outstanding  borrowings under the
facility.

In the first quarter of 1997,  HLI borrowed $1.1 billion  against a $1.3 billion
unsecured  short-term credit facility with four banks. During the second quarter
of 1997,  HLI retired the borrowing  with proceeds from the Offering and the new
debt issuances  (discussed below), and subsequently  reduced the capacity of its
unsecured short-term credit facility from $1.3 billion to $250.

(B)  LONG-TERM DEBT

The  Hartford's  long-term  debt  securities  are unsecured  obligations  of The
Hartford  and  rank on a parity  with all  other  unsecured  and  unsubordinated
indebtedness.  On October 11, 1995,  The Hartford  filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission a shelf  registration  statement for the potential offering
and sale of up to an aggregate  $1.0 billion in debt  securities  and  preferred
stock.  On  November 3, 1995,  the  Company  issued and sold $500 in senior debt
securities  in two  tranches  ($300  of 6.4%  notes  due  2002  and $200 in 7.3%
debentures due 2015). On October 2, 1996, this shelf registration  statement was
amended for an additional  $1.25 billion of  securities,  making an aggregate of
$1.75  billion  available  for sale.  The amended  registration  statement  also
expanded  the  type of  securities  which  could be  offered  under  this  shelf
registration statement by including provisions for the offering of common stock,
depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts,  stock purchase units and
junior subordinated  deferrable  interest  debentures of the Company,  preferred
securities of any of the Hartford  Trusts  (referred to below) and guarantees by
the Company  with  respect to the  preferred  securities  of any of the Hartford
Trusts. After the issuance of Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred
Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely Junior Subordinated Debentures on
October 30, 1996 (see Note 7) and the issuance of unsecured redeemable long-term
debt on November 2, 1998,  as discussed  below,  The Hartford had $1.05  billion
remaining on this shelf registration at December 31, 1998.

On November 2, 1998, The Hartford  issued and sold $200 of unsecured  redeemable
long-term  debt in the form of 6.375% notes due November 1, 2008 under its $1.75
billion shelf  registration.  Interest on the notes is payable  semi-annually on
May 1 and November 1 of each year, commencing May 1, 1999. The Hartford used the
net proceeds from the sale of the notes for the repayment of $200 of outstanding
commercial  paper which was incurred to fund the repayment of the Company's $200
8.20% Senior Notes due at their maturity on October 15, 1998.

On February 14, 1997, HLI filed a shelf registration  statement for the issuance
and sale of up to $1.0  billion  in the  aggregate  of senior  debt  securities,
subordinated  debt  securities and preferred stock of HLI. On June 12, 1997, HLI
issued and sold $650 of unsecured redeemable long-term debt in the form of notes
and debentures. Of this amount, $200 was in the form of 6.90% notes due June 15,
2004,  $200 of 7.10% notes due June 15, 2007,  and $250 of 7.65%  debentures due
June  15,  2027.  Interest  on each  of the  notes  and  debentures  is  payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15, of each year,


                                      F-18

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

6.  DEBT (CONTINUED)

(B)  LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)

commencing December 15, 1997. HLI used the proceeds from these issuances for the
repayment of short-term debt and for other general corporate purposes.

On June 8, 1998, HLI filed an omnibus registration statement with the Securities
and  Exchange  Commission  for the  issuance  of up to $1.0  billion of debt and
equity  securities,  including up to $350 of  previously  registered  but unsold
securities.  After the  issuance  of Company  Obligated  Mandatorily  Redeemable
Preferred  Securities of Subsidiary  Trust  Holding  Solely Junior  Subordinated
Debentures on June 29, 1998  discussed in Note 7, HLI had $750 remaining on this
shelf registration on December 31, 1998.

On January 19,  1996,  The  Hartford and several  wholly-owned  special  purpose
trusts ("Hartford  Trusts") formed by The Hartford filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission a shelf  registration  statement for the potential offering
and sale of $500 of debt  securities  and  preferred  stock,  including up to an
aggregate  $500  Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest  Debentures  of  The
Hartford and Preferred  Securities  of the Hartford  Trusts which were issued as
discussed in Note 7.

Interest  expense  incurred  related to short- and long-term  debt totaled $125,
$131 and $108 for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

7.   COMPANY OBLIGATED MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY
     TRUSTS HOLDING SOLELY JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES ("QUIPS" AND "TRUPS")

On June 29, 1998,  Hartford  Life Capital I, a special  purpose  Delaware  trust
formed by HLI,  issued  10,000,000,  7.2% Trust Preferred  Securities,  Series A
("Series A Preferred  Securities").  The proceeds  from the sale of the Series A
Preferred  Securities  were  used  to  acquire  $250  of 7.2%  Series  A  Junior
Subordinated  Deferrable Interest Debentures ("Junior Subordinated  Debentures")
issued by HLI. HLI used the proceeds from the offering for the retirement of its
outstanding  commercial  paper, for acquisitions and for other general corporate
purposes.

The Series A Preferred  Securities  represent undivided  beneficial interests in
Hartford  Life  Capital  I's  assets,   which  consist   solely  of  the  Junior
Subordinated Debentures. HLI owns all of the beneficial interests represented by
Series A Common  Securities  of  Hartford  Life  Capital I.  Holders of Series A
Preferred  Securities  are  entitled to receive  cumulative  cash  distributions
accruing  from June 29,  1998,  the date of issuance,  and payable  quarterly in
arrears  commencing  July  15,  1998 at the  annual  rate of 7.2% of the  stated
liquidation  amount of $25.00  per  Series A  Preferred  Security.  The Series A
Preferred  Securities are subject to mandatory  redemption upon repayment of the
Junior Subordinated  Debentures at maturity or upon earlier redemption.  HLI has
the right to redeem the Junior Subordinated Debentures on or after June 30, 2003
or earlier upon the occurrence of certain events.  Holders of Series A Preferred
Securities generally have no voting rights.

The Junior  Subordinated  Debentures bear interest at the annual rate of 7.2% of
the principal amount, payable quarterly in arrears commencing June 29, 1998, and
mature on June 30, 2038.  The Junior  Subordinated  Debentures are unsecured and
rank junior and subordinate in right of payment to all present and future senior
debt  of HLI  and  are  effectively  subordinated  to all  existing  and  future
liabilities of its subsidiaries.

HLI has the  right at any  time,  and from time to time,  to defer  payments  of
interest on the Junior  Subordinated  Debentures  for a period not  exceeding 20
consecutive  quarters  up to the  debentures'  maturity  date.  During  any such
period, interest will continue to accrue and HLI may not declare or pay any cash
dividends or  distributions  on, or purchase,  HLI's  capital stock nor make any
principal,  interest or premium  payments on or repurchase  any debt  securities
that rank pari passu with or junior to the Junior Subordinated  Debentures.  HLI
will have the  right at any time to  dissolve  the  Trust  and cause the  Junior
Subordinated  Debentures  to be  distributed  to the  holders  of the  Series  A
Preferred Securities and the Series A Common Securities.  HLI has guaranteed, on
a subordinated  basis, all of the Hartford Life Capital I obligations  under the
Series A Preferred Securities, including payment of the redemption price and any
accumulated and unpaid distributions upon dissolution, winding up or liquidation
to the extent funds are available.

On February 28,  1996,  Hartford  Capital I, a special  purpose  Delaware  trust
formed by The Hartford,  issued 20,000,000  Series A, 7.7% Cumulative  Quarterly
Income Preferred  Securities  ("Hartford  Series A Preferred  Securities").  The
proceeds from the sale of Hartford  Series A Preferred  Securities  were used to
acquire $500 of Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable Interest  Debentures,  Series A
("Hartford  Junior  Subordinated  Debentures"),  issued  by  The  Hartford.  The
Hartford  used the  proceeds  from the sale of such  debentures  for the partial
repayment of outstanding commercial paper and short-term bank indebtedness.

Hartford Series A Preferred  Securities represent undivided beneficial interests
in the assets of Hartford  Capital I. The  Hartford  owns all of the  beneficial
interests  represented  by Series A Common  Securities  of  Hartford  Capital I.
Holders of  Hartford  Series A  Preferred  Securities  are  entitled  to receive
preferential  cumulative cash distributions  accruing from February 28, 1996 and
payable  quarterly  in arrears  commencing  March 31, 1996 at the annual rate of
7.7% of the  liquidation  amount  of  $25.00  per  Hartford  Series A  Preferred
Security.  The Hartford  Series A Preferred  Securities are subject to mandatory
redemption  upon  repayment of the Hartford  Junior  Subordinated  Debentures at
maturity or their  earlier  redemption.  Holders of Hartford  Series A Preferred
Securities have limited voting rights.


                                      F-19

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

7.   COMPANY OBLIGATED MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY
     TRUSTS HOLDING SOLELY JUNIOR SUBORDINATED  DEBENTURES ("QUIPS" AND "TRUPS")
     (CONTINUED)

The Hartford Junior Subordinated  Debentures bear interest at the annual rate of
7.7% of the principal amount,  payable quarterly in arrears commencing March 31,
1996,  and  mature on  February  28,  2016.  The  Hartford  Junior  Subordinated
Debentures are unsecured and rank junior and  subordinate in right of payment to
all senior debt of The Hartford and are effectively subordinated to all existing
and future liabilities of its subsidiaries.

The Hartford has the right to defer payments of interest on the Hartford  Junior
Subordinated  Debentures by extending the interest  payment  period for up to 20
consecutive  quarters for each deferral period,  up to the maturity date. During
any such  period,  interest  will  continue to accrue and The  Hartford  may not
declare or pay any cash  dividends or  distributions  on The  Hartford's  common
stock nor make any principal,  interest or premium payments on or repurchase any
debt  securities  that rank pari  passu  with or junior to the  Hartford  Junior
Subordinated  Debentures.  In  the  event  of  failure  to pay  interest  for 30
consecutive  days  (subject  to the  deferral  of any due date in the case of an
extension period),  the Hartford Junior Subordinated  Debentures will become due
and payable.  The Hartford has guaranteed,  on a subordinated  basis, all of the
Hartford Capital I obligations under the Hartford Series A Preferred Securities,
including  to  pay  the  redemption   price  and  any   accumulated  and  unpaid
distributions to the extent of available funds and upon dissolution,  winding up
or liquidation, but only to the extent that Hartford Capital I has funds to make
such payments.

On October 30,  1996,  Hartford  Capital II, a special  purpose  Delaware  trust
formed by The Hartford,  issued 20,000,000 Series B, 8.35% Cumulative  Quarterly
Income  Preferred  Securities  ("Series B Preferred  Securities").  The material
terms of the Series B Preferred  Securities  are  substantially  the same as the
Hartford Series A Preferred  Securities described above, except for the rate and
maturity date. The Series B Debentures bear interest at the annual rate of 8.35%
of the principal  amount payable  quarterly in arrears  commencing  December 31,
1996, and mature on October 30, 2026. The proceeds from the sale of the Series B
Preferred Securities were used to acquire $500 of Junior Subordinated Deferrable
Interest Debentures,  Series B ("Series B Debentures"),  issued by The Hartford.
The Hartford  used the  proceeds  from the sale of such  debentures  for general
corporate purposes.

Interest expense incurred with respect to the Series A Preferred  Securities and
Series B Preferred  Securities  totaled  approximately $91, $82 and $40 in 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively.

8.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

(A)  COMMON STOCK

On May 21, 1998, The Hartford's  shareholders approved an increase in the number
of authorized  common shares from 200,000,000 to 400,000,000.  On that date, the
Board of Directors  declared a two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a
100% stock dividend distributed on July 15, 1998 to shareholders of record as of
June 24, 1998. Agreements concerning stock options and other commitments payable
in shares of the Company's  common stock either  provide for the issuance of the
additional  shares  due to the  declaration  of the  stock  split  or have  been
modified to reflect the stock split.  In addition,  retroactive  adjustments  to
treasury  stock and  additional  paid-in  capital  have been made to reflect the
stock split. All references to issued,  outstanding and weighted average shares,
as well as per share  amounts,  have been adjusted to reflect the stock split in
the  consolidated  financial  statements and related notes. Par value per common
share remained unchanged at $0.01.

In December 1997, The Hartford's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of
up to $1.0 billion of the Company's  outstanding  common stock over a three-year
period  beginning  with the first  quarter of 1998.  During  1998,  The Hartford
repurchased  10,759,773 shares of its common stock in the open market at a total
cost of $547. Some of these repurchased shares were reissued pursuant to certain
stock-based  benefit plans. Shares repurchased in the open market are carried at
cost and  reflected  as a reduction to  stockholders'  equity.  Treasury  shares
subsequently reissued are reduced from treasury stock on a weighted average cost
basis.

(B)  PREFERRED STOCK

During 1995, pursuant to The Hartford's Rights Agreement dated as of November 1,
1995 between The Hartford and The Bank of New York as Rights Agent, The Hartford
authorized  the  issuance  of  50,000,000   shares  of  Series  A  Participating
Cumulative  Preferred  Stock ("Series A Preferred  Stock"),  par value $0.01 per
share.  The Company may not pay any common stock dividends  unless all preferred
dividend  requirements  on Series A Preferred  Stock (300,000  shares) have been
met.  The  holders  of Series A  Preferred  Stock  are  entitled  to  cumulative
dividends.  The holders of Series A Preferred Stock may not vote separately as a
class,  but may vote  together as one class with the holders of shares of common
stock. No shares were issued or outstanding at December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.


                                      F-20

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


8.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)

(C)  STATUTORY RESULTS

                                 For the years ended December 31,
                                -----------------------------------
                                    1998        1997       1996
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------
STATUTORY NET INCOME (LOSS)
  Property and casualty
    operations                  $      497  $    1,822   $   (103)
  Life operations                      290         246        190
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------
    TOTAL                       $      787  $    2,068   $     87
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------
STATUTORY SURPLUS
  Property and casualty
    operations                  $    6,705  $    6,025   $  2,749
  Life operations                    2,144       1,806      1,448
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------
    TOTAL                       $    8,849  $    7,831   $  4,197
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------

A significant  percentage of the consolidated  statutory  surplus is permanently
reinvested  or is subject to various  state and  foreign  government  regulatory
restrictions or other  agreements  which limit the payment of dividends  without
prior approval. The total amount of statutory dividends which may be paid by the
insurance  subsidiaries of The Hartford  Financial Services Group, Inc. in 1999,
without prior approval, is $852.

The domestic  insurance  subsidiaries of The Hartford  Financial Services Group,
Inc. prepare their statutory financial  statements in accordance with accounting
practices  prescribed  by  the  State  of  Connecticut   Insurance   Department.
Prescribed  statutory  accounting practices include publications of the National
Association  of  Insurance  Commissioners  ("NAIC"),  as  well  as  state  laws,
regulations and general administrative rules.

9.  EARNINGS PER SHARE

The Company adopted SFAS No. 128,  "Earnings per Share",  effective December 15,
1997. The following tables present a reconciliation of income and shares used in
calculating basic earnings (loss) per share to those used in calculating diluted
earnings (loss) per share.



Basic  earnings  (loss) per share are  computed  based on the  weighted  average
number of shares  outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings (loss) per share
include the dilutive  effect of  outstanding  options,  using the treasury stock
method, and also contingently  issuable shares. Under the treasury stock method,
exercise of options is assumed with the proceeds  used to purchase  common stock
at the average market price for the period. The difference between the number of
shares  assumed  issued and number of shares  purchased  represents the dilutive
shares.  Contingently  issuable shares are included upon satisfaction of certain
conditions  related to the contingency.  The impact of the treasury stock method
for 1996 was antidilutive.

10.  STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS

Under The Hartford 1995 Incentive Stock Plan (the "Plan"), awards granted may be
in the form of options,  non-qualified  or incentive  stock  options  qualifying
under Section 422A of the Internal  Revenue  Code,  stock  appreciation  rights,
performance shares or restricted stock, or any combination of the foregoing. The
aggregate number of shares of stock which may be awarded is subject to a maximum
limit  applicable to all awards for the duration of the Plan and an annual limit
applicable to all awards


                                      F-21

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

10.  STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS (CONTINUED)

for any plan  year.  The  maximum  limit is 15% of the total of the  issued  and
outstanding  shares of The Hartford  common stock and treasury stock as reported
in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31,
1997,  such issued and  outstanding  shares being  adjusted for the  two-for-one
stock split  effected in the form of a 100% stock  dividend  distributed on July
15, 1998 (see Note 8). The annual  limit is 1.65% of the total of the issued and
outstanding  shares of The Hartford  common stock and treasury stock as reported
in the  Annual  Report on Form 10-K of the  Company  for the  fiscal  year ended
immediately  prior to any plan year.  Any unused portion of the annual limit for
any plan year is carried  forward and made  available  for awards in  succeeding
plan years.  As of December 31,  1998,  the Company had not exceeded the maximum
and annual limits.  Also, no more than 10,000,000  shares of The Hartford common
stock are  cumulatively  available for awards of incentive stock options.  As of
December 31, 1998, The Hartford had not issued any incentive stock options under
the Plan.

Performance  awards of common stock granted  under the Plan become  payable upon
the attainment of specific  performance goals achieved over a three year period,
and restricted stock granted is subject to a restriction period. On a cumulative
basis,  no more than 20% of the aggregate  number of shares which may be awarded
under the Plan are available for performance shares and restricted stock.

All options  granted have an exercise price equal to the fair market value price
of the Company's common stock on the date of grant, and an option's maximum term
is ten years.  Certain  options  become  exercisable  over a three  year  period
commencing  with  the  date  of  grant,   while  certain  other  options  become
exercisable  upon the attainment of specified  market price  appreciation of the
Company's common shares or at seven years after the date of grant.

During the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company awarded special performance based
options and  restricted  stock to certain  key  executives  under the Plan.  The
awards will vest only if the  Company's  stock  trades at certain  predetermined
levels for ten  consecutive  days by March 1,  2001.  Vested  options  cannot be
exercised and restricted shares disposed of until March 1, 2001.

During the fourth quarter of 1996, the Company established The Hartford Employee
Stock  Purchase  Plan  ("ESPP").  Under this  plan,  eligible  employees  of The
Hartford  may purchase  common  stock of the Company at a 15% discount  from the
lower of the market  price at the  beginning  or end of the  quarterly  offering
period.  The  Company  may sell up to  5,400,000  shares  of  stock to  eligible
employees  under the ESPP,  and 220,911,  268,688 and 78,428 shares were sold in
1998,  1997 and 1996,  respectively.  The  weighted  average  fair  value of the
discount  under the ESPP was  $12.20,  $9.23  and $8.25 in 1998,  1997 and 1996,
respectively. Additionally, during 1997, The Hartford established employee stock
purchase   plans  for  certain   employees   of  the   Company's   international
subsidiaries.  Under these plans,  participants may purchase common stock of The
Hartford at a fixed price at the end of a three year period.

The  Company  applies  Accounting  Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25 and related
interpretations   in  accounting  for  its   stock-based   compensation   plans.
Accordingly,  in the measurement of compensation  expense,  the Company utilizes
the excess of market price over  exercise  price on the first date that both the
number of shares and award  price are known.  For the years ended  December  31,
1998,  1997  and  1996,  compensation  expense  related  to  the  Company's  two
stock-based  compensation  plans was immaterial.  Had compensation  cost for the
Company's  incentive stock plan and ESPP been determined based on the fair value
at the grant dates for awards  under those plans  consistent  with the method of
SFAS No. 123,  "Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation",  the  Company's net
income  (loss) and earnings  (loss) per share would have been reduced to the pro
forma amounts indicated as follows:

                                    1998        1997      1996
- - ----------------------------------- --------- --------- ---------
Net income (loss):
   As reported                       $1,015    $1,332   $  (99)
   Pro forma [1] [2]                   $988    $1,319   $ (106)
Basic earnings (loss) per share:
   As reported                        $4.36    $5.64    $(0.42)
   Pro forma [1] [2]                  $4.24    $5.59    $(0.45)
Diluted earnings (loss) per share:
   As reported                        $4.30    $5.58    $(0.42)
   Pro forma [1] [2]                  $4.19    $5.52    $(0.45)
- - ----------------------------------- --------- --------- ---------
[1]  The pro forma  disclosures  are not  representative  of the  effects on net
     income and earnings per share in future years.
[2]  Includes The Hartford's  ownership share of  compensation  costs related to
     HLI's  incentive  stock plan and employee stock purchase plan determined in
     accordance with SFAS No. 123.

The fair value of each option  grant is estimated on the date of the grant using
the  Black-Scholes  options-pricing  model with the following  weighted  average
assumptions  used for grants in 1998, 1997 and 1996:  dividend yield of 1.7% for
1998 and 1997, and 2.9% for 1996,  expected price variability of 25.7% for 1998,
22.1% for 1997 and 20.8% for  1996,  risk-free  interest  rates of 4.89% for the
1998  grants,  6.04% for the 1997  grants  and 5.71%  for the 1996  grants;  and
expected  lives of five  years for 1998,  six years for 1997 and five  years for
1996.

A summary of the  status of  non-qualified  options  included  in the  Company's
incentive  stock plan as of December 31, 1998,  1997 and 1996 and changes during
the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 is presented below:


                                      F-22

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

10.  STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS (CONTINUED)


The following table summarizes  information about stock options  outstanding and
exercisable (shares in thousands) at December 31, 1998:



11.  PENSION PLANS AND  POSTRETIREMENT  HEALTH CARE AND LIFE  INSURANCE  BENEFIT
PLANS

The following tables set forth a reconciliation of beginning and ending balances
of the  benefit  obligation  and fair value of plan assets as well as the funded
status of The Hartford's defined benefit pension and postretirement  health care
and life insurance benefit plans for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997.
International plans represent an immaterial  percentage of total pension assets,
liabilities and expense and, for reporting purposes,  are combined with domestic
plans.




                                      F-23

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


11.  PENSION PLANS AND  POSTRETIREMENT  HEALTH CARE AND LIFE  INSURANCE  BENEFIT
PLANS (CONTINUED)




Assumptions used in the accounting for the plans were:




For measurement  purposes, a 7.8% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost
of covered  health care  benefits was assumed for 1998.  The rate was assumed to
decrease  gradually  to 5.0% for  2003  and  remain  at that  level  thereafter.
Increasing  the table of health  care trend  rates by one percent per year would
have the effect of increasing  the benefit  obligation  and annual expense by $9
and $1,  respectively,  for the  postretirement  health care and life  insurance
benefit plan for the year ended December 31, 1998.

Total pension cost for the years ended December 31, 1998,  1997 and 1996 include
the following components:




The  Hartford  provides  certain  health care and life  insurance  benefits  for
eligible retired employees. The Hartford's contribution for health care benefits
will depend  upon the  retiree's  date of  retirement  and years of service.  In
addition,  the plan has a  defined  dollar  cap  which  limits  average  Company
contributions.  The Hartford has prefunded a portion of the health care and life
insurance   obligations  through  trust  funds  where  such  prefunding  can  be
accomplished on a tax effective basis.


                                      F-24

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


12.  INVESTMENT AND SAVINGS PLAN

Substantially  all U.S.  employees are eligible to participate in The Hartford's
Investment and Savings Plan under which designated contributions may be invested
in  common  stock  of  The  Hartford  or  certain   other   investments.   These
contributions  are  matched,  up to 3%  of  compensation,  by  the  Company.  In
addition,  the  Company  allocates  0.5% of base  salary  to the  plan  for each
eligible  employee.  Matching  Company  contributions  are used to  acquire  The
Hartford's  common  stock.  The  cost to The  Hartford  for the  above  plan was
approximately $24, $22 and $20 for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

13.  REINSURANCE

The Hartford  cedes  insurance  to other  insurers in order to limit its maximum
loss. Such transfer does not relieve The Hartford of its primary liability.  The
Hartford also assumes reinsurance from other insurers.  Failure of reinsurers to
honor their  obligations  could result in losses to The  Hartford.  The Hartford
evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and monitors  concentrations
of credit risk.

The effect of reinsurance on property and casualty  premiums  written and earned
was as follows:


                            For the years ended December 31,
                          --------------------------------------
                               1998        1997         1996
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
PREMIUMS WRITTEN
     Direct               $    7,221   $   7,000   $    6,798
     Assumed                     866         932          903
     Ceded                      (633)       (770)        (795)
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
       NET                $    7,454   $   7,162   $    6,906
================================================================
PREMIUMS EARNED
     Direct               $    7,029   $   6,882   $    6,850
     Assumed                     872         900          878
     Ceded                      (656)       (782)        (837)
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------
       NET                $    7,245   $   7,000   $    6,891
================================================================

Reinsurance  cessions which reduce claims and claim expenses  incurred were $39,
$602  and  $651  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  1998,   1997  and  1996,
respectively.

Life insurance net retained premiums were comprised of the following:

                              For the years ended December 31,
                            -------------------------------------
                                1998         1997        1996
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
Gross premiums              $    4,121  $    3,519    $  3,200
Assumed                             98         165         406
Ceded                             (217)       (361)       (421)
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------
  NET RETAINED PREMIUMS     $    4,002  $    3,323    $  3,185
=================================================================

Life insurance recoveries,  which reduce death and other benefits,  approximated
$119,  $205 and $239 for the  years  ended  December  31,  1998,  1997 and 1996,
respectively.

The Hartford has no  significant  reinsurance-related  concentrations  of credit
risk.




                                      F-25

                        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

14.  INCOME TAX (CONTINUED)

Deferred tax assets (liabilities) include the following as of December 31:



No  additional  provision  was made  for U.S.  taxes  payable  on  undistributed
international  earnings  amounting to  approximately  $150 at December 31, 1998,
since these amounts are permanently reinvested.

A reconciliation  of the tax provision at the U.S. Federal statutory rate to the
provision (benefit) for income taxes is as follows:




15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

(A)      LITIGATION

The Hartford is involved in various legal actions,  some of which involve claims
for substantial  amounts.  In the opinion of management,  the ultimate liability
with  respect to such  lawsuits,  after  consideration  of  provisions  made for
potential  losses and costs of  defense,  is not  expected to be material to the
consolidated  financial  condition,  results of  operations or cash flows of The
Hartford.

(B)      ENVIRONMENTAL AND ASBESTOS CLAIMS

Historically,   The  Hartford  has  found  it  difficult  to  estimate  ultimate
liabilities  related to  environmental  and asbestos claims due to uncertainties
surrounding  these  exposures.   Within  the  property  and  casualty  insurance
industry,  progress  has  been  made in  developing  sophisticated,  alternative
methodologies  utilizing company experience and supplemental databases to assess
environmental  and  asbestos  liabilities.  A  study  which  incorporated  these
methodologies  was initiated by The Hartford in April 1996. The study included a
review of  identified  environmental  and asbestos  exposures of North  American
Property & Casualty, U.S. exposures of The Hartford's  International segment and
exposures of the Other Operations segment.  The methodology utilized a ground up
analysis of policy, site and exposure level data for a representative  sample of
The Hartford's claims.  The results of the evaluation were extrapolated  against
the balance of the claim  population to estimate the Company's  overall exposure
for  reported  claims.  In  addition  to  estimating   liabilities  on  reported
environmental and asbestos claims,  The Hartford  estimated  reserves for claims
incurred  but not  reported  ("IBNR").  The IBNR  reserve  was  estimated  using
information on reporting patterns of known insureds, characteristics of insureds
such as limits exposed, attachment points and number of coverage years involved,
third party costs and closed claims. Also included in The Hartford's analysis of
environmental  and asbestos  exposures  was a review of  applicable  reinsurance
coverage. Reinsurance coverage applicable to the sample was used to estimate the
reinsurance  coverage that applied to the balance of the reported  environmental
and asbestos claims and to the IBNR estimates.

Upon  completion of the study and assessment of the results in October 1996, the
Company  determined  that its  environmental  and  asbestos  reserves  should be
increased,  on an undiscounted basis, by $493 (net of reinsurance) and $292 (net
of reinsurance), respectively, for the year ended December 31, 1996.


                                      F-26

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)

The Hartford  believes that the  environmental and asbestos reserves reported at
December 31, 1998, are a reasonable estimate of the ultimate remaining liability
for these claims based upon known facts,  current assumptions and The Hartford's
methodologies.  Future social,  economic,  legal or legislative developments may
continue to expand the  original  intent of policies  and the scope of coverage.
The Hartford will continue to evaluate new  developments  and  methodologies  as
they become  available for use in supplementing  the Company's  ongoing analysis
and review of its environmental and asbestos exposures. These future reviews may
result in a change in reserves,  impacting The Hartford's  results of operations
in the period in which the reserve  estimates are changed.  While the effects of
future changes in facts,  legal and other issues could have a material effect on
future  results of  operations,  The Hartford does not expect such changes would
have a material effect on its liquidity or financial condition.

(C)  LEASE COMMITMENTS

Total rental expense on operating leases was $188 in 1998, $134 in 1997 and $110
in 1996. Future minimum lease commitments are as follows:

1999                                              $       105
2000                                                       97
2001                                                       80
2002                                                       64
2003                                                       56
Thereafter                                                225
- - ------------------------------------------------ --- -----------
  TOTAL                                           $       627
================================================ === ===========

(D)  TAX MATTERS

The Hartford's  federal income tax returns are routinely audited by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Company is currently under audit for the years 1993 through
1995,  with the audit for the years 1996 through 1997 expected to begin in early
1999. Management believes that adequate provision has been made in the financial
statements for items that may result from tax examinations and other tax related
matters.

(E)      INVESTMENTS

As of December 31,  1998,  The  Hartford  held $104 of asset  backed  securities
securitized and serviced by Commercial Financial Services Inc. ("CFS"), of which
$21 was included in the Company's guaranteed separate accounts. In October 1998,
the  Company  became  aware of  allegations  of improper  activities  at CFS. On
December 11, 1998, CFS filed for  protection  under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy
Code.  As of December  31,  1998,  CFS  continues  to service  the asset  backed
securities, which remain current on payments of principal and interest; however,
the Company does not expect to recover all of its  principal  investment.  Based
upon information available in the fourth quarter of 1998, the Company recognized
a $36,  after-tax,  writedown  of its holdings in CFS of which $8 was related to
guaranteed  separate  accounts.  The ultimate  realizable  amount depends on the
outcome of the  bankruptcy  of CFS, and the  Company's  estimates  are therefore
subject to material change as new information becomes available.  The Company is
presently  unable to determine  the amount of further  potential  loss,  if any,
related to the securities.

16.  TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES

On December 19, 1995, ITT Corporation ("ITT") distributed all of the outstanding
shares of common stock of The Hartford to the  shareholders  of ITT common stock
(the  "Distribution").  As a result of the Distribution,  The Hartford became an
independent publicly traded company. Prior to the Distribution, The Hartford had
substantial dealings with ITT and its affiliates as described below.

The Distribution Agreement entered into by The Hartford, ITT Destinations, Inc.,
and  ITT  Industries,   Inc.  ("the  former  ITT  subsidiaries")  addressed  the
disposition of shared liabilities.  A shared liability is defined as a liability
arising  out  of,  or  related  to,  business  conducted  by  ITT  prior  to the
Distribution  that was not otherwise  specifically  related to one of the former
ITT subsidiaries.  Under the Distribution  Agreement,  responsibility for shared
liabilities  generally  will  be  borne  equally  by  each  of  the  former  ITT
subsidiaries (or any successor to each former ITT subsidiary), including related
attorney's fees and other out-of-pocket  expenses.  As of December 31, 1998, all
known liabilities covered by this agreement had been accrued.

17.  SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Hartford  provides  insurance and financial  services in the United  States,
Canada,  Western  Europe,  Latin  America  and Asia.  The  Hartford's  reporting
segments consist of Commercial,  Personal,  Reinsurance, Life, International and
Other  Operations.  While the measure of profit or loss,  used by The Hartford's
management   in  evaluating   performance,   is  core  earnings  for  the  Life,
International  and Other  Operations  segments,  the  Commercial,  Personal  and
Reinsurance segments are evaluated by The Hartford's  management primarily based
upon  underwriting  results.  The Hartford  defines "core earnings" as after-tax
operational  results  excluding,  as applicable,  net realized  capital gains or
losses,  the cumulative  effect of accounting  changes,  allocated  Distribution
items (see Note 16) and  certain  other  items.  Core  earnings  is an  internal
performance  measure used by the Company in the  management  of its  operations.
While not  considered a segment,  the Company also  reports and  evaluates  core
earnings  results for North  American  Property & Casualty,  which  includes the
combined  underwriting  results  of the  Commercial,  Personal  and  Reinsurance
segments,  along with income and expense  items not directly  allocable to these
segments such as net investment income.


                                      F-27

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

17.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

The Commercial  segment provides workers'  compensation,  property,  automobile,
liability,  marine,  agricultural  and bond  coverages  to  commercial  accounts
throughout  the United States and Canada.  Excess and surplus lines business not
normally  written by standard  lines  insurers is also  provided.  The  Personal
segment provides automobile,  homeowners, home-based business and fire coverages
to individuals  throughout the United States.  The  Reinsurance  segment assumes
reinsurance  worldwide through its ten Hartford  Reinsurance  Company ("HartRe")
offices  located in  Hartford,  San  Francisco,  Miami,  Philadelphia,  Toronto,
London,  Madrid,  Munich,  Hong Kong and Taipei.  HartRe primarily writes treaty
reinsurance through professional  reinsurance brokers covering various property,
casualty,  specialty and marine classes of business.  The Life segment markets a
variety of insurance and financial  services which provide  investment  products
such as  individual  variable  annuities  and market value  adjusted  fixed rate
annuities,  deferred compensation plan services and mutual funds for savings and
retirement needs, life insurance for income protection and estate planning,  and
employee  benefits  products such as group life,  group disability and corporate
owned life insurance.  The International  segment consists of European companies
offering  a variety of  insurance  products  (primarily  property  and  casualty
products in both personal and  commercial  lines)  designed to meet the needs of
local customers.  Other Operations  include operations which have ceased writing
new business. Also, included in Other Operations is the effect of an approximate
19% minority interest in HLI's operating  results.  The following tables present
revenues,  core earnings and total assets. Revenues are presented by segment and
for total North American Property & Casualty. Underwriting results and net other
considerations are presented for Commercial,  Personal and Reinsurance  segments
while core earnings is presented for North American  Property & Casualty and the
segments of Life,  International and Other Operations.  Total assets,  which are
not  allocated to the three  property and casualty  segments,  are presented for
North American Property & Casualty, Life, International and Other Operations. In
addition,  revenues  by  geographical  segment,  determined  based  on  customer
location, are also provided.





                                      F-28

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

17.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)





                                      F-29

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


18.      ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS

(A)  ACQUISITIONS

On August 26, 1998,  HLI  completed  the purchase of all  outstanding  shares of
PLANCO  Financial  Services,   Inc.   ("PLANCO")  and  its  affiliate,   PLANCO,
Incorporated.  PLANCO,  a primary  distributor  of HLI's annuity and  investment
products, has played a significant role in HLI's growth over the past decade. As
a  wholesaler,   PLANCO  distributes  HLI's  annuity  and  investment  products,
including fixed and variable annuities, mutual funds and single premium variable
life   insurance,   as  well  as   providing   sales   support   to   registered
representatives,  financial  planners and  broker-dealers at brokerage firms and
banks across the United  States.  The  acquisition  has been  accounted for as a
purchase and accordingly,  the results of PLANCO's operations have been included
in The Hartford's consolidated financial statements from the closing date of the
transaction.

On February 12, 1998,  The Hartford  completed  the purchase of all  outstanding
shares  of Omni  Insurance  Group,  Inc.  ("Omni"),  a  holding  company  of two
non-standard auto insurance  subsidiaries licensed in 25 states and the District
of Columbia. The Hartford paid cash of $31.75 per share, plus transaction costs,
for a total of $189. The acquisition has been reported as a purchase transaction
and  accordingly,  the results of Omni's  operations  have been  included in The
Hartford's  consolidated  financial  statements  from  the  closing  date of the
transaction.

(B)  DISPOSITIONS

On  November  16,  1998,   The  Hartford   completed  the  sale  of  its  United
Kingdom-based  London & Edinburgh  subsidiary  to Norwich  Union,  a provider of
general  and  life  insurance  in the  United  Kingdom.  The  Hartford  received
approximately $525, before costs of sale, and reported an after-tax net realized
capital gain of $33 related to the transaction.  The Hartford retained ownership
of Excess  Insurance  Co.  Ltd.,  London &  Edinburgh's  property  and  casualty
insurance and reinsurance subsidiary, which discontinued writing new business in
1993.


19.      QUARTERLY RESULTS FOR 1998 AND 1997  (UNAUDITED)



                                      F-30

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.




                                      S-1

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.




                                      S-2

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.




                                      S-3

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.






                                      S-4

                             THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.




                                      S-5

                             THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.




                                      S-6

                             THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.




                                      S-7

                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                             
                                            THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL
                                            SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                                            By:  /s/ John N. Giamalis
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            John N. Giamalis
                                            Senior Vice President and Controller

Date:  March 26, 1999

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been  signed by the  following  persons in the  capacities  and on the dates
indicated.

    SIGNATURE                           TITLE                          DATE
    ---------                           -----                          ----

/s/ Ramani Ayer                Chairman, President, Chief         March 26, 1999
- - ----------------------      Executive Officer and Director
Ramani Ayer               

/s/ Lowndes A. Smith           Vice Chairman and Director         March 26, 1999
- - ----------------------
Lowndes A. Smith

/s/ David K. Zwiener          Executive Vice President,           March 26, 1999
- - ----------------------   Chief Financial Officer and Director
David K. Zwiener          

/s/ John N. Giamalis           Senior Vice President              March 26, 1999
- - ----------------------             and Controller
John N. Giamalis                     

/s/ Bette B. Anderson                 Director                    March 26, 1999
- - ----------------------
Bette B. Anderson

/s/ Rand V. Araskog                   Director                    March 26, 1999
- - ----------------------
Rand V. Araskog

/s/ Robert A. Burnett                 Director                    March 26, 1999
- - ----------------------
Robert A. Burnett

/s/ Donald R. Frahm                   Director                    March 26, 1999
- - ----------------------
Donald R. Frahm

/s/ Paul G. Kirk, Jr.                 Director                    March 26, 1999
- - ----------------------
Paul G. Kirk, Jr.

/s/ Frederic V. Salerno               Director                    March 26, 1999
- - -----------------------
Frederic V. Salerno

/s/ Robert W. Selander                Director                    March 26, 1999
- - ----------------------
Robert W. Selander

/s/ H. Patrick Swygert                Director                    March 26, 1999
- - ----------------------
H. Patrick Swygert

/s/ DeRoy C. Thomas                   Director                    March 26, 1999
- - ----------------------
DeRoy C. Thomas

/s/ Gordon I. Ulmer                   Director                    March 26, 1999
- - ----------------------
Gordon I. Ulmer


                                      II-1

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
                                    FORM 10-K

                                 EXHIBITS INDEX

Exhibit #
- - ---------

3.01    Amended  and  Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of The  Hartford
        Financial  Services Group, Inc. ("The Hartford"),  amended effective May
        21, 1998, was filed as Exhibit 3.01 to The Hartford's  Form 10-Q for the
        quarterly  period  ended  June 30,  1998 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

3.02    Amended By-Laws of The Hartford,  amended  effective  February 18, 1999,
        are filed herewith.

4.01    Amended and Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  and By-Laws of The
        Hartford (included as Exhibits 3.01 and 3.02, respectively).

4.02    Rights  Agreement  dated as of November 1, 1995 between The Hartford and
        The Bank of New York as Rights  agent was filed as  Exhibit  4.02 to The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

4.03    Form of  certificate  of the voting  powers,  preferences  and  relative
        participating,   optional  and  other  special  rights,  qualifications,
        limitations  or  restrictions  of  Series  A  Participating   Cumulative
        Preferred  Stock of The  Hartford  (attached  as Exhibit A to the Rights
        Agreement that is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.02 hereto).

4.04    Form of Right Certificate (attached as Exhibit B to the Rights Agreement
        that is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.02 hereto).

4.05    Indenture  dated as of May 15, 1991  between The  Hartford and The Chase
        Manhattan Bank (National  Association),  as trustee, with respect to The
        Hartford's 8.20% Notes due October 15, 1998, 7.25% Notes due December 1,
        1996, and 8.30% Notes due December 1, 2001 (incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 4(b) to The Hartford's Form 10 filed on May 9, 1991, as amended,
        file no. 0-19277).

4.06    Forms of The  Hartford's  8.20% Notes due October 15, 1998,  7.25% Notes
        due December 1, 1996 and 8.30% Notes due  December 1, 2001(  included in
        the Indenture incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.05 hereto).

4.07    Senior Indenture, dated as of October 20, 1995, between The Hartford and
        The Chase  Manhattan  Bank  (National  Association),  as  trustee,  with
        respect to The  Hartford's  6.375%  Notes Due  November  1, 2002,  7.30%
        Debentures  Due  November 1, 2015 and 6.375%  Notes Due November 1, 2008
        (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.08 to The Hartford's  Report on
        Form 8-K dated November 15, 1995).

4.08    Forms of The  Hartford's  6.375%  Notes Due  November  1, 2002 and 7.30%
        Debentures due November 1, 2015  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibits
        4.09 and 4.10, respectively,  of The Hartford's Report on Form 8-K dated
        November 15, 1995).

4.09    Form of The  Hartford's  6.375%  Notes  due  November  1,  2008 is filed
        herewith.

4.10    Junior  Subordinated  Indenture,  dated as of February 28, 1996, between
        The Hartford and Wilmington Trust Company,  as Trustee,  with respect to
        The Hartford's 7.70% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures,
        Series A, due  February  28,  2016  ("Junior  Debentures")  was filed as
        Exhibit  4.09 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
        December 31, 1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.11    Supplemental  Indenture  No. 1 dated as of February 28, 1996 between The
        Hartford and Wilmington Trust Company,  as Trustee,  with respect to the
        Junior Debentures, was filed as Exhibit 4.10 to The Hartford's Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is  incorporated  herein
        by reference.

4.12    Form of The Hartford's  7.70% Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest
        Debenture,  Series A, due February 28, 2016  (included in the  Indenture
        incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.09 hereto).


                                      II-2

                           EXHIBITS INDEX (continued)

Exhibit #
- - ---------

4.13    Amended and Restated  Trust  Agreement  dated as of February 28, 1996 of
        Hartford  Capital I, relating to the 7.70%  Cumulative  Quarterly Income
        Preferred  Securities,  Series A ("Preferred  Securities")  was filed as
        Exhibit  4.12 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
        December 31, 1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.14    Agreement as to Expenses and  Liabilities  dated as of February 28, 1996
        between The Hartford and Hartford Capital I was filed as Exhibit 4.13 to
        The Hartford's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and
        is incorporated herein by reference.

4.15    Preferred  Security  Certificate  for  Hartford  Capital I (included  as
        Exhibit E of the Trust  Agreement  incorporated  by reference as Exhibit
        4.12 hereto).

4.16    Guarantee  Agreement  dated as of February 28, 1996 between The Hartford
        and Wilmington Trust, as Trustee,  relating to The Hartford's  guarantee
        of the Preferred Securities, was filed as Exhibit 4.15 to The Hartford's
        Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended   December  31,  1995  and  is
        incorporated herein by reference.

4.17    Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of October 30, 1996, between The
        Hartford and Wilmington Trust Company,  as Trustee,  with respect to The
        Hartford's 8.35% Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest  Debentures,
        Series B, due October 30, 2026 ("Series B Junior  Debentures") was filed
        as Exhibit  4.16 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
        December 31, 1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.18    Form of The Hartford's  8.35% Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest
        Debenture,  Series B, due  October  30, 2026 was filed as Exhibit 4.2 to
        The  Hartford's  Form 8-K dated  November 4, 1996,  and is  incorporated
        herein by reference.

4.19    Amended and  Restated  Trust  Agreement  dated as of October 30, 1996 of
        Hartford Capital II, relating to the 8.35%  Cumulative  Quarterly Income
        Preferred  Securities,  Series B, ("Series B Preferred  Securities") was
        filed as Exhibit 4.1 to The  Hartford's  Form 8-K dated November 4, 1996
        and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.20    Agreement  as to Expenses and  Liabilities  dated as of October 30, 1996
        between The Hartford  and Hartford  Capital II (included as Exhibit D of
        Exhibit 4.18 that is incorporated by reference herein).

4.21    Preferred  Security  Certificate  for  Hartford  Capital II (included as
        Exhibit E of Exhibit 4.18 that is incorporated by reference herein).

4.22    Guarantee  Agreement  dated as of October 30, 1996  between The Hartford
        and Wilmington Trust, as trustee,  relating to The Hartford's  guarantee
        of the Series B Preferred  Securities,  was filed as Exhibit 4.21 to The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

10.01   Distribution Agreement among ITT Corporation, ITT Destinations, Inc. and
        The Hartford was filed as Exhibit 10.01 to The Hartford's  Form 10-K for
        the fiscal year ended  December 31, 1995 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

10.02   Intellectual  Property  License  Agreement  among ITT  Corporation,  ITT
        Destinations,  Inc. and The  Hartford was filed as Exhibit  10.02 to The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

10.03   Tax Allocation Agreement among ITT Corporation,  ITT Destinations,  Inc.
        and The Hartford was filed as Exhibit 10.03 to The Hartford's  Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is  incorporated  herein
        by reference.

10.04   Form of Trade  Name and  Service  Mark  License  Agreement  between  ITT
        Corporation  and  The  Hartford  was  filed  as  Exhibit  10.04  to  The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

10.05   License Assignment Agreement among ITT Destinations,  Inc., The Hartford
        and  Nutmeg  Insurance  Company  was  filed  as  Exhibit  10.05  to  The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.


                                      II-3

                           EXHIBITS INDEX (continued)

Exhibit #
- - ---------

10.06   License  Assignment  Agreement  among  ITT  Destinations,  Inc.,  Nutmeg
        Insurance  Company  and  Hartford  Fire  Insurance  Company was filed as
        Exhibit  10.06 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
        December 31, 1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.07   Employee Benefit Services and Liability Agreement among ITT Corporation,
        ITT  Destinations,  Inc. and The Hartford was filed as Exhibit  10.07 to
        The Hartford's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and
        is incorporated herein by reference.

10.08   Debt  allocation  agreement  dated as of  November  1, 1995  between ITT
        Corporation and The Hartford,  and related Fourth Supplemental Indenture
        dated as of November 1, 1995 among ITT  Corporation,  The  Hartford  and
        State Street Bank and Trust Company, as successor trustee, were filed as
        Exhibit  10.10 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
        December 31, 1995 and are incorporated herein by reference.

10.09   Five-Year  Competitive  Advance and Revolving Credit Facility  Agreement
        dated as of December  20,  1996 among The  Hartford,  the Lenders  named
        therein and The Chase Manhattan Bank as  Administrative  Agent was filed
        as Exhibit 10.11 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
        December 31, 1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.10   364 Day  Competitive  Advance and Revolving  Credit  Facility  Agreement
        dated as of December  20,  1996 among The  Hartford,  the lenders  named
        therein and The Chase Manhattan Bank as  Administrative  Agent was filed
        as Exhibit 10.12 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
        December 31, 1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.

* 10.11 Employment  Agreement dated July 1, 1997 between The Hartford and Ramani
        Ayer was  filed as  Exhibit  10.01 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-Q for the
        quarterly period ended September 30, 1997 and is incorporated  herein by
        reference.

* 10.12 Employment  Agreement  dated July 1, 1997 between  Hartford  Life,  Inc.
        ("Hartford  Life"),  The  Hartford  and  Lowndes  A.  Smith was filed as
        Exhibit 10.02 to The Hartford's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
        September 30, 1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

* 10.13 Employment  Agreement  dated July 1, 1997 between The Hartford and David
        K. Zwiener was filed as Exhibit  10.03 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-Q for
        the quarterly period ended September 30, 1997 and is incorporated herein
        by reference.

* 10.14 Form  of  Employment  Protection  Agreement  between  The  Hartford  and
        fourteen  executive  officers of The Hartford was filed as Exhibit 10.15
        to The Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
        and is incorporated herein by reference.

* 10.15 The Hartford 1996 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee  Directors,  as
        amended, is filed herewith.

* 10.16 The Hartford 1995 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended, was filed as Exhibit
        10.1 to The Hartford's  Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended  September
        30, 1998, and is incorporated herein by reference.

* 10.17 The Hartford 1996 Deferred  Restricted  Stock Unit Plan, as amended,  is
        filed herewith.

* 10.18 The Hartford 1996 Deferred Compensation Plan is filed herewith.

* 10.19 The  Hartford  1997  Senior  Executive  Severance  Pay  Plan I, is filed
        herewith.

* 10.20 The Hartford Executive Severance Pay Plan I, is filed herewith.

10.21   Master Intercompany Agreement among Hartford Life, The Hartford and with
        respect to  Articles VI and XII,  Hartford  Fire  Insurance  Company was
        filed as  Exhibit  10.01 to  Hartford  Life's  Form  10-Q  filed for the
        quarterly  period  ended  June 30,  1997 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

   *    Management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement.


                                      II-4

                           EXHIBITS INDEX (continued)

Exhibit #
- - ---------


10.22   Tax Sharing Agreement among The Hartford and its subsidiaries, including
        Hartford Life,  was filed as Exhibit 10.02 to Hartford  Life's Form 10-Q
        filed for the quarterly  period ended June 30, 1997 and is  incorporated
        herein by reference.

10.23   Management  Agreement  between  Hartford Life Insurance  Company and The
        Hartford Investment  Management  Company,  was filed as Exhibit 10.03 to
        Hartford Life's Form 10-Q filed for the quarterly  period ended June 30,
        1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.24   Management  Agreement  among certain  subsidiaries  of Hartford Life and
        Hartford  Investment  Services,  Inc.,  was  filed as  Exhibit  10.04 to
        Hartford Life's Form 10-Q filed for the quarterly  period ended June 30,
        1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.25   Sublease  Agreement between Hartford Fire Insurance Company and Hartford
        Life was filed as Exhibit  10.05 to Hartford  Life's Form 10-Q filed for
        the quarterly  period ended June 30, 1997 and is incorporated  herein by
        reference.

10.26   1997 Hartford Life, Inc. Incentive Stock Plan, as amended,  was filed as
        Exhibit  10.01 to  Hartford  Life's  Form 10-Q  filed for the  quarterly
        period ended September 30, 1998 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.27   1997  Hartford  Life,  Inc.  Deferred  Restricted  Stock Unit  Plan,  as
        amended,  was filed as Exhibit 10.08 to Hartford  Life's Form 10-K filed
        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 and is  incorporated  herein
        by reference.

10.28   1997  Hartford  Life,  Inc.   Restricted  Stock  Plan  for  Non-Employee
        Directors,  as amended,  was filed as Exhibit  10.09 to Hartford  Life's
        Form 10-K  filed for the  fiscal  year ended  December  31,  1998 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

10.29   Promissory  Note dated February 20, 1997,  executed by Hartford Life for
        the  benefit of  Hartford  Accident &  Indemnity  Company,  was filed as
        Exhibit  10.09 to Hartford  Life's  Registration  Statement  on Form S-1
        (Amendment No. 2) dated April 24, 1997  (Registration No. 333-21459) and
        is incorporated herein by reference.

10.30   Promissory  Note dated April 4, 1997,  executed by Hartford Life for the
        benefit of Hartford Accident and Indemnity Company, was filed as Exhibit
        10.16 to Hartford Life's  Registration  Statement on Form S-1 (Amendment
        No.  2)  dated  April  24,  1997  (Registration  No.  333-21459)  and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

12.01   Statement Re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges is filed
        herewith.

21.01   Subsidiaries of The Hartford  Financial  Services  Group,  Inc. is filed
        herewith.

23.01   Consent of Arthur  Andersen LLP to the  incorporation  by reference into
        The Hartford's  Registration Statements on Forms S-8 and Form S-3 of the
        report of Arthur  Andersen LLP contained in this Form 10-K regarding the
        audited financial statements is filed herewith.

27.01   Financial Data Schedule is filed herewith.



                                      II-5

                                                                    Exhibit 3.02

          ------------------------------------------------------------




                              Amended and Restated

                                     BY-LAWS


                                       of


                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.


                                 adopted by the


                               Board of Directors


                                       on


                                October 10, 1995

                                       and

                                   amended on

                                   May 2, 1997
                                December 18, 1997
                                February 18, 1999







          ------------------------------------------------------------


                                                                -----------------





                      Section                                               Page

1.   STOCKHOLDERS........................................................    1

1.1  Place of Stockholders' Meetings.....................................    1

1.2  Day and Time of Annual Meetings of Stockholders.....................    1

1.3  Purposes of Annual Meetings.........................................    1

1.4  Special Meetings of Stockholders....................................    2

1.5  Notice of Meetings of Stockholders..................................    2

1.6  Quorum of Stockholders..............................................    3

1.7  Chairman and Secretary of Meeting...................................    3

1.8  Voting by Stockholders..............................................    4

1.9  Proxies.............................................................    4

1.10 Inspectors..........................................................    4

1.11 List of Stockholders................................................    5

1.12 Confidential Voting.................................................    6

1.13 Action by Written Consent...........................................    6

2.   DIRECTORS...........................................................    6

2.1  Powers of Directors.................................................    6

2.2  Number, Method of Election, Terms of Office of Directors............    6

2.3  Vacancies on Board..................................................    8

2.4  Meetings of the Board...............................................    8

2.5  Quorum and Action...................................................    9

2.6  Presiding Officer and Secretary of Meeting..........................    9

2.7  Action by Consent without Meeting...................................    9

2.8  Standing Committees.................................................   10

2.9  Other Committees....................................................   11

2.10 Compensation of Directors...........................................   11

2.11 Independent Directors...............................................   12

3.   OFFICERS............................................................   12

3.1  Officers, Titles, Elections, Terms..................................   12

3.2  General Powers of Officers..........................................   14

3.3  Powers and Duties of the Chairman...................................   14



3.4  Powers and Duties of the President..................................   14

3.5  Powers and Duties of Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice             
     Presidents and Vice Presidents.....................................    14

3.6  Powers and Duties of the Chief Financial Officer....................   14

3.7  Powers and Duties of the Controller and Assistant Controllers.......   15

3.8  Powers and Duties of the Treasurer and Assistant Treasurers.........   15

3.9  Powers and Duties of the Secretary and Assistant Secretaries........   16

4.   INDEMNIFICATION.....................................................   16

4.1  Right to Indemnification and Effect of Amendments...................   16

4.2  Insurance, Contracts and Funding....................................   17

4.3  Indemnification; Not Exclusive Right................................   18

4.4  Advancement of Expenses.............................................   18

4.5  Indemnification Procedures; Presumptions                               
     and Effect of Certain Proceedings; Remedies.........................   19

4.6  Indemnification of Employees and Agents ............................   23

4.7  Severability........................................................   24

5.   CAPITAL STOCK.......................................................   24

5.1  Stock Certificates..................................................   24

5.2  Record Ownership....................................................   25

5.3  Transfer of Record Ownership........................................   25

5.4  Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates..............................   25

5.5  Transfer Agent; Registrar; Rules Respecting Certificates............   25

5.6  Fixing Record Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record......   25

6.   SECURITIES HELD BY THE CORPORATION..................................   26

6.1  Voting..............................................................   26

6.2  General Authorization to Transfer Securities Held by the Corporation   26

7.   DEPOSITARIES AND SIGNATORIES........................................   27

7.1  Depositaries........................................................   27

7.2  Signatories.........................................................   28



8.   SEAL................................................................   28

9.   FISCAL YEAR.........................................................   28

10.  WAIVER OF OR DISPENSING WITH NOTICE.................................   28

11.  AMENDMENT OF BYLAWS.................................................   29

12.  OFFICES AND AGENT...................................................   30



                                     BY-LAWS

                                       of

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                   (a Delaware Corporation, the "Corporation")


1.  STOCKHOLDERS.

   1.1 Place of Stockholders'  Meetings. All meetings of the stockholders of the
Corporation  shall be held at such place or places,  within or outside the state
of  Delaware,  as may be fixed by the  Corporation's  Board  of  Directors  (the
"Board",  and each member thereof a "Director") from time to time or as shall be
specified in the respective notices thereof.

   1.2 Day and Time of Annual  Meetings of  Stockholders.  An annual  meeting of
stockholders  shall  be held at such  place  (within  or  outside  the  state of
Delaware),  date and hour as shall be determined by the Board and  designated in
the notice thereof.

   1.3 Purposes of Annual Meetings. (a) At each annual meeting, the stockholders
shall elect the members of the Board for the succeeding year. At any such annual
meeting any business properly brought before the meeting may be transacted.

   (b) To be properly  brought  before an annual  meeting,  business must be (i)
specified in the notice of the meeting (or any  supplement  thereto) given by or
at the  direction  of the Board,  (ii)  otherwise  properly  brought  before the
meeting by or at the direction of the Board or (iii) otherwise  properly brought
before the meeting by a stockholder.  For business to be properly brought before
an annual  meeting by a  stockholder,  the  stockholder  must have given written
notice thereof,  either by personal  delivery or by United States mail,  postage
prepaid, to the Secretary,  not later than 90 days in advance of the anniversary
date of the  immediately  preceding  annual  meeting  (or not more than ten days
after the first public disclosure,  which may include any public filing with the
Securities  and Exchange  Commission,  of the  Originally  Scheduled Date of the
annual  meeting,  whichever is  earlier).  Any such notice shall set 

                                     - 1 -

forth as to each  matter the  stockholder  proposes  to bring  before the annual
meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the
meeting and the reasons for  conducting  such business at the meeting and in the
event that such business  includes a proposal to amend either the Certificate of
Incorporation  or By-laws  of the  Corporation,  the  language  of the  proposed
amendment,  (ii) the name and address of the stockholder proposing such business
and of the  beneficial  owner,  if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made and
the class and number of shares of the Corporation  which are owned  beneficially
and  of  record  by  such  stockholder  and  such  beneficial  owner,   (iii)  a
representation  that the  stockholder  is a  holder  of  record  of stock of the
Corporation  entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or
by proxy at the meeting to propose such  business,(iv)  any material interest of
the stockholder in such business and (v) if the  stockholder  intends to solicit
proxies in support of such  stockholder's  proposal,  a  representation  to that
effect.  No business  shall be  conducted at an annual  meeting of  stockholders
except in accordance with this Section 1.3(b),  and the presiding officer of any
annual meeting of  stockholders  may refuse to permit any business to be brought
before an annual meeting without compliance with the foregoing  procedures or if
the  stockholder  solicits  proxies in support  of such  stockholder's  proposal
without such stockholder having made the  representation  required by clause (v)
of the preceding sentence.  For purposes of this Section 1.3(b), the "Originally
Scheduled Date" of any meeting of stockholders  shall be the date first publicly
disclosed on which such meeting is scheduled to occur regardless of whether such
meeting is continued  or  adjourned  and  regardless  of whether any  subsequent
notice is given for such meeting or the record date of such meeting is changed.

   1.4 Special Meetings of Stockholders.  Except as otherwise expressly required
by  applicable  law,  special  meetings of the  stockholders  or of any class or
series  entitled  to vote may be  called  for any  purpose  or  purposes  by the
Chairman  or by a majority  vote of the entire  Board,  to be held at such place
(within or outside the state of Delaware),  date and hour as shall be determined
by the Board and  designated  in the notice  thereof.  Only such  business as is
specified in the notice of any special  meeting of the  stockholders  shall come
before such meeting.

   1.5  Notice  of  Meetings  of  Stockholders.  Except as  otherwise  expressly
required or  permitted by  applicable  law, not less than ten days nor more than
sixty days before the date of every  stockholders'  meeting the Secretary  shall
cause to be delivered  to each  stockholder  of record  entitled 

                                     - 2 -

to vote at such meeting  written notice  stating the place,  day and time of the
meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which
the  meeting is called.  Except as provided  in Section  1.6(d) or as  otherwise
expressly  required  by  applicable  law,  notice of any  adjourned  meeting  of
stockholders  need not be given if the time and place  thereof are  announced at
the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. Any notice,  if mailed,  shall be
deemed to be given when  deposited in the United States mail,  postage  prepaid,
addressed to the  stockholder at the address for notices to such  stockholder as
it appears on the records of the Corporation.

   1.6  Quorum of  Stockholders.  (a) Unless  otherwise  expressly  required  by
applicable law, at any meeting of the stockholders, the presence in person or by
proxy  of  stockholders  entitled  to cast a  majority  of votes  thereat  shall
constitute a quorum for the entire  meeting,  notwithstanding  the withdrawal of
stockholders entitled to cast a sufficient number of votes in person or by proxy
to reduce the number of votes represented at the meeting below a quorum.  Shares
of  the  Corporation's   stock  belonging  to  the  Corporation  or  to  another
corporation,  if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in an election of the
directors of such other corporation is held by the Corporation, shall neither be
counted for the purpose of determining  the presence of a quorum nor entitled to
vote at any meeting of the stockholders.

   (b) At any meeting of the stockholders at which a quorum shall be present,  a
majority of those  present in person or by proxy may  adjourn  the meeting  from
time to time without  notice  other than  announcement  at the  meeting.  In the
absence of a quorum,  the officer  presiding thereat shall have power to adjourn
the meeting  from time to time until a quorum  shall be  present.  Notice of any
adjourned  meeting other than  announcement at the meeting shall not be required
to be given,  except as  provided  in  Section  1.6(d)  below and  except  where
expressly required by applicable law.

   (c) At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present, any business
may be transacted  which might have been  transacted  at the meeting  originally
called,  but  only  those  stockholders  entitled  to  vote  at the  meeting  as
originally  noticed shall be entitled to vote at any adjournment or adjournments
thereof unless a new record date is fixed by the Board.

   (d) If an  adjournment  is  for  more  than  thirty  days,  or if  after  the
adjournment  a new record date is fixed for the adjourned  meeting,  a notice of
the adjourned  meeting shall 

                                     - 3 -

be given in the manner  specified in Section 1.5 to each  stockholder  of record
entitled to vote at the meeting.

   1.7  Chairman  and  Secretary  of  Meeting.  The  Chairman  or, in his or her
absence,  another officer of the Corporation  designated by the Chairman,  shall
preside at meetings of the stockholders. The Secretary shall act as secretary of
the meeting, or in the absence of the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary shall so
act, or if neither is present,  then the presiding  officer may appoint a person
to act as secretary of the meeting.

   1.8 Voting by  Stockholders.  (a) Except as otherwise  expressly  required by
applicable law, at every meeting of the stockholders  each stockholder  shall be
entitled to the number of votes specified in the Certificate of Incorporation or
any  certificate  of  designations  providing  for the creation of any series of
Preferred  Stock, in person or by proxy, for each share of stock standing in his
or her name on the books of the  Corporation  on the date fixed  pursuant to the
provisions  of  Section  5.6  of  these  By-laws  as the  record  date  for  the
determination of the stockholders who shall be entitled to receive notice of and
to vote at such meeting.

   (b)  When a  quorum  is  present  at any  meeting  of the  stockholders,  all
questions  shall be  decided by the vote of a  majority  in voting  power of the
stockholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at such meeting,
unless a question is one upon which by express provision of law, the Certificate
of Incorporation or these By-laws,  a different vote is required,  in which case
such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question.

   (c)  Except  as  required  by  applicable  law,  the vote at any  meeting  of
stockholders  on any question  need not be by ballot,  unless so directed by the
presiding  officer of the  meeting.  On a vote by ballot,  each ballot  shall be
signed  by  the  stockholder  voting,  or by his  or  her  attorney-in-fact,  if
authorized by proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted.

   1.9 Proxies.  Any stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders
may vote either in person or by his or her attorney-in-fact or proxy.

                                     - 4 -

   1.10  Inspectors.  (a) The election of Directors and any other vote by ballot
at  any  meeting  of the  stockholders  shall  be  supervised  by  one  or  more
inspectors.  Such  inspectors may be appointed by the Chairman  before or at the
meeting.  If the Chairman shall not have so appointed such  inspectors or if one
or both  inspectors so appointed  shall refuse to serve or shall not be present,
such  appointment  shall be made by the officer  presiding at the meeting.  Each
inspector,  before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties,  shall take
and sign an oath  faithfully  to execute  the duties of  inspector  with  strict
impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability.

   (b)  The  inspectors  shall  (i)  ascertain  the  number  of  shares  of  the
Corporation  outstanding and the voting power of each, (ii) determine the shares
represented at any meeting of  stockholders  and the validity of the proxies and
ballots,  (iii) count all proxies and ballots,  (iv)  determine and retain for a
reasonable  period a record of the  disposition  of any  challenges  made to any
determination  by the  inspectors,  and (v) certify their  determination  of the
number of shares represented at the meeting,  and their count of all proxies and
ballots.  The  inspectors  may  appoint or retain  other  persons or entities to
assist the inspectors in the performance of the duties of the inspectors.

   (c) If  there  are  three or more  inspectors,  the act of a  majority  shall
govern.  On request of the officer  presiding at such  meeting,  the  inspectors
shall make a report of any challenge,  question or matter determined by them and
execute a certificate of any fact found by them. Any report or certificate  made
by them shall be prima face evidence of the facts therein stated and of the vote
as certified  by them,  and such report or  certificate  shall be filed with the
minutes of such meeting.

   1.11 List of  Stockholders.  (a) At least ten days  before  every  meeting of
stockholders,  the Chief Financial Officer shall cause to be prepared and made a
complete list of the stockholders  entitled to vote at the meeting,  arranged in
alphabetical order and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of
shares registered in the name of each stockholder.

   (b) During ordinary business hours for a period of at least ten days prior to
the meeting,  such list shall be open to examination by any  stockholder for any
purpose  germane  to the  meeting,  either at a place  within the city where the
meeting  is to be held,  which  place  shall be  specified  in the notice of the
meeting, or if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held.

                                     - 5 -

   (c) The list  shall  also be  produced  and kept at the time and place of the
meeting  during the whole time of the  meeting,  and it may be  inspected by any
stockholder who is present.

   (d)  The  stock  ledger  shall  be  the  only  evidence  as to  who  are  the
stockholders  entitled to examine the stock  ledger,  the list  required by this
Section 1.11 or the books of the  Corporation,  or to vote in person or by proxy
at any meeting of stockholders.

   1.12 Confidential  Voting. (a) Proxies and ballots that identify the votes of
specific  stockholders  shall be kept in  confidence by the  tabulators  and the
inspectors of election unless (i) there is an opposing solicitation with respect
to the  election  or  removal of  Directors,  (ii)  disclosure  is  required  by
applicable law, (iii) a stockholder  expressly requests or otherwise  authorizes
disclosure,  or (iv) the  Corporation  concludes  in good faith that a bona fide
dispute exists as to the authenticity of one or more proxies,  ballots or votes,
or as to the accuracy of any tabulation of such proxies, ballots or votes.

   (b) The tabulators  and  inspectors of election and any authorized  agents or
other  persons  engaged in the  receipt,  count and  tabulation  of proxies  and
ballots shall be advised of this By-law and instructed to comply herewith.

   (c) The inspectors of election shall certify,  to the best of their knowledge
based on due inquiry,  that proxies and ballots have been kept in  confidence as
required by this Section 1.12.

   1.13 Action by Written Consent.  Any action required or permitted to be taken
by the  stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual
or special  stockholders'  meeting and may not be effected by consent in writing
by such stockholders.

2.  DIRECTORS.

   2.1 Powers of Directors. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be
managed by or under the  direction  of the  Board,  which may  exercise  all the
powers of the Corporation  except such as are by applicable law, the Certificate
of  Incorporation  or these By-laws required to be exercised or performed by the
stockholders.

   2.2 Number, Method of Election,  Terms of Office of Directors.  The number of
Directors  which shall  constitute

                                     - 6 -

the  whole  Board  shall be such as from  time to time  shall be  determined  by
resolution  adopted by a majority of the entire Board,  but the number shall not
be less than  three nor more than  twenty-five,  provided  that the  tenure of a
Director  shall not be affected by any  decrease in the number of  Directors  so
made by the Board. Each Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting
of stockholders and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until
his or her earlier  death,  retirement,  resignation  or removal  from office in
accordance with these By-laws or any applicable law or pursuant to an order of a
court.  Directors need not be stockholders of the Corporation or citizens of the
United States of America.

  Nominations  of persons for election as Directors  may be made by the Board or
by any  stockholder  entitled  to  vote  for  the  election  of  Directors.  Any
stockholder entitled to vote for the election of Directors may nominate a person
or  persons  for  election  as  Directors   only  if  written   notice  of  such
stockholder's  intent to make such  nomination is given in  accordance  with the
procedures for bringing  business before the meeting set forth in Section 1.3(b)
of these By-laws,  either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage
prepaid,  to the  Secretary not later than (i) with respect to an election to be
held at an annual meeting of stockholders, 90 days in advance of the anniversary
date of the  immediately  preceding  annual  meeting  (or not more than ten days
after the first public disclosure,  which may include any public filing with the
Securities  and Exchange  Commission,  of the  Originally  Scheduled Date of the
annual meeting, whichever is earlier) and (ii) with respect to an election to be
held at a special  meeting of  stockholders  for the election of Directors,  the
close of business on the seventh day  following the date on which notice of such
meeting is first given to  stockholders.  Each such notice shall set forth:  (a)
the name and address of the  stockholder  who intends to make the nomination and
of the  person  or  persons  to be  nominated;  (b) a  representation  that  the
stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the  Corporation  entitled to vote
at such  meeting  and  intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to
nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description of all
arrangements or understandings  between the stockholder and each nominee and any
other person or persons  (naming  such person or persons)  pursuant to which the
nomination  or  nominations  are to be made by the  stockholder;  (d) such other
information  regarding each nominee  proposed by such  stockholder as would have
been required to be included in a proxy  statement  filed  pursuant to the proxy
rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had each nominee been nominated,
or intended to be  nominated,  by the  Board;(e)  the consent of each nominee to
serve as a Director

                                     - 7 -

if so elected and (f) if the  stockholder  intends to solicit proxies in support
of such stockholder's nominee(s), a representation to that effect. The presiding
officer of any  meeting of  stockholders  to elect  Directors  and the Board may
refuse to acknowledge  the nomination of any person not made in compliance  with
the foregoing  procedure or if the  stockholder  solicits  proxies in support of
such   stockholder's   nominee(s)  without  such  stockholder  having  made  the
representation required by clause (f) of the preceding sentence. For purposes of
this Section 2.2, the "Originally Scheduled Date" of any meeting of stockholders
shall be the date first publicly disclosed on which such meeting is scheduled to
occur  regardless  of  whether  such  meeting  is  continued  or  adjourned  and
regardless  of whether any  subsequent  notice is given for such  meeting or the
record date of such meeting is changed.

   At each meeting of the  stockholders for the election of Directors at which a
quorum is present, the persons receiving the greatest number of votes, up to the
number of Directors to be elected, shall be the Directors.

   2.3  Vacancies on Board.  (a) Any Director may resign from office at any time
by  delivering  a written  resignation  to the  Chairman or the  Secretary.  The
resignation  will take effect at the time specified  therein,  or, if no time is
specified,  at the time of its receipt by the  Corporation.  The acceptance of a
resignation  shall not be necessary to make it  effective,  unless  expressly so
provided in the resignation.

   (b) Any  vacancy  and any  newly  created  Directorship  resulting  from  any
increase  in the  authorized  number  of  Directors  may be  filled by vote of a
majority of the  Directors  then in office,  though less than a quorum,  and any
Director so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election of Directors
by the stockholders and until a successor is duly elected and qualified or until
his or her earlier  death,  retirement,  resignation  or removal  from office in
accordance with these By-laws or any applicable law or pursuant to an order of a
court. If there are no Directors in office, then an election of Directors may be
held in the manner provided by applicable law.

   2.4 Meetings of the Board. (a) The Board may hold its meetings,  both regular
and special,  either within or outside the state of Delaware,  at such places as
from time to time may be  determined by the Board or as may be designated in the
respective notices or waivers of notice thereof.

                                     - 8 -

   (b)  Regular  meetings  of the Board  shall be held at such times and at such
places as from time to time shall be determined by the Board.

   (c) The first  meeting of each newly  elected  Board shall be held as soon as
practicable  after the annual meeting of the  stockholders  and shall be for the
election  of officers  and the  transaction  of such other  business as may come
before it.

   (d) Special  meetings of the Board shall be held whenever called by direction
of the Chairman or at the request of a majority of the Directors then in office.

   (e) Members of the Board or any Committee of the Board may  participate  in a
meeting of the Board or  Committee,  as the case may be, by means of  conference
telephone  or similar  communications  equipment  by means of which all  persons
participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such  participation  shall
constitute presence in person at such meeting.

   (f) The  Secretary  shall give notice to each  Director of any meeting of the
Board  by  mailing  the  same  at  least  two  days  before  the  meeting  or by
telegraphing  or delivering  the same not later than the day before the meeting.
Such notice need not include a statement of the business to be transacted at, or
the purpose of, any such meeting.  Any and all business may be transacted at any
meeting of the  Board.  No notice of any  adjourned  meeting  need be given.  No
notice  to or waiver by any  Director  shall be  required  with  respect  to any
meeting at which the Director is present.

   2.5 Quorum and Action.  Except as otherwise  expressly required by applicable
law, the Certificate of  Incorporation  or these By-laws,  at any meeting of the
Board, the presence of at least one-third of the entire Board shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business; but if there shall be less than a quorum
at any meeting of the Board, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting
from time to time. Unless otherwise  provided by applicable law, the Certificate
of  Incorporation  or these  By-laws,  the vote of a majority  of the  Directors
present (and not  abstaining)  at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall
be necessary for the approval and adoption of any  resolution or the approval of
any act of the Board.

   2.6  Presiding  Officer and  Secretary  of Meeting.  The  Chairman or, in the
absence of the Chairman,  a member of the Board selected by the members present,
shall preside at meetings of the Board.  The Secretary shall act as secretary

                                     - 9 -

of the meeting, but in the Secretary's absence the presiding officer may appoint
a secretary of the meeting.

   2.7 Action by Consent without Meeting. Any action required or permitted to be
taken at any  meeting  of the  Board or of any  Committee  thereof  may be taken
without a meeting if all members of the Board or Committee,  as the case may be,
consent  thereto  in writing  and the  writing  or  writings  are filed with the
minutes of proceedings of the Board or Committee.

   2.8 Standing  Committees.  By resolution  adopted by a majority of the entire
Board,  the Board shall elect,  from among its members,  individuals to serve on
the Standing Committees established by this Section 2.8. Each Standing Committee
shall be comprised of such number of Directors, not less than three, as shall be
elected  to  such  Committee,  provided  that  no  officer  or  employee  of the
Corporation shall be eligible to serve on the Audit,  Compensation and Personnel
or  Nominating  Committees.  Each  Committee  shall  keep a  record  of all  its
proceedings  and  report the same to the Board.  One-third  of the  members of a
Committee,  but not less than two, shall  constitute a quorum,  and the act of a
majority of the members of a Committee  present at any meeting at which a quorum
is present shall be the act of the Committee. Each Standing Committee shall meet
at the call of its  chairman  or any two of its  members.  The  chairmen  of the
various  Committees  shall  preside,  when  present,  at all  meetings  of  such
Committees,  and shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board may
from time to time prescribe. The Standing Committees of the Board, and functions
of each, are as follows:

   (a)  Compensation  and Personnel  Committee.  The  Compensation and Personnel
Committee shall exercise the power of oversight of the compensation and benefits
of the  employees  of the  Corporation,  and shall be  charged  with  evaluating
management performance, and establishing executive compensation.  This Committee
shall have access to its own independent outside  compensation counsel and shall
consist of a majority of  independent  directors.  For  purposes of this Section
2.8(a),  "independent  director"  shall  mean a Director  who:  (i) has not been
employed by the Corporation in an executive capacity within the past five years;
(ii) is not, and is not affiliated with a company or firm that is, an advisor or
consultant  to the  Corporation;  (iii)  is not  affiliated  with a  significant
customer  or  supplier  of  the  Corporation;  (iv)  has  no  personal  services
contract(s) with the Corporation; (v) is not affiliated with a tax-exempt entity
that receives significant contributions from the Corporation;  and (vi) is not a
familial  relative of

                                     - 10 -

any person  described  by Clauses (i)  through  (v).  This  By-law  shall not be
amended or repealed except by a majority of the voting power of the stockholders
present  in person or by proxy and  entitled  to vote at any  meeting at which a
quorum is present.

   (b) Audit Committee. The Audit Committee shall recommend the selection of the
independent  auditors  for the  Corporation,  confirm  the scope of audits to be
performed by such  auditors,  review audit results and internal  accounting  and
control  procedures  and  policies,  review  the fees paid to the  Corporation's
independent auditors, and review and recommend approval of the audited financial
statements of the Corporation and the annual reports to stockholders.  The Audit
Committee shall also review expense accounts of senior executives.

   (c) Finance  Committee.  The Finance Committee shall have the  responsibility
for  reviewing  capital  expenditures  and  appropriations  and  maximizing  the
effective use of the assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. The Finance
Committee shall also have the responsibility for directing investment allocation
and risk management policies.

   (d)  Legal and  Public  Affairs  Committee.  The  Legal  and  Public  Affairs
Committee  shall review and  consider  major  claims and  litigation  and legal,
regulatory,  intellectual  property  and  related  governmental  policy  matters
affecting the  Corporation  and its  subsidiaries.  The Legal and Public Affairs
Committee shall review and approve management  policies and programs relating to
compliance  with  legal  and  regulatory   requirements,   business  ethics  and
environmental  matters. The Legal and Public Affairs Committee shall also review
and  define  the  Corporation's  social  responsibilities,  including  issues of
significance to the Corporation, its stockholders and its employees.

   (e) Nominating Committee. The Nominating Committee shall make recommendations
as to the  organization,  size  and  composition  of the  Board  and  Committees
thereof,  propose nominees for election to the Board and the Committees thereof,
and consider the qualifications, compensation and retirement of Directors.

   2.9 Other Committees. By resolution passed by a majority of the entire Board,
the  Board may also  appoint  from  among its  members  such  other  Committees,
Standing  or  otherwise,  as it may from  time to time  deem  desirable  and may
delegate  to  such  Committees  such  powers  of the  Board  as it may  consider
appropriate,  consistent with  applicable law, the Certificate of  Incorporation
and these By-laws.

   2.10   Compensation  of  Directors.   Unless  otherwise   restricted  by  the
Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, Directors shall receive for their
services on the Board or any Committee  thereof such  compensation and benefits,
including the granting of options,  together with expenses, if any, as the Board
may from  time to time  determine.  The  Directors  may be paid a fixed  sum for
attendance  at each  meeting of the Board or Committee  thereof  and/or a stated
annual sum as a Director,  together with expenses, if any, of attendance at each
meeting of the Board or Committee  thereof.  Nothing herein  contained  shall be
construed  to preclude any Director  from serving the  Corporation  in any other
capacity and receiving compensation therefor.

   2.11  Independent  Directors.  (a)  Independence  of Nominees for Election as
Directors at the Annual Meeting. The persons nominated by the Board for election
as Directors at any annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation  shall
include a  sufficient  number of  persons  who have  been,  on the date of their
nomination,  determined  by  the  Board  to  be  eligible  to be  classified  as
independent  directors such that if all such nominees are elected,  the majority
of all Directors holding office would be independent directors.

   (b)  Directors  Elected to Fill  Vacancies on the Board.  If the Board elects
Directors  between annual  meetings of  stockholders  to fill vacancies or newly
created Directorships,  the majority of all Directors holding office immediately
after such elections shall be independent directors.

   (c)  Definition of Independent  Director.  For purposes of this Section 2.11,
"independent  director"  shall mean a Director who: (i) has not been employed by
the  Corporation in an executive  capacity  within the past five years;  (ii) is
not,  and is not  affiliated  with a company  or a firm that is, an  adviser  or
consultant  to the  Corporation;  (iii)  is not  affiliated  with a  significant
customer  or  supplier  of  the  Corporation;  (iv)  has  no  personal  services
contract(s) with the Corporation; (v) is not affiliated with a tax-exempt entity
that receives  significant  contributions  from the  Corporation;  (vi) is not a
familial  relative of any person described by Clauses (i) through (v); and (vii)
is free of any other  relationship  which would  interfere  with the exercise of
independent judgment by such Director.

3.  OFFICERS.

                                     - 12 -

   3.1 Officers,  Titles, Elections,  Terms. (a) The Board may from time to time
elect a Chairman,  a President,  one or more Executive Vice  Presidents,  one or
more Senior Vice  Presidents,  one or more Vice  Presidents,  a Chief  Financial
Officer, a Controller,  a Treasurer, a Secretary, a General Counsel, one or more
Assistant Controllers,  one or more Assistant Treasurers,  one or more Assistant
Secretaries,  and one or more Associate or Assistant General Counsels,  to serve
at the  pleasure of the Board or otherwise as shall be specified by the Board at
the time of such election and until their  successors  are elected and qualified
or until their earlier death, retirement,  resignation or removal from office in
accordance with these By-laws or any applicable law or pursuant to an order of a
court.

   (b) The Board may elect or appoint at any time such other  officers or agents
with such duties as it may deem  necessary or desirable.  Such other officers or
agents  shall  serve  at the  pleasure  of the  Board or  otherwise  as shall be
specified by the Board at the time of such election or  appointment  and, in the
case of such other officers, until their successors are elected and qualified or
until their earlier  death,  retirement,  resignation  or removal from office in
accordance with these By-laws or any applicable law or pursuant to an order of a
court.  Each such officer or agent shall have such  authority  and shall perform
such duties as may be provided  herein or as the Board may prescribe.  The Board
may from time to time  authorize  any officer or agent to appoint and remove any
other such officer or agent and to prescribe such person's authority and duties.

   (c) No person may be elected or  appointed an officer who is not a citizen of
the United  States of America if such election or  appointment  is prohibited by
applicable law or regulation.

   (d) Any vacancy in any office may be filled for the unexpired  portion of the
term by the Board.  Each officer elected or appointed during the year shall hold
office  until  the next  annual  meeting  of the  Board at  which  officers  are
regularly  elected or  appointed  and until his or her  successor  is elected or
appointed  and  qualified  or  until  his  or  her  earlier  death,  retirement,
resignation  or removal  from  office in  accordance  with these  By-laws or any
applicable law or pursuant to an order of a court.

   (e) Any officer or agent  elected or appointed by the Board may be removed at
any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board.

                                     - 13 -

   (f) Any officer may resign from office at any time. Such resignation shall be
made  in  writing  and  given  to the  President  or  the  Secretary.  Any  such
resignation shall take effect at the time specified  therein,  or, if no time is
specified,  at the time of its receipt by the  Corporation.  The acceptance of a
resignation  shall not be necessary to make it  effective,  unless  expressly so
provided in the resignation.

   3.2  General  Powers of  Officers.  Except as may be  otherwise  provided  by
applicable law or in Article 6 or Article 7 of these By-laws, the Chairman,  the
President,  any Executive Vice President,  any Senior Vice  President,  any Vice
President, the Chief Financial Officer, the General Counsel, the Controller, the
Treasurer and the Secretary,  or any of them, may (i) execute and deliver in the
name of the  Corporation,  in the name of any Division of the  Corporation or in
both names any  agreement,  contract,  instrument,  power of  attorney  or other
document  pertaining  to the  business  or  affairs  of the  Corporation  or any
Division  of  the  Corporation,   including  without  limitation  agreements  or
contracts   with  any   government  or   governmental   department,   agency  or
instrumentality, and (ii) delegate to any employee or agent the power to execute
and deliver any such agreement, contract, instrument, power of attorney or other
document.

   3.3  Powers  and  Duties of the  Chairman.  The  Chairman  shall be the Chief
Executive of the Corporation  and shall report directly to the Board.  Except in
such  instances as the Board may confer powers in particular  transactions  upon
any other  officer,  and subject to the control and direction of the Board,  the
Chairman shall manage and direct the business and affairs of the Corporation and
shall communicate to the Board and any Committee thereof reports,  proposals and
recommendations  for their respective  consideration or action. He or she may do
and perform all acts on behalf of the  Corporation and shall preside at meetings
of the Board and the stockholders.

   3.4 Powers and Duties of the President.  The President shall have such powers
and  perform  such  duties  as the Board or the  Chairman  may from time to time
prescribe or as may be prescribed in these By-laws.

   3.5 Powers and Duties of Executive Vice  Presidents,  Senior Vice  Presidents
and Vice Presidents.  Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice
Presidents  shall have such powers and  perform  such duties as the Board or the
Chairman  may  from  time to time  prescribe  or as may be  prescribed  in these
By-laws.

                                     - 14 -

   3.6 Powers and Duties of the Chief  Financial  Officer.  The Chief  Financial
Officer  shall have such  powers  and  perform  such  duties as the Board or the
Chairman  may  from  time to time  prescribe  or as may be  prescribed  in these
By-laws.  The Chief Financial  Officer shall cause to be prepared and maintained
(i) at the office of the  Corporation,  a stock ledger  containing the names and
addresses of all stockholders and the number of shares held by each and (ii) the
list of stockholders for each meeting of the stockholders as required by Section
1.11 of these By-laws.  The Chief Financial Officer shall be responsible for the
custody of all stock books and of all unissued stock certificates.

   3.7 Powers and Duties of the  Controller and Assistant  Controllers.  (a) The
Controller  shall be  responsible  for the  maintenance  of adequate  accounting
records of all assets, liabilities, capital and transactions of the Corporation.
The Controller shall prepare and render such balance sheets,  income statements,
budgets and other financial  statements and reports as the Board or the Chairman
may  require,  and shall  perform  such  other  duties as may be  prescribed  or
assigned  pursuant to these  By-laws and all other acts incident to the position
of Controller.

   (b) Each Assistant  Controller shall perform such duties as from time to time
may be assigned by the Controller or by the Board.  In the event of the absence,
incapacity or inability to act of the Controller,  then any Assistant Controller
may  perform  any of the  duties  and  may  exercise  any of the  powers  of the
Controller.

   3.8 Powers and Duties of the  Treasurer  and  Assistant  Treasurers.  (a) The
Treasurer shall have the care and custody of all the funds and securities of the
Corporation  except as may be  otherwise  ordered by the Board,  and shall cause
such funds (i) to be invested or reinvested from time to time for the benefit of
the Corporation as may be designated by the Board, the Chairman,  the President,
the Chief  Financial  Officer or the  Treasurer  or (ii) to be  deposited to the
credit of the  Corporation in such banks or depositories as may be designated by
the Board,  the Chairman,  the  President,  the Chief  Financial  Officer or the
Treasurer,  and shall cause such  securities to be placed in safekeeping in such
manner as may be designated by the Board, the Chairman, the President, the Chief
Financial Officer or the Treasurer.

   (b) The Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer or such other person or persons as
may be designated  for such purpose by the Board,  the Chairman,  the President,
the Chief  Financial  

                                     - 15 -

Officer or the  Treasurer  may  endorse in the name and on
behalf of the Corporation  all  instruments  for the payment of money,  bills of
lading,  warehouse receipts,  insurance policies and other commercial  documents
requiring such endorsement.

   (c) The Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer or such other person or persons as
may be designated  for such purpose by the Board,  the Chairman,  the President,
the Chief  Financial  Officer or the  Treasurer  (i) may sign all  receipts  and
vouchers for payments made to the Corporation,  (ii) shall render a statement of
the cash account of the  Corporation  to the Board as often as it shall  require
the same;  and (iii) shall enter  regularly in books to be kept for that purpose
full and  accurate  account  of all moneys  received  and paid on account of the
Corporation and of all securities received and delivered by the Corporation.

   (d) The  Treasurer  shall  perform such other duties as may be  prescribed or
assigned  pursuant to these  By-laws and all other acts incident to the position
of Treasurer.  Each  Assistant  Treasurer  shall perform such duties as may from
time to time be assigned by the  Treasurer or by the Board.  In the event of the
absence,  incapacity  or inability to act of the  Treasurer,  then any Assistant
Treasurer  may perform any of the duties and may  exercise  any of the powers of
the Treasurer.

   3.9 Powers and Duties of the  Secretary and  Assistant  Secretaries.  (a) The
Secretary  shall keep the minutes of all  proceedings of the  stockholders,  the
Board and the Committees of the Board.  The Secretary shall attend to the giving
and serving of all notices of the Corporation, in accordance with the provisions
of these By-laws and as required by applicable  law. The Secretary  shall be the
custodian of the seal of the Corporation.  The Secretary shall affix or cause to
be affixed the seal of the Corporation to such contracts,  instruments and other
documents requiring the seal of the Corporation,  and when so affixed may attest
the same and shall  perform such other duties as may be  prescribed  or assigned
pursuant  to these  By-laws  and all other  acts  incident  to the  position  of
Secretary.

   (b) Each  Assistant  Secretary  shall perform such duties as may from time to
time be assigned by the Secretary or by the Board.  In the event of the absence,
incapacity or inability to act of the  Secretary,  then any Assistant  Secretary
may  perform  any of the  duties  and  may  exercise  any of the  powers  of the
Secretary.

                                     - 16 -

4.  INDEMNIFICATION.

   4.1(a)  Right to  Indemnification.  The  Corporation,  to the fullest  extent
permitted by applicable law as then in effect, shall indemnify any person who is
or was a Director or officer of the  Corporation  and who is or was  involved in
any  manner  (including,  without  limitation,  as a party or a  witness)  or is
threatened  to be made so  involved  in any  threatened,  pending  or  completed
investigation,  claim,  action,  suit or proceeding,  whether  civil,  criminal,
administrative or investigative (including, without limitation, any action, suit
or proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its
favor) (a  "Proceeding")  by  reason  of the fact  that such  person is or was a
Director,  officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or is or was serving at
the request of the Corporation as a director,  officer,  employee,  fiduciary or
agent  of  another  corporation,  partnership,  joint  venture,  trust  or other
enterprise  (including,  without  limitation,  any  employee  benefit  plan)  (a
"Covered Entity"),  against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments,
fines and amounts paid in settlement  actually and  reasonably  incurred by such
person in connection with such  Proceeding.  Any such former or present Director
or  officer  of  the   Corporation   finally   determined   to  be  entitled  to
indemnification  as  provided  in  this  Article  4  is  hereinafter  called  an
"Indemnitee."  Until such final  determination  is made,  such former or present
Director  or officer  shall be a  "Potential  Indemnitee"  for  purposes of this
Article 4.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 4.1(a), the
Corporation  shall not  indemnify an Indemnitee  with respect to any  Proceeding
commenced by such Indemnitee  unless the commencement of such Proceeding by such
Indemnitee has been approved by a majority vote of the  Disinterested  Directors
(as  defined in Section  4.5(d);  provided,  however,  that such  approval  of a
majority of the  Disinterested  Directors  shall not be required with respect to
any  Proceeding  commenced  by such  Indemnitee  after a Change in  Control  (as
defined in Section 4.5(d)) has occurred.

   (b)  Effect of  Amendments.  Neither  the  amendment  or repeal  of,  nor the
adoption of a provision  inconsistent  with,  any  provision  of this  Article 4
(including,  without limitation, this Section 4.1(b)) shall adversely affect the
rights of any  Director or officer  under this Article 4 (i) with respect to any
Proceeding  commenced or threatened prior to such amendment,  repeal or adoption
of an  inconsistent  provision  or (ii)  after  the  occurrence  of a Change  in
Control,  with respect to any  Proceeding  arising out of any action or omission
occurring  prior  to such  amendment,  repeal

                                     - 17 -

or adoption of an  inconsistent  provision,  in either case  without the written
consent of such Director or officer.

   4.2  Insurance,  Contracts  and  Funding.  The  Corporation  may purchase and
maintain  insurance to protect  itself and any  Director,  officer,  employee or
agent of the Corporation against any expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid
in settlement as specified in Section 4.1(a) or Section 4.6 of this Article 4 or
incurred  by any  Director,  officer,  employee or agent of the  Corporation  in
connection  with any  Proceeding  referred to in such  Sections,  to the fullest
extent permitted by applicable law as then in effect.  The Corporation may enter
into contracts with any Director,  officer, employee or agent of the Corporation
or any director, officer, employee,  fiduciary or agent of any Covered Entity in
furtherance  of the  provisions of this Article 4 and may create a trust fund or
use other means (including,  without  limitation,  a letter of credit) to ensure
the payment of such  amounts as may be necessary  to effect  indemnification  as
provided in this Article 4.

   4.3  Indemnification;  Not  Exclusive  Right.  The  right of  indemnification
provided in this  Article 4 shall not be  exclusive of any other rights to which
any  Indemnitee  or Potential  Indemnitee  may  otherwise  be entitled,  and the
provisions  of this  Article 4 shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal
representatives  of any Indemnitee or Potential  Indemnitee under this Article 4
and  shall be  applicable  to  Proceedings  commenced  or  continuing  after the
adoption of this  Article 4, whether  arising  from acts or omissions  occurring
before or after such adoption.

   4.4 Advancement of Expenses.  Each Potential  Indemnitee shall be entitled to
receive advance payment of any expenses actually and reasonably incurred by such
Potential Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding prior to a determination
of entitlement to  indemnification  pursuant to Section  4.5(a).  Each Potential
Indemnitee shall submit a statement or statements to the Corporation  requesting
such  advance or  advances  from time to time,  whether  prior to or after final
disposition of such Proceeding,  reasonably  evidencing the expenses incurred by
such Potential  Indemnitee and  accompanied by an undertaking by or on behalf of
such Potential  Indemnitee to repay the amounts advanced if ultimately it should
be determined  that such Potential  Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified
against  such  expenses  pursuant  to this  Article  4. A  determination  of the
reasonableness of such expenses shall be made and such reasonable expenses shall
be advanced  pursuant to procedures to be  established  from time to time by the
Board or its

                                     - 18 -

designee(s) (the "Advancement Procedures").  The amendment or repeal of, and the
adoption of a provision  inconsistent  with,  any  provision of the  Advancement
Procedures   shall  be   governed   by  Section   4.1(b)  of  this   Article  4.
Notwithstanding  the foregoing  provisions of this Section 4.4, the  Corporation
shall not  advance  expenses  to a  Potential  Indemnitee  with  respect  to any
Proceeding  commenced by such Potential  Indemnitee  unless the  commencement of
such  Proceeding by such  Potential  Indemnitee  has been approved by a majority
vote of the Disinterested Directors;  provided, however, that such approval of a
majority of the  Disinterested  Directors  shall not be required with respect to
any Proceeding  commenced by such Potential Indemnitee after a Change in Control
has occurred.

   4.5   Indemnification   Procedures;   Presumptions   and  Effect  of  Certain
Proceedings;  Remedies. In furtherance,  but not in limitation, of the foregoing
provisions  of this  Article  4,  the  following  procedures,  presumptions  and
remedies  shall apply with  respect to the right to  indemnification  under this
Article 4:

   (a) Procedures for  Determination of Entitlement to  Indemnification.  (i) To
obtain indemnification under this Article 4, a Potential Indemnitee shall submit
to  the  Secretary  of  the  Corporation  a  written  request,   including  such
documentation  and  information  as is  reasonably  available  to the  Potential
Indemnitee and reasonably  necessary to determine whether and to what extent the
Potential   Indemnitee   is  entitled  to   indemnification   (the   "Supporting
Documentation").  The determination of the Potential Indemnitee's entitlement to
indemnification  shall be made not later than 60 days after the later of (A) the
receipt by the Corporation of the written request for  indemnification  together
with the  Supporting  Documentation  and (B) the receipt by the  Corporation  of
written notice of final disposition of the Proceeding for which  indemnification
is sought. The Secretary of the Corporation shall, promptly upon receipt of such
a request for  indemnification,  advise the Board in writing that the Indemnitee
has requested indemnification.

   (ii) The Potential  Indemnitee's  entitlement to  indemnification  under this
Article 4 shall be determined in one of the  following  ways:  (A) by a majority
vote of the  Disinterested  Directors whether or not they constitute a quorum of
the Board;  (B) by a committee of the  Disinterested  Directors  designated by a
majority vote of the Disinterested  Directors,  whether or not they constitute a
quorum of the Board; (C) by a written opinion of Independent  Counsel as defined
in  Section  4.5(d))  if (x) a Change in Control  shall

                                     - 19 -

have  occurred  and the  Potential  Indemnitee  so  requests or (y) there are no
Disinterested  Directors  or a  majority  of  such  Disinterested  Directors  so
directs;  (D) by the  stockholders  of the  Corporation;  or (E) as  provided in
Section 4.5(b) of this Article 4.

   (iii) In the event the determination of entitlement to  indemnification is to
be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 4.5(a)(ii), a majority of the
Disinterested  Directors  (or,  if there  are no  Disinterested  Directors,  the
General  Counsel of the Corporation or, if the General Counsel is or was a party
to the  Proceeding in respect of which  indemnification  is sought,  the highest
ranking  officer  of the  Corporation  who is not and  was  not a party  to such
Proceeding)  shall  select  the  Independent  Counsel,  but only an  Independent
Counsel to which the Potential Indemnitee does not reasonably object;  provided,
however,  that if a  Change  in  Control  shall  have  occurred,  the  Potential
Indemnitee  shall  select  such  Independent  Counsel,  but only an  Independent
Counsel to which a majority of the  Disinterested  Directors does not reasonably
object.

   (b)  Presumptions  and Effect of  Certain  Proceedings.  Except as  otherwise
expressly  provided  in this  Article  4, if a  Change  in  Control  shall  have
occurred,  the  Potential  Indemnitee  shall  be  presumed  to  be  entitled  to
indemnification under this Article 4 (with respect to actions or failures to act
occurring  prior to such Change in  Control)  upon  submission  of a request for
indemnification  together with the Supporting  Documentation  in accordance with
Section  5(a)(i)(b) of this Article 4, and thereafter the Corporation shall have
the  burden  of proof to  overcome  that  presumption  in  reaching  a  contrary
determination.  In any event,  if the person or persons  empowered under Section
4.5(a) of this Article 4 to determine  entitlement to indemnification  shall not
have been appointed or shall not have made a determination  within 60 days after
the  later  of  (x)  receipt  by the  Corporation  of the  written  request  for
indemnification  together with the Supporting  Documentation and (y) the receipt
by the Corporation of written notice of final  disposition of the Proceeding for
which indemnification is sought, the Potential Indemnitee shall be deemed to be,
and shall be, entitled to indemnification . The termination of any Proceeding or
of any  claim,  issue or matter  therein,  by  judgment,  order,  settlement  or
conviction,  or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent,  shall not, of
itself,   adversely   affect   the  right  of  the   Potential   Indemnitee   to
indemnification  or create a presumption  that the Potential  Indemnitee did not
act in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be
in or not opposed to the best interests of

                                     - 20 -

the Corporation or, with respect to any criminal Proceeding,  that the Potential
Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.

   (d)  Remedies.  (i) In the event that a  determination  is made  pursuant  to
Section  4.5(a) of this Article 4 that the Potential  Indemnitee is not entitled
to indemnification  under this Article 4, (A) the Potential  Indemnitee shall be
entitled  to  seek  an   adjudication   of  his  or  her   entitlement  to  such
indemnification  either,  at the Potential  Indemnitee's  sole option, in (x) an
appropriate  court of the  state of  Delaware  or any other  court of  competent
jurisdiction  or (y) an  arbitration  to be  conducted  by a  single  arbitrator
pursuant  to the rules of the  American  Arbitration  Association;  (B) any such
judicial proceeding or arbitration shall be de novo and the Indemnitee shall not
be  prejudiced by reason of such adverse  determination;  and (C) if a Change in
Control shall have occurred,  in any such judicial proceeding or arbitration the
Corporation  shall have the burden of proving that the  Potential  Indemnitee is
not entitled to indemnification under this Article 4 (with respect to actions or
omissions occurring prior to such Change in Control).

   (ii) If a  determination  shall  have been made or deemed to have been  made,
pursuant  to  Section  4.5(a)or  (b) of  this  Article  4,  that  the  Potential
Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be obligated to
pay the amounts  constituting such  indemnification  within five days after such
determination  has  been  made  or  deemed  to  have  been  made  and  shall  be
conclusively   bound   by  such   determination   unless   (A)  the   Indemnitee
misrepresented  or failed to disclose a material  fact in making the request for
indemnification or in the Supporting  Documentation or (B) such  indemnification
is prohibited by law. In the event that payment of  indemnification  is not made
within five days after a  determination  of entitlement to  indemnification  has
been made or deemed to have been made pursuant to Section  4.5(a) or (b) of this
Article 4, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek judicial  enforcement of the
Corporation's   obligation  to  pay  to  the  Indemnitee  such  indemnification.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  the  Corporation  may bring an  action,  in an
appropriate  court in the  state of  Delaware  or any other  court of  competent
jurisdiction,  contesting the right of the Indemnitee to receive indemnification
hereunder due to the occurrence of an event described in Subclause (A) or (B) of
this subsection (each, a "Disqualifying Event"); provided,  however, that in any
such action the  Corporation  shall have the burden of proving the occurrence of
such Disqualifying Event.

                                     - 21 -

   (iii) The  Corporation  shall be  precluded  from  asserting  in any judicial
proceeding or  arbitration  commenced  pursuant to this Section  4.5(c) that the
procedures  and  presumptions  of this  Article  4 are not  valid,  binding  and
enforceable  and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator
that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Article 4.

   (iv) In the event that the  Indemnitee or Potential  Indemnitee,  pursuant to
this Section 4.5(c), seeks a judicial adjudication of or an award in arbitration
to enforce his or her rights  under,  or to recover  damages for breach of, this
Article 4, such person  shall be entitled to recover from the  Corporation,  and
shall be  indemnified  by the  Corporation  against,  any expenses  actually and
reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such judicial adjudication
or  arbitration.  If it shall be  determined in such  judicial  adjudication  or
arbitration  that such  person is  entitled  to receive  part but not all of the
indemnification or advancement of expenses sought, the expenses incurred by such
person in connection  with such judicial  adjudication  or arbitration  shall be
prorated accordingly.

   (e) Definitions.  For purposes of this Article 4:

   (i) "Change in  Control"  means a change in control of the  Corporation  of a
nature  that would be  required  to be reported in response to Item 6(e) (or any
successor  provision)  of Schedule 14A of  Regulation  14A (or any  amendment or
successor  provision thereto)  promulgated under the Securities  Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (the "Act"),  whether or not the Corporation is then subject to
such reporting requirement;  provided that, without limitation, such a change in
control  shall be deemed to have  occurred if (A) any  "person" (as such term is
used in  Sections  13(d) and  14(d) of the Act) is or  becomes  the  "beneficial
owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3  under the Act),  directly  or  indirectly,  of
securities of the  Corporation  representing  20% or more of the voting power of
all outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in
an election of Directors  without the prior  approval of at least  two-thirds of
the members of the Board in office  immediately prior to such  acquisition;  (B)
the  Corporation  is a  party  to any  merger  or  consolidation  in  which  the
Corporation is not the continuing or surviving  corporation or pursuant to which
shares  of  the  Corporation's  common  stock  would  be  converted  into  cash,
securities or other  property,  other than a merger of the  Corporation in which
the holders of the  Corporation's  common stock  immediately prior to the merger
have  the  same  proportionate  ownership  of  common  stock  of  the  surviving

                                     - 22 -

corporation  immediately after the merger; (C) there is a sale, lease,  exchange
or other transfer (in one  transaction or a series of related  transactions)  of
all, or  substantially  all, the assets of the  Corporation,  or  liquidation or
dissolution  of the  Corporation;  (D) the  Corporation  is a party to a merger,
consolidation,  sale of assets or other reorganization, or a proxy contest, as a
consequence  of which members of the Board in office  immediately  prior to such
transaction or event constitute less than a majority of the Board thereafter; or
(E) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning
of such  period  constituted  the  Board  (including  for this  purpose  any new
Director  whose  election or  nomination  for election by the  stockholders  was
approved by a vote of at least  two-thirds of the Directors then still in office
who were  Directors at the  beginning  of such  period)  cease for any reason to
constitute at least a majority of the Board.

   (ii) "Disinterested  Director" means a Director who is not or was not a party
to  the  Proceeding  in  respect  of  which  indemnification  is  sought  by the
Indemnitee or Potential Indemnitee.

   (iii)  "Independent  Counsel" means a law firm or a member of a law firm that
neither  presently  is,  nor in the  past  five  years  has  been,  retained  to
represent:  (a) the  Corporation  or the  Indemnitee  in any matter  material to
either  such party or (b) any other  party to the  Proceeding  giving  rise to a
claim for indemnification  under this Article 4.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the  term  "Independent  Counsel"  shall  not  include  any  person  who,  under
applicable  standards of professional  conduct then prevailing  under the law of
the State of Delaware,  would have a conflict of interest in representing either
the  Corporation  or the  Indemnitee or Potential  Indemnitee's  in an action to
determine the Indemnitee's or Potential  Indemnitee's  rights under this Article
4.

   4.6  Indemnification  of  Employees  and  Agents.  Notwithstanding  any other
provision of this Article 4, the Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law as then in effect, may indemnify any person other than a Director
or  officer  of  the  Corporation  who is or was an  employee  or  agent  of the
Corporation  and  who  is or was  involved  in any  manner  (including,  without
limitation,  as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in
any threatened, pending or completed Proceeding by reasons of the fact that such
person is or was an employee or agent of the  Corporation  or was or is serving,
at the request of the Corporation, as a director, officer,

                                     - 23 -

employee,  or  agent  of  a  Covered  Entity  against  all  expenses  (including
attorneys' fees),  judgments,  fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and
reasonably  incurred  by such person in  connection  with such  Proceeding.  The
Corporation may also advance  expenses  incurred by such employee,  fiduciary or
agent in connection with any such Proceeding,  consistent with the provisions of
applicable  law as then in effect.  If made or  advanced,  such  indemnification
shall  be made and such  reasonable  expenses  shall  be  advanced  pursuant  to
procedures to be established from time to time by the Board or its designee(s).

   4.7  Severability.  If any of this  Article  4 shall  be held to be  invalid,
illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever:  (i) the validity,  legality
and  enforceability  of the  remaining  provisions of this Article 4 (including,
without limitation, all portions of any Section of this Article 4 containing any
such  provision  held to be  invalid,  illegal  or  unenforceable,  that are not
themselves invalid,  illegal or unenforceable)  shall not in any way be affected
or impaired thereby; and (ii) to the fullest extent possible,  the provisions of
this Article 4 (including,  without  limitation,  all portions of any Section of
this  Article 4 containing  any such  provision  held to be invalid,  illegal or
unenforceable,  that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall
be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held
invalid, illegal or unenforceable.

5. CAPITAL STOCK

   5.1 Stock Certificates. (a) Every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be
entitled to have a certificate  certifying  the number of shares owned by him or
her in the  Corporation  and  designating the class and series of stock to which
such shares belong,  which  certificate  shall  otherwise be in such form as the
Board shall prescribe and as provided in Section 5.1(d).  Each such  certificate
shall be signed by, or in the name of, the  Corporation  by the  Chairman or the
President or any Vice President, and by the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer
or the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary.

   (b) If such  certificate is  countersigned by a transfer agent other than the
Corporation or its employee, or by a registrar other than the Corporation or its
employee,  the signatures of the officers of the  Corporation may be facsimiles,
and, if permitted by applicable  law, any other signature on the certificate may
be a facsimile.

                                     - 24 -

   (c) In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile  signature has been
placed  upon a  certificate  shall have  ceased to be such  officer  before such
certificate is issued,  it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect
as if such person were such officer at the date of issue.

   (d) Certificates of stock shall be issued in such form not inconsistent  with
the Certificate of  Incorporation.  They shall be numbered and registered in the
order in which they are issued. No certificate shall be issued until fully paid.

   (e) All certificates surrendered to the Corporation shall be cancelled (other
than treasury shares) with the date of cancellation and shall be retained by the
Chief  Financial  Officer,  together with the powers of attorney to transfer and
the assignments of the shares represented by such certificates,  for such period
of time as such officer shall designate.

   5.2 Record Ownership. A record of the name of the person, firm or corporation
and address of such holder of each certificate, the number of shares represented
thereby and the date of issue thereof shall be made on the Corporation's  books.
The Corporation  shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share of
stock as the  holder  in fact  thereof,  and  accordingly  shall not be bound to
recognize  any  equitable or other claim to or interest in any share on the part
of any person,  whether or not it shall have  express or other  notice  thereof,
except as required by applicable law.

   5.3  Transfer of Record  Ownership.  Transfers  of stock shall be made on the
books  of  the  Corporation  only  by  direction  of  the  person  named  in the
certificate or such person's attorney, lawfully constituted in writing, and only
upon the surrender of the certificate  therefor and a written  assignment of the
shares  evidenced  thereby.  Whenever  any  transfer  of stock shall be made for
collateral security,  and not absolutely,  it shall be so expressed in the entry
of the transfer if, when the  certificates  are presented to the Corporation for
transfer, both the transferor and transferee request the Corporation to do so.

   5.4 Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates.  Certificates representing shares
of the stock of the  Corporation  shall be  issued  in place of any  certificate
alleged to have been lost,  stolen or destroyed in such manner and on such terms
and  conditions as the Board from time to time may authorize in accordance  with
applicable law.

                                     - 25 -

   5.5 Transfer Agent; Registrar; Rules Respecting Certificates. The Corporation
shall  maintain  one or more  transfer  offices or  agencies  where stock of the
Corporation  shall be transferable.  The Corporation  shall also maintain one or
more registry  offices where such stock shall be registered.  The Board may make
such  rules and  regulations  as it may deem  expedient  concerning  the  issue,
transfer and  registration  of stock  certificates in accordance with applicable
law.

   5.6 Fixing Record Date for  Determination of Stockholders of Record.  (a) The
Board  may  fix,  in  advance,  a date as the  record  date for the  purpose  of
determining the  stockholders  entitled to notice of, or to vote at, any meeting
of the  stockholders  or any  adjournment  thereof,  which record date shall not
precede the date upon which the resolution  fixing the record date is adopted by
the Board, and which record date shall not be more than sixty days nor less than
ten days before the date of a meeting of the stockholders.  If no record date is
fixed by the Board, the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to
notice  of or to  vote at a  stockholders'  meeting  shall  be at the  close  of
business  on the day next  preceding  the day on which  notice is given,  or, if
notice is waived,  at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on
which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to
notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment
of the meeting; provided,  however, that the Board may fix a new record date for
the adjourned meeting.

   (b) The Board may fix, in advance,  a date as the record date for the purpose
of determining the  stockholders  entitled to receive payment of any dividend or
other  distribution or the allotment of any rights,  or entitled to exercise any
rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or in order to
make a  determination  of the  stockholders  for the purpose of any other lawful
action,  which record date shall not precede the date upon which the  resolution
fixing the record date is adopted by the Board,  and which record date shall not
be more than sixty  calendar  days prior to such  action.  If no record  date is
fixed by the Board,  the record date for  determining the  stockholders  for any
such  purpose  shall be at the close of  business  on the day on which the Board
adopts the resolution relating thereto.

6. SECURITIES HELD BY THE CORPORATION.

                                     - 26 -

   6.1  Voting.  Unless the Board  shall  otherwise  order,  the  Chairman,  the
President,  any Executive Vice President,  any Senior Vice  President,  any Vice
President,  the Chief Financial  Officer,  the Controller,  the Treasurer or the
Secretary shall have full power and authority, on behalf of the Corporation,  to
attend,  act and vote at any meeting of the  stockholders  of any corporation in
which the  Corporation may hold stock and at such meeting to exercise any or all
rights and powers  incident to the  ownership  of such stock,  and to execute on
behalf of the Corporation a proxy or proxies empowering another or others to act
as aforesaid.  The Board from time to time may confer like powers upon any other
person or persons.

   6.2 General Authorization to Transfer Securities Held by the Corporation. (a)
Any of the  following  officers,  to  wit:  the  Chairman,  the  President,  any
Executive Vice  President,  any Senior Vice President,  any Vice President,  the
Chief  Financial  Officer,   the  Controller,   the  Treasurer,   any  Assistant
Controller,  any Assistant Treasurer, and each of them, hereby is authorized and
empowered to transfer,  convert, endorse, sell, assign, set over and deliver any
and all shares of stock, bonds, debentures,  notes, subscription warrants, stock
purchase  warrants,  evidences  of  indebtedness,  or  other  securities  now or
hereafter  standing  in the name of or owned  by the  Corporation,  and to make,
execute and deliver any and all written  instruments  of assignment and transfer
necessary or proper to effectuate the authority hereby conferred.

   (b)  Whenever  there shall be annexed to any  instrument  of  assignment  and
transfer  executed  pursuant to and in  accordance  with the  foregoing  Section
6.2(a),  a certificate of the Secretary or any Assistant  Secretary in office at
the date of such  certificate  setting forth the  provisions  hereof and stating
that they are in full force and effect  and  setting  forth the names of persons
who are then officers of the  corporation,  all persons to whom such  instrument
and annexed certificate shall thereafter come shall be entitled, without further
inquiry or  investigation  and  regardless of the date of such  certificate,  to
assume and to act in reliance upon the  assumption  that (i) the shares of stock
or other  securities named in such instrument were theretofore duly and properly
transferred,   endorsed,   sold,  assigned,   set  over  and  delivered  by  the
Corporation,  and (ii) with respect to such  securities,  the authority of these
provisions  of these  By-laws  and of such  officers  is still in full force and
effect.

7. DEPOSITARIES AND SIGNATORIES.

                                     - 27 -

   7.1 Depositaries.  The Chairman, the President,  the Chief Financial Officer,
and the Treasurer are each authorized to designate depositaries for the funds of
the Corporation  deposited in its name or that of a Division of the Corporation,
or both, and the signatories with respect thereto in each case, and from time to
time,  to change  such  depositaries  and  signatories,  with the same force and
effect as if each such depositary and the  signatories  with respect thereto and
changes therein had been specifically designated or authorized by the Board; and
each depositary designated by the Board or by the Chairman,  the President,  the
Chief  Financial  Officer,  or the Treasurer  shall be entitled to rely upon the
certificate of the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Corporation or of
a Division of the Corporation  setting forth the fact of such designation and of
the appointment of the officers of the Corporation or of the Division or of both
or of other persons who are to be signatories  with respect to the withdrawal of
funds  deposited  with  such  depositary,  or from  time to time the fact of any
change in any depositary or in the signatories with respect thereto.

   7.2 Signatories. Unless otherwise designated by the Board or by the Chairman,
the President,  the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer, all notes, drafts,
checks,  acceptances,  orders for the payment of money and all other  negotiable
instruments  obligating  the  Corporation  for the payment of money shall be (a)
signed by the Treasurer or any Assistant  Treasurer and (b) countersigned by the
Controller or any Assistant Controller, or (c) either signed or countersigned by
the Chairman,  the  President,  any Executive  Vice  President,  any Senior Vice
President or any Vice  President in lieu of either the  officers  designated  in
Clause (a) or the officers designated in Clause (b) of this Section 7.2.

8. SEAL.

   The seal of the Corporation shall be in such form and shall have such content
as the Board shall from time to time determine.

9. FISCAL YEAR.

   The fiscal year of the Corporation  shall end on December 31 in each year, or
on such other date as the Board shall determine.

10. WAIVER OF OR DISPENSING WITH NOTICE.

                                     - 28 -

   (a) Whenever  any notice of the time,  place or purpose of any meeting of the
stockholders  is required to be given by  applicable  law,  the  Certificate  of
Incorporation  or these  By-laws,  a  written  waiver  of  notice,  signed  by a
stockholder entitled to notice of a stockholders' meeting, whether by telegraph,
cable or other form of recorded  communication,  whether  signed before or after
the time set for a given meeting,  shall be deemed  equivalent to notice of such
meeting.  Attendance of a stockholder  in person or by proxy at a  stockholders'
meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice to such stockholder of such meeting,
except when the  stockholder  attends  the  meeting  for the express  purpose of
objecting  at the  beginning of the meeting to the  transaction  of any business
because the meeting was not lawfully called or convened.

   (b)  Whenever  any notice of the time or place of any meeting of the Board or
Committee  of  the  Board  is  required  to be  given  by  applicable  law,  the
Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, a written waiver of notice signed
by  a  Director,   whether  by  telegraph,  cable  or  other  form  of  recorded
communication,  whether signed before or after the time set for a given meeting,
shall be deemed  equivalent to notice of such meeting.  Attendance of a Director
at a meeting in person (or by  conference  telephone  or similar  communications
equipment) shall constitute a waiver of notice to such Director of such meeting.

   (c) No notice  need be given to any person  with whom  communication  is made
unlawful by any law of the United States or any rule,  regulation,  proclamation
or executive order issued under any such law.

11. AMENDMENT OF BY-LAWS.

   Except as  otherwise  provided  in  Section  2.8(a) of these  By-laws,  these
By-laws,  or any of them,  may from  time to time be  supplemented,  amended  or
repealed,  or new By-laws may be adopted, by the Board at any regular or special
meeting of the Board,  if such  supplement,  amendment,  repeal or  adoption  is
approved by a majority of the entire Board.  These By-laws,  or any of them, may
from time to time be  supplemented,  amended or repealed,  or new By-laws may be
adopted,  by  the  stockholders  at  any  regular  or  special  meeting  of  the
stockholders at which a quorum is present, if such supplement, amendment, repeal
or adoption is  approved  by the  affirmative  vote of the holders of at least a
majority  of the  voting  power  of  all  outstanding  shares  of  stock  of the
Corporation entitled to vote generally in an election of directors.

                                     - 29 -

12.  OFFICES AND AGENT

   (a) Registered  Office and Agent. The registered office of the Corporation in
the State of Delaware shall be 1209 Orange Street,  Wilmington,  Delaware 19801.
The  name  of the  registered  agent  is The  Corporation  Trust  Company.  Such
registered agent has a business office identical with such registered office.

   (b) Other  Offices.  The  Corporation  may also have offices at other places,
either  within or outside the State of Delaware,  as the Board of Directors  may
from time to time determine or as the business of the Corporation may require.


State of                                    }
                                            }        ss.
County of                                   }


This is to  certify  that the  foregoing  is a true  copy of the  Bylaws  of The
Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. in full force and effect on this date.


Attest:



- - ------------------------------
Secretary

Dated:

                                                                    Exhibit 4.09

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                        6 3/8% Notes Due November 1, 2008

           THIS  SECURITY  IS A  GLOBAL  SECURITY  WITHIN  THE  MEANING  OF  THE
INDENTURE  HEREINAFTER  REFERRED  TO  AND  IS  REGISTERED  IN  THE  NAME  OF THE
DEPOSITORY  TRUST COMPANY OR A NOMINEE OF THE  DEPOSITORY  TRUST  COMPANY.  THIS
SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER
THAN  THE  DEPOSITORY   TRUST  COMPANY  OR  ITS  NOMINEE  ONLY  IN  THE  LIMITED
CIRCUMSTANCES  DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A
WHOLE BY THE  DEPOSITORY  TRUST  COMPANY  TO A NOMINEE OF THE  DEPOSITORY  TRUST
COMPANY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY  TRUST COMPANY TO THE DEPOSITORY TRUST
COMPANY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY.

           Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized  representative
of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation  ("DTC"),  to the Issuer
or its agent  for  registration  of  transfer,  exchange,  or  payment,  and any
certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name
as is requested by an authorized  representative of DTC (and any payment is made
to  Cede  & Co.  or to  such  other  entity  as is  requested  by an  authorized
representative  of DTC), ANY TRANSFER,  PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR
OTHERWISE  BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS  WRONGFUL  inasmuch  as the  registered  owner
hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.




No.1                                                                $200,000,000
CUSIP 416515AC8


           THE HARTFORD  FINANCIAL  SERVICES GROUP, INC.  (formerly ITT Hartford
Group,  Inc.) , a corporation  organized and existing under the laws of Delaware
(hereinafter called the "Company", which term includes any successor corporation
under  the  Indenture  hereinafter  referred  to),  for value  received,  hereby
promises to pay to Cede & Co.,  or  registered  assigns,  the  principal  sum of
$200,000,000  on November 1, 2008, and to pay interest  thereon from November 2,
1998 or from the most recent  Interest  Payment Date to which  interest has been
paid or duly provided for,  semi-annually  on May 1 and November 1 in each year,
commencing  May 1,  1999,  at the rate of 6 3/8% per  annum,  on the  basis of a
360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months,  until the principal  hereof is
paid or duly provided for or made available for payment, and (to the 



extent that the payment of such interest  shall be legally  enforceable)  at the
rate of 6 3/8% per annum on any overdue  principal or premium and on any overdue
installment of interest.  The interest so payable,  and punctually  paid or duly
provided for, on any Interest  Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture,
be paid to the Person in whose name this  Security  (or one or more  Predecessor
Securities)  is registered  at the close of business on the Regular  Record Date
for such  interest,  which shall be the April 15 or October 15 (whether or not a
Business Day), as the case may be, next  preceding  such Interest  Payment Date.
Any such  interest not so punctually  paid or duly  provided for will  forthwith
cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular  Record Date and may either be
paid to the  person in whose  name  this  Security  (or one or more  Predecessor
Securities)  is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for
the  payment  of such  Defaulted  Interest  to be fixed by the  Trustee,  notice
whereof  shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10
days  prior to such  Special  Record  Date,  or be paid at any time in any other
lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities  exchange
on which the  Securities  of this series may be listed and,  upon such notice as
may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.

           Payment of the  principal  of (and  premium,  if any) and interest on
this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for
that  purpose in the City of New York,  in such coin or  currency  of the United
States of  America as at the time of  payment  is legal  tender  for  payment of
public and private debts;  provided,  however, that at the option of the Company
payment of  interest  may be made by check  mailed to the  address of the Person
entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Securities Register.

           Reference is hereby made to the further  provisions  of this Security
set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes
have the same effect as if set forth at this place.

           Unless the certificate of authentication  hereon has been executed by
the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security
shall  not be  entitled  to any  benefit  under  the  Indenture  or be  valid or
obligatory for any purpose.


           IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

Dated:

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.



                   By:________________________________________     
                      J. Richard Garrett
                      Senior Vice President and Treasurer



Attest:


____________________________
Michael O' Halloran
Assistant Secretary


                     TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

           This is one of the  Securities  referred  to in the within  mentioned
Indenture.



                                        THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK,
                                          as Trustee


                                        By:__________________________________
                                           Authorized officer



                               Reverse of Security
                               -------------------

           This Security is one of a duly authorized  issue of securities of the
Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more
series under a Senior Indenture, dated as of October 20, 1995 (herein called the
"Indenture"),  between  the Company and The Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as Trustee,
successor to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), (herein called the
"Trustee",  which term includes any successor  trustee under the Indenture),  to
which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made
for a statement of the  respective  rights,  limitations  of rights,  duties and
immunities  thereunder  of the  Company,  the  Trustee  and the  Holders  of the
Securities  and of the terms  upon  which  the  Securities  are,  and are to be,
authenticated  and delivered.  This Security is one of the series  designated on
the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $200,000,000.

           The Company may, at its option, upon not less than 30 days' notice by
mail, redeem the Securities of this series on any Interest Payment Date in whole
at any time or in part  from  time to time at a  redemption  price  equal to any
accrued and unpaid interest plus the greater of the principal  amount thereof or
an amount equal to the Discounted  Remaining Fixed Amount Payments as defined in
the Indenture,  except that,  for purposes of this  Security,  the term "Current
Value" shall mean, in respect of any amount, the present value of that amount on
the date fixed for  redemption  pursuant to Section 1107 of the Indenture  after
discounting that amount on a semiannual basis from the originally scheduled date
for payment on the basis of the Treasury Rate plus 25 basis points, all computed
in accordance with generally accepted financial practice.

           In the event of  redemption  of this  Security  in part  only,  a new
Security or Securities of this series for the unredeemed  portion hereof will be
issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.

           The Indenture  contains  provisions for  satisfaction,  discharge and
defeasance of the entire  indebtedness on this security,  upon compliance by the
Company with certain conditions set forth therein.

           If an Event of Default  with  respect to  Securities  of this  series
shall occur and be  continuing,  the principal of the  Securities of this series
may be declared  due and  payable in the manner and with the effect  provided in
the Indenture.

           The Indenture  permits,  with certain exceptions as therein provided,
the amendment  thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the
Company


and the rights of the  Holders of the  Securities  of each series to be affected
under the  Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent
of the Holders of a majority in principal  amount of the  Securities at the time
Outstanding  of  each  series  to  be  affected.  The  Indenture  also  contains
provisions  permitting the Holders of specified  percentages in principal amount
of the  Securities  of each  series  at the time  Outstanding,  on behalf of the
Holders of all  Securities  of such series,  to waive  compliance by the Company
with certain  provisions of the  Indenture  and certain past defaults  under the
Indenture  and their  consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of
this  Security  shall be  conclusive  and binding  upon such Holder and upon all
future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration
of transfer  hereof or in  exchange  herefor or in lieu  hereof,  whether or not
notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.

           No  reference  herein  to the  Indenture  and no  provision  of  this
Security  or of the  Indenture  shall  alter or  impair  the  obligation  of the
Company,  which is absolute  and  unconditional,  to pay the  principal  of (and
premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and
in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.

           As  provided  in the  Indenture  and  subject to certain  limitations
therein  set  forth,  the  transfer  of  this  Security  is  registrable  in the
Securities  Register,  upon  surrender  of this  Security  for  registration  of
transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal
of (and  premium,  if any) and  interest  on this  Security  are  payable,  duly
endorsed  by,  or  accompanied  by a  written  instrument  of  transfer  in form
satisfactory  to the Company and the Securities  Registrar duly executed by, the
Holder hereof or his attorney duly  authorized in writing,  and thereupon one or
more new Securities of this series, of authorized denominations and for the same
aggregate  principal  amount,  will be issued to the  designated  transferee  or
transferees.

           The  Securities of this series are issuable  only in registered  form
without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As
provided in the Indenture and subject to certain  limitations therein set forth,
Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount
of  Securities  of  this  series  of a  different  authorized  denomination,  as
requested by the Holder surrendering the same.

           No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer
or exchange,  but the Company may require  payment of a sum  sufficient to cover
any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.



           Prior  to due  presentment  of  this  Security  for  registration  of
transfer,  the Company,  the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee
may treat the  Person in whose name this  Security  is  registered  as the owner
hereof for all purposes,  whether or not this  Security be overdue,  and neither
the  Company,  the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the
contrary.

           All terms used in this  Security  which are defined in the  Indenture
shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.


                                                                   Exhibit 10.15
                     THE HARTFORD 1996 RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN
                           FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS





                ARTICLE I -- PLAN ADMINISTRATION AND ELIGIBILITY


1.1  PURPOSE

    The purpose of The Hartford  Financial  Services Group, Inc. 1996 Restricted
Stock Plan for  Non-Employee  Directors  (the  "Plan") is to attract  and retain
persons of ability as directors of The Hartford  Financial  Services Group, Inc.
(the "Company") and to provide them with a closer identity with the interests of
the Company's  stockholders by paying the Annual Retainer in common stock of the
Company  subject to certain  restrictions as described  herein (the  "Restricted
Stock").

1.2  ADMINISTRATION

    The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation  and Personnel  Committee
of the Board of  Directors  (hereinafter  referred to as the  "Committee").  The
Committee  shall  have  the   responsibility   of  interpreting   the  Plan  and
establishing  and amending such rules and  regulations  necessary or appropriate
for the  administration  of the  Plan.  All  interpretations  of the Plan or any
Restricted  Stock  awards  issued  under it shall be final and binding  upon all
persons  having an interest  in the Plan.  No member of the  Committee  shall be
liable for any action or determination  taken or made in good faith with respect
to this Plan or any award granted hereunder.

1.3  ELIGIBILITY

    Directors of the Company who are not  employees of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries shall be eligible to participate in the Plan.

1.4  STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

    (a) The maximum  number of shares which may be granted  under the Plan shall
be 200,000 shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company (the
"Stock").

    (b) If any  Restricted  Stock is forfeited by a Director in accordance  with
the  provisions  of Section  2.2(c),  such shares of  Restricted  Stock shall be
restored to the total number of shares available for grant pursuant to the Plan.


    (c) Upon the grant of a  Restricted  Stock award the Company may  distribute
newly issued 



shares or treasury shares, reacquired stock, stock purchased in the open market,
or any combination of the foregoing.


                         ARTICLE II -- RESTRICTED STOCK


2.1  RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS

    Restricted  Stock  awards  shall  be made  automatically  on the date of the
Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders,  to each  Director  elected at the  meeting or
continuing in office following the meeting.  The award shall equal the number of
whole shares  arrived at by dividing the Annual  Retainer  that is in effect for
the 12 month period  beginning with the date of the Annual Meeting (the "Service
Year") by the Fair Market Value of the Company's common stock. Fractional shares
shall be paid in cash.

    (a)  "Annual  Retainer"  shall mean the amount that is payable to a Director
for service on the Board of Directors  during the Service Year.  Annual Retainer
shall not include fees paid for attendance at any Board or Committee meeting.

    (b) "Fair  Market  Value"  shall mean the average of the high and low prices
per share of the Company's  common stock on the date of the Annual  Meeting,  as
reported by the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape.

2.2  TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS

    (a) Written  Documentation  -- Restricted Stock awards shall be evidenced by
such written  notice,  agreement or other  documentation  as the Committee deems
appropriate.

    (b)  Shares  held in Escrow -- The  Restricted  Stock  subject to such award
shall be  registered  in the name of the  Director  and  held in  escrow  by the
Committee until the restrictions on such shares lapse as described below.

    (c)  Restrictions -- Restricted Stock granted to a Director may not be sold,
assigned,  transferred,  pledged or otherwise disposed of, except by will or the
laws of descent and distribution, prior to the earliest of the following dates:

    (1) The fifth anniversary of the date of grant.

    (2) Retirement from the Board at age 72.

    (3) A "Change of Control"  of the  Company.  A "Change of Control"  shall be
    deemed to have occurred if:


        (i) a report on  Schedule  13D shall be filed  with the  Securities  and
    Exchange Commission




    pursuant to Section  13(d) of the  Securities  and Exchange Act of 1934 (the
    "Act")  disclosing  that any Person  (within the meaning of Section 13(d) of
    the Act),  other than the  Company  or a  subsidiary  of the  Company or any
    employee  benefit  plan  sponsored  by the  Company or a  subsidiary  of the
    Company is the Beneficial Owner of twenty percent or more of the outstanding
    stock of the Company  entitled to vote in the  election of  directors of the
    Company;

        (ii) any Person (within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Act),  other
    than the Company or a subsidiary of the Company or any employee benefit plan
    sponsored  by the  Company or a  subsidiary  of the Company  shall  purchase
    shares  pursuant to a tender offer or exchange offer to acquire any Stock of
    the Company (or securities  convertible into stock) for cash,  securities or
    any other consideration,  provided that after consummation of the offer, the
    Person in question is the Beneficial  Owner (as defined in Section 2.2(f) of
    this  Plan)  of  fifteen  percent  or more of the  outstanding  stock of the
    Company  entitled  to vote  in the  election  of  directors  of the  Company
    (calculated  as provided in paragraph (d) of Rule 13d-3 under the Act in the
    case of rights to acquire stock);

        (iii)  the   stockholders   of  the  Company   shall   approve  (A)  any
    consolidation  or merger  in which  the  Company  is not the  continuing  or
    surviving  corporation  or pursuant to which  shares of stock of the Company
    entitled  to vote in the  election  of  directors  of the  Company  would be
    converted into cash,  securities or other  property,  other than a merger of
    the Company in which holders of such stock of the Company  immediately prior
    to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of common stock entitled
    to  vote  in  the  election  of  directors  of  the  surviving   corporation
    immediately after the merger as immediately  before, or (B) any sale, lease,
    exchange  or other  transfer  (in one  transaction  or a series  of  related
    transactions) of all or substantially all the assets of the Company; or

        (iv) within any 12 month period,  the persons who were  directors of the
    Company  immediately  before the  beginning  of such period (the  "Incumbent
    Directors")  shall cease (for any reason other than death) to  constitute at
    least a majority of the Board or the board of directors of any  successor to
    the  Company,  provided  that any  director  who was not a  director  at the
    beginning of such period shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director if such
    director  (A) was  elected to the Board by, or on the  recommendation  of or
    with  the  approval  of,  at  least  two-thirds  of the  directors  who then
    qualified as Incumbent  Directors  either  actually or by prior operation of
    this clause  (iv),  and (B) was not  designated  by a Person who has entered
    into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction  described in the
    immediately preceding clause (iii).


       (4) Death of the Director.

       (5) Disability of the Director, as defined in The Hartford Investment and
    Savings Plan, as amended from time to time.

        (6) Resignation by the Director under cases of special circumstances and
    the  Committee,  in



    its sole discretion, consents to waive any remaining restrictions.


    (d) Dividends and Voting  Rights -- The Director  shall,  subject to Section
2.2(c),  possess all  incidents of ownership of the shares of  Restricted  Stock
including the right to receive dividends with respect to such shares and to vote
such shares.

    (e) The Company shall deliver to the Director,  or the  beneficiary  of such
Director,  if  applicable,  unrestricted  certificates  for all of the shares of
Stock that were  awarded to the  Director as  Restricted  Stock (a)  immediately
following any lapse of restrictions on such shares pursuant to Section 2.2(c)(3)
hereof,  or (b) within 30 days  following  any lapse of  restrictions  under the
remaining provisions of Section 2.2(c).

    (f)  Special  Definitions  for Change of  Control.  For  purposes of Section
2.2(c)(3), the following special definitions apply:

         (i)  "Beneficial  Owner" means any Person who,  directly or indirectly,
         has the  right  to vote or  dispose  of or has  "beneficial  ownership"
         (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Act) of any securities of a
         company,   including  any  such  right   pursuant  to  any   agreement,
         arrangement  or  understanding  (whether or not in  writing),  provided
         that:  (i) a Person  shall not be deemed  the  Beneficial  Owner of any
         security as a result of an agreement,  arrangement or  understanding to
         vote such security (A) arising solely from a revocable proxy or consent
         given in  response  to a  public  proxy or  consent  solicitation  made
         pursuant to, and in accordance  with, the Act and the applicable  rules
         and  regulations  thereunder,  or (B) made in  connection  with,  or to
         otherwise  participate in, a proxy or consent  solicitation made, or to
         be made, pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable provisions
         of the Act and the  applicable  rules and  regulations  thereunder,  in
         either case  described in clause (A) or (B) above,  whether or not such
         agreement, arrangement or understanding is also then reportable by such
         Person on Schedule  13D under the Act (or any  comparable  or successor
         report);  and (ii) a Person  engaged in business as an  underwriter  of
         securities  shall  not be  deemed  to be the  Beneficial  Owner  of any
         security acquired through such Person's  participation in good faith in
         a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of forty days after
         the date of such acquisition.

         (ii) "Person" has the meaning  ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9)
         of the Act, as supplemented by Section  13(d)(3) of the Act;  provided,
         however,  that Person shall not include (i) the Company, any subsidiary
         of the Company or any other Person controlled by the Company,  (ii) any
         trustee  or other  fiduciary  holding  securities  under  any  employee
         benefit plan of the Company or of any  subsidiary  of the  Company,  or
         (iii) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly,  by the stockholders
         of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership
         of securities of the Company.

    (g) In the  event  of a Change  of  Control,  no  amendment,  suspension  or
termination  of the



Plan thereafter  shall impair or reduce the rights of any person with respect to
any award made under the Plan.


                        ARTICLE III -- GENERAL PROVISIONS


    3.1  AUTHORITY

    Appropriate  officers  of  the  Company  designated  by  the  Committee  are
authorized to execute Restricted Stock agreements,  and amendments  thereto,  in
the name of the Company, as directed from time to time by the Committee.

    3.2  ADJUSTMENTS IN THE EVENT OF CHANGE IN COMMON STOCK OF THE COMPANY

    In the event of any reorganization, merger, recapitalization, consolidation,
liquidation,  stock  dividend,  stock split,  reclassification,  combination  of
shares,  rights  offering,  split-up,  or  extraordinary  dividend  (including a
spin-off)  or  divestiture,  or any other change in the  corporate  structure or
shares,  the number and kind of shares which thereafter may be granted under the
Plan and the number of shares of Restricted  Stock  awarded  pursuant to Section
2.1  with  respect  to  which  all  restrictions  have  not  lapsed,   shall  be
appropriately  adjusted  consistent with such change in such manner as the Board
in its  discretion  may  deem  equitable  to  prevent  substantial  dilution  or
enlargement of the rights granted to, or available for, Directors  participating
in the Plan. Any fractional  shares  resulting  from such  adjustments  shall be
eliminated.

3.3  RIGHTS OF DIRECTORS

    The Plan  shall not be deemed to create  any  obligation  on the part of the
Board to nominate any Director for reelection by the Company's  stockholders  or
to retain any Director at any particular rate of compensation. The Company shall
not be obligated  to issue Stock  pursuant to an award of  Restricted  Stock for
which the restrictions hereunder have lapsed if such issuance would constitute a
violation of any applicable  law. Except as provided  herein,  no Director shall
have any rights as a stockholder  with respect to any shares of Restricted Stock
awarded to such Director.

3.4  BENEFICIARY

    A  Director  may  file  with  the  Committee  a  written  designation  of  a
beneficiary  on such form as may be  prescribed  by the  Committee and may, from
time to time, amend or revoke such  designation.  In the event of the death of a
Director,  the Director's beneficiary shall have the right to receive the shares
of Restricted Stock awarded  pursuant to the Plan. If no designated  beneficiary
survives the Director,  the executor or administrator  of the Director's  estate
shall be deemed to be the Director's beneficiary.

3.5  LAWS AND REGULATIONS



    The  Committee  shall have the right to condition  any issuance of shares to
any Director hereunder on such Director's  undertaking in writing to comply with
such restrictions on the subsequent  disposition of such shares as the Committee
shall  deem  necessary  or  advisable  as a  result  of  any  applicable  law or
regulation. The Committee may postpone the delivery of stock following the lapse
of restrictions  with respect to awards of Restricted Stock for such time as the
Committee in its discretion may deem  necessary,  in order to permit the Company
with reasonable diligence (i) to effect or maintain registration of the Plan, or
the shares issuable upon the lapse of certain restrictions  respecting awards of
Restricted Stock, under the Securities Act of 1933 or the securities laws of any
applicable jurisdiction,  or (ii) to determine that such shares and the Plan are
exempt from such  registration;  the Company shall not be obligated by virtue of
any  Restricted  Stock  agreement or any  provision of the Plan to recognize the
lapse of certain  restrictions  respecting  awards of Restricted  Stock or issue
shares  in  violation  of  said  Act or of the  law  of  the  government  having
jurisdiction thereof.

3.6  AMENDMENT, SUSPENSION AND DISCONTINUANCE OF THE PLAN

    The Board may from time to time  amend,  suspend  or  discontinue  the Plan,
provided  that the Board may not,  without  the  approval  of the  holders  of a
majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote, take any action which would
cause  the Plan to no  longer  comply  with Rule  16b-3  under  the Act,  or any
successor rule or other regulatory requirement.

    No  amendment,  suspension  or  discontinuance  of the Plan  shall  impair a
Director's  right  under a  Restricted  Stock  award  previously  granted to the
Director without the Director's consent.

3.7  GOVERNING LAW

    This Plan and all  determinations  made and actions  taken  pursuant  hereto
shall be governed by the laws of the State of Connecticut.

3.8  EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION OF THE PLAN

    This Plan shall be  effective  upon the  Distribution  Date,  subject to the
approval of the Plan by the stockholders of the Company,  and shall terminate on
December 31, 2005 (as defined in the Proxy  Statement of ITT  Corporation  dated
August 30,  1995)  provided  that grants of  Restricted  Stock made prior to the
termination of the Plan may vest following such  termination in accordance  with
their terms.


                                                                   Exhibit 10.17

              THE HARTFORD 1996 DEFERRED RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT PLAN
              -----------------------------------------------------



                                    ARTICLE I
                              CREATION AND PURPOSE


1.1 CREATION OF THE PLAN. The Hartford 1996 Deferred  Restricted Stock Unit Plan
    --------------------
(the  "Plan") is created  pursuant to the terms of The Hartford  1995  Incentive
Stock Plan (the  "Incentive  Stock Plan")  relating to restricted  stock,  which
terms are incorporated herein by reference.  Capitalized terms used in this Plan
and not defined  herein  shall have the  meanings  assigned to such terms by the
Incentive Stock Plan.

1.2  PURPOSE  OF THE PLAN.  The  purpose of the Plan is to  motivate  and reward
     --------------------
superior  performance  on the part of  employees  of the  Company and thereby to
attract and retain  employees  of superior  ability.  In  addition,  the Plan is
intended to further the  opportunities  for stock ownership by such employees in
order to increase their  proprietary  interest in the Company,  and as a result,
their interest in the success of the Company.  Awards  consisting of contractual
rights to receive shares of the Company's  Stock ("Units") may be made under the
Plan, in the  discretion of the  Committee,  to Key Employees of the Company who
properly  elect to  participate  in the Plan.  Participation  in the Plan  shall
require a Key Employee's  irrevocable  election to receive Units in exchange for
all or a portion of  certain  Compensation  that may become  payable to such Key
Employee,  such Units entitling the Key Employee to receive Company Stock at the
end of a three year restriction  period or other restriction period permitted by
the Committee, to the extent provided herein.


                                   ARTICLE II
                                   DEFINITIONS


2.1 "ACCOUNT"  means an account  maintained  on behalf of a  Participant  on the
     -------
books of the Company in accordance with the terms hereof.

2.2 "AWARD DATE" means the date  designated  by the  Committee  for the award of
     ----------
Units pursuant to the Plan.

2.3 "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" means the Board of Directors of The Hartford  Financial
     ------------------     
Services Group, Inc.

2.4 "BENEFICIARY" shall have the meaning assigned by the Incentive Stock Plan.
     -----------

2.5 "CHANGE OF CONTROL" shall have the meaning  assigned by the Incentive  Stock
     -----------------
Plan.


2.6 "COMMITTEE"  means the Compensation and Personnel  Committee of the Board of
     ---------
Directors,  or such other Committee as the Board may designate to administer the
Plan pursuant to Article VIII.

2.7  "COMPANY"  means  The  Hartford  Financial  Services  Group,  Inc.  and its
      -------
subsidiaries, and their successors and assigns.

2.8 "COMPENSATION"  means compensation  payable to a Key Employee in the form of
     ------------
(i) cash,  including cash bonuses,  and (ii) Stock and other stock-based  awards
granted  pursuant  to any  plan  or  other  arrangement  of the  Company,  which
compensation  the  Committee  determines  from time to time as eligible  for the
election to receive Units under the Plan.

2.9  "DIVIDEND  AMOUNT"  means the per share cash  dividend  amount  paid on the
      ----------------
Company's Stock on a particular dividend payment date.

2.10 "DIVIDEND CONVERSION PRICE" means the Fair Market Value of one share of the
      -------------------------
Company's Stock on the date that a dividend is paid on such Stock.

2.11  "DIVIDEND  RECORD  DATE" means the date fixed by the Board of Directors as
       ----------------------
the date for  determining  those  holders of Stock who are  entitled  to receive
payment of any dividend declared by the Board of Directors.

2.12  "ELECTIVE  UNITS"  shall have the  meaning  assigned by Article III of the
       ---------------
Plan.

2.13 "FAIR MARKET VALUE" shall have the meaning  assigned by the Incentive Stock
      -----------------
Plan.

2.14  "INCENTIVE  STOCK PLAN" means The Hartford 1995  Incentive  Stock Plan, as
       ---------------------
amended from time to time.

2.15 "KEY EMPLOYEE" shall have the meaning assigned by the Incentive Stock Plan.
      ------------

2.16 "NORMAL  VESTING  DATE" means the third  anniversary  of the Award Date, or
      ---------------------
such other date that the  Committee  may permit with  respect to any  particular
award of Units.

2.17  "PARTICIPANT"  means a Key Employee who properly  elects to participate in
       -----------
the Plan pursuant to Article V of the Plan.

2.18  "PARTICIPATING  COMPANY" shall have the meaning  assigned by the Incentive
       ----------------------
Stock Plan.

2.19  "PLAN" means this The Hartford 1996 Deferred Restricted Stock Unit Plan.
       ----  

2.20 "PREMIUM UNITS" shall have the meaning assigned by Article IV of the Plan.
      -------------

2.21 "PLAN ADMINISTRATOR" shall have the meaning assigned by Article VIII of the
      ------------------
Plan.



2.22 "RETIREMENT" shall have the meaning assigned by the Incentive Stock Plan.
      ----------

2.23 "STOCK" shall have the meaning assigned by the Incentive Stock Plan.
      -----

2.24 "TOTAL  DISABILITY"  shall have the meaning assigned by the Incentive Stock
      -----------------
Plan.

2.25 "UNITS" shall have the meaning assigned by Article I of the Plan.
      -----



                                   ARTICLE III
                                 ELECTIVE UNITS


3.1 AWARD OF  ELECTIVE  UNITS.  On the Award  Date,  the  Committee  may, in its
    -------------------------
discretion,  award to each  Participant  a number  of  whole  and/or  fractional
contractual  rights  to  receive  in  accordance  with  the Plan  shares  of the
Company's Stock (the "Elective  Units") equal to (a) the portion of Compensation
elected by the Participant in accordance with Article V, divided by (b) the Fair
Market Value of the  Company's  Stock on the Award Date.  If all or a portion of
the  Compensation  is in the form of Company  Stock,  such Stock shall be valued
based on the Fair Market Value of the Company's  Stock on the Award Date. If the
Committee does not make an award to a Participant  pursuant to this Section, any
election made by the Participant pursuant to Article V shall be null and void.

3.2  CREDITING  OF  ELECTIVE  UNITS TO  ACCOUNT.  The  number  of  whole  and/or
     ------------------------------------------
fractional Elective Units awarded to a Participant  pursuant to this Article III
shall be credited, as of the Award Date, to the Participant's Account.

3.3 VESTING OF  ELECTIVE  UNITS.  The rights of a  Participant  with  respect to
    ---------------------------
Elective Units awarded hereunder shall be fully vested and nonforfeitable at all
times.  To the extent  provided in Article  VII,  the  Participant  shall become
entitled  to  receive  certificates  for shares of Stock  corresponding  to such
Elective Units  credited to the  Participant's  Account on the  applicable  date
identified in Article VII.



                                   ARTICLE IV
                                  PREMIUM UNITS


4.1 AWARD OF PREMIUM  UNITS.  Except as provided  below,  on the Award Date, the
    -----------------------
Committee  shall award to each  Participant a number of additional  whole and/or
fractional  contractual  rights to receive in accordance with the Plan shares of
the  Company's  Stock (the "Premium  Units") equal to 10% of the Elective  Units
awarded  to  the  Participant  pursuant  to  Article  III.  Notwithstanding  the
foregoing,  the Committee may decide that no Premium Units shall be awarded with
respect to any  particular  award of  Elective  Units,  in which case all of the
provisions  of the Plan  relating  to Premium  Units  shall be null and void and
without effect with respect to such Elective Units.

4.2 CREDITING OF PREMIUM UNITS TO ACCOUNT. The number of whole and/or fractional
    -------------------------------------
Premium  Units  awarded to a  Participant  pursuant to this  Article IV shall be
credited, as of the Award Date, to the Participant's Account.

4.3  VESTING  OF  PREMIUM  UNITS.   Except  as  otherwise   provided  herein,  a
     ---------------------------
Participant's  rights  with  respect to Premium  Units  shall vest on the Normal
Vesting  Date.  To the extent  provided in Article  VII, the  Participant  shall
become entitled to receive  certificates  for shares of Stock  corresponding  to
vested  Premium Units  credited to the  Participant's  Account on the applicable
date identified in Article VII.

         A.  TERMINATION  OF  EMPLOYMENT.   In  the  event  of  a  Participant's
             ---------------------------
         termination of employment with all Participating Companies prior to the
         Normal Vesting Date due to (i) death, (ii) Total  Disability,  or (iii)
         Retirement,  the Premium Units credited to the Participant's Account as
         of the date of such  termination  shall become  immediately  vested and
         nonforfeitable.   In  the  event  of  a  Participant's  termination  of
         employment with all Participating  Companies for any other reason,  any
         Premium  Units  credited  to the  Participant's  Account  that have not
         become  vested  on or  before  the  date of such  termination  shall be
         forfeited,  unless  the  Committee  determines  otherwise  in its  sole
         discretion in accordance with the Incentive  Stock Plan.  Premium Units
         forfeited by a Participant  pursuant to this Section shall  immediately
         be deducted from the Participant's Account.


                                    ARTICLE V
                                  PARTICIPATION


5.1  ELECTION TO  PARTICIPATE.  A Key Employee  may  participate  in the Plan by
     ------------------------
filing a properly completed election  agreement,  or such other authorization as
the Plan Administrator may require, with the party and by the date designated by
the Plan  Administrator.  The  election of a Key Employee  hereunder  shall only
apply to the  Compensation  as to which  the  election  is  made,  and  shall be
irrevocable,   unless  otherwise   determined  by  the  Committee  in  its  sole
discretion.  



The  election  of a Key  Employee  shall  be  deemed  null  and void if no award
pursuant to Article III hereof is made to the Key Employee  with respect to such
election.

5.2 ELECTION FORM. The election agreement completed by a Participant pursuant to
    -------------
this  Article V shall (a) identify a portion of the  Participant's  Compensation
that may become payable with respect to the Participant's  services, (b) contain
the Participant's election to receive such portion (which would otherwise become
payable in cash, Stock or otherwise) in the form of Elective Units in accordance
with the Plan, and (c) contain such other information as the Plan  Administrator
may require.

5.3 MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM AMOUNTS  REQUIRED FOR  PARTICIPATION.  The Committee may
    --------------------------------------------------------
designate a maximum and a minimum portion of a Key Employee's  Compensation,  in
terms of a  percentage  or other  amount,  as to which an  election  may be made
hereunder.


                                   ARTICLE VI
                              DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS


6.1 DIVIDEND  EQUIVALENTS ON ELECTIVE  UNITS.  As soon as practicable  after any
    ----------------------------------------
dividend  is paid on the  Company's  Stock,  a  Participant's  Account  shall be
credited  with  additional  Elective  Units  equal to (a) the product of (i) the
Dividend  Amount,  and (ii) the number of whole and  fractional  Elective  Units
credited to the Participant's Account as of the Dividend Record Date, divided by
(b) the Dividend Conversion Price.

6.2 DIVIDEND  EQUIVALENTS  ON PREMIUM UNITS.  As soon as  practicable  after any
    ---------------------------------------
dividend is paid on the  Company's  Stock,  the  Participant's  Account shall be
credited  with  additional  Premium  Units  equal to (a) the  product of (i) the
Dividend  Amount,  and (ii) the  number of whole and  fractional  Premium  Units
credited to the Participant's Account as of the Dividend Record Date, divided by
(b) the Dividend Conversion Price.

6.3  TREATMENT  OF UNITS  CREDITED  IN  RESPECT  OF  DIVIDEND  EQUIVALENTS.  Any
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
additional  Units  credited  to the  Account of a  Participant  pursuant to this
Article VI shall,  as of the date so  credited,  be treated for all  purposes of
this Plan (including,  without  limitation,  the provisions hereof pertaining to
the crediting of future  dividend  equivalents and the vesting of Premium Units)
as though part of the Elective Units and Premium Units in relation to which such
additional Units were credited, respectively.



6.4  NON-CASH  DIVIDENDS.  In the  event  that a stock  dividend  is paid on the
     -------------------
Company's Stock, the appropriate Dividend Amount for purposes of this Article VI
shall be determined in accordance with Section 9.3 hereof.


                                   ARTICLE VII
                      RECEIPT OF SHARES IN RESPECT OF UNITS


7.1 GENERAL RULE.  Except as otherwise  provided herein,  as soon as practicable
    ------------
after the  earlier to occur of (a) the Normal  Vesting  Date,  or (b) the date a
Participant's  employment  with  all  Participating  Companies  terminates,  the
Company  shall  issue  to such  Participant  certificates  for  shares  of Stock
corresponding  to the number of whole  Elective  Units and whole vested  Premium
Units credited to the Participant's Account as of the earlier of such dates.

7.2 FRACTIONAL UNITS.  Notwithstanding  anything herein to the contrary,  if any
    ----------------
vested  fractional  Units are credited to a Participant's  Account (after adding
together all  fractional  Elective and vested Premium Units then credited to the
Participant's  Account) on the earlier of the dates  identified  in Section 7.1,
such  fractional  Units shall be paid to the  Participant in cash,  based on the
Fair Market Value of the Company's Stock on such date.

7.3  VOLUNTARY  DEFERRAL.  Upon such terms and  conditions  as the Committee may
     -------------------
determine,  a Participant  may be permitted to elect,  by written  notice to the
Plan Administrator  filed by the date and on such form or other authorization as
the  Plan  Administrator  may  require,  to  defer  the  issuance  hereunder  of
certificates for shares of Stock pursuant to the Plan, or such other arrangement
maintained  by the  Company,  if any,  in which the  Participant  is eligible to
participate  as of such date.  Such election  shall have the effect of deferring
such issuance  until the date permitted by the Plan  Administrator,  and/or such
other effect as permitted by the Committee.

7.4 CHANGE OF CONTROL. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, upon the
    -----------------
occurrence  of a Change of  Control,  any  Premium  Units then  credited to each
Participant's   Account  shall  immediately   become  fully  vested,   and  each
Participant shall be paid immediately  following such Change of Control,  a lump
sum cash  amount  equal to the  number of whole and  fractional  Elective  Units
credited to the Participant's  Account plus the  Participant's  vested whole and
fractional  Premium Units,  multiplied by the "Formula  Price",  as such term is
defined in the Incentive Stock Plan.



                                  ARTICLE VIII
                                 ADMINISTRATION


8.1 ADMINISTRATION BY COMMITTEE.  Except as otherwise delegated by the Committee
    ---------------------------
pursuant  to this Plan or the  Incentive  Stock  Plan,  (a) this  Plan  shall be
administered  by the Committee,  (b) the Committee  shall have full authority to
administer  and interpret  this Plan in any manner it deems  appropriate  in its
sole discretion, and (c) the determinations of the Committee shall be binding on
and conclusive as to all parties.

8.2 DELEGATION OF CERTAIN AUTHORITY TO PLAN  ADMINISTRATOR.  Except as otherwise
    ------------------------------------------------------
provided by the  Committee in accordance  with this Plan or the Incentive  Stock
Plan, the Plan Administrator shall be the Company's Senior Vice President, Human
Resources.  Except as  otherwise  provided in this Plan or the  Incentive  Stock
Plan,  required by applicable law, or determined by the Committee,  (a) the Plan
Administrator  shall be responsible for the  performance of such  administrative
duties under this Plan that are not otherwise  reserved to the Committee by this
Plan or the Incentive  Stock Plan,  (b) the Plan  Administrator  shall have full
authority  to  administer  and  interpret  this  Plan  in any  manner  it  deems
appropriate  in its  sole  discretion,  and (c) the  determinations  of the Plan
Administrator shall be binding and conclusive as to all parties.

8.3  APPLICABILITY  OF INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN. In the event of a conflict  between
     --------------------------------------
the terms of this Plan and the terms of the Incentive  Stock Plan,  the terms of
the Incentive Stock Plan shall control.


                                   ARTICLE IX
                                  MISCELLANEOUS


9.1  WITHHOLDING.  The Plan  Administrator  shall  have the  right to make  such
     -----------
provisions as it deems  appropriate  to satisfy any obligation of the Company to
withhold federal, state or local income or other taxes incurred by reason of the
operation  of the Plan,  including  but not  limited to at any time  requiring a
Participant to submit payment to the Company for such taxes, or withholding such
taxes from a Participant's wages (or other amounts) due to the Participant.

9.2 NO EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS. The Plan shall not, directly or indirectly,  create in
    --------------------
any Participant any right with respect to continuation of employment with any of
the  Participating  Companies or to the receipt of any bonus. The Plan shall not
interfere in any way with the rights of the applicable  Participating Company to
terminate,  or otherwise modify,  the employment of any Participant or its bonus
policies at any time.



9.3 CAPITAL  ADJUSTMENTS FOR CORPORATE  TRANSACTIONS.  Upon the occurrence of an
    ------------------------------------------------
event  described in Section 13 of the  Incentive  Stock Plan,  the Committee may
adjust  the  number  of  Units  credited  to the  Account  of a  Participant  in
accordance with the terms of that Section.

9.4 DELIVERY OF SHARES OF STOCK IN THE EVENT OF DEATH. In the event of the death
    -------------------------------------------------
of a Participant,  certificates for shares of Stock and/or cash corresponding to
the Elective  Units and vested Premium Units then credited to the Account of the
Participant  shall  be  transferred  (in  the  same  form  as  would  have  been
transferred to the  Participant  pursuant to Article VII) as soon as practicable
thereafter to such Beneficiary or  Beneficiaries  as properly  designated by the
Participant  in accordance  with Section 10 of the  Incentive  Stock Plan. If no
such designation is in effect at the time of the  Participant's  death, or if no
designated   Beneficiary   survives  the   Participant  or  if  any  Beneficiary
designation  conflicts with applicable law, such certificates  and/or cash shall
be  transferred  to the  Participant's  estate as  provided in Section 10 of the
Incentive Stock Plan.

9.5 RIGHTS NOT  TRANSFERABLE.  The rights of a Participant  under the Plan shall
    ------------------------
not be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed
of, other than (a) by will, (b) by the laws of descent or  distribution,  or (c)
pursuant  to a qualified  domestic  relations  order as defined in the  Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,  provided that the rights of any transferee of
a Participant shall not be greater than the rights of the Participant hereunder.
The foregoing  restriction  shall be in addition to any restrictions  imposed by
applicable law on a Participant's  ability to dispose of Units awarded under the
Plan.

9.6  EFFECT  OF PLAN.  The  provisions  of the Plan  shall be  binding  upon all
     ---------------
successors  and  assigns of a  Participant,  including  without  limitation  the
Participant's  estate and the  executors,  administrators  or trustees  thereof,
heirs and legatees, and any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or representative of
creditors of the Participant.

9.7 USE OF FUNDS  AND  ASSETS.  All  funds and  assets  received  or held by the
    -------------------------
Company  pursuant to or in  connection  with the Plan may be used by the Company
for any corporate  purpose,  and the Company shall not be obligated to segregate
such amounts from its general assets. The Company may establish a trust or other
entity to aid in meeting its obligations under the Plan.

9.8 SOURCE OF SHARES FOR THE PLAN. Except as otherwise provided in the Incentive
    -----------------------------
Stock Plan, shares of Company Stock to be issued hereunder may be made available
from  authorized but unissued  stock,  shares held by the Company in treasury or
shares purchased on the open market.

9.9  AMENDMENT AND  TERMINATION  OF THE PLAN.  Subject to the  provisions of the
     ---------------------------------------
Incentive Stock Plan, the Board of Directors may amend or terminate this Plan at
any time;  provided  that, in the event of a Change of Control,  no amendment or
termination  thereafter  shall  impair or reduce the  rights of any person  with
respect to any award made under the Plan.  Amendments to the Plan may be made by
the Plan  Administrator  to the extent (a)  required by  applicable  law, or (b)
required to maintain a favorable tax status for the Plan.



9.10  GOVERNING  LAW.  The laws of the State of  Connecticut  shall  govern  all
      --------------
matters  relating to the Plan,  except to the extent such laws are superseded by
the laws of the United States.

9.11  SEVERABILITY  OF  PROVISIONS.  If any  provision of the Plan shall be held
      ----------------------------
invalid or unenforceable,  such invalidity or unenforceability  shall not affect
any other provisions  hereof, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if
such invalid or unenforceable provisions had not been included herein.


                                                                   Exhibit 10.18

                  THE HARTFORD 1996 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN


                                    ARTICLE I
                                     PURPOSE

1.1 PURPOSE.  The purpose of the Plan is to provide,  in the  discretion  of the
Committee,  an  opportunity  for certain Key  Employees  to defer the receipt of
certain  Eligible  Compensation  to the  extent  provided  herein.  The  Plan is
intended  to  constitute  an  unfunded  and  unsecured   deferred   compensation
arrangement for a select group of management or highly compensated employees for
purposes of ERISA. The Plan restates the terms of certain unfunded and unsecured
deferred  compensation  arrangements  established  for  such  employees  by  ITT
Corporation  and The Hartford in 1994 and 1995, and continued by The Hartford to
the extent provided hereunder. Capitalized terms used in the Plan shall have the
meanings provided herein.


                                   ARTICLE II
                                   DEFINITIONS

2.1 "ACCOUNT" means the account  maintained on behalf of a Participant  pursuant
     -------
to the Plan.

2.2 "ACT" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
     ---

2.3  "BENEFICIAL  OWNER" means any Person who,  directly or indirectly,  has the
      -----------------
right to vote or dispose of or has "beneficial ownership" (within the meaning of
Rule 13d-3 under the Act) of any  securities  of a company,  including  any such
right pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in
writing),  provided that: (A) a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial  Owner
of any security as a result of an agreement,  arrangement  or  understanding  to
vote such security (i) arising solely from a revocable proxy or consent given in
response to a public  proxy or consent  solicitation  made  pursuant  to, and in
accordance with, the Act and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder, or
(ii) made in connection with, or to otherwise participate in, a proxy or consent
solicitation  made,  or to be made,  pursuant to, and in  accordance  with,  the
applicable  provisions  of the Act  and the  applicable  rules  and  regulations
thereunder, in either case described in clause (i) or (ii) above, whether or not
such  agreement,  arrangement or  understanding  is also then reportable by such
Person on Schedule 13D under the Act (or any  comparable  or successor  report);
and (B) a Person engaged in business as an  underwriter of securities  shall not
be deemed to be the  Beneficial  Owner of any  security  acquired  through  such
Person's participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the
expiration of forty days after the date of such acquisition.

2.4 "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" means the Board of Directors of The Hartford  Financial
     ------------------
Services Group, Inc.


2.5  "CHANGE OF CONTROL" means:
      -----------------

         (A) With respect to Hartford Fire Participants:

                  (1)  a  report  on  Schedule  13D  shall  be  filed  with  the
                  Securities and Exchange  Commission  pursuant to Section 13(d)
                  of the Act  disclosing  that any Person (within the meaning of
                  Section  13(d)  of the  Act),  other  than The  Hartford  or a
                  subsidiary  of The  Hartford  or  any  employee  benefit  plan
                  sponsored by The Hartford or a subsidiary of The Hartford,  is
                  the Beneficial  Owner directly or indirectly of twenty percent
                  or more of the outstanding  stock of the The Hartford entitled
                  to vote in the election of directors of The Hartford;

                  (2) any Person  (within  the  meaning of Section  13(d) of the
                  Act),  other than The Hartford or a subsidiary of The Hartford
                  or any employee  benefit  plan  sponsored by The Hartford or a
                  subsidiary of The Hartford,  shall purchase shares pursuant to
                  a tender  offer or exchange  offer to acquire any stock of The
                  Hartford  (or  securities  convertible  into  stock) for cash,
                  securities  or any other  consideration,  provided  that after
                  consummation  of the  offer,  the  Person in  question  is the
                  Beneficial Owner of fifteen percent or more of the outstanding
                  stock of The  Hartford  entitled  to vote in the  election  of
                  directors of The Hartford (calculated as provided in paragraph
                  (d) of Rule  13d-3  under  the Act in the  case of  rights  to
                  acquire stock);

                  (3) the  stockholders  of The Hartford  shall  approve (a) any
                  consolidation  or  merger  in which  The  Hartford  is not the
                  continuing  or  surviving  corporation  or  pursuant  to which
                  shares  of  stock  of The  Hartford  entitled  to  vote in the
                  election of directors of the Hartford  would be converted into
                  cash, securities or other property, other than a merger of The
                  Hartford  in  which  holders  of such  stock  of The  Hartford
                  immediately  prior to the merger  have the same  proportionate
                  ownership  of  stock  entitled  to  vote  in the  election  of
                  directors of the surviving  corporation  immediately after the
                  merger as immediately before, or (b) any sale, lease, exchange
                  or other  transfer (in one  transaction or a series of related
                  transactions)  of all or  substantially  all the assets of The
                  Hartford; or

                  (4) within any 12 month period, the persons who were directors
                  of The  Hartford  immediately  before  the  beginning  of such
                  period (the "Incumbent Directors of The Hartford") shall cease
                  (for any reason  other than  death) to  constitute  at least a
                  majority  of the board of  directors  of The  Hartford  or the
                  board of directors of any successor to The Hartford,  provided
                  that any  director of The  Hartford  who was not a director of
                  The  Hartford at the  beginning of such period shall be deemed
                  to be an Incumbent  Director of The Hartford if such  director
                  (a) was elected to the board of  directors of The Hartford by,
                  or on the  recommendation of or with the approval of, at least
                  two-thirds of the directors of The Hartford who then qualified
                  as Incumbent  Directors of The Hartford  either actually or by
                  prior operation of 




                  this clause (4),  and (b) was not  designated  by a Person who
                  has entered  into an  agreement  with The Hartford to effect a
                  transaction  described in the immediately preceding clause (3)
                  hereof.

         (B) With respect to Hartford Life Participants:

                  (1)  a  report  on  Schedule  13D  shall  be  filed  with  the
                  Securities and Exchange  Commission  pursuant to Section 13(d)
                  of the Act  disclosing  that any Person (within the meaning of
                  Section 13(d) of the Act),  other than Hartford Life,  Inc. or
                  The Hartford or a subsidiary of either of the foregoing or any
                  employee  benefit plan sponsored by Hartford Life, Inc. or The
                  Hartford or a subsidiary  of either of the  foregoing,  is the
                  Beneficial  Owner of the greater of (a) the  percentage of the
                  outstanding  stock of Hartford Life, Inc.  entitled to vote in
                  the election of directors of Hartford Life, Inc. owned at such
                  time by The  Hartford,  or (b)  twenty  percent or more of the
                  outstanding  stock of Hartford Life, Inc.  entitled to vote in
                  the election of directors of Hartford Life, Inc.

                  (2) any Person  (within  the  meaning of Section  13(d) of the
                  Act),  other than  Hartford  Life,  Inc. or The  Hartford or a
                  subsidiary of either of the foregoing or any employee  benefit
                  plan  sponsored  by Hartford  Life,  Inc. or The Hartford or a
                  subsidiary of either of the foregoing,  shall purchase  shares
                  pursuant to a tender  offer or  exchange  offer to acquire any
                  stock of Hartford Life, Inc.  entitled to vote in the election
                  of directors of Hartford Life, Inc. (or securities convertible
                  into stock) for cash,  securities or any other  consideration,
                  provided that after  consummation of the offer,  the Person in
                  question  is the  Beneficial  Owner of the  greater of (a) the
                  percentage of the outstanding stock of the Hartford Life, Inc.
                  entitled  to vote in the  election  of  directors  of Hartford
                  Life, Inc. owned at such time by The Hartford,  or (b) fifteen
                  percent or more of the  outstanding  stock of  Hartford  Life,
                  Inc. entitled to vote in the election of directors of Hartford
                  Life,  Inc.  (calculated  as provided in paragraph (d) of Rule
                  13d-3 under the Act in the case of rights to acquire stock);

                  (3) the  stockholders of Hartford Life, Inc. shall approve (a)
                  any  consolidation  or merger of Hartford Life,  Inc. in which
                  Hartford  Life,  Inc.  is  not  the  continuing  or  surviving
                  corporation  or pursuant to which  shares of stock of Hartford
                  Life,  Inc.  entitled to vote in the  election of directors of
                  Hartford Life,  Inc. would be converted into cash,  securities
                  or other property,  other than a merger of Hartford Life, Inc.
                  in  which  holders  of  such  stock  of  Hartford  Life,  Inc.
                  immediately  prior to the merger  have the same  proportionate
                  ownership  of  stock  entitled  to  vote  in the  election  of
                  directors of the surviving  corporation  immediately after the
                  merger as immediately before, or (b) any sale, lease, exchange
                  or other  transfer (in one  transaction or a series of related
                  transactions)  of all or  substantially  all the assets of the
                  Hartford Life, Inc.;



                  (4) within any 12 month period, the persons who were directors
                  of Hartford  Life,  Inc.  immediately  before the beginning of
                  such period (the "Incumbent Directors of Hartford Life") shall
                  cease (for any reason other than death) to constitute at least
                  a majority of the board of directors of Hartford Life, Inc. or
                  the board of  directors  of any  successor  to Hartford  Life,
                  Inc.,  provided that any director of Hartford  Life,  Inc. who
                  was not a director of Hartford Life,  Inc. at the beginning of
                  such  period  shall be deemed to be an  Incumbent  Director of
                  Hartford  Life,  Inc. if such  director (a) was elected to the
                  board of  directors  of  Hartford  Life,  Inc.  by,  or on the
                  recommendation of or with the approval of, at least two-thirds
                  of the directors of Hartford Life,  Inc. who then qualified as
                  Incumbent  Directors of Hartford Life, Inc. either actually or
                  by  prior  operation  of  this  clause  (4),  and  (b) was not
                  designated by a Person who has entered into an agreement  with
                  Hartford Life,  Inc. to effect a transaction  described in the
                  immediately preceding clause (3) hereof; or

                  (5) a Change of Control as  defined in the  preceding  Section
                  2.5(A)  occurs with respect to The Hartford at a time when The
                  Hartford  directly  or  indirectly  owns  more than 50% of the
                  combined  voting  power and the value of the capital  stock of
                  Hartford Life, Inc;

         provided  that  a  sale  of all of  the  interest  of The  Hartford  in
         --------------
         Hartford  Life,  Inc.  shall not be considered a Change of Control with
         respect to a Hartford Life Participant for purposes of this Plan.

2.6 "COMMITTEE"  means the Compensation and Personnel  Committee of the Board of
     ---------
Directors,  or such other Committee as the Board may designate to administer the
Plan pursuant to Article VII.


2.7 "ELIGIBLE  COMPENSATION" means the amount of compensation of a Key Employee,
     ----------------------
if any,  designated  by the  Committee  in its sole  discretion  as eligible for
deferral  under the Plan,  which may include (A) the cash amount,  if any, which
may become  payable to a Key  Employee  pursuant  to a  Participating  Company's
executive bonus program,  (B) the cash amount,  if any, which may become payable
to a Key Employee  pursuant to a  Participating  Company's life sales  incentive
payment  program,  and (C) the  amount of any such other  compensation  of a Key
Employee of a  Participating  Company as the Committee may deem  appropriate for
deferral in accordance with the Plan.

2.8 "ERISA"  means the  Employee  Retirement  Income  Security  Act of 1974,  as
     -----
amended from time to time.

2.9 "HARTFORD FIRE" means Hartford Fire Insurance Company, which is a subsidiary
     -------------
of The Hartford, or a successor by merger, purchase or otherwise.

2.10 "HARTFORD FIRE  PARTICIPANT"  means any  Participant  who is not a Hartford
      --------------------------
Life Participant.


2.11  "HARTFORD  LIFE AND ACCIDENT  INSURANCE  COMPANY"  means Hartford Life and
       -----------------------------------------------
Accident Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hartford Life, Inc., or
a successor by merger, purchase or otherwise.

2.12 "HARTFORD LIFE,  Inc." means Hartford Life,  Inc., which is a Participating
      -------------
Company  for  purposes  of this Plan,  or a  successor  by merger,  purchase  or
otherwise.

2.13 "HARTFORD LIFE PARTICIPANT" means a Participant who is principally employed
      -------------------------
by Hartford Life and Accident Insurance Company,  or whose rights under the Plan
are derived from such a Participant.

2.14 "INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN" means The Hartford 1995 Incentive Stock Plan, as may
      --------------------
be amended from time to time, and any successor Plan thereto.

2.15  "INVESTMENT  AND SAVINGS PLAN" means The Hartford  Investment  and Savings
       ----------------------------
Plan, as may be amended from time to time, and any successor Plan thereto.

2.16 "KEY EMPLOYEE" shall have the meaning assigned by the Incentive Stock Plan.
      ------------

2.17  "PARTICIPANT"  means a Key Employee who properly  elects to participate in
       -----------
the Plan pursuant to Article III.

2.18  "PARTICIPATING  COMPANY" shall have the meaning  assigned by the Incentive
       ----------------------
Stock Plan.

2.19  "PERSON" has the meaning  ascribed to such term in Section  3(a)(9) of the
       ------
Act, as supplemented by Section  13(d)(3) of the Act;  provided,  however,  that
Person shall not include (A) The Hartford,  Hartford Life,  Inc., any subsidiary
of  either of the  foregoing  or any other  Person  controlled  by either of the
foregoing,  (B) any  trustee or other  fiduciary  holding  securities  under any
employee  benefit  plan  of  The  Hartford  or  Hartford  Life,  Inc.  or of any
subsidiary of either of the foregoing,  or (C) a corporation owned,  directly or
indirectly,  by the  stockholders  of The  Hartford  or Hartford  Life,  Inc. in
substantially  the same proportions as their respective  ownership of securities
of The Hartford or Hartford Life, Inc.

2.20 "PHANTOM FUND" means a mutual fund or other  investment  vehicle or measure
      ------------
or index of  investment  performance  selected by the Committee to determine the
hypothetical  investment  experience of Participant Accounts pursuant to Article
IV.

2.21 "PLAN" means this plan- The Hartford  1996 Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as
      ----
may be amended from time to time.

2.22 "PLAN  ADMINISTRATOR" shall have the meaning assigned by Article VII of the
      -------------------
Plan.


2.23 "THE HARTFORD"  means The Hartford  Financial  Services  Group,  Inc., or a
      ------------
successor by merger, purchase or otherwise.

2.24 "VALUATION DATE" means the last business day of each calendar quarter in an
      --------------
applicable  calendar  year,  or such other date as may be designated by the Plan
Administrator.


                                   ARTICLE III
                                  PARTICIPATION

3.1  ELECTION TO  PARTICIPATE.  A Key  Employee of a  Participating  Company may
     ------------------------
participate  in the Plan by filing a properly  completed  election form (or such
other authorization as the Plan Administrator may require) with the party and by
the date designated by the Plan Administrator. The election of a Key Employee in
accordance  with this Article III shall apply only to the Eligible  Compensation
as to which the  election  is made,  and shall  have the  effect,  to the extent
provided herein, of deferring the payment of such Eligible  Compensation  beyond
the date that it might  otherwise have become payable to the  Participant.  Such
election  shall  be  irrevocable,  except  to  the  extent  provided  herein  or
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.

3.2 FORM OF ELECTION.  The election form filed by a Participant pursuant to this
    ----------------
Article  III  shall  (A)  identify  a  portion  of  the  Participant's  Eligible
Compensation that may become payable with respect to the Participant's services,
(B) contain the  Participant's  election to defer the payment of such portion of
such  Eligible  Compensation  that  is  determinable  for  tax  purposes  in the
following  calendar  year in  accordance  with the  terms of the  Plan,  and (C)
contain such other information as the Plan Administrator may require.

3.3 MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM AMOUNTS REQUIRED FOR PARTICIPATION. The Committee or the
    ------------------------------------------------------
Plan  Administrator  may  designate  a maximum  and a minimum  portion  of a Key
Employee's  Eligible  Compensation,  in terms of a  percentage  or other  amount
thereof, as to which an election may be made hereunder.

3.4 NULLIFICATION OF ELECTION.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary,
    -------------------------
any election made by a Key Employee  hereunder  shall be deemed null and void to
the extent that (A) the Eligible  Compensation as to which the election  applies
is designated by the Committee,  in its sole discretion,  as not payable to such
Key Employee,  (B) such election applies to Eligible Compensation payable during
the 12 month  period  during  which the Key Employee  ceases  savings  under the
Investment and Savings Plan as a result of receiving a hardship withdrawal under
that Plan, or (C) the Committee so determines in its sole discretion.

3.5  ESTABLISHMENT  OF PARTICIPANT  ACCOUNTS.  An account shall be maintained on
     ---------------------------------------
behalf  of each  Participant  on the  books of The  Hartford.  Amounts  shall be
credited to or debited  from a  Participant's  Account as provided in Article V.
The Plan Administrator  shall cause each  Participant's  Account to be valued on
the applicable  Valuation Date, and shall cause records indicating such value to
be  maintained.  When an  event  requires  a  determination  of the  value  of a
Participant's  Account,  such value shall be determined as of the Valuation Date
coincident  with


or next succeeding the date of such event. The value of a Participant's  Account
shall be reported to the Participant from time to time as determined appropriate
by the Plan Administrator.

3.6  OBTAINING  OF LIFE  INSURANCE  POLICIES.  As a condition  of  participation
     ---------------------------------------
hereunder,  the Committee may require that a Participant  provide  assistance in
obtaining a life insurance policy on the life of such  Participant,  such policy
to be solely owned by, and solely payable to, The Hartford (or such other entity
as may be designated by the Committee).  Such Participant may be required to (A)
complete an application for life insurance, (B) furnish underwriting information
(including but not limited to submitting to medical examinations by an insurance
company  approved  examiner),  (C)  authorize  the release of the  Participant's
medical history to an insurance company underwriter,  and (D) provide such other
information and take such other actions  relating to such life insurance  policy
as may be required by the Plan  Administrator.  A Participant  as to whom a life
insurance  policy is  obtained  hereunder  shall have no right to or interest in
such policy or the proceeds  thereof.  

3.7 TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION. The participation of a Participant in the Plan
    ----------------------------
shall terminate on the earlier of (A) the date that all amounts  credited to the
Participant's  Account have been distributed  pursuant to the Plan, (B) the date
of  termination  of the Plan, or (C) such other date as may be designated by the
Committee.


                                   ARTICLE IV
                       PHANTOM FUND INVESTMENT ALLOCATIONS

4.1 SELECTION OF PHANTOM FUNDS.  The Committee  shall select one or more Phantom
    --------------------------
Funds to which a Participant may elect pursuant to the Plan to allocate all or a
portion of the amount then and thereafter credited to the Participant's Account.
To the extent provided  herein,  such Phantom Funds shall be used to measure the
hypothetical  investment  experience of the portion of a  Participant's  Account
that the Participant  properly elects to have allocated  thereto.  The Committee
may  change  the  selection  of  Phantom  Funds  from  time to time in its  sole
discretion.  The  selection  of any such  Phantom  Funds  shall not  require the
Company to invest or earmark any of its assets in any specific manner.

4.2  INVESTMENT  ALLOCATION  ELECTION.  To the  extent  permitted  by  the  Plan
     --------------------------------
Administrator,  a Participant  may elect to have the amount then and  thereafter
credited to his or her Account allocated among one or more of the Phantom Funds.
Such  election  shall be made by filing a properly  completed  election form (or
such other  authorization as the Plan  Administrator may require) with the party
and by the date designated by the Plan Administrator. Such election shall result
in the  investment  experience of an elected  Phantom Fund being used to measure
the  hypothetical  investment  experience  of  the  particular  portion  of  the
Participant's Account allocated to that Phantom Fund as provided herein.

4.3  CHANGES  IN  INVESTMENT  ALLOCATION.  To the extent  permitted  by the Plan
     -----------------------------------
Administrator,  a Participant  may change the investment  allocation  previously
elected by filing a properly completed change form (or such other  authorization
as the Plan Administrator may require) with the party and by the date designated
by the Plan Administrator. Such change shall be effective as


soon as practicable  after the Valuation Date coincident with or next succeeding
receipt of the timely filed change form by the  designated  party (or such other
date as may be  designated  by the Plan  Administrator),  and shall apply to all
amounts then and thereafter credited to the Participant's Account.

4.4 FAILURE TO MAKE PROPER  ELECTION.  In the event that a Participant  does not
    --------------------------------
make a proper election  pursuant to this Article IV, such  Participant  shall be
deemed to have elected to have the entire amount (as to which no proper election
is made) then and thereafter credited to the Participant's  Account allocated to
the Phantom Fund that the Plan  Administrator  determines  generally to have the
least risk of loss of principal.

4.5  LIMITATIONS  ON  INVESTMENT  ALLOCATION.  The  Plan  Administrator  may (A)
     ---------------------------------------
establish a minimum  and/or a maximum  portion of a  Participant's  Account,  in
terms of a percentage or other amount  thereof,  that a Participant may elect to
allocate to a particular  Phantom Fund  hereunder,  (B) preclude any Participant
who is an executive officer of the Company from allocating any portion of his or
her Account to a Phantom Fund with an investment experience determined primarily
in relation to the investment  performance of securities  issued by the Company,
and (C) establish such other  limitations on investment  allocations as the Plan
Administrator may deem appropriate.

4.6 NO ACTUAL INVESTMENT.  Notwithstanding  anything herein to the contrary,  no
    --------------------
amount of Eligible  Compensation as to which an election is made hereunder,  and
no amount credited to a Participant's Account pursuant to the Plan, shall be set
aside or  invested in any actual  fund on behalf of the  Participant,  provided,
however,  that  nothing in the Plan shall be  construed  to preclude the Company
from directly or indirectly making investments for its own account in any actual
investment vehicle corresponding to the Phantom Funds (or otherwise) in order to
assist the Company in meeting its obligations hereunder, or for any other reason
whatsoever. No Participant or any other person or entity shall have by reason of
the Plan any right to or in any such investment made by the Company.

                                    ARTICLE V
                 CREDITING AND DEBITING OF PARTICIPANT ACCOUNTS

5.1 CREDITING OF ELIGIBLE  COMPENSATION.  Eligible  Compensation as to which the
    -----------------------------------
Participant  makes an election in accordance  with the Plan shall be credited to
the Participant's Account as of the last day of the month in which such Eligible
Compensation would otherwise have been paid to the Participant.


5.2 CREDITING AND/OR DEBITING OF PHANTOM FUND INVESTMENT  EXPERIENCE.  As of any
    ----------------------------------------------------------------
particular  Valuation  Date upon which an amount is credited to a  Participant's
Account,  such Account shall be credited or debited, as the case may be, with an
amount  equal  to the  hypothetical  net  investment  gain  or  loss  that  such
Participant  would have  realized if the portion of his or her Account  properly
elected to be allocated to a particular Phantom Fund pursuant to Article IV were
actually  invested in such  Phantom  Fund during the period  beginning  with the
preceding Valuation Date and ending upon such particular Valuation Date (or such
other period as may be  designated by the Plan  Administrator).  

5.3  DEBITING  OF   DISTRIBUTIONS.   The  amount  of  any  distribution  from  a
     ----------------------------
Participant's   Account   pursuant  to  the  Plan  shall  be  debited  from  the
Participant's  Account  as  of  the  Valuation  Date  coincident  with  or  next
succeeding the date of such distribution.

5.4 DEBITING OF ADMINISTRATIVE  EXPENSES. The Participant's  allocable share (as
    ------------------------------------
determined by the Plan Administrator) of any administrative  expenses related to
the operation of the Plan that are  determined by the Committee to be payable by
Participants shall be debited from the Participant's Account as of the Valuation
Date  coincident  with or next  succeeding the date upon which such expenses are
incurred.

5.5 VESTING OF CREDITED  AMOUNTS.  The rights of a Participant  in regard to the
    ----------------------------
amounts credited to the Participant's Account hereunder shall be fully vested at
all times.


                                   ARTICLE VI
                     DISTRIBUTIONS FROM PARTICIPANT ACCOUNTS

6.1  DISTRIBUTION  ELECTION.  A  Participant  may  elect,  by filing a  properly
     ----------------------
completed  election form (or such other  authorization as the Plan Administrator
may  require)   with  the  party  and  by  the  date   designated  by  the  Plan
Administrator,  to have the total amount credited to the  Participant's  Account
distributed  to  him or her on a date  and in a  manner  permitted  by the  Plan
Administrator.  Distributions  from a  Participant's  Account  shall  be made in
accordance with the date and manner of  distribution  elected by the Participant
hereunder,  except  to the  extent  that  a  different  date  and/or  manner  of
distribution is required pursuant to the Plan.  Distributions made in accordance
with a Participant's  distribution election shall be made as soon as practicable
after  the  Valuation  Date  coincident  with or  next  succeeding  the  date of
distribution  elected  by the  Participant.  A  Participant  who does not file a
properly completed election form in accordance with this Section shall be deemed
to have elected to have such amount  distributed to the  Participant in a single
lump sum cash payment as soon as practicable after the Valuation Date coincident
with  or  next  succeeding  the  date  the  Participant's  employment  with  all
Participating  Companies  terminates.  The  election  or  deemed  election  by a
Participant  of a  distribution  date and manner  pursuant to this Section shall
apply to all amounts then and  thereafter  credited to a  Participant's  Account
under the Plan, and shall be irrevocable except to the extent otherwise provided
herein or permitted in the discretion of the Committee or the Plan Administrator
to the extent determined consistent with applicable tax laws.

6.2 DISTRIBUTION IN THE EVENT OF HARDSHIP.  A Participant may request a hardship
    -------------------------------------
distribution  from his or her  Account by filing a properly  completed  hardship
distribution  form (or such other


authorization  as the Plan  Administrator  may require) by the date and with the
party designated by the Plan  Administrator.  The Plan  Administrator may, if it
determines that a severe and unforeseeable financial hardship on the part of the
Participant  exists,  permit a  distribution  to the  Participant  of an  amount
credited to the Participant's  Account that is reasonably necessary to meet such
hardship,  including any amount reasonably  necessary to pay any income or other
taxes resulting from such distribution.

6.3 DISTRIBUTION  UPON TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.  As soon as practicable  after
    --------------------------------------------
the  Valuation  Date  coincident  with  or  next  succeeding  the  date  that  a
Participant's  employment with all  Participating  Companies  terminates for any
reason other than Retirement,  the Company shall distribute to the Participant a
single  lump  sum  cash  payment  equal  to the  total  amount  credited  to the
Participant's Account as of such Valuation Date.

6.4  DISTRIBUTION  IN THE EVENT OF A TERMINATION  OF THE PLAN. In the event of a
     --------------------------------------------------------
termination of the Plan, the entire amount credited to a  Participant's  Account
as of the Valuation Date  coincident with or next succeeding such event shall be
distributed  to the  Participant  in a single  lump sum cash  payment as soon as
practicable after such Valuation Date.

6.5  DISTRIBUTION TO FIDUCIARY.  If the Plan  Administrator  determines that any
     -------------------------
person to whom any amount is otherwise distributable hereunder is unable to care
for his or her affairs,  such amount  (unless a prior claim  therefor shall have
been made by a duly appointed guardian, committee or other legal representative)
may be distributed to any person  determined by the Plan  Administrator  to have
fiduciary  responsibility  for such person otherwise entitled to such amount, in
such manner and proportions as the Plan Administrator may deem appropriate.  Any
such distribution shall constitute a complete discharge of any obligation of the
Company to such person under the Plan.

6.6 Distribution in the Event of Death.  Notwithstanding  anything herein to the
    ----------------------------------
contrary,  in the event of a Participant's  death, the entire amount credited to
the  Participant's  Account as of the  Valuation  Date  coincident  with or next
succeeding the date of the Participant's  death shall be distributed in a single
lump sum cash payment as soon as practicable after such Valuation Date to one or
more  beneficiaries,  if any, properly designated by the Participant by the date
and in the manner required by the Plan Administrator. If (A) no such designation
is in  effect  at  the  time  of the  Participant's  death,  (B)  no  designated
beneficiary survives the Participant, or (C) any beneficiary designation made by
the Participant  conflicts with applicable law, such amount shall be paid to the
Participant's estate as soon as practicable after such Valuation Date.


6.7 DISTRIBUTION UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF A CHANGE OF CONTROL.
    ------------------------------------------------------- 

         (A) HARTFORD  FIRE  PARTICIPANTS.  Upon the  occurrence  of a Change of
             ----------------------------
         Control with respect to Hartford Fire  Participants,  all Hartford Fire
         Participants  shall be paid single lump sum cash payments  equal to the
         entire amount credited to their  respective  Accounts as of the date of
         such  occurrence,  such payments to be made  immediately  following the
         date of such Change of Control.

         (B) HARTFORD  LIFE  PARTICIPANTS.  Upon the  occurrence  of a Change of
             ----------------------------
         Control with respect to Hartford Life  Participants,  all Hartford Life
         Participants  shall be paid single lump sum cash payments  equal to the
         entire amount credited to their  respective  Accounts as of the date of
         such  occurrence,  such payments to be made  immediately  following the
         date of such Change of Control.

         (C) DEATH  PRIOR TO  RECEIPT OF  PAYMENT.  In the event of the death of
             ------------------------------------
         such a Hartford Fire Participant or a Hartford Life Participant  before
         receiving a payment  required by Section 6.7(A) or 6.7(B) hereof,  such
         payment shall be made immediately  following the date of the occurrence
         of the Change of Control to the  individual or entity who would receive
         have received payment hereunder in the absence of a Change of Control.

6.8 DISTRIBUTION IN OTHER CIRCUMSTANCES. The Committee may determine in its sole
    -----------------------------------
discretion that a distribution of an amount credited to a Participant's  Account
is  appropriate  under  the  circumstances.  As soon as  practicable  after  the
Valuation  Date  coincident  with  or  next  succeeding  the  date  of any  such
determination,  the Company shall distribute such amount to the Participant in a
single lump sum cash payment (or in such other  manner of payment as  determined
appropriate by the Committee).


                                   ARTICLE VII
                                 ADMINISTRATION

7.1 ADMINISTRATION BY COMMITTEE.  Except as otherwise delegated by the Committee
    ---------------------------
pursuant to the Plan, (A) the Plan shall be administered  by the Committee,  (B)
the Committee shall have full authority to administer and interpret this Plan in
any  manner  it  deems   appropriate  in  its  sole  discretion,   and  (C)  the
determinations  of the  Committee  shall be binding on and  conclusive as to all
parties.

7.2 DELEGATION OF CERTAIN AUTHORITY TO PLAN  ADMINISTRATOR.  Except as otherwise
    ------------------------------------------------------
provided by the Committee in accordance  with the Plan,  the Plan  Administrator
shall be The Hartford's Director,  Employee Benefits and Compensation  Services.
Except as otherwise  provided herein,  required by applicable law, or determined
by the  Committee,  (A) the  Plan  Administrator  shall be  responsible  for the
performance of such administrative duties under this Plan that are not otherwise
reserved to the


Committee by the Plan, (B) the Plan  Administrator  shall have full authority to
administer  and interpret  this Plan in any manner it deems  appropriate  in its
sole discretion,  and (C) the determinations of the Plan Administrator  shall be
binding and conclusive as to all parties.

7.3  LIABILITY  AND  INDEMNIFICATION  OF COMMITTEE  AND PLAN  ADMINISTRATOR.  In
     ----------------------------------------------------------------------
connection  with any action or  determination  made in connection with the Plan,
the  Plan  Administrator  and the  Committee  shall  be  entitled  to rely  upon
information furnished by or on behalf of the Company or any Participant.  To the
extent permitted by law, the Plan Administrator and the members of the Committee
shall not be liable for, and The Hartford shall indemnify the Plan Administrator
and the members of the Committee  against any liability  for, any loss sustained
by  reason  of any act or  failure  to act in their  administrative  capacities,
provided such act or failure to act does not involve  willful  misconduct.  Such
indemnification  shall  include  attorneys'  fees and other  costs and  expenses
reasonably   incurred  in  defense  of  any  action  brought  against  the  Plan
Administrator  or any  member  of the  Committee  by  reason  of any such act or
failure to act. The Plan Administrator and any member of the Committee shall not
be liable  or  responsible  for any act or  omission  of  another  fiduciary  in
relation  to  the  Plan  unless  the  Plan  Administrator  or  such  member  (A)
participates  knowingly  in, or  knowingly  undertakes  to conceal,  such act or
omission by such other fiduciary,  or (B) has knowledge of a breach of fiduciary
responsibility  by such other fiduciary and does not make reasonable  efforts to
remedy such breach.


                                  ARTICLE VIII
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

8.1 UNFUNDED AND  UNSECURED  PLAN.  The Plan shall be unfunded and unsecured for
    -----------------------------
tax purposes and for purposes of ERISA. The Hartford shall have no obligation to
fund its liabilities,  if any, under the Plan. Nothing in the Plan and no action
taken by The  Hartford or its agents  hereunder  shall be  construed to create a
trust of any kind,  or a fiduciary  relationship  between The  Hartford  and any
other  person or  entity.  All  funds or other  assets  received  or held by The
Hartford  pursuant to or in connection with the Plan may be used by The Hartford
for any corporate purpose,  and The Hartford shall not be obligated to segregate
such  amounts from its general  assets.  No  Participant  or any other person or
entity shall have any claim  against The Hartford or its assets other than as an
unsecured and unsubordinated general creditor of The Hartford.  Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing,  a  Participant's  claim hereunder shall at any
time be solely  for the  amount  then  credited  to the  Participant's  Account.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  The Hartford may  establish a grantor trust or
purchase  securities or take any other action deemed  appropriate  to assist The
Hartford in meeting its obligations under the Plan, provided,  however,  that in
no event  shall any person or entity have any right to or interest in such trust
or property by reason of the Plan.


8.2 ABSENCE OF  REPRESENTATIONS.  The Plan shall not be construed to provide any
    ---------------------------
representation  or guarantee by The Hartford that any particular income or other
tax consequence will result from a Participant's participation in the Plan. Each
Participant  shall be deemed to have consulted with his or her  professional tax
advisor to determine the tax consequences of participation  hereunder.  The Plan
shall not be  construed  to  provide  any  representation  or  guarantee  by The
Hartford that any particular amount of a Participant's  Account allocated to any
of  the  Phantom  Funds  hereunder  will  result  in any  particular  investment
experience  related  thereto,  and The Hartford shall in no event be required to
pay any amount to any person or entity on account of any loss suffered by reason
of the operation of the Plan.

8.3  WITHHOLDING.  The Plan  Administrator  shall  have the  right to make  such
     -----------
provisions as it deems  appropriate to satisfy any obligation of The Hartford to
withhold federal, state or local income or other taxes incurred by reason of the
operation  of the Plan,  including  but not  limited to at any time  requiring a
Participant  to submit  payment to The Hartford for such taxes,  or  withholding
such taxes from a Participant's wages (or other amounts) due to the Participant.

8.4 NO EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS. The Plan shall not, directly or indirectly,  create in
    --------------------
any Participant any right with respect to continuation of employment with any of
the  Participating  Companies or to the receipt of any Eligible  Compensation or
other  compensation.  The Plan shall not interfere in any way with the rights of
the applicable  Participating  Company to terminate,  or otherwise  modify,  the
employment of any Participant or its compensation policies at any time.

8.5 RIGHTS NOT  TRANSFERABLE.  The rights of a Participant  under the Plan shall
    ------------------------
not be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed
of, other than (A) by will, (B) by the laws of descent or  distribution,  or (C)
pursuant  to a qualified  domestic  relations  order as defined in the  Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,  provided that the rights of any transferee of
a Participant shall not be greater than the rights of the Participant hereunder.
The foregoing  restriction  shall be in addition to any restrictions  imposed by
applicable  law on a  Participant's  ability to dispose of any rights  under the
Plan.

8.6  EFFECT  OF PLAN.  The  provisions  of the Plan  shall be  binding  upon all
     ---------------
successors  and  assigns of a  Participant,  including  without  limitation  the
Participant's  estate and the  executors,  administrators  or trustees  thereof,
heirs and legatees, and any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or representative of
creditors of the Participant.

8.7  ADMINISTRATIVE  EXPENSES.  The  Hartford  shall pay for all  administrative
     ------------------------
expenses related to the operation of the Plan, except as otherwise determined by
the Committee.

8.8 AMENDMENT AND  TERMINATION  OF THE PLAN. The Board of Directors may amend or
    ---------------------------------------
terminate  the Plan or any  Participant  elections  hereunder  at any time.  The
Committee  may at any  time  amend  or  terminate  the  Plan or any  Participant
elections hereunder if the Committee  determines in its sole discretion that The
Hartford will recognize income for income tax purposes with respect to any


reserves  accumulated  under any life insurance  policy obtained with respect to
any Participant hereunder. The Committee or the Plan Administrator may amend the
Plan to the extent (A) required by applicable law or regulation, or (B) required
to maintain a favorable tax status for the Plan.

8.9 GOVERNING LAW. The laws of the State of Connecticut shall govern all matters
    -------------
relating to the Plan,  except to the extent such laws are superseded by the laws
of the United States.

8.10  SEVERABILITY  OF  PROVISIONS.  If any  provision of the Plan shall be held
      ----------------------------
invalid or unenforceable,  such invalidity or unenforceability  shall not affect
any other provisions  hereof, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if
such invalid or unenforceable provisions had not been included herein.

8.11 EFFECTIVE DATE. The Effective Date of this restatement of the Plan shall be
     --------------
July 16, 1998, or such later date as the Plan Administrator may determine.


                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.19




             THE HARTFORD 1997 SENIOR EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PAY PLAN I

This document  describes your benefits under The Hartford 1997 Senior  Executive
Severance  Pay Plan I, and  includes  the text of the Plan and  other  important
information.













Rev. October 15, 1998


                                                                -----------------


TEXT OF THE HARTFORD 1997 SENIOR EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PAY PLAN I

                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
1.       Purpose ..............................................................1
2.       Application  of  Plan ................................................1
3.       Covered Employees ....................................................1
4.       Severance Pay Upon Termination of Employment..........................2
5.       Schedule of Severance Pay.............................................3
6.       Notice or Pay in Lieu of Notice.......................................4
7.       Form of Payment of Severance Pay......................................4
8.       Employee Benefit Plan Coverage While Receiving Severance Pay..........5
9.       Excluded Employee Compensation Plans, Programs, Arrangements 
         and Perquisites.......................................................5
10.      Divestiture, Closure, Relocations.....................................6
11.      Disqualifying Conduct.................................................6
12.      Release...............................................................6
13.      Offset................................................................6
14.      Administration of Plan................................................7
15.      Termination or Amendment..............................................7
16.      Miscellaneous.........................................................7

OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION

1.       NOTICE ...............................................................8



                       THE HARTFORD 1997 SENIOR EXECUTIVE
                              SEVERANCE PAY PLAN I


1.       PURPOSE
         -------

         The purpose of The Hartford 1997 Senior Executive  Severance Pay Plan I
         (the  "Plan")  is to assist in  occupational  transition  by  providing
         severance  pay  for  senior  executives  covered  by  this  Plan  whose
         employment is terminated under conditions set forth in this Plan.

2.       APPLICATION OF PLAN
         -------------------

         This Plan is effective  October 1, 1997. Any termination of termination
         of employment that has an Effective Date (as defined herein) while this
         Plan is in effect  shall be governed  exclusively  by the terms of this
         Plan and by no other  plan,  policy,  practice or  arrangement,  except
         where this Plan is expressly  superseded by a Key Executive  Employment
         Protection  Agreement  with  the  Company,  or  an  individual  written
         employment contract or other written agreement with the Company. To the
         extent that this Plan is expressly  superseded  by any of the foregoing
         agreements or contracts,  no severance shall be payable hereunder,  and
         the  provisions of this Plan will otherwise be deemed null and void and
         without effect.

3.       COVERED EMPLOYEES
         -----------------

         You are a  Covered  Employee  under  this  Plan  if you  are an  active
         (meaning either at work or on a job-protected leave of absence) regular
         full-time  or regular  part-time  salaried  employee of  Hartford  Fire
         Insurance  Company or Hartford Life and Accident  Insurance  Company or
         any of their designated subsidiaries or affiliates  (collectively,  the
         "Company")  who is paid from a payroll  maintained in the United States
         and is identified as a Tier Two  executive.  Employees on an authorized
         leave of absence,  paid or unpaid (including medical leave of absence),
         of not more than twenty-six  (26) weeks who would otherwise  qualify as
         Covered  Employees,  but  for  being  on  leave  of  absence,  will  be
         considered Covered Employees for purposes of this Plan.


4.       SEVERANCE PAY UPON TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
         --------------------------------------------

         If the  Company  terminates  your  employment  and you  sign a  Release
         acceptable  to the  Company,  you shall be  provided  severance  pay in
         accordance with the terms of this Plan EXCEPT if you:
                                                ------

         o        are terminated for  misconduct or other  disciplinary  action,
                  which by way of example  may  include,  but is not limited to,
                  the  following:   serious   violations  of  Company  policies,
                  violation of the Company  Code of  Corporate  Conduct or other
                  similar  policy  or   undertaking  of  the  Company;   or  any
                  Company-initiated  termination  for cause or for actions  that
                  are immoral, unethical,  inimical to the best interests of the
                  Company, or illegal;

         o        refuse a Similar  Position  (as  defined  herein)  offered  as
                  alternative  employment with the Company. For purposes of this
                  Plan,  "Similar  Position"  shall mean a position  of the same
                  base salary  rates and same  opportunity  for  incentive  with
                  similar  duties,   or  having   different   duties  which,  in
                  management's  judgment,  the  employee  is able to perform and
                  which is  located  within a  50-mile  radius  of the  previous
                  position's location;

         o        terminate  employment  with  the  Company  prior  to the  date
                  selected by the Company as your last day of active  employment
                  ("Effective Date");

         o        are  terminated  while on a leave of absence  (paid or unpaid)
                  after 26 weeks of such leave;

         o        are  mandatorily  retired on or after your  Normal  Retirement
                  Date (as  defined  herein)  where  legally  permitted,  or are
                  terminated  with an  Effective  Date on or after  your  Normal
                  Retirement Date. "Normal Retirement Date" shall mean the first
                  of the month which  coincides  with or follows the  employee's
                  65th birthday;

         o        are terminated  following  acceptance or refusal of employment
                  or continued  employment  with a purchaser in connection  with
                  any sale or divestiture described in Section 10 hereof;

         o        are eligible for greater severance payments under the terms of
                  a Key  Executive  Employment  Protection  Agreement  with  the
                  Company, or an individual written employment contract or other
                  written agreement with the Company.

         If you initiate  termination  of  employment  for any reason  including
         resigning,  retiring or failing to return to work immediately following
         the  expiration  of any  leave of  absence,  no  severance  pay will be
         provided under this Plan.


                                     - 2 -

         No severance pay will be provided under this Plan upon any  termination
         of  employment  as a  result  of your  death,  or as a  result  of your
         Disability as defined in The Hartford  Investment  and Savings Plan, as
         may be amended from time to time (the "Savings Plan").

5.       SCHEDULE OF SEVERANCE PAY
         -------------------------

         Covered Employees will be provided severance pay in accordance with the
         following Schedule of Severance Pay which sets forth the months of Base
         Pay which are  provided  to a Covered  Employee  based upon the Covered
         Employee's Years of Service as of the Effective Date.

                            Years of Service              Months of Base Pay
                            ----------------              ------------------

                          Less than  4   ......                    12
                                     4   ......                    13
                                     5   ......                    14
                                     6   ......                    15
                                     7   ......                    16
                                     8   ......                    17
                                     9   ......                    18
                                    10   ......                    19
                                    11   ......                    20
                                    12   ......                    21
                                    13   ......                    22
                                    14   ......                    23
                                    15   or more......             24


         The severance  payment provided will be subject to applicable  federal,
         state and local taxes,  which will be withheld  from such payment where
         required by applicable law as determined in the sole  discretion of the
         Plan Administrator.

         "Base Pay" shall mean your  annual base  salary at the  Effective  Date
         divided by twelve (12) months.

         "Years of Service"  shall mean the total number of  completed  years of
         employment  measured from your Company  service date to your  Effective
         Date,  rounded to the nearest whole year.  Your Company service date is
         the date used to  determine  your  eligibility  for  vesting  under the
         applicable Company retirement plan in effect on the Effective Date.

         Notwithstanding  the above  Schedule of Severance  Pay, in no event (i)
         shall  months of Base Pay  provided  to you exceed the number of months
         remaining  between the Effective Date and your Normal  Retirement Date,
         or (ii) shall  severance pay exceed the  equivalent of twice your total
         annual compensation during the year immediately preceding the Effective
         Date.


                                     - 3 -

6.       NOTICE OR PAY IN LIEU OF NOTICE
         -------------------------------

         Except as  provided  in this Plan or under a Key  Executive  Employment
         Protection  Agreement  with  the  Company,  or  an  individual  written
         employment  contract or other written  agreement with the Company,  you
         shall  not be  entitled  to any  notice of  termination  or pay in lieu
         thereof.  At the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator or designee,
         notice may be provided.

7.       FORM OF PAYMENT OF SEVERANCE PAY
         --------------------------------

         Severance  pay  shall be paid in  periodic  payments  according  to the
         regular  payroll  schedule  ("Periodic  Payment"),  provided  that  the
         Company  reserves the right at any time to pay the remaining  severance
         pay in a discounted lump sum.

         Any  discounted  lump sum paid  under  this Plan  shall be equal to the
         present  value of the remaining  Periodic  Payments of severance pay as
         determined  by the Company  using an  interest  rate equal to the prime
         rate at Citibank in effect on the date the Company notifies you that it
         is exercising its right to pay severance in the discounted lump sum.

         Periodic  Payment of severance pay will commence or the discounted lump
         sum will be paid on the next day following the Effective  Date,  except
         that where the Company  exercises its right to pay the discounted  lump
         sum  after  the  commencement  of  Periodic  Payments,  it will be paid
         promptly after the Company exercises such right.

         In the event of your death during the period you are receiving Periodic
         Payment of severance  pay, the amount of severance pay remaining  shall
         be paid, subject to applicable law, in a discounted lump sum payment to
         your  spouse,  if any, or to such other  beneficiary  or  beneficiaries
         designated  by you in  writing,  or if you are not  married and failing
         such designation, to your estate.

         During  the time  period  that you are  receiving  Periodic  Payment of
         severance pay, or for which you receive  severance pay by lump sum, you
         must  continue to be available to render  reasonable  assistance to the
         Company,  consistent  with the level of your  prior  position  with the
         Company,  at times  and  locations  that are  mutually  acceptable.  In
         requesting such services,  the Company will take into account any other
         commitments  which you may have.  After the  Effective  Date and normal
         wind up of your former duties,  you will not be required to perform any
         regular services for the Company.

         In the event you secure  employment  other than with the Company  while
         receiving  severance  pay,  you must  notify  the  Company.  Upon  such
         notification the Company  generally will make a single  discounted lump
         sum payment to you of all remaining  severance pay. Periodic Payment of
         severance pay will cease if you are rehired by the Company.

         In the event you retire under the applicable  Company  retirement  plan
         while  receiving  Periodic  Payment,  the  Company  will  pay  you  any
         remaining severance pay in a single discounted lump sum payment.


                                     - 4 -

8.       EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN COVERAGE WHILE RECEIVING SEVERANCE PAY
         ------------------------------------------------------------

         Except  as  otherwise  provided  herein,  as long as you are  receiving
         Periodic Payment, you will continue to be eligible for participation in
         Company  employee  benefit  plans in effect as of the  Effective  Date,
         including without limitation,  any non-qualified excess or supplemental
         benefit plans,  in accordance  with the  applicable  provisions of such
         plans.  You will not be eligible to  participate  in any Company salary
         continuation,  short-term or long-term  disability  plans,  the Company
         business travel  accident plan or any new employee  benefit plan or any
         improvement  to any  existing  employee  benefit  plan  adopted  by the
         Company after the Effective Date.

         If a lump  sum  payment  of  severance  pay  is  made,  eligibility  to
         participate in all Company employee benefit plans ends.

         Deductions   for  continuing   group  life  and   medical/dental/health
         insurance and  participation in the Savings Plan remain available while
         receiving Periodic Payment of the severance pay, subject to the maximum
         time  periods  as  specified  by the terms of the  respective  plans in
         effect as of the Effective Date.

9.       Excluded  Employee  Compensation  Plans,  Programs,   Arrangements  and
         -----------------------------------------------------------------------
         Perquisites
         -----------

         During the period you are receiving  Periodic Payment of severance pay,
         you will not be eligible to accrue any vacation or  participate  in any
         (i) bonus  program;  (ii) special  termination  programs;  (iii) tax or
         financial  advisory  services;  (iv) new  awards  under  any  long-term
         incentive  compensation  plan or  program  of the  Company;  (v) new or
         revised  executive  compensation  programs that may be introduced after
         the Effective Date; or (vi) any other executive  compensation  program,
         plan, arrangement,  practice, policy or perquisites unless specifically
         authorized  by the Company in writing.  The period during which you are
         receiving  Periodic  Payment of  severance  pay shall not be counted as
         service for purposes of any Company  long-term  incentive  compensation
         awards  outstanding  as of  the  Effective  Date.  Notwithstanding  the
         preceding sentence, during such period you will continue to be eligible
         to vest in any outstanding  unvested  deferred  restricted  stock units
         (bonus swap), as well as any  outstanding  unvested stock option awards
         except (a) any options awarded to you on December 17, 1997, and (b) any
         ------
         other options that are designated  under the terms of the award of such
         options  as  ineligible  for  continued  crediting  of  service  during
         Periodic  Payment of severance  pay. Also during such period,  you will
         continue to be eligible to exercise any outstanding vested stock option
         awards,  except to the extent that (I) such options  first expire under
         the  applicable  plan or program,  or (II) such options are  designated
         under  the  terms  of the  award  of such  options  as  ineligible  for
         continued  exercise  during  Periodic  Payment of  severance  pay.  Any
         unvested  restricted stock and unvested  performance shares outstanding
         as of the  Effective  Date will be canceled as of the  Effective  Date,
         except to the  extent  otherwise  provided  in the  applicable  plan or
         program.


                                     - 5 -

10.      DIVESTITURE. CLOSURE, RELOCATIONS
         ---------------------------------

         If the Company or a subsidiary  or affiliate or division of the Company
         or a portion thereof,  at which you are employed,  is sold or divested,
         and if (i) you  accept  employment  or  continued  employment  with the
         purchaser,  or (ii) refuse employment or continued  employment with the
         purchaser on terms and conditions  substantially comparable to those in
         effect immediately preceding the sale or divestiture,  you shall not be
         provided  severance pay hereunder or any related benefits  described in
         Section 8 or Section 9 of this Plan.  The provisions of this Section 10
         apply to  divestitures  accomplished  through sales of assets,  through
         sales of corporate entities, or any other method.

11.      DISQUALIFYING CONDUCT
         ---------------------

         If, during the period you are receiving  Periodic  Payment of severance
         pay, you (i) conduct yourself in a manner which is inimical to the best
         interests of the Company,  or which adversely  affects those interests;
         (ii)  make  statements,  either  oral or  written,  which  are false or
         misleading or which  disparage  the Company;  (iii) fail to comply with
         any Company  Covenant  Against  Disclosure  and Assignment of Rights to
         Intellectual  Property or other similar  policy or  undertaking  of the
         Company; (iv) without the Company's prior consent, induce any employees
         of the Company to leave their Company employment; or (v) fail to comply
         with  applicable  provisions  of the Code of Conduct  or other  similar
         policy or undertaking of the Company, or any other applicable corporate
         policy of the Company, then the Company will have no further obligation
         to provide severance pay.

12.      RELEASE
         -------

         No  severance  pay will be provided  under this Plan unless you execute
         and deliver to the Company a Release,  satisfactory to the Company,  in
         which you discharge  and release the Company,  its  affiliates  and the
         Company's  directors,  officers,  employees and employee  benefit plans
         from all claims  (other  than for  benefits  to which you are  entitled
         under any Company employee benefit plan) arising out of your employment
         or termination of employment.

13.      OFFSET
         ------

         Any  severance  pay  provided to you under this Plan shall be offset by
         reducing such amount by any severance pay,  termination  pay or similar
         pay or allowance which you receive or are entitled to receive (i) under
         any other Company plan, policy, practice, program or arrangement;  (ii)
         pursuant to any Key Executive Employment  Protection Agreement with the
         Company,  or any  individual  written  employment  agreement  or  other
         written  agreement  with the  Company;  or (iii) by  virtue of any law,
         custom or practice excluding,  however,  any unemployment  compensation
         which you may receive as a state unemployment award.

         Any  severance pay provided to you under this Plan shall also be offset
         by reducing such severance pay by any severance pay, termination pay or
         similar  pay or  allowance  you  received  as a  result  of  any  prior
         termination of employment with the Company.

                                     - 6 -

         Any  severance  pay and any notice pay  provided to you under this Plan
         shall be offset by reducing  such  severance  pay and notice pay by any
         payments made to you by the Company  pursuant to the Worker  Adjustment
         and Retraining Notification Act ("WARN") and any similar federal, state
         or local law.

         Any  severance  pay  provided to you under this Plan shall be offset by
         reducing  such  severance  pay by any  payment  made to you  under  any
         Company or statutory  disability  plan,  policy,  practice,  program or
         arrangement where any such payment is made for any period of time after
         the Effective Date.

14.      ADMINISTRATION OF PLAN
         ----------------------

         Responsibility for administration of this Plan rests with Hartford Fire
         Insurance  Company's  Assistant Vice  President and Director,  Employee
         Benefits and  Compensation  Services (or other  individual with similar
         responsibilities) or his designee ("Plan Administrator").

         The Plan Administrator shall have the exclusive right to interpret this
         Plan, adopt any rules and regulations for carrying out this Plan as may
         be appropriate  and decide any and all matters arising under this Plan,
         including,  but not limited to, the right to determine appeals. Subject
         to applicable federal and state law, all  interpretations and decisions
         by the Plan Administrator shall be final, conclusive and binding on all
         parties affected thereby.

15.      TERMINATION OR AMENDMENT
         ------------------------

         The Plan  Administrator  shall have the power to make amendments to the
         Plan that do not involve a material cost to the Company or are required
         by  applicable  law. Any other  amendments to the Plan shall be made by
         the Board of Directors of Hartford Fire Insurance Company. The Company,
         through  its  Board  of  Directors,  reserves  the  right,  in its sole
         discretion,  to  terminate,  suspend,  amend or modify this Plan ("Plan
         Change") in whole or in part at any time without  prior  notice  except
         that no  such  Plan  Change,  and no Plan  amendment  made by the  Plan
         Administrator,  may reduce or adversely  affect  severance  pay for any
         employee whose employment  terminates within two years of the effective
         date of such Plan Change or amendment, provided that such Executive was
         a Covered  Employee  under this Plan on the date of such Plan Change or
         amendment.

16.      MISCELLANEOUS
         -------------

         o        In cases where  severance pay is provided under this Plan, pay
                  in lieu of any unused vacation entitlement will be paid to you
                  in a single lump sum payment after severance pay ceases.  Such
                  lump sum payment  will not have the effect of  extending  your
                  Company service for any purpose.


                                     - 7 -



         o        Benefits  under this Plan are paid for entirely by the Company
                  from its general assets.

         o        The  section  headings  contained  in this  Plan are  included
                  solely for  convenience  of reference and shall not in any way
                  affect the meaning of any provision of this Plan.



OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION
- - ---------------------------

1.       NOTICE
         ------

THIS PLAN IS NOT A CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT. IT DOES NOT GUARANTEE YOUR EMPLOYMENT
FOR ANY  SPECIFIED  PERIOD  AND DOES NOT  LIMIT  THE  RIGHT  OF THE  COMPANY  TO
TERMINATE  YOUR  EMPLOYMENT  AT ANY TIME  FOR ANY  REASON.  EMPLOYMENT  WITH THE
COMPANY IS TERMINABLE AT WILL.

ANY EMPLOYEE WHO IS NOT OBLIGATED TO CONTINUE HIS/HER  EMPLOYMENT UNDER A FORMAL
WRITTEN  EMPLOYMENT  AGREEMENT  WITH THE COMPANY  RETAINS THE RIGHT TO TERMINATE
THEIR EMPLOYMENT AT ANY TIME, WITH OR WITHOUT NOTICE, AND WITH OR WITHOUT CAUSE.
LIKEWISE,  THE COMPANY CAN TERMINATE THE EMPLOYMENT OF ANY EMPLOYEE AT ANY TIME,
WITH OR WITHOUT NOTICE, AND WITH OR WITHOUT CAUSE, SUBJECT TO APPLICABLE LAW.

NO  SUPERVISOR  OR  MANAGER  HAS ANY  AUTHORITY  TO  ENTER  INTO  AN  EMPLOYMENT
AGREEMENT,  WRITTEN  OR  VERBAL,  OR TO MAKE ANY  AGREEMENT  OR  REPRESENTATIONS
CONTRARY TO THE FOREGOING, UNLESS IT IS AUTHORIZED IN WRITING BY THE CHAIRMAN OF
THE  COMPANY AND SUCH  AGREEMENT  IS IN  WRITING.  FURTHER NO COMPANY  DOCUMENT,
COMMUNICATION  OR  PUBLICATION  SHOULD BE UNDERSTOOD AS, OR CONSTRUED AS, MAKING
SUCH AN AGREEMENT OR EXTENDING SUCH A REPRESENTATION.


                                     - 8 -

EXHIBIT 10.20




- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                  THE HARTFORD

                          EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PAY PLAN

This document describes your benefits under The Hartford Executive Severance Pay

    Plan and includes the text of the Plan and other important information.

- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------








                                                        Revised February 1, 1999



                                
                                     TEXT OF
                    THE HARTFORD EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PAY PLAN


1.       Purpose...............................................................1
2.       Application of Plan...................................................1
3.       Covered Employees.....................................................1
4.       Severance Pay Upon Termination of Employment..........................2
5.       Schedule of Severance Pay.............................................3
6.       Notice or Pay in Lieu of Notice.......................................5
7.       Form and Timing of Payment of Severance Pay...........................5
8.       Employee Benefit Plan Coverage While Receiving Severance Pay..........6
9.       Excluded Compensation Plans, Programs, Arrangements and Perquisites...6
10.      Divestiture, Closure, Relocations.....................................7
11.      Additional Severance Pay in the Event of a Change of Control..........7
12.      Rehiring.............................................................12
13.      Offset...............................................................12
14.      Administration of Plan...............................................13
15.      Termination or Amendment.............................................13
16.      Miscellaneous........................................................13

                           OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION

A.       Notice...............................................................14
B.       Summary Plan Description.............................................14
C.       Plan Sponsor.........................................................14
D.       Name of Plan.........................................................14
E.       Benefits.............................................................14
F.       No Plan Funding......................................................14
G.       Employer and Employer Identification Number..........................14
H.       Plan Number..........................................................15
I.       Plan Administrator...................................................15
J.       Plan Records.........................................................15
K.       Payment of Benefits..................................................15
L.       Appealing a Denial of Benefits.......................................15
M.       Agent for Service of Legal Process...................................15
N.       Your Rights under ERISA..............................................15




                                  THE HARTFORD
                          EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PAY PLAN

1.  PURPOSE.  The  purpose of The  Hartford  Executive  Severance  Pay Plan (the
    -------
"Plan") is to assist in occupational  transition by providing  severance pay for
executives  covered by this Plan whose employment is terminated under conditions
set forth in this Plan.

2. APPLICATION OF PLAN. This amended and restated Plan is effective February, 1,
   -------------------
1999.  Any  termination  of  employment  that has an Effective  Date (as defined
herein) while this Plan is in effect shall be governed  exclusively by the terms
of this Plan and by no other plan, policy,  practice or arrangement,  except (A)
where this Plan is expressly  superseded  by an  individual  written  employment
contract or other written agreement with the Company (as defined herein), or (B)
where the Plan  Administrator  determines  that the Plan in effect prior to this
Plan shall apply to an executive involved in the performance  discipline process
on or before  February  1,  1999.  To the  extent  that  this Plan is  expressly
superseded  by any such  contract or  agreement,  no severance  shall be payable
hereunder,  and the  provisions  of this Plan  will be deemed  null and void and
without effect.

3.  COVERED  EMPLOYEES.  You are a Covered  Employee  under this Plan if you are
    ------------------
identified as a Tier Three,  Tier Four or Tier Five  executive of the Company on
the date  selected  by the  Company as your last day of active  employment  (the
"Effective  Date"), and you are either (A) a Regular Hourly Employee (as defined
below), or (B) a Salaried Employee (as defined below).  Temporary  Employees (as
defined below) are not eligible for any benefits under this Plan.

An employee on an authorized leave of absence, paid or unpaid (including medical
leave of absence)  of not more than  twenty-six  (26) weeks who would  otherwise
qualify  as a  Covered  Employee,  but for  being on leave of  absence,  will be
considered a Covered  Employee for purposes of this Plan. An employee on a leave
of absence due to Disability (as defined in The Hartford  Investment and Savings
Plan) of more than six months will be considered a Covered Employee for purposes
of  this  Plan  if he or she  seeks  employment  with  the  company  immediately
following the period of Disability.

The "Company" means,  collectively,  Hartford Fire Insurance Company or Hartford
Life and Accident Insurance Company, or any of their designated  subsidiaries or
affiliates,  or any  successor of any of the  foregoing by merger or purchase of
otherwise.

"Regular Hourly  Employee" means an employee who is (1) paid on an hourly basis,
(2) actively working at least 20 hours per week on a scheduled basis, and (3) on
the United States payroll of the Company.

"Salaried Employee" means an employee who (1) works for the Company on a regular
basis in the usual course of the  Company's  business,  (2)  actively  works the
required number of hours to qualify for full-time employee benefits,  and (3) is
on the United States payroll as  administered  by the Payroll  Department of the
Company.

                                     - 1 -

"Temporary  Employee"  means an employee  who (1) is paid on an hourly basis and
works less than 20 hours per week,  or (2) holds a position  with the  Company's
"HARTEMP" Program, or (3) is hired through a temporary  employment agency, or 4)
is hired to a position  with notice on his or her date of hire that the position
will terminate on a certain date.


4. SEVERANCE PAY UPON TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.  If the Company terminates your
   --------------------------------------------
employment,  you shall be provided severance pay in accordance with the terms of
this Plan except if you:
          ------

o    are terminated for misconduct or other disciplinary action, which by way of
     example  may  include,  but is not  limited  to, the  following:  excessive
     absenteeism/tardiness;   serious   violations  of  Company  work  rules  or
     policies,  including but not limited to falsification of records,  security
     violations,  or violations of  anti-harassment  policies;  violation of the
     Company Code of Corporate Conduct or other similar policy or undertaking of
     the Company; or any Company-initiated  termination for cause or for actions
     that are immoral, unethical, insubordinate,  inimical to the best interests
     of the Company, or illegal;

o    are terminated for poor performance, except as provided in Section 5(B);

o    refuse a Comparable  Position (as defined  herein)  offered as  alternative
     employment  with  the  Company.  For  purposes  of this  Plan,  "Comparable
     Position"  shall mean a position which carries with it the same base salary
     and the same range of total incentive  compensation  opportunity offered by
     the previous  position  held;  and with the same or similar  duties or with
     different duties which, in management's  judgment,  the employee is able to
     perform;  and  which is  located  within a 50-mile  radius of the  previous
     position's location;

o    terminate employment with the Company prior to the Effective Date;

o    are terminated while on a non-disability  or non-military  leave of absence
     (paid or unpaid) after 26 weeks of such leave;

o    are mandatorily retired on or after your Normal Retirement Date (as defined
     herein) where legally  permitted.  "Normal  Retirement Date" shall mean the
     first day of the month which  coincides with or follows the employee's 65th
     birthday;

o    are terminated  following  acceptance or refusal of employment or continued
     employment  with a purchaser  in  connection  with any sale or  divestiture
     described in Section 10.

o    are  eligible  for  greater  severance  payments  under  the  terms  of  an
     individual written employment  contract or other written agreement with the
     Company.

                                     - 2 -

If you initiate  termination of employment for any reason  including  resigning,
retiring or failing to return to work  immediately  following the  expiration of
any  non-disability  or  non-military  leave of absence,  or if you fail to seek
employment  with the  Company  immediately  following  a leave of absence due to
Disability  of more than six  months,  or if you die, no  severance  pay will be
provided under this Plan.


5.  SCHEDULE OF SEVERANCE PAY.
    -------------------------

     (A)  Severance  Pay for  Terminations  Other  Than  Work  Performance-Based
          ----------------------------------------------------------------------
     Terminations
     ------------

     If you are a Covered  Employee and your  employment  is  terminated  by the
     Company (i) for reasons other than those listed in Section 4, and (ii) in a
                 --- ------- ----- ----                                     -- -
     situation  other than one  described  in Section  5(B) below,  you shall be
     ---------  ----- ---- ---  ---------  -- -------  ---- -----
     provided with severance pay, up to a maximum of 52 weeks,  according to the
     following  Schedule of Severance  Pay, which sets forth the number of weeks
     of Weekly Base Pay (as defined below) that will be provided to you based on
     your Years of Service (as defined below) as of the Effective Date,  subject
     to the  provisions of Section 7 of this Plan.  Such  severance pay shall be
     paid at the time and in the form described in Section 7 of this Plan.

     SALARY GRADE      YEARS OF SERVICE       NUMBER OF WEEKS OF WEEKLY BASE PAY
     ------------      ----------------       ----------------------------------


     Tier 5            - Less than 2           13 weeks, plus 2 weeks

                       - 2 or more             13 weeks, plus 1 week for each
                                               Year of Service


     Tier 4            - Less than 2           16 weeks, plus 2 weeks

                       - 2 or more             16 weeks, plus 1 week for each 
                                               Year of Service


     Tier 3            - Less than 2           19 weeks, plus 2 weeks

                       - 2 or more             19 weeks, plus 1 week for each 
                                               Year of Service


                                     - 3 -

         Except as provided below, "WEEKLY BASE PAY" shall mean your annual base
         salary at the Effective Date,  excluding  variable pay such as bonuses,
         incentive  awards,  performance  share  awards and other  premiums  and
         allowances, divided by fifty-two (52) weeks.

         If on the Effective  Date you are covered under a sales  incentive plan
         approved by the Plan  Administrator,  "WEEKLY BASE PAY" shall mean your
         Weekly Base Pay as defined above, plus the average weekly incentive pay
         you received  during the  preceding 24 calendar  months (or such lesser
         number of months you were covered under such a plan), not to exceed the
         maximum of the assigned salary range.

         "YEARS OF SERVICE"  shall mean the total number of your  completed full
         years of employment measured from your Company Service Date (as defined
         herein) to your  Effective  Date.  A "YEAR OF  SERVICE"  shall mean one
         completed  full year of  employment  with the  Company.  Your  "COMPANY
         SERVICE  DATE" is the  date  used to  determine  your  eligibility  for
         vesting under the applicable  Company  retirement plan in effect on the
         Effective Date (or if no such plan is in effect, such other date as may
         be  designated as your Company  Service Date in the sole  discretion of
         the Plan Administrator or designee).

         (B)  SEVERANCE PAY FOR WORK PERFORMANCE-BASED TERMINATIONS
              -----------------------------------------------------

         Full severance will be paid, according to the Schedule of Severance Pay
         set forth in Section 5(A) of this Plan,  for  situations  where you are
         terminated by the Company for performance reasons only if you have been
                                                           ----
         in your  current  position for no more than six months and the position
         you held immediately prior to your current position was eliminated.

         For situations  other than the above,  you may elect one of two options
         if you have been given a written  probation notice because of poor work
         performance.  Such probation notice may be a written warning, an action
         plan,  a  performance  action plan, a final  warning,  a final  written
         warning,  a final probation notice or other similar document.  Your two
         options are as  follows:  You may accept the  probation  and attempt to
         improve and maintain your work performance to the level that management
         finds acceptable or you may elect to waive this opportunity and receive
         a special separation  arrangement.  The special separation  arrangement
         will allow you to avoid the  probationary  period,  ending  your active
         employment  immediately;  in exchange  for a release,  you will receive
         half of the severance  shown in the Schedule of Severance Pay set forth
         in Section 5(A) of this Plan. Upon your request, your manager will give
         you a written special separation agreement to review and consider.  The
         Plan  Administrator  or designee has full,  sole  discretion  as to the
         content of the special separation arrangement.

         If you wish to request the special separation arrangement,  the request
         must be made in writing and must be  received by your  manager no later
         than 28 days  before  the end of your  final  probation  for poor  work
         performance.  For  example,  if you have  been told you have 60 days to
         improve or be placed on final  probation,  your request for the special
         severance  arrangement  must be received by your  manager no later than
         the  second  calendar  day  after  you are  placed  on a  final  30 day
         probation.

                                     - 4 -

         If you do not elect the special  separation  arrangement and you do not
         successfully complete the probation, your employment will be terminated
         for poor work  performance  and you will not be eligible to receive any
         notice or severance pay under this Plan.

6. NOTICE OR PAY IN LIEU OF NOTICE.  In addition to being eligible for severance
   -------------------------------
pay as provided  above,  at the Company's  discretion,  a Covered  Employee will
normally  receive  either  four weeks  notice and be  required  to perform  such
services as may be requested  by the Company,  or pay in lieu of notice equal to
four weeks of Weekly Base Pay. Any notice  period  provided  shall be considered
active  employment for the purpose of this Plan. A notice period of more or less
than four  weeks,  and/or  notice  pay of more or less than four  weeks,  may be
provided at the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator or designee.


7. FORM AND TIMING OF PAYMENT OF SEVERANCE  PAY.  Severance  pay will be paid in
   --------------------------------------------
periodic  payments  according  to  your  regular  payroll  schedule  and at your
semi-monthly  pay rate and in  accordance  with the Company's  semi-monthly  pay
cycle ("Periodic  Payment"),  up to your final Periodic Payment. If the date for
your final Periodic Payment falls in the middle of a semi-monthly pay cycle, you
will be paid a pro-rated  amount of such final  Periodic  Payment,  based on the
number of days in the  particular  cycle.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  the
Company  reserves the right at any time to pay the remaining  severance pay in a
single  lump sum  payment,  to the  extent  determined  appropriate  in the sole
discretion of the Plan Administrator or designee.

Periodic Payment of severance pay will commence as soon as practicable after the
Effective Date. Where the Company exercises its right to make a lump sum payment
of severance pay after the commencement of Periodic Payment,  such lump sum will
be paid as soon as practicable after the Company exercises such right.

In the event of your death while you are receiving Periodic Payment of severance
pay, the amount of severance pay remaining shall be paid,  subject to applicable
law,  in a single  lump sum  payment to your  spouse,  if any,  or to such other
beneficiary  or  beneficiaries  designated by you in writing,  or if you are not
married or failing such designation, to your estate.

In the event you secure  employment  other than with the Company while receiving
Periodic  Payment,  you must notify the  Company.  Upon such  notification,  the
Company  generally  will make a single lump sum payment to you of all  remaining
severance pay.

In the event you  retire  under the  applicable  Company  retirement  plan while
receiving Periodic Payment, the Company will pay you any remaining severance pay
in a single lump sum payment.

Any severance payment provided hereunder will be subject to applicable  federal,
state and local taxes,  which will be withheld from such payment where  required
by applicable law as determined in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator
or designee.  In addition,  any 

                                     - 5 -


severance payment provided  hereunder will be offset by reducing such payment by
any  outstanding  amount  that you owe to the Company for  whatever  reason.  

8. EMPLOYEE  BENEFIT PLAN COVERAGE  WHILE  RECEIVING  SEVERANCE  PAY.  Except as
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
otherwise  provided in this Plan, as long as you are receiving  Periodic Payment
of  severance  pay  under  this  Plan,  you will  continue  to be  eligible  for
participation in Company employee benefit plans in effect on the Effective Date,
in accordance  with the  applicable  provisions  of such plans.  You will not be
eligible  to  participate  in any Company  salary  continuation,  short-term  or
long-term disability plans, the Company business travel accident plan or any new
employee  benefit plan or any improvement to any existing  employee benefit plan
adopted by the Company after the Effective Date.

If a lump sum payment of severance pay is made,  eligibility  to  participate in
all Company benefit plans ends.

Deductions  for benefit plans for which you remain  eligible will continue while
you are receiving Periodic Payment of severance pay, subject to the maximum time
periods and other  eligibility  requirements  as  specified  by the terms of the
respective plans in effect as of the Effective Date.


9. EXCLUDED COMPENSATION PLANS, PROGRAMS,  ARRANGEMENTS AND PERQUISITES.  During
   --------------------------------------------------------------------
the  period  you  are  receiving  Periodic  Payment  of  severance  pay,  unless
specifically  authorized by the Company in writing,  you will not be eligible to
accrue  any  vacation  or  participate  in any (A) bonus  program;  (B)  service
recognition  program;  (C) special  termination  program;  (D) tax or  financial
advisory  services;  (E)  new  or  revised  compensation  program  that  may  be
introduced after the Effective Date; or (F) other employee compensation program,
plan, arrangement,  practice, policy or perquisite.  The period during which you
are receiving  Periodic Payment of severance pay shall not be counted as service
for purposes of any Company long-term incentive  compensation awards outstanding
as of the Effective Date.  Notwithstanding the preceding  sentence,  during such
period you will  continue  to be eligible  to vest in any  outstanding  unvested
deferred  restricted  stock  units  (bonus  swap),  as well  as any  outstanding
unvested  stock option awards except (i) any options  awarded to you on December
17, 1997, and (ii) any other options that are designated  under the terms of the
award of such options as ineligible  for continued  crediting of service  during
Periodic Payment of severance pay. Also during such period, you will continue to
be eligible to exercise any  outstanding  vested stock option awards,  except to
the extent that (a) such  options  first  expire  under the  applicable  plan or
program, or (b) such options are designated under the terms of the award of such
options  as  ineligible  for  continued  exercise  during  Periodic  Payment  of
severance pay. Any unvested  restricted  stock and unvested  performance  shares
outstanding as of the Effective Date will be canceled as of the Effective  Date,
except to the extent otherwise provided in the applicable plan or program.

                                     - 6 -

10.      DIVESTITURE, CLOSURE, RELOCATIONS.
         ---------------------------------

o    If the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate or division of the Company or a
     portion thereof at which you are employed is sold or divested,  and you are
     not offered a Comparable  Position either with the Company or the acquiring
     entity,  you are eligible  for  severance  pay under this Plan.  Changes in
     employee  benefits shall not be interpreted to constitute a  non-comparable
     position  if the  position  offered  otherwise  meets the  definition  of a
     Comparable Position.  If you are offered a Comparable Position that is more
     than 50 miles distance from your work site on the Effective Date and you do
     not accept such  employment,  you will also be eligible for  severance  pay
     under this Plan. Eligibility may be forfeited at the sole discretion of the
     Plan  Administrator  or designee if you  voluntarily  terminate  employment
     prior to the date selected by the Plan Administrator or designee.

o    Severance  payments and related  benefits  will not be provided  under this
     Plan if you continue  employment with, or are hired on the date of the sale
     or  divestiture  by, the  acquiror or by the divested  unit,  except to the
     extent Section 11 is applicable.

o    If you are  terminated by the Company prior to a sale or  divestiture,  you
     will be eligible to receive  severance pay under this Plan if you otherwise
     qualify.  Eligibility  may be forfeited at the sole  discretion of the Plan
     Administrator or designee if you voluntarily  terminate employment prior to
     the date selected by the Plan Administrator or designee.

o    The  provisions  of this  Section  10 apply to all sales and  divestitures,
     without  regard  to  whether  accomplished  as  sales of  assets,  sales of
     corporate entities or any other method.

o    If the  Company or a portion of the  Company at which you are  employed  is
     closed or relocated  and you are not offered a  Comparable  Position by the
     Company,  you will be provided  severance  pay under this Plan.  If you are
     offered a Comparable  Position that is greater than 50 miles  distance from
     the site of your current position and do not accept such Position, you will
     also be eligible  for  severance  pay under this Plan.  Eligibility  may be
     forfeited  at  the  sole  discretion  of  the  Plan  Administrator  if  you
     voluntarily  terminate  employment  prior to the date  selected by the Plan
     Administrator or designee.


11.  ADDITIONAL SEVERANCE PAY IN THE EVENT OF A CHANGE OF CONTROL
     ------------------------------------------------------------

         (A) AMOUNT OF  SEVERANCE  PAY.  In the event of a Change of Control (as
             -------------------------
         defined  below),  a Covered  Employee  who within the three year period
         following  such Change of Control is  involuntarily  terminated  by the
         Company  for any  reason  other  than in a  Termination  For  Cause (as
         defined below),  or a termination due to death or Disability,  shall be
         provided with  severance pay in the

                                     - 7 -

         amount  provided  under the  Schedule  of  Severance  Pay  set forth in
         Section 5 of this Plan, plus additional severance pay in the


         following  amount,  based  on his or her  Years  of  Service  as of the
         Effective  Date,  up to a combined  maximum of 78 weeks of Weekly  Base
         Pay:

         SALARY GRADE      YEARS OF SERVICE  ADDITIONAL WEEKS OF WEEKLY BASE PAY
         ------------      ----------------  -----------------------------------

         Tier 3, 4 or 5    - Less than 2     - 2 additional weeks

                           - 2 or more       - 1  additional week for each Year
                                               of Service


         (B) FORM AND  TIMING  OF  SEVERANCE  PAY.  Severance  will be paid in a
             ------------------------------------
         single  lump sum  immediately  following  the  involuntary  termination
         referred to in section 11(A)


         (C)  DEFINITIONS.  For purposes of this Section 11, the following terms
              -----------
         shall have the following meanings:

                  (i) "ACT" means the  Securities  and Exchange Act of 1934,  as
                       ---
                  amended.

                  (ii)  "BENEFICIAL  OWNER"  means any Person  who,  directly or
                         -----------------
                  indirectly,  has  the  right  to  vote  or  dispose  of or has
                  "beneficial ownership" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under
                  the Act) of any  securities  of a company,  including any such
                  right pursuant to any agreement,  arrangement or understanding
                  (whether or not in writing), provided that: (a) a Person shall
                                               -------------
                  not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of any security as a result
                  of an agreement,  arrangement  or  understanding  to vote such
                  security (I) arising solely from a revocable  proxy or consent
                  given in  response to a public  proxy or consent  solicitation
                  made  pursuant  to, and in  accordance  with,  the Act and the
                  applicable rules and regulations  thereunder,  or (II) made in
                  connection  with, or to otherwise  participate  in, a proxy or
                  consent  solicitation made, or to be made, pursuant to, and in
                  accordance with, the applicable  provisions of the Act and the
                  applicable  rules and regulations  thereunder,  in either case
                  described  in clause  (I) or (II)  above,  whether or not such
                  agreement,   arrangement   or   understanding   is  also  then
                  reportable  by such Person on  Schedule  13D under the Act (or
                  any comparable or successor report);  and 

                  (b)  a  Person  engaged  in  business  as  an  underwriter  of
                  securities  shall not be deemed to be the Beneficial  Owner of
                  any security  acquired through such Person's  participation in
                  good  faith  in  a  firm  commitment  underwriting  until  the
                  expiration of forty days after the date of such acquisition.


                                     - 8 -

                  (iii) "CHANGE OF CONTROL."
                         -----------------

                        (a) HARTFORD FIRE COVERED EMPLOYEES. For a Hartford Fire
                            -------------------------------
                        Covered Employee,  a "CHANGE OF CONTROL" shall be deemed
                        to have occurred if:

                           (I) a report on Schedule  13D shall be filed with the
                           Securities  and  Exchange   Commission   pursuant  to
                           Section 13(d) of the Act  disclosing  that any Person
                           (within  the  meaning of  Section  13(d) of the Act),
                           other  than  The  Hartford  or a  subsidiary  of  The
                           Hartford or any employee  benefit  plan  sponsored by
                           The Hartford or a subsidiary of The Hartford,  is the
                           Beneficial  Owner  directly or  indirectly  of twenty
                           percent or more of the  outstanding  stock of the The
                           Hartford   entitled  to  vote  in  the   election  of
                           directors of The Hartford;

                           (II) any Person  (within the meaning of Section 13(d)
                           of the Act),  other than The Hartford or a subsidiary
                           of  The  Hartford  or  any   employee   benefit  plan
                           sponsored  by The  Hartford  or a  subsidiary  of The
                           Hartford,  shall purchase shares pursuant to a tender
                           offer or  exchange  offer to acquire any stock of The
                           Hartford (or securities  convertible  into stock) for
                           cash, securities or any other consideration, provided
                           that after  consummation of the offer,  the Person in
                           question is the Beneficial  Owner of fifteen  percent
                           or  more of the  outstanding  stock  of The  Hartford
                           entitled to vote in the  election of directors of The
                           Hartford  (calculated as provided in paragraph (d) of
                           Rule  13d-3  under  the Act in the case of  rights to
                           acquire stock);

                           (III) the  stockholders of The Hartford shall approve
                           (A) any consolidation or merger in which The Hartford
                           is not the  continuing  or surviving  corporation  or
                           pursuant  to which  shares  of stock of The  Hartford
                           entitled to vote in the  election of directors of the
                           Hartford would be converted into cash,  securities or
                           other  property,  other than a merger of The Hartford
                           in  which  holders  of  such  stock  of The  Hartford
                           immediately   prior  to  the  merger  have  the  same
                           proportionate  ownership of stock entitled to vote in
                           the   election   of   directors   of  the   surviving
                           corporation   immediately   after   the   merger   as
                           immediately before, or (B) any sale, lease,  exchange
                           or other transfer (in one  transaction or a series of
                           related transactions) of all or substantially all the
                           assets of The Hartford; or

                           (IV) within any 12 month period, the persons who were
                           directors  of The  Hartford  immediately  before  the
                           beginning of such period (the "Incumbent Directors of
                           The Hartford") shall cease (for any reason other than
                           death) to constitute at least a majority of the board
                           of   directors  of  The  Hartford  or  the  board  of
                           directors of any successor to The Hartford,  provided
                           that  any  director  of The  Hartford  who  was not a
                           director  of The  Hartford at the  beginning  of such
                           period shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director of
                           The Hartford if such  director (A) was elected to the
                           board of  directors  of 


                                     - 9 -

                           The Hartford by, or on the  recommendation of or with
                           the approval of, at least two-thirds of the directors
                           of The  Hartford  who  then  qualified  as  Incumbent
                           Directors of The Hartford either actually or by prior
                           operation  of  this  clause  (IV),  and  (B)  was not
                           designated  by a  Person  who  has  entered  into  an
                           agreement  with The Hartford to effect a  transaction
                           described in the immediately  preceding  clause (III)
                           hereof.

                  (b)  HARTFORD  LIFE  COVERED  EMPLOYEES.  For a Hartford  Life
                       ----------------------------------
                  Covered  Employee,  a "CHANGE OF  CONTROL"  shall be deemed to
                  have occurred if:

                           (I) a report on Schedule  13D shall be filed with the
                           Securities  and  Exchange   Commission   pursuant  to
                           Section 13(d) of the Act  disclosing  that any Person
                           (within  the  meaning of  Section  13(d) of the Act),
                           other than Hartford  Life,  Inc. or The Hartford or a
                           subsidiary of either of the foregoing or any employee
                           benefit plan sponsored by Hartford Life,  Inc. or The
                           Hartford or a subsidiary of either of the  foregoing,
                           is the  Beneficial  Owner of the  greater  of (A) the
                           percentage of the outstanding stock of Hartford Life,
                           Inc. entitled to vote in the election of directors of
                           Hartford  Life,  Inc.  owned  at  such  time  by  The
                           Hartford,  or  (B)  twenty  percent  or  more  of the
                           outstanding  stock of Hartford Life, Inc. entitled to
                           vote in the election of  directors of Hartford  Life,
                           Inc.

                           (II) any Person  (within the meaning of Section 13(d)
                           of the Act),  other than Hartford  Life,  Inc. or The
                           Hartford or a subsidiary  of either of the  foregoing
                           or any employee  benefit  plan  sponsored by Hartford
                           Life,  Inc. or The Hartford or a subsidiary of either
                           of the foregoing, shall purchase shares pursuant to a
                           tender  offer or exchange  offer to acquire any stock
                           of  Hartford  Life,  Inc.  entitled  to  vote  in the
                           election of  directors  of Hartford  Life,  Inc.  (or
                           securities   convertible   into   stock)   for  cash,
                           securities or any other consideration,  provided that
                           after  consummation  of  the  offer,  the  Person  in
                           question  is the  Beneficial  Owner of the greater of
                           (A) the  percentage of the  outstanding  stock of the
                           Hartford Life, Inc.  entitled to vote in the election
                           of directors  of Hartford  Life,  Inc.  owned at such
                           time by The Hartford,  or (B) fifteen percent or more
                           of the  outstanding  stock  of  Hartford  Life,  Inc.
                           entitled  to vote in the  election  of  directors  of
                           Hartford  Life,  Inc.   (calculated  as  provided  in
                           paragraph (d) of Rule 13d-3 under the Act in the case
                           of rights to acquire stock);

                           (III) the  stockholders  of Hartford Life, Inc. shall
                           approve (A) any  consolidation  or merger of Hartford
                           Life,  Inc. in which Hartford  Life,  Inc. is not the
                           continuing  or surviving  corporation  or pursuant to
                           which shares of stock of Hartford Life, Inc. entitled
                           to vote in the  election  of  directors  of  Hartford
                           Life,  Inc. would be converted into cash,  securities
                           or other  property,  other than a merger of  Hartford
                           Life, Inc. in which holders of such stock of Hartford
                           Life, Inc.  immediately  prior to the merger have the

                                     - 10 -

                           same  proportionate  ownership  of stock  entitled to
                           vote in the election of  directors  of the  surviving
                           corporation   immediately   after   the   merger   as
                           immediately before, or (B) any sale, lease,  exchange
                           or other transfer (in one  transaction or a series of
                           related transactions) of all or substantially all the
                           assets of the Hartford Life, Inc.;

                           (IV) within any 12 month period, the persons who were
                           directors of Hartford Life, Inc.  immediately  before
                           the   beginning   of  such  period  (the   "Incumbent
                           Directors  of  Hartford  Life")  shall cease (for any
                           reason  other than  death) to  constitute  at least a
                           majority of the board of directors of Hartford  Life,
                           Inc. or the board of  directors  of any  successor to
                           Hartford  Life,  Inc.,  provided that any director of
                           Hartford  Life,  Inc.  who  was  not  a  director  of
                           Hartford  Life,  Inc. at the beginning of such period
                           shall  be  deemed  to be  an  Incumbent  Director  of
                           Hartford Life,  Inc. if such director (A) was elected
                           to the board of directors of Hartford Life,  Inc. by,
                           or on the  recommendation of or with the approval of,
                           at least  two-thirds  of the  directors  of  Hartford
                           Life, Inc. who then qualified as Incumbent  Directors
                           of Hartford Life,  Inc.  either  actually or by prior
                           operation  of  this  clause  (IV),  and  (B)  was not
                           designated  by a  Person  who  has  entered  into  an
                           agreement  with  Hartford  Life,  Inc.  to  effect  a
                           transaction  described in the  immediately  preceding
                           clause (III) hereof; or

                           (V) a Change of Control  as  defined  in the  Section
                           11(C)(iii)(a)   above  occurs  with  respect  to  The
                           Hartford  at a time  when The  Hartford  directly  or
                           indirectly  owns more than 50% of the combined voting
                           power and the value of the capital  stock of Hartford
                           Life, Inc;

                 provided  that a sale of all of the interest of The Hartford in
                 --------------
                Hartford Life,  Inc. shall not be considered a Change of Control
                with respect to a Hartford Life Participant for purposes of this
                Plan.

         (iv) "PERSON" has the meaning  ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9)
               ------
         of the Act, as supplemented by Section  13(d)(3) of the Act;  provided,
         however, that Person shall not include (a) The Hartford, Hartford Life,
         Inc.,  any  subsidiary  of either of the  foregoing or any other Person
         controlled  by  either  of the  foregoing,  (b) any  trustee  or  other
         fiduciary  holding  securities  under any employee  benefit plan of The
         Hartford or Hartford  Life,  Inc. or of any subsidiary of either of the
         foregoing,  or (c) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly,  by the
         stockholders  of The Hartford or Hartford Life,  Inc. in  substantially
         the same proportions as their respective ownership of securities of The
         Hartford or Hartford Life, Inc.

         (v)  "HARTFORD  FIRE  COVERED   EMPLOYEE"  means  a  Covered   Employee
               ----------------------------------
         principally  employed by Hartford Fire Insurance  Company (a subsidiary
         of The Hartford), or a successor by merger, purchase or otherwise.

         (vi)  "HARTFORD  LIFE  COVERED   EMPLOYEE"  means  a  Covered  Employee
                ----------------------------------
         principally 

                                     - 11 -

         employed by Hartford Life and Accident  Insurance Company (a subsidiary
         of  Hartford  Life,  Inc.),  or a  successor  by  merger,  purchase  or
         otherwise.

         (vii) "HARTFORD LIFE,  INC." means Hartford Life,  Inc., or a successor
                -------------------
         by merger, purchase or otherwise.

         (viii)  "TERMINATION FOR CAUSE" For purposes of this Section 11 only, a
                  ---------------------
         Termination  For Cause is limited to the following:  a termination of a
         Covered   Employee's   employment  due  to  (a)  a  Covered  Employee's
         conviction  of a felony;  (b) an act or acts of extreme  dishonesty  or
         gross  misconduct  on a Covered  Employee's  part  which  result or are
         intended  to result in  material  damage to the  Company's  business or
         reputation;  or (c) repeated material  violations by a Covered Employee
         of his or her  obligations to devote his or her full  attention  during
         normal business hours to the business and affairs of the Company and to
         use his or her best efforts to perform  faithfully and  efficiently the
         responsibilities assigned to such Covered Employee except for time away
         from work  authorized by Company  policy or state or federal law, which
         violations  are  demonstrably  willful  and  deliberate  on the Covered
         Employee's  part and which result in material  damage to the  Company's
         business or reputation.

         (ix) "THE HARTFORD" means The Hartford  Financial Services Group, Inc.,
               ------------
         or a successor by merger, purchase or otherwise.


12. REHIRING. If you are rehired by the Company while receiving Periodic Payment
    --------
of severance you will no longer be entitled to severance pay under this Plan. If
a lump sum  payment of  severance  pay was made to you,  you will be required to
reimburse  the Company in an amount  equal to the number of weeks of Weekly Base
Pay  provided  to you  under  the  Schedule  of  Severance  Pay,  less an amount
calculated by multiplying  such number of weeks of Weekly Base Pay by the number
of  weeks  elapsing  from  the  Effective   Date  to  your  rehire  date.   Such
reimbursement must be made as a condition to your being rehired.


13. OFFSET. Any severance pay provided to you under this Plan shall be offset by
    ------
reducing such amount by any  severance  pay,  termination  pay or similar pay or
allowance  which you  receive or are  entitled  to  receive  (A) under any other
Company plan,  policy,  practice,  program or  arrangement;  (B) pursuant to any
individual  written  employment  agreement or other written  agreement  with the
Company; or (C) by virtue of any law, custom or practice excluding, however, any
unemployment compensation which you may receive as a state unemployment award.

Any  severance  pay  provided  to you under  this Plan  shall  also be offset by
reducing such amount by any  severance  pay,  termination  pay or similar pay or
allowance  you may  have  received  as a  result  of any  prior  termination  of
employment  with the Company  unless,  as of the Effective  Date,  you have been
re-employed for a period  exceeding one year, in which case you will be eligible
to receive severance pay according to the above Schedule of Severance Pay to 

                                     - 12 -

the extent permitted by this Plan.

                                     - 13 -

Any  severance  pay and any notice pay  provided to you under this Plan shall be
offset by reducing such severance pay and notice pay by any payments made to you
by the Company pursuant to the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act
("WARN") and any similar  federal,  state or local law. Except as provided above
with  regard to WARN and similar  laws,  notice pay under this Plan shall not be
subject to offset.


14.  ADMINISTRATION  OF PLAN.  The Company is designated as named fiduciary for'
     -----------------------
this Plan within the meaning of Section 402(a) of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended.

Responsibility  for  administration  of  this  Plan  rests  with  Hartford  Fire
Insurance  Company's Vice President,  Human Resources  Services (or other person
holding a position  with similar  responsibilities)  or his or her designee (the
"Plan Administrator").  The Plan Administrator shall have the exclusive right to
interpret this Plan,  adopt any rules and regulations for carrying out this Plan
as may be  appropriate  and decide any and all matters  arising under this Plan,
including,  but not  limited  to,  the right to  determine  appeals.  Subject to
applicable federal and state law, all  interpretations and decisions by the Plan
Administrator  shall be final,  conclusive  and binding on all parties  affected
thereby.


15.  TERMINATION OR AMENDMENT.  The Plan  Administrator  shall have the power to
     ------------------------
make any  amendments  to the Plan  that do not  involve a  material  cost to the
Company or are  required by  applicable  law. Any other  amendments  to the Plan
shall be made by the Board of  Directors  of Hartford  Fire  Insurance  Company.
Hartford Fire Insurance  Company through the appropriate  committee of its Board
of Directors,  reserves the right in its sole  discretion to terminate,  modify,
amend or change this Plan ("Plan  Change") at any time without  prior notice and
no consent of any person shall be required, except that (A) no such Plan Change,
                                            -----------
and no Plan  amendment made by the Plan  Administrator,  may reduce or adversely
affect  severance  pay for any employee who is already  receiving  severance pay
under the Plan prior to such Plan change or amendment, and (B) in the event of a
Change of Control as defined in Section 11 above, no modification,  amendment or
other change shall be made to this Plan,  and this Plan shall not be terminated,
for a period of three years following the date of such Change of Control.


16.  MISCELLANEOUS.
     -------------

o    In cases where  severance pay is provided  under this Plan,  pay in lieu of
     any unused  vacation  entitlement  will be paid to you in a single lump sum
     payment by the time  severance  pay ceases.  Such lump sum payment will not
     have the effect of extending your service with the Company for any purpose.

o    Benefits  under  this Plan are paid for by the  Company  entirely  from its
     general assets.

o    The  section  headings  contained  in this  Plan are  included  solely  for
     convenience of reference and shall not in any way affect the meaning of any
     provision of this Plan.

                                     - 14 -

OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION
- - ---------------------------

(A) NOTICE.  THIS PLAN IS NOT A CONTRACT OF  EMPLOYMENT.  IT DOES NOT  GUARANTEE
YOUR  EMPLOYMENT  FOR ANY  SPECIFIED  PERIOD AND DOES NOT LIMIT THE RIGHT OF THE
COMPANY  TO  TERMINATE  YOUR  EMPLOYMENT  AT ANY TIME FOR ANY  REASON  EXCEPT AS
PROVIDED IN SECTION 11 ABOVE. EMPLOYMENT WITH THE COMPANY IS TERMINABLE AT WILL.

ANY EMPLOYEE WHO IS NOT OBLIGATED TO CONTINUE  EMPLOYMENT WITH THE COMPANY UNDER
A FORMAL  WRITTEN  EMPLOYMENT  AGREEMENT  WITH THE COMPANY  RETAINS THE RIGHT TO
TERMINATE  EMPLOYMENT AT ANY TIME, WITH OR WITHOUT  NOTICE,  AND WITH OR WITHOUT
CAUSE. LIKEWISE, THE COMPANY CAN TERMINATE THE EMPLOYMENT OF ANY EMPLOYEE AT ANY
TIME, WITH OR WITHOUT NOTICE,  WITH OR WITHOUT CAUSE,  SUBJECT TO APPLICABLE LAW
AND SECTION 11 ABOVE.

No  supervisor  or  manager  has any  authority  to  enter  into  an  employment
agreement,  written  or  verbal,  or to make any  agreement  or  representations
contrary  to the  foregoing,  unless it is  authorized  in  writing by the Chief
Executive  Officer or President of the Company and such agreement is in writing.
Further no Company document,  communication or publication  should be understood
as, or construed as, extending such a representation.

(B) SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION.  This document is the summary plan description for
    ------------------------
The Hartford 1997  Executive  Severance Pay Plan. It consists of the text of the
Plan and the portion of this document  entitled "Other  Important  Information."
This summary plan  description  and the Plan contain the complete  provisions of
the Plan and govern in all cases.  Definitions used in the text of the Plan also
apply to the section entitled "Other Important Information."

(C) PLAN SPONSOR. The Plan Sponsor is Hartford Fire Insurance Company.
    ------------

(D) NAME OF PLAN. The name of the Plan is The Hartford 1997 Executive  Severance
    ------------
Pay Plan.  

(E)  BENEFITS.  The  benefit  under this Plan is  severance  pay.  The Plan is a
     --------
welfare benefit plan under the Employee  Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
as  amended  ("ERISA").   A  detailed  description  of  your  benefits  and  the
circumstances  under  which  benefits  may be lost or denied is set forth in the
preceding pages of this document.

(F) NO PLAN  FUNDING.  The Plan is  unfunded.  Benefits  under the Plan are paid
    ----------------
entirely from the general assets of the Company.

(G) EMPLOYER  AND EMPLOYER  IDENTIFICATION  NUMBER.  For purposes of ERISA,  the
    ----------------------------------------------
Employer of Hartford Fire Covered  Employees is Hartford Fire Insurance  Company
(employer   identification  number  06-0383750),   located  at  Hartford  Plaza,
Hartford,  Connecticut,  06115,  and  the  Employer  of  Hartford  Life  Covered
Employees is Hartford Life and Accident Insurance Company (06-0838648),  located
at 200 Hopmeadow Street, Simsbury, Connecticut 06089.

                                     - 15 -

(H) PLAN NUMBER. The Plan number is 545.
    -----------

(I) PLAN  ADMINISTRATOR.  The Plan is  administered  by Hartford Fire  Insurance
    -------------------
Company's Vice President,  Human  Resources  Services (or other person holding a
position with similar  responsibilities).  The mailing  address and phone of the
Plan  Administrator  is: Severance Plan  Administrator,  The Hartford,  Hartford
Plaza, Hartford, CT 06115, telephone: (860) 547-5000.

(J) PLAN RECORDS.  The fiscal records for the Plan are kept on a plan year basis
    ------------
ending on December 31st of each year.

(K) PAYMENT OF BENEFITS.  Benefits will be provided in accordance  with the Plan
    -------------------
and it is not necessary  for you to file a claim to obtain  payment of benefits.
However,  you may be required to furnish certain  information as required by the
Plan Administrator.

(L) APPEALING A DENIAL OF BENEFITS. If you do not receive severance pay, you may
    ------------------------------
ask the  Company to review  the denial of  benefits  by making  your  request in
writing to the Plan  Administrator  (at the address  shown above) within 90 days
after your Effective  Date. You will be given a written final decision within 60
days of the date your request is received,  or within 120 days if  circumstances
require additional time.


(M) AGENT FOR SERVICE OF LEGAL  PROCESS.  The agent for service of legal process
    -----------------------------------
and address are: Corporate Secretary,  Hartford Fire Insurance Company, Hartford
Plaza, Hartford, Connecticut 06115.

(N) YOUR RIGHTS UNDER ERISA.  The  following is a statement of your rights under
    -----------------------
Federal law as required by the U.S.  Department of Labor.  As a  participant  in
this Plan, you are entitled to certain rights and protections under ERISA. ERISA
provides that all Plan participants shall be entitled to:

o    Examine,  without charge, at the Plan  Administrator's  office and at other
     specified locations,  all Plan documents, and copies of all documents filed
     by the Plan with the U.S.  Department  of Labor,  such as  detailed  annual
     reports and Plan descriptions.

o    Obtain copies of all Plan documents and other Plan information upon written
     request to the Plan Administrator.  The Administrator may make a reasonable
     charge for the copies.

o    Receive  a  summary  of  the  Plan's  annual  financial  report.  The  Plan
     Administrator is required by law to furnish each participant with a copy of
     this summary annual report.

In addition to creating rights for Plan participants,  ERISA imposes duties upon
the people who are responsible  for the operation of the employee  benefit plan.
The people who operate your 

                                     - 16 -

plan,  called  "fiduciaries"  of the plan, have a duty to do so prudently and in
the interest of you and other Plan  participants and  beneficiaries.  No one may
prevent you from  obtaining a benefit or  exercising  your rights under ERISA by
firing you or discriminating against you in any way.

If your  claim  for a benefit  is denied in whole or in part you must  receive a
written explanation of the reason for the denial. You have the right to have the
Plan review and reconsider such a denial.

Under  ERISA,  there are steps you can take to  enforce  the above  rights.  For
instance,  if you request materials from the Plan and do not receive them within
30 days,  you may file suit in a federal  court.  In such a case,  the court may
require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to $100 a
day until you receive the materials,  unless the materials were not sent because
of reasons beyond the control of the Plan Administrator.

If you have a claim for  benefits  which is denied  or  ignored,  in whole or in
part,  you may file suit in a state or federal  court.  If it should happen that
Plan fiduciaries  misuse the Plan's money, or if you are  discriminated  against
for asserting your rights,  you may seek assistance from the U.S.  Department of
Labor, or you may file suit in a federal court.

The court will  decide who should  pay court  costs and legal  fees.  If you are
successful,  the court may order the person you have sued to pay these costs and
fees.  If you lose,  the court  may order you to pay these  costs and fees,  for
example, if it finds your claim is frivolous.

If you  have  any  questions  about  the  Plan,  you  should  contact  the  Plan
Administrator.  If you have any  questions  about this  statement  or about your
rights  under ERISA,  you should  contact the nearest Area Office of the Pension
and Welfare Benefit Administration, U.S. Department of Labor.

                                     - 17 -


                                                                   EXHIBIT 12.01




                             THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.





                                                                   EXHIBIT 21.01




                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.01



                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                    -----------------------------------------



To The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.:

As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation of our
report  included  in  this  Form  10-K,  into  the  Company's  previously  filed
registration  statements  (i) on  Forms  S-3  (Registration  Nos.  33-98014  and
333-12617)  and (ii) on Forms S-8  (Registration  Nos.  33-80663,  33-80665  and
333-12563).


                                                             Arthur Andersen LLP



Hartford, Connecticut
March 26, 1999




