
10-K
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.


================================================================================

                                    FORM 10-K

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

(Mark One)

[X]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
        ACT OF 1934
          For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997

                                       OR

[ ]     TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE  SECURITIES
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
          For the transition  period from ____________ to ______________

                         Commission file number 0-19277

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          DELAWARE                                             13-3317783
(State or other jurisdiction of                             (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                           Identification Number)

                HARTFORD PLAZA, HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT 06115-1900
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (860) 547-5000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities  registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act: the following,  all
of which are registered on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.:

       Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
       6.375% Notes due November 1, 2002
       7.30 % Debentures due November 1, 2015
       7.70% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities,  Series A, issued
       by  Hartford  Capital  I  

       8.35% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities, Series B, issued
       by Hartford Capital II

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed  by  Section  13 or 15 (d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter  period that the  registrant
was  required  to file such  reports),  and (2) has been  subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No[ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the best
of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

As of February 27, 1998,  there were  outstanding  117,841,749  shares of Common
Stock, $0.01 par value per share, of the registrant.  The aggregate market value
of the  shares of Common  Stock held by  non-affiliates  of the  registrant  was
$11,515,215,088,  based on the  closing  price of $98.25 per share of the Common
Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on February 27, 1998.

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Portions of the  Registrant's  definitive  proxy  statement  for its 1998 annual
meeting of shareholders  are  incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K.
================================================================================

                                    CONTENTS


        ITEM  DESCRIPTION                                                 PAGE

PART I    1   Business of The Hartford                                      2
          2   Properties                                                    8
          3   Legal Proceedings                                             8
          4   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders           8

PART II   5   Market for The Hartford's Common Stock and Related 
              Stockholder Matters                                           8
          6   Selected Financial Data                                       9
          7   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
              and Results of Operations                                    10
          7A  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   42
          8   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                  42
          9   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
              and Financial Disclosure                                     42

PART III  10  Directors and Executive Officers of The Hartford             42
          11  Executive Compensation                                       42
          12  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and 
              Management                                                   42
          13  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions               42

PART IV   14  Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports        
              on Form 8-K                                                  42
              Signatures                                                  II-1
              Exhibits Index                                              II-2




PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS OF THE HARTFORD
(DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT FOR SHARE DATA UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)

GENERAL

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.,  formerly ITT Hartford Group, Inc.,
and  its  subsidiaries  ("The  Hartford"  or the  "Company"),  headquartered  in
Connecticut,  are among the largest  providers  of both  property  and  casualty
insurance  and life  insurance  products  in the United  States.  Hartford  Fire
Insurance  Company  ("Hartford  Fire"),  founded  in 1810,  is the oldest of The
Hartford's subsidiaries.  Hartford Fire and its subsidiaries write insurance and
reinsurance  in the United  States and  internationally.  At December  31, 1997,
total assets and total stockholders'  equity of The Hartford were $131.7 billion
and $6.1 billion, respectively.

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation,  was formed
in December,  1985 as a wholly-owned  subsidiary of ITT Corporation  ("ITT"). On
December 19, 1995, ITT distributed all of the outstanding shares of The Hartford
Financial  Services Group, Inc. to ITT shareholders of record in an action known
herein as the  "Distribution".  As a result of the  Distribution,  The  Hartford
became  an  independent,  publicly  traded  company.  In  connection  with  this
transaction,  ITT transferred the ownership of First State Insurance Company and
Fencourt Reinsurance Company, Ltd. ("Fencourt"), both of which were wholly owned
subsidiaries of ITT, to The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. prior to the
Distribution. (Additional information regarding the Distribution may be found in
Note 2 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  in  Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results of  Operations
("MD&A") within the Distribution section.)

On February 10, 1997, Hartford Life, Inc. ("HLI"), the holding company parent of
The Hartford's  significant  life insurance  subsidiaries,  filed a registration
statement,  as amended,  with the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to
the  initial  public  offering  of HLI Class A common  stock  (the  "Offering").
Pursuant  to the  Offering  on May 22,  1997,  HLI sold to the public 26 million
shares at $28.25 per share and received proceeds,  net of offering expenses,  of
$687.

The 26 million shares sold in the Offering  represented  approximately  18.6% of
the equity ownership in HLI and approximately  4.4% of the combined voting power
of HLI's  Class A and Class B common  stock.  The  Hartford  owns all of the 114
million  outstanding  shares  of  Class B  common  stock  of  HLI,  representing
approximately  81.4% of the equity ownership in HLI and  approximately  95.6% of
the combined voting power of HLI's Class A and Class B common stock.  Holders of
Class A common stock  generally have identical  rights to the holders of Class B
common stock except that the holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one
vote per share while  holders of Class B common stock are entitled to five votes
per share on all matters submitted to a vote of HLI's  stockholders.  Also, each
share of Class B common  stock is  convertible  into one share of Class A common
stock (a) upon the  transfer of such share of Class B common stock by the holder
thereof to a  non-affiliate  (except where the shares of Class B common stock so
transferred represent 50% or more of all the outstanding shares of common stock,
calculated without regard to the difference in voting rights between the classes
of common  stock) or (b) in the event that the  number of shares of  outstanding
Class  B  common  stock  is less  than  the 50% of all  the  common  stock  then
outstanding.  As of December  31, 1997,  The  Hartford  continued to maintain an
81.4% equity ownership in HLI.

In connection  with the Offering,  The Hartford  reported a $368 gain related to
the  increased  value of its equity  ownership  in HLI. The  Hartford's  current
intent is to continue to  beneficially  own at least 80% of HLI, but it is under
no contractual obligation to do so.

As a holding  company,  The  Hartford  Financial  Services  Group,  Inc.  has no
significant  business  operations  of its  own  and,  therefore,  relies  on the
dividends from its insurance company subsidiaries, which are primarily domiciled
in  Connecticut,  as the  principal  source  of cash to  meet  its  obligations.
Additional  information  regarding  the  cash  flow and  liquidity  needs of The
Hartford  Financial  Services Group,  Inc. may be found in the Capital Resources
and Liquidity section of the MD&A.

REPORTING SEGMENTS

The Hartford's reporting segments consist of North American Property & Casualty,
Life, International,  and Other Operations.  Included in Other Operations is the
effect of an 18.6% minority interest in HLI's operating  results.  The following
is a description of each segment,  including a discussion of principal products,
methods of distribution, and competitive environments. Additional information on
The Hartford's  business segments may be found in the MD&A on pages 10 to 41 and
Note 1 and Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

NORTH AMERICAN PROPERTY & CASUALTY

The Hartford's North American  Property & Casualty segment is the eighth largest
property and casualty insurance  operation in the United States based on written
premiums  for the year ended  December 31, 1996,  according to A.M.  Best.  With
written  premiums of $5.8 billion for the year ended  December  31, 1997,  North
American Property & Casualty is the largest of the Company's segments.  In 1997,
the states producing 5% or more of this segment's written premiums were New York
(11%),  California  (10%),  Florida (8%),  Connecticut  (6%) and Texas (5%). The
North American  Property & Casualty  segment  generated $6.7 billion in revenues
and $583 in net income in 1997.

Principal Products
- ------------------

The Hartford's  North  American  Property & Casualty  segment  consists of three
major lines of  business:  Commercial,  Personal  and  Reinsurance.  These lines
provide a wide range of insurance  coverages  for  individuals  and  businesses.
Commercial is the largest line of business with $3.2 billion in written premiums
in 

                                     - 2 -

1997 and offers workers' compensation,  property, automobile, liability, marine,
agricultural  and bond coverages.  The Hartford ranks among the largest carriers
of personal lines insurance, providing homeowners, automobile and fire coverages
to  individuals  across  North  America  including  a special  program  designed
exclusively for members of the American Association of Retired Persons ("AARP").
Additionally,  The Hartford is a major global reinsurer,  with operations in the
United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, Germany and Hong Kong.

Methods of Distribution
- -----------------------

The North American Property & Casualty segment provides  insurance  products and
services  through  its home  office  located in  Hartford,  Connecticut,  and 39
domestic regional offices. The Company markets its products nationwide utilizing
a variety of  distribution  networks  including the use of  approximately  5,900
independent agents and direct marketing including trade associations,  customers
of financial  institutions and employee groups.  Independent  agents,  who often
represent other companies as well, are compensated on a commission basis and are
not employees of The Hartford.  Additionally, the Company assumes insurance from
other  insurers  and cedes  insurance  to other  insurers or  reinsurers  in the
worldwide reinsurance market.

Competition
- -----------

The property and casualty insurance industry is a highly challenging environment
in which The Hartford  competes with other stock  companies,  mutual  companies,
self insurers and other underwriting  organizations.  Intense competition within
the financial  services  industry has created difficult market conditions in the
domestic property and casualty industry. This competitive environment is created
by tremendous price  competition,  consolidation and globalization of companies,
excess capital within the property and casualty insurance industry,  exploration
and  utilization  of  alternative  distribution  techniques and emphasis on cost
containment and reduction.

A  major  competitive  advantage  of The  Hartford  is the  exclusive  licensing
arrangement with AARP to provide personal automobile,  homeowners and home-based
business  insurance  products  to its members  through the year 2002.  Favorable
"baby   boomer"   demographics   are  expected  to  increase   AARP   membership
significantly during this period. During 1996, The Hartford's  relationship with
AARP was further strengthened when it was awarded a contract to provide customer
service for all health  insurance  products  offered  through AARP's Health Care
Options effective January 1, 1998.

LIFE

The Hartford's Life segment provides  insurance and retirement  products for the
benefit of  millions  of  individuals.  This  segment has been among the fastest
growing major life insurance  operations for the past several years, as measured
by assets.  Growth in the Life segment's total assets has been primarily  driven
by its sale of variable  annuities.  The Company was rated the number one writer
of variable  annuities for 1997  according to the Variable  Annuity and Research
Data Service (VARDS) with an 11% market share,  and sold  approximately  $869 of
mutual funds in its first full year  offering  the  product,  resulting in total
mutual fund assets of $972 at December 31, 1997. According to the latest results
published  by the Life  Insurance  Marketing  and Research  Association  (LIMRA)
(December 1997), the Company was the second largest provider of group disability
insurance for the nine months ended  September 30, 1997. In addition,  according
to A.M.  Best's latest  available  data, The Hartford's  domestic life insurance
operations are ranked as the sixth largest  consolidated  life insurance company
in the United  States based on statutory  assets as of December 31, 1996. In the
past year,  the Life  segment's  total  assets have grown 26% to $101 billion at
December 31, 1997. The Life segment  generated $4.7 billion in revenues and $306
in net income in 1997.

The Life  segment,  headquartered  in Simsbury,  Connecticut,  operates in three
principal divisions:  Annuity, Individual Life Insurance, and Employee Benefits.
The Life segment  also  maintains a Guaranteed  Investment  Contracts  division,
which is primarily  comprised of business  written prior to 1995 and a Corporate
Operation through which it reports items that are not directly  allocable to any
of its business divisions.

Principal Products
- ------------------

The Annuity  division focuses on the savings and retirement needs of the growing
number of individuals who are preparing for retirement or have already  retired.
The variety of products sold within this division reflects the diverse nature of
the market.  These products include individual variable annuities,  fixed market
value adjusted  (MVA)  annuities,  deferred  compensation  and  retirement  plan
services,  structured  settlement  contracts and other special  purpose  annuity
contracts,  investment management services and mutual funds. The Individual Life
Insurance  division,  which focuses on the high end estate and business planning
markets,  sells a variety of life insurance  products,  including variable life,
universal life, interest-sensitive whole life, and term life insurance policies.
The Employee Benefits division sells group insurance  products,  including group
life and group disability  insurance,  and corporate owned life insurance (COLI)
and  engages in certain  international  operations.  The  Guaranteed  Investment
Contracts ("GIC") division consists of guaranteed rate contract ("GRC") business
that is supported by assets held in either the  Company's  general  account or a
guaranteed  separate  account.  Historically,  a  significant  majority of these
contracts  were sold as general  account  contracts  with fixed  rates and fixed
maturities.  The  Company  decided in 1995,  after a thorough  review of its GRC
business, that it would significantly de-emphasize general account GRC, choosing
to  focus  its  distribution  efforts  on  other  products  sold  through  other
divisions.  The Company  internally  segregates  its GIC division  into distinct
blocks of business  which are  separately  managed.  The  Company's GRC business
written prior to 1995 is referred to as Closed Book GRC.  Management  expects no
material income or loss from the Guaranteed Investment Contracts division in the
future.

Methods of Distribution
- -----------------------

The Life segment sells a variety of individual and group financial  services and
insurance products  primarily through

                                     - 3 -

broker-dealers,  financial  institutions,  licensed agents,  insurance  brokers,
associations  and third party  administrators,  often with the assistance of the
Company's  internal  sales force.  The Annuity  division  primarily  distributes
through  broker-dealers  and financial  institutions  for individual  sales, and
through  employees of the Company for  institutional  sales. The Individual Life
Insurance   division   distributes  its  products  through   insurance   agents,
broker-dealers  and financial  institutions,  typically  assisted by a dedicated
group of Company  employees.  The Employee Benefits division uses an experienced
group of Company  employees  to  distribute  its  products  through a variety of
distribution  outlets  including  insurance  agents,  brokers,  associations and
third-party administrators.

Competition
- -----------

The Life segment competes with over 2,000 life insurance companies in the United
States,  as well as certain  banks,  securities  brokerage  firms and investment
advisors who market  investment and  retirement-oriented  products.  Competitive
factors in the life insurance  industry include,  but are not limited to, price,
name  recognition,   quality  of  distribution  systems,  customer  service  and
financial strength and claims-paying  ability ratings. In the individual annuity
market, sales volume is also dependent on fund performance, an array of fund and
product  options,  product design and credited rates.  The Company was rated the
number one writer of  variable  annuities  for 1997  according  to the  Variable
Annuity and Research Data Service with an 11% market share.

INTERNATIONAL

The Hartford's  International  segment  consists of Western  European  companies
offering a variety of  insurance  products  designed  to meet the needs of local
customers. These companies include ITT London & Edinburgh ("L&E"), headquartered
in the United  Kingdom,  Zwolsche  Algemeene  ("Zwolsche"),  located in both the
Netherlands  and  Belgium,  and ITT Ercos in Spain.  The  International  segment
generated  $1.7  billion  in  revenues  and $110 in net  income in 1997.  Assets
totaled $4.7 billion at December 31, 1997.

Principal Products
- ------------------

L&E offers both personal and commercial  lines property and casualty  insurance.
Personal lines include  automobile,  homeowners and creditor  (including  credit
life) products. Commercial lines include property and liability products sold to
small to medium sized  clients.  L&E also provides  marine  products  within the
London market. Zwolsche sells property and casualty and life insurance products.
Personal  lines products at Zwolsche  include  automobile,  hospitalization  and
homeowners.  Commercial products, primarily property coverage, are sold to small
to medium sized  clients.  Zwolsche life insurance  operations  offer term life,
mortgage,  savings and pension  products.  Additionally,  Zwolsche  has an asset
management  business  offering  investment  services  through  a range of mutual
funds.  ITT Ercos provides both personal and commercial,  property and casualty,
and life insurance products.


Methods of Distribution
- -----------------------

The International  segment conducts its business  primarily through  independent
brokers who are  compensated on a commission  basis.  Both L&E and Zwolsche also
distribute their products through various financial institutions.

Competition
- -----------

The United Kingdom and the Netherlands have  historically been open markets with
competitors  operating from around the world. While Spain has only opened up its
market  within the last fifteen  years,  it has  attracted  significant  foreign
capital  with  many of the  large  global  insurance  companies  establishing  a
presence,  to the extent that foreign capital now exceeds domestic capital. Each
market has its own unique  characteristics but, in general,  competition is very
strong in most product lines both from existing  competitors  and relatively new
market entrants.

OTHER OPERATIONS

The Hartford's Other Operations  consist of the property and casualty  insurance
operations of The Hartford which have ceased  writing new and renewal  business.
These operations  primarily  include First State Insurance  Company,  located in
Boston,   Massachusetts,   Fencourt  and  Heritage  Reinsurance  Company,  Ltd.,
headquartered in Bermuda,  and Excess Insurance Company Limited,  located in the
United Kingdom.

The primary objectives of Other Operations are the proper disposition of claims,
the resolution of disputes, and the collection of reinsurance proceeds primarily
related  to  policies  written  and  reinsured  prior  to 1985.  As such,  Other
Operations  have no new  product  sales,  distribution  system,  or  competitive
issues.

Included  in Other  Operations  is the effect of an 18.6%  minority  interest in
HLI's operating results.

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY RESERVES

The Hartford  establishes  reserves to provide for the estimated costs of paying
claims made by  policyholders or against  policyholders.  These reserves include
estimates  for both  claims  that have been  reported  and those  that have been
incurred  but not yet  reported to The  Hartford  and include  estimates  of all
expenses  associated with processing and settling these claims.  This estimation
process is primarily  based on historical  experience  and involves a variety of
actuarial techniques which analyze trends and other relevant factors.

The  Hartford  continually  reviews its  estimated  claims and claim  adjustment
expense  reserves  as  additional  experience  and other  relevant  data  become
available and reserve  levels are adjusted  accordingly.  Such  adjustments  are
reflected in net income of the period in which they are made. Further discussion
on The  Hartford's  property and casualty  reserves may be found in the Reserves
section of the MD&A.

The Hartford  continues to receive claims asserting  damages from  environmental
pollution   and  related   clean-up   costs  

                                     - 4 -

and injuries from asbestos and asbestos-related products. Due to deviations from
past  experience  and a  variety  of  social,  economic  and legal  issues,  the
Company's  ability to estimate the future  policy  benefits,  unpaid  claims and
claim adjustment expenses is significantly impacted. A study, which reviewed and
identified  environmental  and  asbestos  exposures  in the United  States,  was
performed  in 1996 and is fully  discussed  in the  Environmental  and  Asbestos
Claims section of the MD&A.

Certain  liabilities for unpaid claims,  principally  for  permanently  disabled
claimants,  terminated reinsurance treaties and certain contracts that fund loss
run-offs for  unrelated  parties,  have been  discounted to present  value.  The
amount of the discount was  approximately  $449 and $472 as of December 31, 1997
and 1996, respectively,  and amortization of the discount had no material effect
on net income during 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

In  the  judgment  of  The  Hartford's  management,  all  information  currently
available has been properly  considered in establishing  the reserves for unpaid
claims and claim adjustment expenses.

A reconciliation of liabilities for unpaid claims and claim adjustment  expenses
is  herein  referenced  from  Note  1(g)  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.  A table depicting the historical development of the liabilities for
unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses follows.





Included  in the  tables  above is the  impact of the  change in The  Hartford's
method of discounting to present value certain workers'  compensation  reserves,
principally for permanently  disabled claimants,  which was effective January 1,
1994.

                                     - 5 -

LIFE RESERVES

In accordance with applicable insurance regulations under which the Life segment
operates,  life insurance  subsidiaries  of The Hartford  establish and carry as
liabilities  actuarially  determined  reserves  which are calculated to meet The
Hartford's  future  obligations.  Reserves  for life  insurance  and  disability
contracts are based on actuarially recognized methods using prescribed morbidity
and mortality tables in general use in the United States,  which are modified to
reflect The Hartford's actual  experience when  appropriate.  These reserves are
computed at amounts that,  with  additions from premiums to be received and with
interest on such reserves  compounded  annually at certain  assumed  rates,  are
expected to be sufficient to meet The  Hartford's  policy  obligations  at their
maturities  or in the event of an insured's  death.  Reserves  include  unearned
premiums,  premium  deposits,  claims reported but not yet paid, claims incurred
but not reported and claims in the process of  settlement.  Reserves for assumed
reinsurance  are computed on bases  essentially  comparable to direct  insurance
reserves.

For The Hartford's  universal life and  interest-sensitive  whole life policies,
reserves are set according to premiums collected,  plus interest credited,  less
charges.  Other fixed death  benefit and  individual  life reserves are based on
assumed investment yield,  persistency,  mortality and morbidity as per commonly
used  actuarial  tables,  expenses and margins for adverse  deviations.  For the
Company's group disability policies, the level of reserves is based on a variety
of  factors  including  particular  diagnoses,  termination  rates  and  benefit
payments.

The  persistency of The  Hartford's  annuity and other  interest-sensitive  life
insurance  reserves is  enhanced by policy  restrictions  on the  withdrawal  of
funds.  Withdrawals in excess of allowable  penalty-free  amounts are assessed a
surrender charge during a penalty period, which is usually at least seven years.
Such surrender charge is initially a percentage of the accumulation value, which
varies by product,  and generally decreases gradually during the penalty period.
Surrender  charges are set at levels to protect The Hartford  from loss on early
terminations  and to reduce the likelihood of  policyholders  terminating  their
policies during periods of increasing  interest rates,  thereby  lengthening the
effective  duration of policy liabilities and improving the Company's ability to
maintain profitability on such policies.

The Hartford's  reserves  comply in all material  respects with state  insurance
department  statutory  requirements;  however,  in  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements,  life insurance reserves are determined in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, which may vary from statutory requirements.

REINSURANCE

In accordance with normal industry  practice,  The Hartford cedes insurance risk
to  reinsurance   companies.   For  property  and  casualty  operations,   these
reinsurance  arrangements provide greater  diversification of business and limit
The Hartford's maximum net loss arising from large risks or catastrophes.

A major portion of The Hartford's property and casualty  reinsurance is effected
under general reinsurance contracts known as treaties, or, in some instances, is
negotiated on an individual risk basis,  known as facultative  reinsurance.  The
Hartford also has in-force excess of loss contracts with reinsurers that protect
it against a specified part or all of certain losses over stipulated amounts.

The ceding of insurance obligations does not discharge the original insurer from
its primary  liability to the  policyholder.  The original  insurer would remain
liable in those situations where the reinsurer is unable to meet the obligations
assumed  under  reinsurance  agreements.  The  Hartford has  established  strict
standards  that  govern  the  placement  of   reinsurance   and  monitors  ceded
reinsurance  security.  Virtually  all of The  Hartford's  property and casualty
reinsurance  is placed  with  reinsurers  that meet  strict  financial  criteria
established by a credit committee.

In accordance with normal industry practice, HLI is involved in both the cession
and assumption of insurance with other insurance and reinsurance  companies.  As
of December 31, 1997, the maximum  amount of life insurance  retained on any one
life by any of the life operations is approximately $2.5,  excluding  accidental
death benefits.

INVESTMENT OPERATIONS

An important  element of the financial  results of The Hartford is the return on
invested  assets.  The Hartford's  investment  activities are primarily  divided
between property and casualty and life operations.  The investment portfolios of
both the property and casualty and the life  operations are managed based on the
underlying characteristics and nature of their respective liabilities.

The  investment  objective of property and  casualty  operations  is to maximize
economic value while  generating  after-tax  income and sufficient  liquidity to
meet corporate and policyholder  obligations.  Property and casualty  investment
strategies are developed based on a variety of factors including business needs,
regulatory requirements and tax considerations.

The primary  investment  objective of the life  operation's  general account and
guaranteed  separate accounts is to maximize  after-tax returns  consistent with
acceptable  risk  parameters,  including  the  management  of the interest  rate
sensitivity of invested assets relative to that of policyholder obligations.

For a further discussion of The Hartford's approach to managing risks, including
derivative  utilization,  see the Capital Markets Risk Management section of the
MD&A, as well as Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

REGULATION AND PREMIUM RATES

Insurance  companies are subject to  comprehensive  and detailed  regulation and
supervision  throughout the United States. The extent of such regulation varies,
but generally has its source in statutes which delegate regulatory,  supervisory
and administrative powers to state insurance departments. Such powers relate to,
among other things,  the standards of solvency

                                     - 6 -

which must be met and  maintained;  the  licensing of insurers and their agents;
the nature of and limitations on investments;  premium rates; claim handling and
trade practices;  restrictions on the size of risks which may be insured under a
single policy; deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; approval
of policy forms; periodic  examinations of the affairs of companies;  annual and
other reports  required to be filed on the  financial  condition of companies or
for other purposes; fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans
and minimum  rates for  accumulation  of surrender  values;  and the adequacy of
reserves and other necessary provisions for unearned premiums, unpaid claims and
claim adjustment expenses and other liabilities, both reported and unreported.

Regulatory  requirements  applying to property and casualty  premium  rates vary
from state to state,  but generally  provide that rates shall not be inadequate,
excessive  or  unfairly  discriminatory.  Rates  for  many  products,  including
automobile and homeowners insurance, are subject to prior regulatory approval in
many  states.  Ocean  marine  insurance  rates are exempt from rate  regulation.
Subject to regulatory requirements,  management determines the rates charged for
its policies.  Methods for arriving at rates vary by product,  exposure  assumed
and size of risk.

While premium rates in the property and casualty  insurance business are for the
most part subject to regulation,  such rates are not in most  instances  uniform
for all  insurers  within a given  jurisdiction,  or in all  jurisdictions.  The
Hartford is a member of various fire, casualty and surety rating  organizations.
For some lines of business,  The Hartford  uses the rates and rating plans which
are filed by these organizations in the various states, while for other lines of
business it uses loss cost data  published by such  organizations.  The Hartford
also  uses  its  own  independent   rates  or  otherwise   departs  from  rating
organization rates, where appropriate.

Most states have enacted  legislation which regulates  insurance holding company
systems such as The Hartford.  This  legislation  provides  that each  insurance
company in the system is required to register with the  insurance  department of
its state of domicile  and furnish  information  concerning  the  operations  of
companies  within the holding  company  system which may  materially  affect the
operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system.
All transactions within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair
and  equitable.  Notice to the insurance  departments  is required  prior to the
consummation  of  transactions  affecting the ownership or control of an insurer
and of certain  material  transactions  between an insurer and any entity in its
holding  company system.  In addition,  certain of such  transactions  cannot be
consummated without the applicable insurance department's prior approval.

State  insurance   regulations   require  property  and  casualty   insurers  to
participate   in  assigned  risk  plans,   reinsurance   facilities   and  joint
underwriting  associations,  which are  mechanisms to provide risks with various
basic or minimum  insurance  coverage  when they are not  available in voluntary
markets.  Such  mechanisms  are  most  prevalent  for  automobile  and  workers'
compensation  insurance,  but a majority of states also mandate participation in
so-called  FAIR Plans or Windstorm  Plans  providing  basic  property  coverage.
Additionally, some states mandate such participation in facilities for providing
medical  malpractice  insurance.  Participation  is based  upon the  amount of a
company's  written  premiums in a particular  state for the classes of insurance
involved.

The extent of insurance  regulation on business outside the United States varies
significantly among the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries
have  minimal   regulatory   requirements,   while  others   regulate   insurers
extensively.   Foreign  insurers  in  many  countries  are  faced  with  greater
restrictions   than   domestic   competitors   domiciled   in  that   particular
jurisdiction.  The Hartford's International operations are comprised of insurers
licensed in their respective countries and, therefore,  are subject to generally
less restrictive domestic insurance regulations.

RATINGS

Reference is made to the Capital  Resources  and  Liquidity  section of the MD&A
under "Ratings".

RISK-BASED CAPITAL

Reference is made to the Capital  Resources  and  Liquidity  section of the MD&A
under "Risk-based Capital".

LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES

Reference is made to the Regulatory Initiatives and Contingencies section of the
MD&A under "Legislative Initiatives".

INSOLVENCY FUND

Reference is made to the Regulatory Initiatives and Contingencies section of the
MD&A under "Insolvency Fund".

NAIC PROPOSALS

Reference is made to the Regulatory Initiatives and Contingencies section of the
MD&A under "NAIC Proposals".

YEAR 2000

Reference is made to the Regulatory Initiatives and Contingencies section of the
MD&A under "Year 2000".

EMPLOYEES

The Hartford had approximately 25,000 employees as of February 28, 1998.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE HARTFORD

Information about the executive  officers of The Hartford who are also directors
and/or  nominees for election as directors is set forth in The  Hartford's  1998
Proxy Statement.  In addition to those executive  officers who are listed in the
1998 Proxy Statement,  listed below are other Company  executive  officers,  the
majority of whom have served in similar  positions for The Hartford prior to the
Distribution (referred to herein as "Hartford Fire"):

                                     - 7 -

JOHN F. DONAHUE,  62, became  Senior Vice  President,  International/Reinsurance
Operations of The Hartford in June 1996. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice
President,  Business  Development and Director of reinsurance  operations of The
Hartford.  He also served as Senior  Underwriting  Officer of Hartford Fire. Mr.
Donahue holds the designation of Chartered Property/Casualty Underwriter. He was
elected  Vice  President  of  Hartford  Fire in 1980 and named  Director  of the
commercial lines of business for Hartford Fire in 1987.

JOSEPH H. GAREAU,  51, has been Executive  Vice  President and Chief  Investment
Officer of Hartford  Fire since 1993 and became  Executive  Vice  President  and
Chief Investment Officer of the Company in December 1995. Prior to that time, he
served as Senior Vice  President and Chief  Investment  Officer for the domestic
property and casualty  operations of Hartford  Fire. Mr. Gareau was elected Vice
President of Hartford Fire in 1987.

HELEN G.  GOODMAN,  57, has been  Senior  Vice  President,  Human  Resources  of
Hartford Fire since 1994 and became Senior Vice  President,  Human  Resources of
the  Company in  December  1995.  Prior to that time,  she held the  position of
Senior Vice President, Human Resources for Tambrands Inc.

EDWARD L. MORGAN,  54, has been Senior Vice President,  Corporate  Relations and
Government Affairs of Hartford Fire since 1993 and became Senior Vice President,
Corporate Relations and Government Affairs of the Company in December 1995. From
1991 to 1993, he served as Vice President and Director of Corporate Relations of
Hartford  Fire.  Prior  to that  time,  Mr.  Morgan  held the  position  of Vice
President of Corporate Relations at Allstate Insurance Company.

JAMES J. WESTERVELT,  51, has been Senior Vice President and Group Controller of
Hartford  Fire since 1994. He was appointed to the same position for the Company
in December 1995. He was elected Vice  President and became Group  Controller in
1989.

MICHAEL S. WILDER,  56, has been Senior Vice  President  of Hartford  Fire since
1987 and General  Counsel of Hartford  Fire since  1975.  He became  Senior Vice
President and General Counsel of the Company in December 1995.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The Hartford owns the land and buildings  comprising  its Hartford  location and
other  properties  within the  greater  Hartford,  Connecticut  area which total
approximately 1.6 million square feet. The Hartford's international subsidiaries
own  approximately  203  thousand  square  feet of  office  space in the  United
Kingdom,  218  thousand  square feet of office space in the  Netherlands  and 74
thousand square feet of office space in Spain. In addition,  The Hartford leases
approximately  4.9 million  square  feet  throughout  the United  States and 204
thousand square feet in other countries.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Hartford is a defendant in various lawsuits arising out of its business.  In
the opinion of  management,  final outcome of these matters will not  materially
affect the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows
of The Hartford.

The Hartford is involved in claims litigation  arising in the ordinary course of
business and  accounts for such  activity  through the  establishment  of policy
reserves.  As  further  discussed  above  and  in the  MD&A  under  the  section
Environmental   and  Asbestos   Claims,   The  Hartford   continues  to  receive
environmental  and  asbestos  claims  which  involve   significant   uncertainty
regarding  policy  coverage  issues.   Regarding  these  claims,   The  Hartford
continually  reviews its overall reserve  levels,  reserving  methodologies  and
reinsurance coverages.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders of The Hartford during the
fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.

PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE HARTFORD'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Hartford's  common stock is traded on the New York Stock  Exchange  ("NYSE")
under the trading symbol "HIG".

The  following  table  presents  the high and low closing  prices for the common
stock of The Hartford on the NYSE for the periods  indicated,  and the quarterly
dividends declared per share:

                         1st Qtr.  2nd Qtr.   3rd Qtr.  4th Qtr.
- ------------------------ --------- ---------- --------- ----------
Common Stock Price
   High                   $80.75     $86.25     $88.00   $93.56
   Low                     65.63      68.63      79.75    79.44
Dividends Declared          0.40       0.40       0.40     0.40
- ------------------------ --------- ---------- --------- ----------
Common Stock Price
   High                   $53.00     $54.13     $59.63   $69.50
   Low                     47.13      45.50      50.75    59.13
Dividends Declared          0.40       0.40       0.40     0.40
- ------------------------ --------- ---------- --------- ----------

At February 27, 1998, there were approximately  150,000 beneficial owners of The
Hartford's common stock,  including  approximately 55,000 shareholders of record
and approximately 95,000 shareholders whose shares are held by brokers and other
nominees.

On February 19, 1998, The Hartford's  Board of Directors  approved a 5% increase
in its  quarterly  dividend to $0.42 per share.  The dividend will be payable on
April 1,  1998 to  shareholders  of  record as of March 2,  1998.  The  Hartford
expects to continue paying quarterly  dividends on its common stock of $0.42 per
share  throughout  1998.  Dividend  decisions will be based on and affected by a
number of factors, including the operating results and financial requirements of
The Hartford and the impact of regulatory  restrictions discussed in the Capital

                                     - 8 -

Resources and Liquidity section under "Liquidity Requirements" of the MD&A.

There are also  various  legal  limitations  governing  the  extent to which The
Hartford's insurance  subsidiaries may extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise
provide funds to The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. as discussed in the
Capital   Resources  and  Liquidity   section  of  the  MD&A  under   "Liquidity
Requirements".






                                     - 9 -




ITEM 7.        MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
                            AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA, UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)


MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS OF  FINANCIAL  CONDITION  AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS  SHOULD  BE READ  IN  CONJUNCTION  WITH  THE  CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND RELATED NOTES BEGINNING ON PAGE F-1.

Certain of the statements  contained herein (other than statements of historical
fact) are forward-looking  statements.  Such forward-looking statements are made
pursuant to the safe harbor  provisions  of the  Private  Securities  Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and include  estimates and  assumptions  related to economic,
competitive and legislative developments.  These forward-looking  statements are
subject  to change and  uncertainty  which are,  in many  instances,  beyond the
company's  control and have been made based upon  management's  expectations and
beliefs  concerning  future  developments  and their  potential  effect upon The
Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.,  formerly ITT Hartford Group, Inc., and
its  subsidiaries  ("The Hartford" or the "Company").  There can be no assurance
that future developments will be in accordance with management's expectations or
that the effect of future developments on The Hartford will be those anticipated
by management. Actual results could differ materially from those expected by The
Hartford, depending on the outcome of certain factors, including those described
with the forward-looking statements herein.

Certain  reclassifications have been made to prior year financial information to
conform to the current year presentation.


INDEX

Distribution                                                10
Consolidated Results of Operations: Operating Summary       11
North American Property & Casualty                          13
Life                                                        16
International                                               19
Other Operations                                            21
Reserves                                                    22
Environmental and Asbestos Claims                           22
Investments                                                 24
Capital Markets Risk Management                             27
Capital Resources and Liquidity                             37
Regulatory Initiatives and Contingencies                    40
Effect of Inflation                                         41
Accounting Standards                                        41


DISTRIBUTION

On December 19, 1995, ITT Corporation ("ITT") distributed all of the outstanding
shares of common stock of The Hartford to the  shareholders  of ITT common stock
(the  "Distribution"  or  "Spin-off").  As a  result  of the  Distribution,  The
Hartford became an independent publicly-traded company. "Regular Way" trading of
The  Hartford's  common stock on the New York Stock  Exchange  (under the symbol
"HIG") commenced on December 20, 1995. In connection with this transaction,  ITT
transferred  First State  Insurance  Company and Fencourt  Reinsurance  Company,
Ltd., both of which were wholly owned companies of ITT, to The Hartford prior to
the  Distribution.  Consistent with the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements and
related Notes, the financial information included herein reflects the results of
The  Hartford as if it were a separate  entity for all periods  presented.  (For
additional  information  regarding  the  Distribution,  see  Note 2 of  Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.)

                                     - 10 -





The Hartford defines "core earnings" as after-tax operational results excluding,
as applicable,  net realized capital gains or losses,  the cumulative  effect of
accounting changes,  allocated  Distribution items and certain other items. Core
earnings  is an  internal  performance  measure  used  by  the  Company  in  the
management of its operations.  Management believes that this performance measure
delineates the results of operations of the Company's  ongoing lines of business
in a manner that allows for a better  understanding of the underlying  trends in
the Company's current business.  However,  core earnings should only be analyzed
in conjunction with, and not in lieu of, net income and may not be comparable to
other performance measures used by the Company's competitors.

Revenues for 1997 increased $832, or 7%, from 1996, while revenues for 1996 were
up $323,  or 3%,  from  1995.  The  growth in both  years was  primarily  due to
increases in the Annuity  division fee income earned on separate account assets,
higher  group  life and  disability  sales and  premium  growth  in  reinsurance
operations and business  written under an exclusive  licensing  arrangement with
The American Association of Retired Persons ("AARP"). Partially offsetting these
increases were a decrease in corporate owned life insurance "COLI" premiums as a
result of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPA
Act of 1996"),  which phases out the  deductibility  of interest on policy loans
under  leveraged  COLI by  1998,  and a  decrease  in  premium  in  mid-to-large
commercial accounts and agency personal lines. Higher net investment income and,
for 1997, net realized capital gains also  contributed to the revenue  increase.
(For an analysis of net investment  income and net realized  capital gains,  see
the Investments  section.) 

In 1997,  core earnings  increased  $212,  or 39%, from 1996  primarily due to a
reduction in domestic  property  catastrophe  and other  severe  weather-related
losses of $132,  after-tax.  Also  contributing  to the increase were higher net
investment income, growth in earnings in the Annuity division,  the reduction of
incurred  environmental  and asbestos  losses and the reduction of losses in the
Guaranteed  Investment  Contracts  division.  Soft market conditions  related to
automobile  insurance in the United  Kingdom and  increased  debt service  costs
partially offset the increase.

Core earnings  increased $59, or 12%, to $537 in 1996 from 1995 due primarily to
increased  revenues  earned  on a  growing  annuity  asset  base,  growth in net
investment income,  increased group insurance  premiums and favorable  mortality
experience,  partially  offset by after-tax  underwriting  losses resulting from
property catastrophe and other severe weather-related losses in 1996.

NET REALIZED CAPITAL GAINS

See "Investment Results" in the Investments section.

OTHER ITEMS

Net income for 1997  includes a $368  equity  gain  resulting  from the  initial
public  offering of Hartford Life, Inc.  ("HLI"),  the holding company parent of
The Hartford's  significant  life insurance  subsidiaries,  Class A common stock
("The  Offering").  (For  additional  information,   see  Note  3  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements and Capital  Resources and Liquidity section
under "The  Offering".)  

                                     - 11 -

Net income for 1996 includes other charges related to environmental and asbestos
reserve  increases,  net of taxes,  of $429 in the  North  American  Property  &
Casualty segment and $81 in Other Operations (as discussed in the  Environmental
and Asbestos Claims section),  recognition of losses on guaranteed rate contract
business  ("Closed  Book GRC") of $169 (as  discussed  in the Life  section) and
other,  primarily foreign tax-related items, of $2 in each of the North American
Property & Casualty and Life segments and $10 in Other Operations.

ALLOCATED DISTRIBUTION ITEMS

As part of the  Distribution,  The Hartford  was  allocated  amounts  originally
recorded at the ITT corporate level.  The allocations  resulted in net income of
$14 in 1995. (For more information on liability sharing  arrangements related to
the Distribution, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

INCOME TAXES

The  effective  tax  rates  for  1997,  1996 and  1995  were  25%,  20% and 24%,
respectively, excluding the impact of other items in 1997 and 1996. The increase
in the effective  tax rate for 1997 was due to a reduction in the  proportionate
share of tax-exempt net investment  income to total net income for 1997 compared
to 1996.  Tax-exempt  interest earned on invested assets was the principal cause
of  effective  rates  lower  than  the 35% U.S.  statutory  rate.  Income  taxes
paid/(refunds  received)  in 1997,  1996 and 1995  were  $(37),  $170 and  $302,
respectively.  For additional information,  see Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

MINORITY INTEREST IN CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARY

Minority  interest  in  consolidated  subsidiary  represents  an 18.6%  minority
interest in HLI's operating results. (For additional information,  see Note 3 of
Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements and Capital Resources and Liquidity
section under "The Offering".)

PER COMMON SHARE

The following  table  represents  per common share data and return on equity for
the past three years:


                                   1997        1996     1995
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Basic earnings per share           $11.29    $(0.84)     $4.77
Weighted average common shares
   outstanding [1]                  118.0     117.3      117.1
Diluted earnings per share         $11.16    $(0.84)     $4.75
Weighted average common shares
   outstanding and dilutive
   potential common shares [1]
                                    119.4     117.3      117.7
Return on equity [2]                 28.3%     (2.3)%     12.6%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  1995 weighted average common shares outstanding represents actual number of
     common shares outstanding at December 31, 1995.
[2]  Calculated  by  dividing  net  income  (loss) by average  equity  excluding
     unrealized gain,  after-tax.  In 1997 and 1996,  return on equity excluding
     other items (as  discussed  earlier)  from net income  (loss) was 20.5% and
     13.8%, respectively.

SEGMENT RESULTS

The Hartford's reporting segments consist of North American Property & Casualty,
Life,  International and Other  Operations.  Included in Other Operations is the
effect  of  an  18.6%  minority  interest  in  HLI's  operating  results.  Other
Operations  include  operations  which  have  ceased  writing  new  and  renewal
business.

Certain  transactions  between  segments  occur  during the year that  primarily
relate to tax settlements, insurance coverage, expense reimbursements,  services
provided and capital  contributions.  Certain  reinsurance  stop loss agreements
exist between the segments which specify that for  consideration  received,  one
segment will reimburse  another for losses incurred in excess of a predetermined
limit.  Also, one segment may purchase  group annuity  contracts from another to
fund pension costs and claim annuities to settle casualty claims.

The following is a summary of core earnings by segment.

                                   1997       1996       1995
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
N. A. Property & Casualty        $   433   $    270   $    251
Life                                 306        200        153
International                         46         79         94
Other Operations                     (36)       (12)       (20)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
   CORE EARNINGS                 $   749   $    537   $    478
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

The following is a summary of net income (loss) by segment.

                                   1997       1996       1995
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
N. A. Property & Casualty        $   583   $   (151)  $    270
Life                                 306         24        150
International                        110        127        126
Other Operations [1]                 333        (99)        (1)
Allocated Distribution items          --         --         14
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
   NET INCOME (LOSS)             $ 1,332   $    (99)  $    559
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  For 1997,  includes a $368 equity gain  resulting  from the initial  public
     offering of HLI.

A description of each segment,  as well as an analysis of the operating  results
summarized  above, is included on the following pages.  Reserves,  Environmental
and Asbestos Claims, and Investments are discussed in separate sections.

                                     - 12 -


NORTH AMERICAN PROPERTY & CASUALTY



Revenues for 1997 increased $379, or 6%, over 1996, while revenues for 1996 were
essentially  flat compared to 1995.  For a further  discussion of premiums,  see
Summary  Underwriting  Results  below  and for  net  investment  income  and net
realized capital gains, see the Investments section.

Core earnings for the North American  Property & Casualty  segment were $433, an
increase of $163, or 60%,  from 1996.  The increase was primarily due to a $130,
or 61%,  improvement  in  after-tax  underwriting  results  and an $88,  or 17%,
increase in after-tax net investment income,  partially offset by a $36, or 60%,
increase  in  debt  service  costs.  The  improved   underwriting  results  were
attributable to favorable property catastrophe and other severe  weather-related
losses in 1997 and a reduction in incurred  environmental  and asbestos  losses.
The increase in debt  service  costs is the result of the 1996 sale of Quarterly
Income  Preferred  Securities  and an  increase in debt  allocated  to the North
American Property & Casualty segment. (For additional  information,  see Capital
Resources and Liquidity  section under "Debt".) In addition,  for an analysis of
net investment income, see the Investments section.

Core earnings for 1996 of $270  increased $19 from 1995,  primarily due to a $53
increase in after-tax net investment  income  partially offset by a $37 increase
in after-tax underwriting loss primarily due to adverse property catastrophe and
other severe weather-related losses.

Within the North American Property & Casualty segment,  management  analyzes the
results of  operations by the  following  four major  components on a before-tax
basis:


                                  1997      1996       1995
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Underwriting results [1]         $  (126)  $  (986)   $  (270)
Net investment income                777       661        646
Net realized capital gains           231        15         29
Miscellaneous expenses, net         (155)      (89)       (71)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
  OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)        $   727   $  (399)   $   334
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  1996 includes the impact of a $660, before-tax,  environmental and asbestos
     charge.

The following discussion summarizes  underwriting results by major operation (as
defined  below)  and  net  miscellaneous  expenses.  As  previously  noted,  net
investment  income  and net  realized  capital  gains are  covered in a separate
discussion in the Investments section.  Other items,  consisting primarily of an
increase  in  environmental  and  asbestos   reserves,   are  discussed  in  the
Environmental and Asbestos Claims section.

SUMMARY UNDERWRITING RESULTS

Underwriting  results  represent  premiums  earned less incurred  claims,  claim
adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses. The following table shows written
premiums,  underwriting  results and combined  ratios for The  Hartford's  North
American Property & Casualty segment.

                              1997         1996        1995
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Written premiums           $   5,771   $   5,688   $   5,670
Underwriting results [1]   $    (126)  $    (326)  $    (270)
Combined ratio [1] [2]        102.3        105.2       104.5
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

[1] 1996 excludes the impact of a $660,  before-tax,  environmental and asbestos
charge.  Including  the impact of this charge,  the combined  ratio for 1996 was
116.9 for the North American Property & Casualty segment.

[2] "Combined ratio" is a common industry measurement of the results of property
and  casualty  insurance  underwriting.  This  ratio is the sum of the  ratio of
incurred claims and claim expenses to premiums earned (the "loss ratio") and the
ratio of  underwriting  expenses  incurred to  premiums  written  (the  "expense
ratio").  A combined  ratio  under 100.0  generally  indicates  an  underwriting
profit. Federal income taxes, net investment income, deferred policy acquisition
costs and other  non-underwriting  expenses  are not  reflected  in the combined
ratio.

                                     - 13 -

Written premiums for this segment increased 1% in 1997 from 1996, while premiums
for 1996 were up slightly from 1995.  Premiums from the segment's primary target
markets of reinsurance,  small commercial accounts and AARP grew 10% in 1997 and
6% in 1996, contributing 4% and 2% growth to the total segment in 1997 and 1996,
respectively.  However,  3% of this segment growth was offset in each year by an
8% and 6% premium  reduction  in  mid-to-large  commercial  accounts  and agency
personal lines in 1997 and 1996, respectively.

Underwriting  results for 1997 improved $200, or 2.9 combined ratio points, from
1996  primarily  from a  decrease  in  property  catastrophe  and  other  severe
weather-related  losses of $204 and a reduction of $67 in incurred environmental
and asbestos losses as a result of the charge taken in the third quarter of 1996
upon completion of the Company's  environmental and asbestos database study (for
further   discussion  see,  the  Environmental  and  Asbestos  Claims  section).
Partially  offsetting  these  two  favorable  items  were  expenses  related  to
significant   investments  in  future  growth   initiatives   and  dividends  to
policyholders  in  two  states  in  recognition  of  favorable   personal  lines
automobile results.

In 1996,  underwriting  losses  before-tax  increased $56, or 0.7 combined ratio
points,  over 1995 primarily due to a $130 increase in property  catastrophe and
other severe  weather-related  losses, most notably several first quarter winter
storms and Hurricane Fran in September.  Partially offsetting this increase were
the  impact of two  significant  losses,  net of  reinsurance,  in 1995:  $40 in
connection  with the  settlement  of  claims  against  Dow  Corning  Corporation
alleging  product defects arising from breast  implants,  and $32 resulting from
the Company's  share of a single  industrial fire covered by the Industrial Risk
Insurance ("IRI") pool.

The  North  American  Property  &  Casualty  segment  consists  of  three  major
operations:   Commercial,  Personal  and  Reinsurance.  A  description  of  each
operation, including an analysis of underwriting results, follows.

Commercial
- ----------

                              1997         1996        1995
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Written premiums           $   3,190   $    3,253  $    3,373
Underwriting results       $    (149)  $     (206) $     (249)
Combined ratio                 104.5        105.8       107.1
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

Commercial  provides workers'  compensation,  property,  automobile,  liability,
marine,  agricultural and bond coverages to commercial  accounts  throughout the
United States and Canada. Excess and surplus lines business not normally written
by standard lines insurers is also provided.  Commercial is organized into three
customer market segments: Business Insurance, Commercial Affinity and Commercial
Specialty.  Business Insurance provides standard  commercial  business for small
accounts (Select Customer) and mid-sized insureds.  Commercial Affinity provides
commercial risk  management  products and services to members of affinity groups
and customers of financial institutions. Commercial Specialty provides insurance
through  retailers  and  wholesalers  to large  commercial  clients and insureds
requiring a variety of specialized coverages. Its results include the bond lines
and First State  Management  Group, a leading  underwriter of excess and surplus
lines business produced primarily through wholesale brokers.
Agricultural,  livestock and marine products are also managed within  Commercial
Specialty.

Written  premiums  decreased  2% in 1997,  compared  to a 4%  decrease  in 1996.
Premium  growth in  several  markets  and  lines of  business  including  Select
Customer, Commercial Affinity, Bond, Marine and Agriculture,  Specialty Property
and Specialty Casualty totaled 6% in 1997, contributing 3% to Commercial's total
premium growth rate. However,  this total premium growth was more than offset by
a  23%  decline  in  large  national  accounts  caused  by  declining   workers'
compensation  rates and intense price  competition.  In 1996, the primary causes
for the decrease from the prior year were intense price competition primarily in
larger  national  accounts and a decline in workers'  compensation  premium from
workers' compensation pools and a shift to large deductibles.

Underwriting  results  improved $57, or 1.3 combined  ratio  points,  in 1997 as
compared with 1996. The primary factors  contributing  to the  improvement  were
reductions in property  catastrophe and other severe  weather-related  losses of
$76 and a reduction of asbestos and  environmental  incurred  losses of $67 as a
result of the charge  taken in 1996.  Also,  continued  favorable  loss and loss
expense  development  trends,  particularly in workers'  compensation  and other
casualty  lines,  have been generated  through the execution of the  operation's
total cost  containment  strategy which includes loss  prevention and avoidance,
early  reporting,  active claim  management  and prompt return to work programs.
Partially  offsetting the favorable  losses described above was a $103 reduction
in earned  premiums,  primarily  from the declining  written  premium from large
national  accounts  over the last two  years,  which have a high  percentage  of
January renewals and therefore a more significant impact on earned premiums.


In 1996,  underwriting  results  improved  $43, or 1.3  combined  ratio  points,
compared with the prior year. This improvement reflected the impact in 1995 of a
$40 loss, net of reinsurance,  in connection with a settlement of claims against
Dow Corning  Corporation  alleging  product defects arising from breast implants
and a net $32 loss  resulting from a single  industrial  fire covered by the IRI
pool.  Excluding  the impact of these items on the prior year  comparison,  1996
underwriting results decreased $29 from 1995, reflecting a 0.8 point increase in
the combined ratio from the adjusted 1995 level.  This decline was primarily due
to a decrease  in property  results of  approximately  $50 which were  adversely
impacted  by  property  catastrophe  and other  severe  weather-related  losses.
Despite intense competition,  favorable workers'  compensation results partially
offset this decrease reflecting the impacts of legislative reforms, depopulation
in residual pools and effective managed care related initiatives.

Personal
- --------

                              1997         1996        1995
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Written premiums           $   1,893   $    1,864  $    1,813
Underwriting results       $      37   $     (110) $      (21)
Combined ratio                  98.6        105.2       100.9
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

                                     - 14 -

Personal provides automobile, homeowners, home-based business and fire coverages
to individuals  throughout  the United States.  Personal is organized to provide
customized products and services to three market  opportunities:  the membership
of AARP through a direct marketing  operation;  customers who prefer local agent
involvement  through a network  of  independent  agents;  and  members  of other
affinity  groups through an affinity  center which began in 1996 and is building
from the AARP operation  competencies.  AARP's exclusive  licensing  arrangement
continues  through the year 2002,  thus  providing the Company with an important
competitive advantage.

Written  premiums  increased 2% in 1997 compared to a 3% increase in 1996.  Both
years included  strong growth in AARP premium of 7% which is benefiting from the
favorable  expansion of this demographic group,  partially offset by declines in
Agency premiums of 7% in 1997 and 4% in 1996. The decline in 1997 was due to the
sale of the  Company's  Canadian  personal  lines as well as  disruption  in the
incoming flow of business  associated  with a major  strategic shift in emphasis
from homeowners to automobile  coverages.  The 1996 decline was due to selective
disinvestment in unprofitable states and  underperforming  agents. AARP premiums
represented  67% of the 1997 Personal  premiums,  up from 64% in 1996 and 62% in
1995.

Underwriting  results  improved by $147 in 1997 over 1996,  with a corresponding
6.6 point  improvement in the combined ratio. This improvement was primarily due
to  significantly  lower property  catastrophe and other severe  weather-related
losses of $137. Improved automobile and homeowners  profitability resulting from
expanded cost  containment  initiatives was partially offset by expenses related
to significant  investments in future growth  initiatives  and a $34 dividend to
policyholders  in  two  states  in  recognition  of  favorable   personal  lines
automobile  results.  Underwriting  results decreased by $89 in 1996, with a 4.3
point increase in the combined  ratio.  These results were due to an increase in
property catastrophe and other severe  weather-related  losses of $93, partially
offset by improved automobile results.

Reinsurance
- -----------

                              1997         1996        1995
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Written premiums           $     688   $      571  $      484
Underwriting results       $     (14)  $      (10) $       --
Combined ratio                 102.6        102.1        99.9
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

The Hartford assumes reinsurance worldwide through its nine Hartford Reinsurance
Company   ("HartRe")  offices  located  in  Hartford,   San  Francisco,   Miami,
Philadelphia,  Toronto,  London,  Madrid, Munich and Hong Kong. HartRe primarily
writes treaty  reinsurance  through  professional  reinsurance  brokers covering
various property, casualty, specialty and marine classes of business.

Written  premiums  increased  20% in 1997  primarily due to the  acquisition  of
renewal  rights for the  business  of  Security  Re and San  Francisco  Re which
occurred in late 1996. Written premiums grew 18% in 1996 primarily due to growth
in U.S. casualty and specialty lines. This growth resulted from a combination of
new business  opportunities,  an increased level of renewals,  and continued new
product  development  in  specialty  lines,  partially  offset by a reduction in
domestic and international property and marine rates.

Underwriting  results for 1997 decreased $4, or 0.5 combined ratio points,  from
1996 as  favorable  worldwide  property  catastrophe  experience  was  offset by
increasingly  competitive  market conditions which softened premium rate levels.
During 1996, HartRe began a strategic shift in its business mix to longer-tailed
casualty and specialty lines to provide further growth  opportunities and better
diversify  its  portfolio.  The  expected  profitability   composition  of  such
longer-tailed lines includes a higher investment income component,  which allows
for higher targeted  combined ratios.  As a result of this strategy,  along with
higher property  catastrophe  losses,  1996  underwriting  results decreased $10
compared with 1995.

MISCELLANEOUS EXPENSES, NET

Miscellaneous expenses, net of miscellaneous income items, were $155 in 1997, up
from $89 in 1996.  This  increase was  primarily  due to increased  debt service
costs  of  $55  resulting  from  additional  borrowings  and a  reallocation  of
corporate debt costs to the North American Property & Casualty segment.

Miscellaneous expenses for 1996 were $89, up from $71 in 1995. This increase was
primarily  due to  increased  debt  costs  of  $27  from  additional  borrowings
partially offset by increased service fee income from involuntary pool servicing
contracts net of other miscellaneous expenses.

OUTLOOK

Difficult market  conditions and intense price  competition  within the property
and casualty  industry show no signs of diminishing  in the near term.  However,
several major strategic actions are underway, with many completed in 1997, which
management  believes may  counterbalance  these  negative  external  factors and
position the North  American  Property & Casualty  segment for improved  written
premium growth in 1998 and beyond,  while  maintaining core  profitability.  The
acquisition of Omni Insurance  Group,  Inc., which was completed on February 12,
1998,  provides Personal immediate access to the non-standard  automobile market
with  a  highly-regarded  and   well-established   franchise.   (For  additional
information,   see  Capital  Resources  and  Liquidity  section  under  "Omni".)
Strategic  alliances  have been formed with several major  national and regional
banks to market personal and/or  commercial  products to each banks'  customers.
The Hartford  Customer  Services Group contracted with AARP to service its group
health  insurance  plan  partners  and  recipients  beginning  January  1, 1998.
Significant  investments  have been made in such areas as  advertising,  product
research  and  development,  technology  and staff  training to  heighten  brand
awareness,  increase product offerings, further develop alternative distribution
channels and improve  productivity.  On-going claim  initiatives have kept claim
cost increases below national trends. As a result of these and other actions and
initiatives,  management believes the North American Property & Casualty segment
stands poised to capitalize on the opportunities that lie ahead.

                                     - 15 -

LIFE



The Life segment operates in three principal divisions: Annuity, Individual Life
Insurance and Employee  Benefits.  The Life segment also  maintains a Guaranteed
Investment   Contracts  ("GIC")  division,   which  is  primarily  comprised  of
guaranteed rate contract  ("GRC")  business  written prior to 1995 ("Closed Book
GRC") and a Corporate  Operation  through which it reports net investment income
on assets representing surplus not assigned to any of its business divisions and
certain  other  revenue and  expenses not  specifically  allocable to any of its
business  divisions.  On May 22, 1997,  HLI, the holding  company  parent of The
Hartford's significant life subsidiaries, completed the Offering of 18.6% of its
common stock. (For additional  information,  see Capital Resources and Liquidity
section under "The Offering".)

Revenues  increased  $319,  or 7%, to $4.7  billion in 1997 from $4.4 billion in
1996. Revenues were impacted by the HIPA Act of 1996, which virtually eliminated
all new sales of leveraged  COLI, and by GRC, where net realized  capital losses
and other charges were taken in the third quarter of 1996 related to Closed Book
GRC. Excluding  revenues  associated with COLI and GRC, revenues increased $490,
or 16%, in 1997 as compared to 1996. The increase was primarily due to growth in
the Annuity  division where revenues  increased as a result of higher fee income
earned on growth in  separate  account  assets due to strong  annuity  sales and
stock  market  appreciation.  Additionally,  strong  sales and renewals of group
insurance  premiums  within the Employee  Benefits  division  contributed to the
revenue growth.

Core  earnings  increased  $106,  or 53%,  to $306 in 1997  from  $200 in  1996,
primarily as a result of (i) an increase in earnings in the Annuity  division of
$57 and in the  Individual  Life  Insurance  division of $12, both of which were
driven by an  increase  in total  account  value  due to strong  sales and stock
market appreciation, (ii) an increase in earnings of $6 in the Employee Benefits
division  principally  due to an  improvement  in group  insurance  premiums and
favorable mortality and morbidity  experience and (iii) a reduction in losses of
$50 in the GIC  division  as a result of actions  taken in the third  quarter of
1996  related  to  Closed  Book GRC  (discussed  below),  partially  offset by a
decrease in core earnings of $19 in the Corporate  Operation due primarily to an
increase  in capital  allocated  to the  divisions,  as well as higher  interest
expense as a result of increased  indebtedness in conjunction with the Offering.
(For additional  information,  see Capital Resources and Liquidity section under
"The Offering" and "Debt".)

Revenues increased $290, or 7%, in 1996 as compared to 1995.  Excluding revenues
associated  with COLI and GRC as discussed  above,  revenues  increased $549, or
22%, in 1996  compared to 1995.  The increase was primarily due to growth in the
Annuity  division  where  revenues  increased due to a  substantial  increase in
aggregate  fees earned on a larger block of separate  account assets as a result
of strong annuity sales and stock market appreciation. Additionally, revenues in
the Employee  Benefits division grew resulting from strong sales and renewals of
group insurance premiums.

Core  earnings  increased  $47,  or 31%,  to $200 in  1996  from  $153 in  1995,
primarily as a result of (i) an increase in earnings in the Annuity  division of
$32 and in the  Individual  Life  Insurance  division  of $7, both of which were
driven by an  increase  in total  account  value  due to strong  sales and stock
market  appreciation,  (ii)  an  increase  in  earnings  of $13 in the  Employee
Benefits  division  principally  as a result of an increase  in group  insurance
premiums and favorable mortality and morbidity  experience and (iii) a reduction
in losses of $17 in the GIC  division as a result of actions  taken in the third
quarter of 1996  related to Closed Book GRC,  partially  offset by a decrease in
earnings in the Corporate Operation of $22 due primarily to a favorable guaranty
fund  adjustment of $10 in 1995 resulting

                                     - 16 -

from lower than expected  insolvencies  in the insurance  industry as well as an
increase in debt service costs in 1996.

Other items  primarily  consist of a $169 third quarter 1996 loss in Closed Book
GRC (discussed below).



The following describes each division,  including products and services offered,
and analyzes the above results.

Annuity
- -------

The Annuity  division focuses on the savings and retirement needs of the growing
number of individuals who are preparing for retirement or have already  retired.
The variety of products sold within this division reflects the diverse nature of
the market.  These include  individual  variable  annuities,  fixed market value
adjusted (MVA)  annuities,  deferred  compensation and retirement plan services,
structured  settlement  contracts and other special purpose  annuity  contracts,
investment  management  contracts  and mutual  funds.  The Company was rated the
number one writer of  variable  annuities  for 1997  according  to the  Variable
Annuity and Research  Data Service  (VARDS) with an 11% market  share,  and sold
approximately  $869 of mutual funds in its first full year offering the product,
resulting in total mutual fund assets of $972 at December 31, 1997.

Revenues increased $297, or 30%, to $1.3 billion in 1997 from $974 in 1996. This
increase  was  principally  the result of a $229  increase in premiums and other
considerations,  reflecting a substantial  increase in aggregate fees earned due
to the division's growing block of separate account assets. The average separate
account  assets of this  division  increased to $50.7 billion in 1997 from $37.2
billion in 1996,  primarily due to annual sales of individual variable annuities
of  approximately  $9.7  billion in 1997,  as well as  significant  stock market
appreciation.  In addition,  the average general account assets of this division
increased  to $8.1 billion in 1997 from $7.2 billion in 1996 largely as a result
of growth in the general  account  portion of the  individual  variable  annuity
products.  The growth in this  division in 1997 also  resulted in an increase in
total  benefits,  claims and expenses of $207, or 28%, to $957 in 1997 from $750
in 1996. A 33% growth in average account value in 1997,  coupled with an overall
reduction in individual  annuity  expenses as a percentage  of total  individual
annuity  account  value to 25 basis points in 1997 from 28 basis points in 1996,
contributed  to the growth in core earnings of $57, or 39%, to $202 in 1997 from
$145 in 1996.

Similar  factors  generated  an increase  in 1996,  as  compared  with 1995,  in
revenues of $253, or 35%,  average  general  account assets of $1.0 billion,  or
16%, average  separate account assets of $11.1 billion,  or 42%, total benefits,
claims and  expenses  of $196,  or 35%,  core  earnings  of $32,  or 28%,  and a
reduction in individual  annuity  expenses as a percentage  of total  individual
annuity account value to 28 basis points in 1996 from 31 basis points in 1995.

Individual Life Insurance
- -------------------------

The Individual Life Insurance division, which focuses on the high end estate and
business planning markets, sells a variety of life insurance products, including
variable  life,  universal  life,  interest-sensitive  whole life, and term life
insurance policies.

Revenues in 1997  increased  $38, or 8%, to $510 from $472 in 1996. In the first
quarter of 1996,  a block of business  was assumed  from  Investors  Equity Life
Insurance   Company  which  increased  1996  revenues  by  $9.   Excluding  this
transaction,  1997  revenues  increased  $47,  or  10%,  as  compared  to  1996,
reflecting  the impact of applying  cost of insurance  charges and variable life
fees to a larger block of business.  Account values  increased  $555, or 17%, to
$3.8  billion in 1997 from $3.2  billion  in 1996.  Total  benefits,  claims and
expenses  increased $19, or 5%, to $423 in 1997 from $404 in 1996. The growth in
the Individual Life Insurance division's account values,  particularly  variable
life, along with favorable  mortality  experience  contributed to an increase in
core earnings of $12 in 1997.

Revenues in 1996 increased $64, or 16%, to $472 from $408 in 1995. This increase
was  primarily  due to a $47  increase  in  premiums  and other  considerations,
reflecting  an increase in cost of  insurance  charges  and  variable  life fees
applied to a larger block of business as account  values  increased $678 to $3.2
billion in 1996 from $2.6 billion in 1995.  Total benefits,  claims and expenses
increased $54, or 15%, to $404 in 1996

                                     - 17 -

from $350 in 1995. This increase  reflects the growth in the block of individual
life insurance  business and is partially offset by favorable  mortality results
and the full year impact of expense  leverage  due to the  consolidation  of the
division's two individual  life  operations in 1995. The  combination of account
value  growth,  operational  efficiencies,  and favorable  mortality  experience
resulted in an increase in core  earnings of $7, or 19%, to $44 in 1996 from $37
in 1995.

Employee Benefits
- -----------------

The Employee Benefits division sells group insurance  products,  including group
life  and  group  disability   insurance,   and  COLI  and  engages  in  certain
international  operations,  primarily in South America.  According to the latest
results  published by the Life  Insurance  Marketing  and  Research  Association
(LIMRA)  (December  1997),  the Company was the second largest provider of group
disability insurance for the nine months ended September 30, 1997.

Revenues  decreased  $190,  or 7%, to $2.6  billion in 1997 from $2.8 billion in
1996.  This decrease was primarily  attributable  to the COLI business for which
associated  revenues  decreased $380, or 28%, to $980 from $1.4 billion in 1996.
The decrease in COLI revenues is primarily a result of the  elimination of sales
of leveraged COLI due to the HIPA Act of 1996 which phases out the deductibility
of interest on policy loans under  leveraged COLI by the end of 1998.  Partially
offsetting this decrease was an increase in group insurance revenues of $237, or
16%, to $1.7  billion  from $1.5  billion in 1996.  The  increase in revenues is
mainly  attributable to group life and group  disability  premium  growth,  as a
result of strong new business  sales and renewals.  Total  benefits,  claims and
expenses  decreased  $212,  or 8%, to $2.5  billion in 1997 from $2.7 billion in
1996. This decrease generally reflected a decrease in dividends to policyholders
of $394, or 62%,  primarily due to the  elimination of sales of leveraged  COLI,
partially  offset by an increase in group insurance of $216, or 15%, as a result
of growth in group life and group  disability  products.  The 1997  results were
impacted  by a  $6  operating  loss  related  to  the  division's  international
operations.  This loss was primarily attributable to the segment's operations in
Argentina,   specifically,   the  Company's  60%   investment  in  ITT  Hartford
Sudamericana Holdings, S.A. ("Suda"). In November 1997, the Company replaced the
Argentine management team with a new management team and purchased the remaining
40%  interest  in Suda  from the  local  shareholders.  The  Argentine  loss was
primarily due to higher than anticipated costs and expenditures.  As a result of
the factors mentioned above, and the impact of favorable mortality and morbidity
results, core earnings in this division increased $6, or 8%, to $85 in 1997 from
$79 in 1996.

Revenues  increased  $311,  or 12%, to $2.8 billion in 1996 from $2.5 billion in
1995.  This  increase was largely the result of (i) a $162  increase in premiums
and other considerations, reflecting a $221 increase in group insurance premiums
from strong group disability  sales and renewals,  partially offset by a decline
in leveraged  COLI  premiums as a result of the HIPA Act of 1996 and (ii) a $149
increase in net investment income,  primarily due to an increase in COLI account
value as a result of strong sales in 1995.  Total benefits,  claims and expenses
increased  $295, or 12%, to $2.7 billion in 1996 from $2.4 billion in 1995. This
increase generally reflected an increased block of group disability business and
an  increase  in COLI  account  value,  partially  offset by a $41  decrease  in
dividends  to  policyholders  primarily  due  to the  elimination  of  sales  of
leveraged  COLI as a result  of the  enactment  of the  HIPA  Act of 1996.  This
premium growth in group insurance,  along with favorable mortality and morbidity
experience, resulted in an increase in core earnings in this division of $13, or
20%, to $79 in 1996 from $66 in 1995.

Guaranteed Investment Contracts
- -------------------------------

The GIC division  consists of GRC  business  that is supported by assets held in
either the  Company's  general  account or a  guaranteed  separate  account  and
includes  Closed  Book  GRC.  Historically,  a  significant  majority  of  these
contracts  were sold as general  account  contracts  with fixed  rates and fixed
maturities.  The  Company  decided in 1995,  after a thorough  review of its GRC
business, that it would significantly de-emphasize general account GRC, choosing
instead to focus its  distribution  efforts on other products sold through other
divisions  and selling  general  account GRC  primarily as an  accommodation  to
customers. From 1992 to 1994, the GIC division sold over $5.0 billion of GRC. In
contrast,  the GIC division  sold only $47 and $108 general  account GRC in 1997
and 1996, respectively.  Consistent with management's expectations, the division
had no core earnings in 1997 and expects no material income or loss from the GIC
division in the future.

Closed  Book GRC  results  in 1996 and 1995 were  negatively  affected  by lower
investment  rates and earnings in the related  investment  portfolio  (primarily
consisting  of   collateralized   mortgage   obligations   and  mortgage  backed
securities)  due to prepayments  experienced in excess of assumed and historical
levels in years prior to 1995.  Closed Book GRC was also negatively  affected by
the  interest  rate  rise in 1994 when the  duration  of its  assets  lengthened
relative  to that  of the  liabilities.  Although  the  Closed  Book  GRC  asset
portfolio  as  a  whole  is  duration  matched  with  its  liabilities,  certain
investments  continue  to  have  a  longer  maturity  than  their  corresponding
liabilities  and will need to be  liquidated  prior to maturity in order to meet
the  specific  liability  commitments.  To protect the  existing  value of these
investments,  the  Company  entered  into  various  hedge  transactions  in late
September 1996 which substantially  eliminated further fluctuation in fair value
of the investments due to interest rate changes. As of December 31, 1997, Closed
Book GRC had  general  account  assets  and  liabilities  of $2.2  billion.  The
scheduled maturities are $1.0 billion, or 45%, in 1998, $0.7 billion, or 32%, in
1999 and $0.5 billion, or 23%, thereafter.

During 1996, Closed Book GRC incurred a $51, after-tax,  loss from operations as
a result of negative  interest  spread,  as compared with an after-tax loss from
operations  of $68 in  1995.  With  the  initiation  of the  hedge  transactions
discussed above,  which eliminated the possibility that the fair value of Closed
Book GRC  investments  would  recover to their current  amortized  cost prior to
sale, an other than temporary impairment

                                     - 18 -

loss of $82,  after-tax,  was  determined  to have  occurred and was recorded in
September  1996.  An  additional  other than  temporary  impairment  loss of $6,
after-tax,  occurred  in the  fourth  quarter  of 1996  bringing  the total 1996
impairment to $88. Also,  during the third quarter of 1996,  Closed Book GRC had
asset sales resulting in proceeds of  approximately  $500 and a realized loss of
$55,  after-tax.  The asset sales were undertaken as a result of liquidity needs
and favorable market  conditions for certain  securities.  Other charges of $32,
after-tax, were also incurred in the third quarter of 1996.

OUTLOOK

Management believes that it has developed and implemented strategies to maintain
and  enhance its  position  as a market  leader  within the  financial  services
industry,   to  continue  the  Life  segment's  asset  growth  and  to  maximize
shareholder  value.  The Life  segment's  strong market  position in each of its
primary businesses, coupled with the growth potential management believes exists
in its markets,  provides  opportunities to increase sales of the Life segment's
products and services as individuals  increasingly save and plan for retirement,
financially  protect  themselves and their families against  disability or death
and  prepare  their  estates  for  an  efficient   transfer  of  wealth  between
generations.

Management  expects that the net income (loss) from Closed Book GRC in the years
subsequent  to 1997 will be  immaterial  based on the actual  results from 1997,
current projections for the performance of the assets and liabilities associated
with  Closed  Book GRC,  and the  stabilizing  effect of the hedge  transactions
implemented  in 1996.  However,  no assurance  can be given that,  under certain
unanticipated economic  circumstances,  further losses in respect of Closed Book
GRC will not occur in the future.

The HIPA Act of 1996 phases out the  deductibility  of interest on policy  loans
under COLI by the end of 1998,  thus  eliminating  all future sales of leveraged
COLI. The leveraged  COLI product has been an important  contributor to the Life
segment's  profitability  in recent years and will continue to contribute to the
profitability of the Life segment in the future, although the level of profit is
declining.   However,   the   Employee   Benefits   division  has  other  growth
opportunities particularly through its group insurance products.

Certain proposed legislative initiatives which could impact the Life segment are
discussed in the Regulatory Initiatives and Contingencies section.

The Company  expects  continued  growth in core earnings for the Life segment in
1998.

INTERNATIONAL



The  International  segment includes direct insurance  business written by local
companies in the United Kingdom, namely ITT London & Edinburgh,  the Netherlands
and Belgium, Zwolsche Algemeene, and Spain, ITT Ercos. These companies primarily
offer property and casualty  products in both personal and  commercial  lines as
well as life insurance  products  designed to meet the needs of local customers.
In  addition,   other  operations   primarily  represent  home  office  expenses
associated with managing international operations.

In 1997, revenues of $1.7 billion were $138, or 9%, higher than 1996,  primarily
due to new business attributable to an agreement entered into at the end of 1996
with Nationwide  Building  Society  ("Nationwide")  at ITT London & Edinburgh to
exclusively underwrite the homeowners business of Nationwide's customers. Growth
over 1996, excluding  Nationwide,  was dampened by soft market conditions in the
United Kingdom. In addition,  the U.S. dollar  strengthened  against the guilder
and peseta during 1997 compared to 1996, while weakening  against sterling which
overall had a negative foreign exchange impact on revenues of $17.

Core earnings of $46 in 1997  decreased  $33, or 42%, from 1996. The decrease in
core  earnings  from 1996 was due to a $33  decrease in  after-tax  underwriting
results of the automobile line at ITT London & Edinburgh and unfavorable foreign
exchange of $5 in the Netherlands, due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar.

                                     - 19 -

In 1996,  revenues of $1.6 billion were $86, or 6%, higher than 1995,  primarily
due to  growth  at  Zwolsche  Algemeene  and  1995  results  at ITT  Ercos  only
reflecting eight months of activity due to its acquisition by the Company in May
1995.  Growth over 1995 was  dampened by soft  market  conditions  in the United
Kingdom.  Additionally,  the U.S.  dollar  strengthened  during 1996 compared to
1995,  resulting in unfavorable  foreign exchange  translation  movements during
1996 resulting in a negative foreign exchange impact on revenues of $37.

Core earnings of $79 in 1996  decreased  $15, or 16%, from 1995. The decrease in
earnings from 1995 was primarily  the result of decreased  underwriting  results
due to heightened  competition  in the United  Kingdom and  unfavorable  foreign
exchange impacts, partially offset by growth in net investment income.



ITT London & Edinburgh
- ----------------------

In 1997,  revenues at ITT London & Edinburgh of $1.2 billion  increased $169, or
16%,  over 1996.  In local  currency,  1997  revenues  grew 10% overall with 25%
growth in net  written  premiums.  The  increase  in  revenues  and net  written
premiums was primarily due to a new business  agreement  entered into at the end
of 1996 with  Nationwide  Building  Society.  In 1997, the weakening of the U.S.
dollar against the sterling  resulted in a positive  foreign  exchange impact on
revenues of $59.

Core  earnings  for 1997 of $14  decreased  $34,  or 71%,  over  1996.  In local
currency, core earnings were down 72% as a result of a $31 after-tax decrease in
the underwriting  results of the automobile line, due to reserve  strengthening.
The foreign exchange impact on core earnings for 1997 was negligible.

In 1996,  revenues at ITT London & Edinburgh of $1.1 billion  increased  $17, or
2%,  over 1995.  The  increase in revenues  was due to improved  net  investment
income of $21,  partially  offset by a shortfall in written  premiums due to the
intense  competitive  climate in the  United  Kingdom.  Personal  lines for 1996
under-performed  the prior year where  shortfalls in automobile  were  partially
offset by improvements in personal credit insurance,  including life. Commercial
lines sales were also dampened due to the increasingly competitive market. Also,
strengthening  of the U.S. dollar resulted in negative  foreign exchange impacts
on revenues of $15.

In 1996,  core earnings of $48 decreased $21, or 30%, over 1995 primarily due to
decreased  underwriting results and heightened competition in the United Kingdom
market,  partially offset by growth in net investment  income. The strengthening
of the U.S.  dollar  in 1996 had a  negative  foreign  exchange  impact  on core
earnings of $2.

Zwolsche Algemeene
- ------------------

In 1997, revenues at Zwolsche Algemeene of $432 decreased $27, or 6%, over 1996.
In local  currency,  1997 total revenues grew by 8% as a result of 28% growth in
net realized capital gains and 9% net written premium growth in life savings and
mortgage  product  lines.  All property and casualty lines were flat compared to
1996 net written  premium levels in local currency terms.  Strengthening  in the
U.S. dollar against the guilder  resulted in a negative  foreign exchange impact
on revenues of $64.

In 1997,  core  earnings  of $33  improved  $1, or 3%,  over 1996 levels in U.S.
dollar terms. In local currency,  1997 core earnings  achieved 19% growth due to
strong  underwriting  results;  however,  this was offset by a negative  foreign
exchange impact on core earnings of $5.

Zwolsche  Algemeene's  1996  revenues of $459 and core  earnings of $32 improved
$43, or 10%, and $7, or 28%,  respectively,  compared with 1995. These increases
were due to improved premium growth and stronger underwriting results.  Property
and casualty  growth in 1996 was  relatively  strong in the  automobile  line as
market pricing  improved.  In 1996,  performance was also strong in life savings
and mortgage products business.  Due to the strengthening  U.S. dollar,  foreign
exchange had an adverse  effect of $20 on revenues  and a  negligible  impact on
core earnings.

ITT Ercos
- ---------

In 1997,  revenues  at ITT Ercos of $75  decreased  $3, or 4%, over 1996 in U.S.
dollars. In local currency, 1997 revenues grew by 13% overall with 27% growth in
net written  premiums of property and casualty  product  lines  together with 9%
growth in life  savings and mortgage  products.  Due to the  strengthening  U.S.
dollar, foreign exchange had an adverse effect of $12 on revenues. 

                                     - 20 -

In 1997,  core  earnings of $2  decreased  $1, or 33%,  over 1996 levels in U.S.
dollars.  In local currency,  1997 core earnings decreased 13%. Despite improved
expense ratios,  operating  performance  was down due to worsening  underwriting
performance and lower yields on the investment  portfolio.  The strengthening of
the U.S.  dollar  in 1997  had a  negligible  foreign  exchange  impact  on core
earnings.

The Hartford  acquired ITT Ercos in May 1995. In 1996,  revenues at ITT Ercos of
$78 exceeded the eight months reported for 1995 by $27. Core earnings of $3 were
$1 higher than 1995.  During 1996, the company  consolidated  its branch offices
into one centralized  location and reorganized its national sales  organization.
These actions were taken to improve  expense  competitiveness  and service which
will  position  the company for future  growth.  The  strengthening  of the U.S.
dollar against the peseta in 1996 resulted in a negative foreign exchange impact
on revenues and core earnings of $2 and $1, respectively.

OUTLOOK

The outlook for 1998 for commercial and personal lines at ITT London & Edinburgh
is a continuation  of heightened  competition.  The market  currently has excess
capacity  which will lead to  continued  soft market  pricing in the short term.
Continuing   competition   from   direct   writing   companies   and   entry  by
non-traditional risk bearers into markets such as homeowners is anticipated.  In
connection with the automobile line, management has implemented strong price and
underwriting actions in 1997 to improve operational performance.  It is expected
that these actions will bring about an improvement in the  underwriting  results
of the automobile line in 1998.

The outlook at  Zwolsche  Algemeene  for 1998 is for  moderate  written  premium
growth in property  and casualty  due to an increase in  competition.  Continued
strong  growth is expected for life  operations.  Growth  expectations  for life
savings and pension  products  in the  Netherlands  continue to be strong due to
their  associated  tax  advantages  and expected  continued  low  interest  rate
environment. The Company will continue to explore the viability of opportunities
in both life and property and casualty  business in the Netherlands  during 1998
as the government  continues to review moving certain social  security  programs
into the private sector.  In February 1998, the Company  obtained a bank license
to support growth of the asset management business.

The outlook for ITT Ercos in the Spanish  market is for moderate  growth.  It is
expected ITT Ercos will continue to build on the improved operational foundation
established  in 1996 and  expense  reductions  achieved  in 1997 to  expand  its
presence in both life and non-life business during 1998.

The  International  segment  continues to explore  acquisition  opportunities in
Western Europe,  Latin America and Asia. In January 1998, the Company acquired a
49% interest in The People's  Insurance  Company  Limited  ("PIC"),  a Singapore
company.  This is intended  to provide a base of  operations  for further  Asian
development.  The recent  Asian  economic  crisis  has had little  impact on the
underlying value of the investment in PIC.


OTHER OPERATIONS



Other  Operations  consist of property and casualty  operations  of The Hartford
which have  discontinued  writing new and  renewal  business.  These  operations
primarily include First State Insurance Company,  Fencourt  Reinsurance Company,
Ltd., Heritage Reinsurance  Company,  Ltd. and Excess Insurance Company Limited,
which has been  reclassified  from ITT

                                     - 21 -

London & Edinburgh in the International  segment for all periods presented.  The
primary focus of these operations is the proper disposition of claims, resolving
disputes  and  collecting  reinsurance  proceeds  related  largely  to  business
underwritten and reinsured prior to 1985.

Other items for 1997 consisted of a $368  non-taxable  equity gain following the
sale of 18.6% of The Hartford's principal Life subsidiary,  HLI. (For additional
information,  see Note 3 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and
Capital  Resources and Liquidity  section under "The Offering".)  Other items in
1996 primarily  consisted of an increase in environmental  and asbestos reserves
at First State Insurance  Company of $81 as discussed in the  Environmental  and
Asbestos Claims section.

Revenues were  essentially  flat in 1997 compared to 1996 and decreased  $49, or
23%, in 1996 as a result of a decline in net investment  income.  In 1997,  core
earnings included a decrease of $37 which represented an 18.6% minority interest
in HLI's operating results. (For additional information regarding HLI's results,
see the Life section.) Excluding minority interest,  core earnings increased $13
in 1997 over 1996 and $8 in 1996 from the prior year.

OUTLOOK

Except  for  the  uncertainties  related  to  dispute  resolution,   reinsurance
collection and those discussed in the Environmental and Asbestos Claims section,
management does not anticipate the future financial  performance of the property
and casualty  operations of Other  Operations  to have a material  effect on the
future operating results of the Company.

RESERVES

The  Hartford  establishes  property  and  casualty  reserves to provide for the
estimated costs of paying claims made by policyholders or against policyholders.
These  reserves  include  estimates  for both claims that have been reported and
those that have been  incurred but not  reported,  and include  estimates of all
expenses  associated with  processing and settling these claims.  Estimating the
ultimate cost of future claims and claim adjustment expenses is an uncertain and
complex process. This estimation process is based largely on the assumption that
past developments are an appropriate  predictor of future events, and involves a
variety  of  actuarial  techniques  that  analyze  experience,  trends and other
relevant  factors.  The  uncertainties  involved with the reserving process have
become  increasingly  unpredictable due to a number of complex factors including
social and economic  trends and changes in the concepts of legal  liability  and
damage awards.  Accordingly,  final claim  settlements may vary from the present
estimates,  particularly  when those  payments may not occur until well into the
future.

The  Hartford  continually  reviews its  estimated  claims and claim  adjustment
expense  reserves  as  additional  experience  and other  relevant  data  become
available,   and  reserve  levels  are  adjusted  accordingly.   Adjustments  to
previously  established  reserves,  if any,  will be reflected in the  operating
results  of the  period in which the  adjustment  is made.  In the  judgment  of
management,  all information currently available has been properly considered in
the  reserves  established  for  claims  and claim  adjustment  expenses.  For a
discussion of environmental and asbestos claims and the uncertainties related to
these reserves, refer to the next section.

In  accordance  with the  insurance  laws and  regulations  under which the Life
segment  operates,   life  insurance  subsidiaries  of  The  Hartford  establish
actuarially  determined  reserves to meet their obligations on their outstanding
life and disability insurance contracts, as well as reserves for their universal
life and  investment  contracts.  Reserves  for life  insurance  and  disability
contracts  are based on  mortality  and  morbidity  tables in general use in the
United  States,  modified  to  reflect  The  Hartford's  experience.  Management
believes that these reserves,  with additions from premiums to be received,  and
with interest on such reserves  compounded  annually at certain  assumed  rates,
will be sufficient to meet The Hartford's policy obligations at their maturities
or in the event of an insured's death. Reserves for universal life insurance and
investment   products   represent  policy  account  balances  before  applicable
surrender charges.

ENVIRONMENTAL AND ASBESTOS CLAIMS

The Hartford  continues to receive claims asserting  damages from  environmental
exposures and for injuries from asbestos and asbestos-related  products, both of
which affect the North  American  Property & Casualty,  International  and Other
Operations  segments.  Environmental  claims  relate  primarily to pollution and
related clean-up costs.  With regard to these claims,  uncertainty  exists which
impacts the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves
for unpaid  losses and related  settlement  expenses.  The  Hartford  finds that
conventional  reserving  techniques  cannot  estimate the ultimate cost of these
claims  because of inadequate  development  patterns and  inconsistent  emerging
legal  doctrine.  For the  majority  of  environmental  claims and many types of
asbestos claims,  unlike any other type of contractual claim, there is almost no
agreement or consistent  precedent to determine what, if any, coverage exists or
which,  if any,  policy years and insurers or reinsurers may be liable.  Further
uncertainty arises with  environmental  claims since claims are often made under
policies,  the existence of which may be in dispute, the terms of which may have
changed over many years,  which may or may not provide for legal defense  costs,
and which may or may not contain  environmental  exclusion  clauses  that may be
absolute or allow for fortuitous events. Courts in different  jurisdictions have
reached disparate  conclusions on similar issues and in certain  situations have
broadened the  interpretation  of policy coverage and liability issues. In light
of the extensive claim settlement process for environmental and asbestos claims,
involving  comprehensive fact gathering,  subject matter expertise and intensive
litigation, The Hartford established an 

                                     - 22 -

environmental  claims  facility in 1992 to defend  itself  aggressively  against
unwarranted claims and to minimize costs.

Within the property and casualty insurance  industry,  progress has been made in
developing sophisticated, alternative methodologies utilizing company experience
and supplemental  databases to assess  environmental  and asbestos  liabilities.
Consistent with The Hartford's practice of using the best techniques to estimate
the Company's  environmental  and asbestos  exposures,  a study was initiated in
April 1996. The Hartford, utilizing internal staff supplemented by outside legal
and actuarial consultants, completed the study in October 1996.

The study included a review of identified  environmental and asbestos  exposures
of  North  American  Property  &  Casualty,  U.S.  exposures  of The  Hartford's
International segment and exposures of the Other Operations segment, and covered
the Company's Commercial,  Personal, and Reinsurance operations. The methodology
utilized a ground up  analysis  of policy,  site and  exposure  level data for a
representative  sample of The Hartford's  claims.  The results of the evaluation
were  extrapolated  against the balance of the claim  population to estimate the
Company's overall exposure for reported claims.

In addition to estimating  liabilities  on reported  environmental  and asbestos
claims,  The Hartford  estimated  reserves for claims  incurred but not reported
("IBNR"). The IBNR reserve was estimated using information on reporting patterns
of  known  insureds,   characteristics  of  insureds  such  as  limits  exposed,
attachment points and number of coverage years involved,  third party costs, and
closed claims.

Included in The Hartford's  analysis of environmental and asbestos exposures was
a review of applicable reinsurance coverage.  Reinsurance coverage applicable to
the sample was used to estimate  the  reinsurance  coverage  that applied to the
balance  of the  reported  environmental  and  asbestos  claims  and to the IBNR
estimates.

An international  actuarial firm reviewed The Hartford's  approach and concluded
that the way the Company studied its exposures, the thoroughness of its analysis
and  the  way  The  Hartford  came  to  its  estimates   were   reasonable   and
comprehensive.

Upon  completion of the study and assessment of the results in October 1996, The
Hartford  determined  that its  environmental  and asbestos  reserves  should be
increased,  on an undiscounted basis, by $493 (net of reinsurance) and $292 (net
of reinsurance), respectively.

Reserve  activity for both reported and  unreported  environmental  and asbestos
claims, including reserves for legal defense costs, for the years ended December
31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, was as follows (net of reinsurance):


The Hartford's pretax operating  earnings have been impacted over the last three
years by  incurred  environmental  and  asbestos  claims  and  claim  adjustment
expenses,  net of reinsurance,  as follows: $2 in 1997, $925 in 1996 and $163 in
1995.

The Hartford  believes that the  environmental and asbestos reserves reported at
December 31, 1997 are a reasonable  estimate of the ultimate remaining liability
for these claims based upon known facts,  current assumptions and The Hartford's
methodologies.  Future social,  economic,  legal or legislative developments may
alter the original  intent of policies  and the scope of coverage.  The Hartford
will  continue to evaluate new  developments  and  methodologies  as they become
available for use in supplementing  the Company's ongoing analysis and review of
its environmental and asbestos  exposures.  These future reviews may result in a
change in reserves, impacting The Hartford's results of operations in the period
in which the reserve estimates are changed.  While the effects of future changes
in facts,  legal and other issues could have a material effect on future results
of  operations,  The Hartford does not expect such changes would have a material
effect on its liquidity or financial condition.

                                     - 23 -

INVESTMENTS

An  important  element of the  financial  results of The  Hartford  is return on
invested assets.  The Hartford's  investment  activities are divided between the
reportable segments of North American Property & Casualty, Life,  International,
and Other Operations.  The investment  portfolios for these segments are managed
based  on  the  underlying   characteristics  and  nature  of  their  respective
liabilities.  For a further  discussion on The  Hartford's  approach to managing
risks, see the Capital Markets Risk Management section.

The  investment  portfolios of the  individual  segments are managed by distinct
investment strategy groups which are accountable to the senior management of the
segments.  They are  responsible  for  monitoring  and  managing  the  segment's
asset/liability profile,  establishing investment objectives and guidelines, and
determining,  within  specified risk tolerances and investment  guidelines,  the
appropriate asset allocation,  duration,  and convexity  characteristics  of the
portfolios. Hartford Investment Management Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of
The Hartford,  executes the investment plan of the strategy groups including the
identification  and purchase of  securities  that fulfill the  objectives of the
strategy groups. International subsidiaries maintain individual investment units
with comparable responsibilities.

NORTH AMERICAN PROPERTY & CASUALTY

The investment objective of the North American Property & Casualty segment is to
maximize  economic  value  while  generating  after-tax  income  and  sufficient
liquidity to meet corporate and policyholder obligations.  Investment strategies
are  developed  based  on  a  variety  of  factors,  including  business  needs,
regulatory requirements and tax considerations.

Total invested assets were $15.0 billion at December 31, 1997 and were comprised
of fixed  maturities  of $13.5  billion and other  investments  of $1.5 billion,
primarily equity securities. As of December 31, 1997 and 1996, the segment had a
minimal amount of real estate.

                   FIXED MATURITIES BY TYPE
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                 1997               1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
TYPE                          FAIR    PERCENT   FAIR    PERCENT
                              VALUE             VALUE
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Municipal - tax-exempt     $  7,873    58.5% $  7,123    63.2%
Corporate                     2,257    16.8%    2,160    19.1%
Commercial MBS                  687     5.1%      107     0.9%
ABS                             559     4.2%      206     1.8%
MBS - agency                    540     4.0%      213     1.9%
CMO                             483     3.6%      655     5.8%
Gov't/Gov't agencies - For.     459     3.4%      279     2.5%
Gov't/Gov't agencies - U.S.      32     0.2%       15     0.1%
Municipal - taxable              31     0.2%       68     0.6%
Short-term                      479     3.6%      419     3.7%
Redeemable pref'd stock          56     0.4%       47     0.4%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL FIXED MATURITIES  $ 13,456   100.0% $ 11,292   100.0%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

During  1997,  the North  American  Property &  Casualty  segment  adjusted  its
strategy to increase its ownership of taxable bonds, specifically,  asset backed
securities   ("ABS"),   commercial   mortgage  backed  securities   ("MBS")  and
corporates. In addition, the segment's percentage ownership of equity securities
to total invested assets decreased  primarily as a result of opportunities taken
in a favorable equity market.

The  taxable  equivalent  duration  of the  December  31,  1997  fixed  maturity
portfolio was 4.7 years compared to 5.0 years at December 31, 1996.  Duration is
defined as the market price  sensitivity of the portfolio to parallel  shifts in
the yield curve.

INVESTMENT RESULTS

The table below  summarizes  the North  American  Property & Casualty  segment's
results.

                                     1997      1996     1995
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Net investment income, before-tax   $   777  $  661   $    646
Net investment income, after-tax    $   619  $  531   $    478
[1]
Yield on average invested assets,
  before-tax [2]                        5.9%    5.5%       5.8%
Yield on average invested assets,
  after-tax [1] [2]                     4.7%    4.4%       4.3%
Net realized capital gains,         $   231  $   15   $     29
before-tax
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  Due to the significant  holdings in tax-exempt  investments,  after-tax net
     investment income and yield are included.
[2]  Represents net  investment  income  (excluding net realized  capital gains)
     divided by average  invested assets at cost (fixed  maturities at amortized
     cost).

For the year ended December 31, 1997,  before-tax net investment income was $777
compared to $661 in 1996, an increase of 18%,  while  after-tax  net  investment
income  increased 17%. The increase in both before- and after-tax net investment
income  was  primarily  due to an  increase  in  invested  assets as a result of
increased operating cash flow,  investment of the proceeds from the 1996 sale of
Quarterly Income Preferred  Securities and 1997 repayment of allocated  advances
by HLI,  partially  offset  by the  1997  North  American  Property  &  Casualty
segment's  share of repayment of short-term  debt.  The increase in both before-
and  after-tax  yield  was  primarily  due to  increased  allocations  to higher
yielding ABS and commercial MBS along with an increase in below investment grade
securities.

For the year ended December 31, 1996,  before-tax net investment income was $661
compared to $646 in 1995,  an increase of 2%,  while  after-tax  net  investment
income  increased  11%. The increase in  before-tax  net  investment  income was
primarily  due  to  increased  ownership  of  high  yield  securities,  duration
extension  of 0.6 years and an  increase in invested  assets.  While  before-tax
yield  decreased  due to an increased  allocation to common stocks and municipal
bonds and the sale of taxable  bonds,  increases in  after-tax  yield and income
were primarily due to the strategic decision to increase investment in municipal
tax-exempt bonds.

Net  realized  capital  gains  increased  to $231 in 1997 from $15 in 1996.  The
increase in net realized capital gains resulted  primarily from opportunities in
a strong equity market, partially offset by real estate writedowns of $31.

Net realized capital gains declined to $15 in 1996 from $29 in 1995. Included in
1996  activity was the  generation  of $77 of net realized  capital gains in the
common stock portfolios  which

                                     - 24 -

were offset by real estate  writedowns of $27 and losses incurred in the sale of
lower yielding taxable bonds.

LIFE

The primary  investment  objective  of the Life  segment's  general  account and
guaranteed  separate accounts is to maximize  after-tax returns  consistent with
acceptable  risk  parameters  (including  the  management  of the interest  rate
sensitivity of invested assets  relative to that of policyholder  obligations as
discussed in the Capital  Markets Risk  Management  section under "Market Risk -
Life Operations - Interest Rate Risk").

Invested assets, excluding separate accounts,  totaled $21.0 billion at December
31, 1997 and were comprised of $16.8 billion of fixed  maturities,  $3.8 billion
of policy  loans,  and other  investments  of $363.  Policy  loans,  which had a
weighted-average  interest rate of 11.2% as of December 31, 1997, are secured by
the cash value of the life policy.  These loans do not mature in a  conventional
sense, but expire in conjunction with the related policy liabilities.

                    FIXED MATURITIES BY TYPE
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                 1997               1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
TYPE                          FAIR   PERCENT    FAIR    PERCENT
                              VALUE             VALUE
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Corporate                  $  7,970   47.3%  $  7,587    48.3%
ABS                           3,199   19.0%     2,693    17.1%
Commercial MBS                1,606    9.5%     1,098     7.0%
CMO                             978    5.8%     2,150    13.7%
MBS - agency                    514    3.1%       402     2.6%
Gov't/Gov't agencies - For.     502    3.0%       395     2.5%
Municipal - taxable             267    1.6%       266     1.7%
Gov't/Gov't agencies - U.S.     241    1.4%       355     2.2%
Municipal - tax-exempt          171    1.0%        --      --
Short-term                    1,395    8.3%       765     4.9%
Redeemable preferred stock        5      --        --      --
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL FIXED MATURITIES  $ 16,848  100.0%  $ 15,711   100.0%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

During 1997,  the Life segment  continued its objective of managing  exposure to
securities  that  "underperform"  in a falling  interest rate  environment.  The
segment  continued to  concentrate  on reducing  exposure to the  collateralized
mortgage obligations ("CMO") asset sector, and reallocated the funds into public
and private  corporate bonds,  commercial MBS and other  nonresidential  ABS. In
general,  commercial  MBS and other  nonresidential  ABS,  although  subject  to
prepayment risk, are  significantly  less sensitive to changes in interest rates
as compared to CMO securities.  At December 31, 1997, holdings in CMO securities
were $978, or 5.7%, of total invested assets  excluding policy loans compared to
$2.2  billion,  or 13.4%,  at  December  31, 1996 and $3.7  billion,  or 22%, at
December 31, 1995.

As of December 31, 1997 and 1996,  approximately 22.6% and 10.3%,  respectively,
of the segment's  fixed  maturity  portfolio  was invested in private  placement
securities  (including Rule 144A offerings).  Private  placement  securities are
generally  less liquid than public  securities.  However,  covenants for private
placements are designed to mitigate the impact of such increased liquidity risk.
Most of the private placement securities in the segment's portfolio are rated by
rating agencies.

INVESTMENT RESULTS

The table below summarizes the Life segment's results.

(before-tax)                         1997      1996     1995
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Net investment income               $ 1,536  $ 1,530  $ 1,451
Yield on average invested assets[1]     7.6%     7.7%     7.4%
Net realized capital losses         $   --   $  (219) $   (4)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  Represents net investment  income  (excluding net realized  capital losses)
     divided by average  invested assets at cost (fixed  maturities at amortized
     cost).

For the year ended December 31, 1997,  before-tax net investment  income totaled
$1.5 billion,  unchanged from 1996. Before-tax yields on average invested assets
decreased to 7.6% in 1997 from 7.7% in 1996.  The decrease in before-tax  yields
was primarily attributable to declining market interest rates and a reduction in
policy loan yields.

For the year ended December 31, 1996, before-tax net investment income increased
by 5% from 1995.  Yields on average  invested  assets  increased to 7.7% in 1996
from 7.4% in 1995. The increase in net investment income was primarily due to an
increase in policy loans,  new business  cash flow invested in fixed  maturities
and asset mix changes  offset by asset sales and  maturities in Closed Book GRC.
(For additional  information  regarding  Closed Book GRC, see the Life section.)
The increase in  before-tax  yield was  primarily  due to the increase in policy
loan yields,  offset by a reduction in yield on fixed  maturities as a result of
sales and  maturities  of higher  yielding  assets  reinvested  at lower average
yields.

There were no net realized  capital gains or losses for the year ended  December
31, 1997 as compared to net  realized  capital  losses of $219 in 1996 and $4 in
1995. The 1996 capital losses were primarily  attributable  to the writedown and
sale of certain securities within Closed Book GRC.

INTERNATIONAL

The  investment   objectives  of  the  International  segment  are  to  generate
appropriate  after-tax  income and  sufficient  liquidity to meet  corporate and
policyholder  obligations.  The International  segment  primarily  comprises the
investment  activities  of ITT London & Edinburgh,  Zwolsche  Algemeene  and ITT
Ercos,   which  are  engaged  in  property  and  casualty  and  life  insurance.
Investments  are made in maturities and  currencies  which reflect the nature of
the liabilities.

Invested assets,  excluding separate accounts, were $2.7 billion at December 31,
1997  and  were  comprised  of  fixed  maturities  of  $2.3  billion  and  other
investments of $407, primarily equity securities.

                    FIXED MATURITIES BY TYPE
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                 1997               1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
TYPE                            FAIR    PERCENT   FAIR   PERCENT
                                VALUE             VALUE
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Gov't/Gov't agencies - For.  $    829    36.5% $  1,384    63.1%
Corporate                         414    18.3%      401    18.3%
Gov't/Gov't agencies - U.S.        19     0.8%       29     1.3%
Short-term                      1,007    44.4%      379    17.3%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL FIXED MATURITIES    $  2,269   100.0% $  2,193   100.0%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

                                     - 25 -

INVESTMENT RESULTS

The table below summarizes the International segment's results.

(before-tax)                         1997      1996     1995
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Net investment income              $    185 $    183  $    158
Yield on average invested assets [1]    7.2%     7.4%      7.3%
Net realized capital gains         $     95 $     73  $     47
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  Represents net  investment  income  (excluding net realized  capital gains)
     divided by average  invested assets at cost (fixed  maturities at amortized
     cost).

For the year ended December 31, 1997, both net investment  income and yield were
relatively flat as compared to 1996.

For the year ended December 31, 1996,  before-tax net investment  income totaled
$183 compared to $158 in 1995, an increase of 16%.  Before-tax yields on average
invested  assets  increased to 7.4% in 1996 from 7.3% in 1995. The change in net
investment  income reflected the full year of investment  results from ITT Ercos
(acquired  in  May,  1995),  a  change  in  asset  composition  favoring  longer
maturities, and a modest increase in cash flow.

Net realized  capital  gains  increased to $95 in 1997  compared to $73 in 1996,
primarily the result of opportunities in a favorable equity market. Net realized
capital gains  increased to $73 in 1996 from $47 in 1995 due to increased  sales
in 1996 of both fixed maturities and equity securities.

OTHER OPERATIONS

The investment  objective of the Other Operations  segment is to ensure the full
and timely payment of all  liabilities.  The ongoing  strategy is to match asset
and  liability  cash flow in the  early  years and to  minimize  the  difference
between asset and liability durations.

Invested assets were $2.5 billion at December 31, 1997 and were mostly comprised
of fixed maturities.

                    FIXED MATURITIES BY TYPE
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                 1997               1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
TYPE                          FAIR    PERCENT  FAIR    PERCENT
                              VALUE            VALUE
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Corporate                 $   1,530    61.7% $ 1,458     64.7%
Commercial MBS                  149     6.0%      88      3.9%
ABS                             142     5.7%     148      6.6%
Gov't/Gov't agencies - U.S.      88     3.5%     141      6.2%
Gov't/Gov't agencies - For.      83     3.3%      72      3.2%
MBS - agency                     56     2.3%      36      1.6%
Municipal - taxable              39     1.6%      22      1.0%
CMO                              27     1.1%      40      1.8%
Short-term                      357    14.4%     248     11.0%
Redeemable preferred stock        9     0.4%      --      --
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL FIXED MATURITIES  $  2,480   100.0% $ 2,253    100.0%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
INVESTMENT RESULTS

The table below summarizes the Other Operations segment's results.

(before-tax)                         1997      1996     1995
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Net investment income               $   157  $   149   $   165
Yield on average invested assets [1]    6.7%     6.5%      7.2%
Net realized capital gains          $     1  $     5   $    30
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  Represents net  investment  income  (excluding net realized  capital gains)
     divided by average  invested assets at cost (fixed  maturities at amortized
     cost).

For the year ended December 31, 1997,  before-tax net investment  income totaled
$157  compared  to $149 in 1996,  an  increase of 5%,  while  before-tax  yields
increased to 6.7% from 6.5%. The increase in net investment income and yield was
due  primarily  to an increase  in  invested  assets and the receipt of interest
income in an arbitration settlement.

For the year ended December 31, 1996,  before-tax net investment  income totaled
$149 compared to $165 in 1995, a decrease of 10%.  Before-tax  yields on average
invested assets decreased to 6.5% in 1996 from 7.2% in 1995. The decrease in net
investment  income  and yield were due to the sale of fixed  maturities  late in
1995 in the Fencourt portfolio and reinvestment in securities with substantially
lower yields.

Net  realized  capital  gains were $1 in 1997  compared to $5 in 1996 and $30 in
1995, primarily due to gains taken in the Fencourt portfolio in 1995.

SEPARATE ACCOUNT PRODUCTS

Separate  account  products  are  those  for  which a  separate  investment  and
liability account is maintained on behalf of the policyholder. Separate accounts
reflect two  categories of risk  assumption:  non-guaranteed  separate  accounts
totaling $59.4 billion as of December 31, 1997, wherein the policyholder assumes
substantially all the risk and reward, and guaranteed separate accounts totaling
$10.7  billion as of  December  31,  1997  wherein  The  Hartford  contractually
guarantees  either a  minimum  return  or  account  value  to the  policyholder.
Investment  strategy  varies by fund choice,  as outlined in the applicable fund
prospectus  or separate  account  plan of  operations.  Non-guaranteed  separate
account products include variable  annuities,  variable life insurance contracts
and COLI.  Guaranteed  separate account products  primarily  consist of modified
guaranteed  individual  annuity and  modified  guaranteed  life  insurance,  and
generally   include   market   value   adjustment   features  to  mitigate   the
disintermediation risk in the event of surrenders.

                                     - 26 -

CAPITAL MARKETS RISK MANAGEMENT

The Hartford has a disciplined  approach to managing risks  associated  with its
capital markets and asset/liability management activities.  Investment portfolio
management  is organized to focus  investment  management  expertise on specific
classes of investments while asset/liability management is the responsibility of
separate and distinct risk management units supporting the property and casualty
and life  operations.  Derivative  instruments  are utilized in accordance  with
established  Company policy and are monitored  internally and reviewed by senior
management.

The Company is exposed to two primary sources of investment and  asset/liability
management risk:  credit risk,  relating to the uncertainty  associated with the
ability of an obligor or  counterparty  to make  timely  payments  of  principal
and/or interest,  and market risk, relating to the market price and/or cash flow
variability associated with changes in interest rates, securities prices, market
indices,  yield curves or currency exchange rates. The Company does not hold any
financial instruments entered into for trading purposes.

CREDIT RISK

The Hartford has established investment credit policies that focus on the credit
quality of obligors and counterparties,  limit credit concentrations,  encourage
diversification  and  require  frequent  creditworthiness  reviews.   Investment
activity,  including  setting of policy and defining  acceptable risk levels, is
subject to regular review and approval by senior  management and frequent review
by the Company's Finance Committee.

The Company invests primarily in investment grade securities and has established
exposure limits,  diversification standards and review procedures for all credit
risks whether  borrower,  issuer or counterparty.  Creditworthiness  of specific
obligors  is  determined  by  an  internal  credit  evaluation  supplemented  by
consideration of external  determinants of  creditworthiness,  typically ratings
assigned by nationally recognized ratings agencies. Obligor,  geographic,  asset
sector  and  industry  concentrations  are  subject  to  established  limits and
monitored on a regular interval.

The Company's derivatives  counterparty exposure policy establishes market-based
credit limits,  favors long-term financial stability and  creditworthiness,  and
typically requires credit  enhancement/credit  risk reducing agreements.  Credit
risk is  measured  as the amount  owed to the  Company  based on current  market
conditions  and  potential  payment  obligations  between  the  Company  and its
counterparties.   Credit  exposures  are  quantified  weekly  and  netted,   and
collateral  is pledged to or held by the Company to the extent the current value
of derivatives exceed exposure policy thresholds.

The Hartford is not exposed to any significant  credit  concentration  risk of a
single issuer.

The following  tables  identify fixed  maturity  securities for the property and
casualty operations,  including international and other operations, and the life
operations, including international operations and guaranteed separate accounts,
by credit quality. The ratings referenced in the tables are based on the ratings
of a nationally  recognized rating organization or, if not rated, assigned based
on the Company's internal analysis of such securities.

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY OPERATIONS

As of December 31, 1997,  over 95% of the fixed maturity  portfolio was invested
in investment-grade securities.

              FIXED MATURITIES BY CREDIT QUALITY
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                 1997               1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
CREDIT QUALITY                FAIR    PERCENT   FAIR    PERCENT
                              VALUE             VALUE
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
 U.S. Gov't/Gov't agencies $  1,083     6.1% $  1,058     6.9%
 AAA                          6,337    35.4%    5,739    37.3%
 AA                           3,426    19.1%    3,095    20.1%
 A                            3,096    17.3%    2,779    18.0%
 BBB                          1,352     7.6%      877     5.7%
 BB & below                     767     4.3%      581     3.8%
 Not Rated                       --     --        256     1.7%
 Short-term                   1,832    10.2%      998     6.5%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL FIXED MATURITIES  $ 17,893   100.0% $ 15,383   100.0%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

LIFE OPERATIONS

As of December 31, 1997,  over 99% of the fixed maturity  portfolio was invested
in investment-grade securities.

              FIXED MATURITIES BY CREDIT QUALITY
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                 1997               1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
CREDIT QUALITY                FAIR    PERCENT   FAIR    PERCENT
                              VALUE             VALUE
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

 U.S. Gov't/Gov't agencies $  2,907    10.6% $  2,003     7.6%
 AAA                          4,252    15.4%    6,047    23.1%
 AA                           2,990    10.9%    3,704    14.1%
 A                            9,351    33.9%    8,936    34.1%
 BBB                          5,966    21.7%    4,467    17.0%
 BB & below                     205     0.7%      155     0.6%
 Short-term                   1,880     6.8%      911     3.5%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL FIXED MATURITIES  $ 27,551   100.0% $ 26,223   100.0%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

MARKET RISK

The Hartford has several  objectives in managing market risk associated with its
property and casualty and life operations.  The property and casualty operations
attempt to maximize economic value while generating appropriate after-tax income
and sufficient  liquidity to meet corporate and  policyholder  obligations.  The
property and casualty  operations  have  material  exposure to interest rate and
equity market risk. The life operations are responsible for maximizing after-tax
returns  within  acceptable  risk  parameters  including  the  management of the
interest  rate   sensitivity  of  invested   assets  to  that  of   policyholder
obligations.  The life operations have material market exposure to interest rate
risk  associated  with its fixed maturity  portfolios.  The Company  continually
monitors these exposures and adjusts the composition and profile of its invested
assets through both the cash and derivatives  markets to manage these risks. 

                                     - 27 -

The  Company  analyzes   interest  rate  risk  using  various  models  including
multi-scenario  cash flow  projection  models  that  forecast  cash flows of the
liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments.

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

The Hartford  utilizes a variety of  derivative  instruments,  including  swaps,
caps,  floors,  forwards and exchange traded futures and options,  in accordance
with  Company  policy  and in order to  achieve  one of three  Company  approved
objectives: to hedge risk arising from interest rate, price or currency exchange
rate  volatility;  to manage  liquidity;  or to control  transaction  costs. The
Company does not make a market or trade  derivatives  for the express purpose of
earning trading profits.

The  Company  uses  derivative  instruments  in its  management  of market  risk
consistent   with  four  risk   management   strategies:   hedging   anticipated
transactions, hedging liability instruments, hedging invested assets and hedging
portfolios of assets and/or  liabilities.  (For additional  information of these
strategies along with tables reflecting outstanding derivative instruments,  see
the Property and Casualty Operations and Life Operations discussions below.)

Derivative  activities are monitored by an internal  compliance  unit,  reviewed
frequently by senior management and reported to the Company's Finance Committee.
The notional amounts of derivative  contracts represent the basis upon which pay
or  receive  amounts  are  calculated  and are not  reflective  of credit  risk.
Notional  amounts  pertaining  to  derivative  instruments  for both general and
guaranteed separate accounts totaled $11.1 billion at December 31, 1997.

The following  discussions focus on the key market risk exposures within each of
the property and casualty and life operations.


PROPERTY AND CASUALTY OPERATIONS

Interest Rate Risk
- ------------------

The  primary  exposure  to  interest  rate  risk in the  property  and  casualty
operations relates to its fixed maturity investments. Changes in market interest
rates  directly  impact the market value of the fixed  maturity  securities.  In
addition,  but to a lesser  extent,  interest  rate risk exists on debt  issued.
Derivative instruments are used periodically to manage interest rate risk and as
a result,  their  value  will  change as market  rates  change,  usually  in the
opposite  direction  of the item  being  hedged.  The total  notional  amount of
derivatives  used for hedging  interest  rate risk was $125 as of  December  31,
1997.

The principal amounts of the fixed and variable rate fixed maturity  portfolios,
along with the  respective  weighted  average  coupons at December 31, 1997, are
reflected in the following table by estimated maturity year. Expected maturities
differ from  contractual  maturities due to call or prepayment  provisions.  The
weighted  average coupon on variable rate securities is based upon spot rates as
of December 31, 1997, and is based  primarily on London  Interbank  Offered Rate
("LIBOR").  Callable  bonds and notes are  primarily  municipal  bonds,  and are
distributed  to either call dates or maturity  depending on which date  produces
the most conservative  yield. Asset backed securities,  collateralized  mortgage
obligations  and mortgage  backed  securities  are  distributed to maturity year
based on  estimates  of the rate of future  prepayments  of  principal  over the
remaining life of the securities. These estimates are developed using prepayment
speeds  contained in broker  consensus  data.  Such  estimates  are derived from
prepayment speeds  previously  experienced at interest rate levels projected for
the  underlying  collateral.  Actual  prepayment  experience may vary from these
estimates.  Financial  instruments  with  certain  leverage  features  have been
included in each of the fixed maturity  categories.  These  instruments have not
been  separately  displayed as they were immaterial to the property and casualty
operations' investment portfolio.

                                     - 28 -



                                     - 29 -

The following  table  provides  information  as of December 31, 1997 on interest
rate swaps used to manage  interest rate risk on fixed  maturities  and presents
notional  amounts with weighted  average pay and receive rates by maturity year.
The weighted average pay rate is based upon spot rates as of December 31, 1997.



The table below provides information as of December 31, 1997 on debt obligations
and reflects  principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rate by
maturity year.



Equities Price Risk
- -------------------

The  property  and  casualty  operations  hold a well  diversified  portfolio of
investments  in  equity  securities  representing  firms in  various  countries,
industries and market segments ranging from small market  capitalization  stocks
to the Standard & Poor's 500 stocks.  The risk associated with these  securities
relates to  potential  decreases in value  resulting  from changes in the equity
prices.

The operations may  occasionally use equity futures to hedge against a change in
value on the anticipated  purchase or sale of equity securities.  As of December
31, 1997, there were no outstanding  derivative instruments hedging equity price
risk.

The  following  table  reflects  equity  securities  owned at December  31, 1997
grouped by major market type.


                               --------------------------------
EQUITY SECURITIES                 Fair Value       Percent
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Domestic
   Large cap                     $      793           45.5%
   Midcap/small cap                     293           16.8%
Foreign
   EAFE [1]/Canadian                    562           32.3%
   Emerging                              93            5.4%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
       Total                    $     1,741          100.0%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  Europe, Australia, Far East countries index.

Currency Exchange Risk
- ----------------------

Currency  exchange  risk within the  property and  casualty  operations  relates
primarily  to  translating  both  profits  and  net  equity  investment  in  its
international subsidiaries from 

                                     - 30 -

the subsidiary's local currency to U.S. dollars.  The following table represents
the property  and casualty  operations'  net equity  investments  in its primary
foreign  subsidiaries,  the related  foreign  currency and the impact to the net
equity  investment based upon a 10% change in foreign currency rates at December
31, 1997.


                                     Impact of 10%
                                        Changes
                      Net Equity    ----------------
Company               Investment    -10%     +10%     Currency
- --------------------- ------------- -------- ------- -----------
ITT London &
 Edinburgh               $362        $(36)     $36    Sterling
Zwolsche Algemeene        353         (35)      35    Guilder
ITT Ercos                  53          (1)       1    Pesetas
- --------------------- ------------- -------- ------- -----------

Currency exchange risk also exists with respect to investments in foreign equity
securities.  Forward foreign contracts with a notional amount of $51 are used to
hedge this risk.

LIFE OPERATIONS

Interest Rate Risk
- ------------------

The life  operations'  general  and  guaranteed  separate  account  exposure  to
interest  rate risk  relates to the market  price  and/or cash flow  variability
associated with changes in market interest rates.  Changes in interest rates can
potentially   impact  the  life   operations'   profitability.   Under   certain
circumstances of interest rate volatility,  the life operations could be exposed
to  disintermediation  risk and  reduction in net interest rate spread or profit
margins. For the life operations' non-guaranteed separate accounts,  exposure is
not significant as the policyholder assumes  substantially all of the investment
risk.

The life operations'  general account and guaranteed separate account investment
portfolios  primarily consist of  investment-grade,  fixed maturity  securities,
including  corporate bonds, asset backed securities,  commercial mortgage backed
securities and collateralized mortgage obligations.  The fair value of these and
the life operations' other invested assets fluctuates  depending on the interest
rate  environment  and other  general  economic  conditions.  During  periods of
declining interest rates, paydowns on residential mortgage backed securities and
collateralized  mortgage  obligations  increase as the underlying  mortgages are
prepaid. During such periods, the Company generally will not be able to reinvest
the proceeds of any such prepayments at comparable  yields.  Conversely,  during
periods of rising interest rates, the rate of prepayments  generally slows, also
exposing the Company to the possibility of  asset/liability  cash flow and yield
mismatch.  For further discussion of the Company's risk management techniques to
manage this market risk, see the "Asset and Liability Management Strategies Used
to Manage Market Risk" discussed below.

As described  above,  the life  operations  hold a  significant  fixed  maturity
portfolio  which includes both fixed and variable rate  features.  The following
table  reflects  the  principal  amounts  of the life  operations'  general  and
guaranteed  separate account fixed and variable rate fixed maturity  portfolios,
at December 31, 1997, along with the respective  weighted  average  coupons,  by
estimated maturity year. Expected maturities differ from contractual  maturities
due to call or prepayment  provisions.  The weighted  average coupon on variable
rate  securities  is based  upon spot  rates as of  December  31,  1997,  and is
primarily  based upon LIBOR.  Callable bonds and notes are distributed to either
call dates or maturity  depending on which date  produces the most  conservative
yield. Asset backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage
backed  securities  are  distributed  to maturity year based on estimates of the
rate  of  future  prepayments  of  principal  over  the  remaining  life  of the
securities.  These estimates are developed using  prepayment  speeds provided in
broker  consensus  data.  Such  estimates  are derived  from  prepayment  speeds
previously  experienced at the interest rate levels projected for the underlying
collateral.   Actual  prepayment  experience  may  vary  from  these  estimates.
Financial  instruments with certain leverage features have been included in each
of the fixed maturity  categories.  These  instruments  have not been separately
displayed because they were immaterial to the life investment portfolio.

                                     - 31 -



                                     - 32 -


The table below provides information as of December 31, 1997 on debt obligations
and reflects  principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rate by
maturity year.



Asset and Liability Management Strategies Used to Manage Market Risk
- --------------------------------------------------------------------

The life operations  employ several risk management tools to quantify and manage
market risk arising from its investments and interest sensitive liabilities. For
certain  portfolios,  management  monitors the changes in present  value between
assets and  liabilities  resulting from various  interest rate  scenarios  using
integrated  asset/liability  measurement  systems and a proprietary  system that
simulates the impacts of parallel and non-parallel yield curve shifts.  Based on
this current and prospective  information,  management  implements risk reducing
techniques to improve the match between assets and liabilities.

Derivatives  play an important role in  facilitating  the management of interest
rate risk, creating opportunities to efficiently fund obligations, hedge against
risks that affect the value of certain  liabilities and adjust broad  investment
risk  characteristics as a result of any significant changes in market risks. As
an end user of  derivatives,  the life  operations use a variety of derivatives,
including swaps, caps, floors,  forwards and  exchange-traded  financial futures
and  options,  in order to hedge  exposure  primarily  to interest  rate risk on
anticipated  investment  purchases or existing assets and liabilities.  Notional
amounts  pertaining  to  derivatives  totaled $10.9 billion at December 31, 1997
($6.6 billion related to insurance  investments and $4.3 billion related to life
insurance  liabilities).  The strategies  described below are used to manage the
aforementioned risks.

Anticipatory Hedging -- For certain liabilities,  life operations commits to the
price of the  product  prior to receipt of the  associated  premium or  deposit.
Anticipatory  hedges are  routinely  executed to offset the impact of changes in
asset prices  arising from interest rate changes  pending the receipt of premium
or deposit and the subsequent  purchase of an asset. These hedges involve taking
a long  position in interest rate futures or entering into an interest rate swap
with  duration  characteristics  equivalent  to the  associated  liabilities  or
anticipated  investments.  The  notional  amount  of  anticipatory  hedges as of
December 31, 1997 was $255.

Liability  Hedging -- Several products  obligate the life operations to credit a
return to the  contractholder  which is indexed to a market rate. To hedge risks
associated  with  these  products,  the life  operation  typically  enters  into
interest  rate swaps to convert the  contract  rate into a rate that trades in a
more  liquid and  efficient  market.  This  hedging  strategy  enables  the life
operations to customize contract terms and conditions to customer objectives and
satisfies  the  operation's   asset/liability  matching  policy.   Additionally,
interest  rate  swaps are used to  convert  certain  fixed  contract  rates into
floating  rates,  thereby  allowing  them to be  appropriately  matched  against
floating  rate assets.  The notional  amount of  derivatives  used for liability
hedging as of December 31, 1997 was $4.3 billion.

Asset  Hedging  -- To meet the  various  life  policyholder  obligations  and to
provide  cost  effective  prudent  investment  risk  diversification,  the  life
operations  may  combine  two or  more  financial  instruments  to  achieve  the
investment  characteristics  of a  fixed  maturity  security  or that  match  an
associated  liability.   The  use  of  derivative  instruments  in  this  regard
effectively  transfers  unwanted  investment risks or attributes to others.  The
selection of the appropriate  derivative  instruments  depends on the investment
risk,  the liquidity and  efficiency of the market,  and the asset and liability
characteristics. The notional amount of asset hedges as of December 31, 1997 was
$3.2 billion.

Portfolio Hedging -- The life operation  periodically  compares the duration and
convexity of its  portfolios of assets to their  corresponding  liabilities  and
enters  into  portfolio  hedges to reduce  any  difference  to  desired  levels.
Portfolio  hedges reduce the mismatch  between assets and liabilities and offset
the  potential  impact to cash flows  caused by changes in interest  rates.  The
notional amount of portfolio hedges as of December 31, 1997 was $3.1 billion.

The following  tables provide  information as of December 31, 1997 on derivative
instruments used in accordance with the aforementioned  hedging strategies.  For
interest rate swaps,  caps and floors,  the tables present notional amounts with
weighted  average pay and receive  rates for swaps and weighted  average  strike
rates for caps and floors by maturity  year.  For  interest  rate  futures,  the
tables present contract amount and weighted average settlement price by expected
maturity year.

                                     - 33 -






                                     - 34 -








Life Insurance Liability Characteristics
- ----------------------------------------

Life  operations'  insurance  liabilities,  other than  non-guaranteed  separate
accounts,  are  primarily  related  to  accumulation  vehicles  such as fixed or
variable annuities and investment contracts and other insurance products such as
long-term disability and term life insurance.

Asset Accumulation Vehicles

While  interest  rate risk  associated  with these  insurance  products has been
reduced  through  the use of market  value  adjustment  features  and  surrender
charges,  the primary  risk  associated  with these  products is that the spread
between  investment  return  and  credited  rate may not be  sufficient  to earn
targeted returns.

Fixed Rate -- Products in this  category  require the life  operations  to pay a
fixed  rate for a  certain  period  of time.  The cash  flows  are not  interest
sensitive  because the  products  are  written  with a market  value  adjustment
feature and the  liabilities  have  protection  against the early  withdrawal of
funds through surrender  charges.  Product examples include fixed rate annuities
with a market value adjustment and fixed rate guaranteed  investment  contracts.
Contract duration is dependent on the policyholder's choice of guarantee period.

Indexed  --  Products  in this  category  are  similar  to the fixed  rate asset
accumulation  vehicles  but  require the life  operations  to pay a rate that is
determined  by an external  index.  The amount  and/or timing of cash flows will
therefore  vary based on the level of the  particular  index.  The primary risks
inherent  in these  products  are  similar to the fixed rate asset  accumulation
vehicles, with an additional risk that changes in the index may adversely affect
profitability.  Product examples include indexed-guaranteed investment contracts
with an estimated duration of up to two years.

Interest Credited -- Products in this category credit interest to policyholders,
subject to market conditions and minimum guarantees. Policyholders may surrender
at book  value but are  subject to  surrender  charges  for an  initial  period.
Product  examples  include  universal  life  contracts  and the general  account
portion of the life operations' variable annuity products.
Liability duration is short to intermediate-term.

                                     - 35 -

Other Insurance Products

Long-term  Pay Out  Liabilities  -- Products in this  category are  long-term in
nature and may contain significant actuarial (including mortality and morbidity)
pricing  and cash flow  risks.  The cash  flows  associated  with  these  policy
liabilities  are not interest rate sensitive but do vary based on the timing and
amount of benefit payments. The primary risks associated with these products are
that the benefits will exceed expected  actuarial pricing and/or that the actual
timing  of  the  cash  flows  differ  from  those  anticipated  resulting  in an
investment  return lower than that assumed in pricing.  Product examples include
structured  settlement  contracts,  on-benefit annuities (i.e., the annuitant is
currently  receiving  benefits  thereon)  and  long-term  disability  contracts.
Contract duration is generally 6 to 10 years but, at times, exceeds 30 years.

Short-term  Pay Out  Liabilities -- These  liabilities  are short-term in nature
with a duration of less than one year. The primary risks  associated  with these
products are determined by the non-investment contingencies such as mortality or
morbidity  and  the  variability  in the  timing  of the  expected  cash  flows.
Liquidity is of greater  concern  than for the  long-term  pay out  liabilities.
Products  include  individual  and  group  term  life  insurance  contracts  and
short-term disability contracts.

Matching the duration of investments with respective policyholder obligations is
an explicit objective of the life operations' management strategy. The estimated
cash  flows of  insurance  policy  liabilities  based  upon  internal  actuarial
assumptions as of December 31, 1997 are reflected in the table below by expected
maturity year.



Sensitivity to Changes in Interest Rates
- ----------------------------------------

For liabilities  whose cash flows are not  substantially  affected by changes in
interest  rates  ("fixed   liabilities")  and  where  investment  experience  is
substantially  absorbed  by the  life  operations,  the  sensitivity  of the net
economic value (discounted present value of asset cash flows less the discounted
present  value of liability  cash flows) of those  portfolios to 100 basis point
shifts in interest  rates is shown in the table below.  These fixed  liabilities
represent  about 60% of the life  operations'  general and  guaranteed  separate
account  liabilities.   The  remaining  liabilities  generally  allow  the  life
operation  significant  flexibility  to adjust  credited rates to reflect actual
investment  experience and thereby pass through a substantial  portion of actual
investment  experience to the policyholder.  The fixed liability  portfolios are
managed and monitored  relative to defined objectives and are analyzed regularly
by management for internal risk  management  purposes using scenario  simulation
techniques, and evaluated annually consistent with regulatory requirements.

                                 Change in Net Economic Value
                                       December 31, 1997
                                --------------------------------
Basis point shift                   - 100            + 100
- ------------------------------- --------------- ----------------

  Amount                        $        5       $       (10)
  Percent of liability value          0.03%            (0.06%)
- ------------------------------- -- ------------ --- ------------

                                     - 36 -

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

Capital resources and liquidity  represent the overall financial strength of The
Hartford and its ability to generate strong cash flows from each of the business
segments  and borrow funds at  competitive  rates to meet  operating  and growth
needs. The capital structure of The Hartford consists of debt, minority interest
and equity, summarized as follows:



CAPITALIZATION

The Hartford's total capitalization excluding unrealized gain on securities, net
of tax,  increased by $1.7 billion in 1997. This change primarily was the result
of earnings  and the effects of the  Offering  (see  below) and  additional  net
borrowings,  partially  offset by dividends  declared on The  Hartford's  common
stock.  The  Company's  debt to equity and debt to  capitalization  ratios (both
excluding  unrealized  gain  on  securities,  net of  tax)  improved  in 1997 as
compared  to 1996,  primarily  as a result  of  earnings  and the  impact of the
Offering, partially offset by increased debt.

In 1996, total capitalization  excluding  unrealized gain on securities,  net of
tax,  increased  by $335  from 1995 as a result of  additional  net  borrowings,
partially offset by the net loss and dividends declared on The Hartford's common
stock.  The  Company's  debt to equity and debt to  capitalization  ratios (both
excluding  unrealized  gain  on  securities,  net of tax)  increased  in 1996 as
compared to 1995, primarily as a result of increased debt.

THE OFFERING

On  February  10,  1997,  HLI,  the  holding  company  parent of The  Hartford's
significant  life insurance  subsidiaries,  filed a registration  statement,  as
amended,  with the  Securities and Exchange  Commission  relating to the initial
public  offering of HLI Class A common stock (the  "Offering").  Pursuant to the
Offering on May 22, 1997, HLI sold to the public 26 million shares at $28.25 per
share and received proceeds, net of offering expenses, of $687.

The 26 million shares sold in the Offering  represented  approximately  18.6% of
the equity ownership in HLI and approximately  4.4% of the combined voting power
of HLI's  Class A and Class B common  stock.  The  Hartford  owns all of the 114
million  outstanding  shares  of  Class B  common  stock  of  HLI,  representing
approximately  81.4% of the equity ownership in HLI and  approximately  95.6% of
the combined voting power of HLI's Class A and Class B common stock.  Holders of
Class A common stock  generally have identical  rights to the holders of Class B
common stock except that the holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one
vote per share while  holders of Class B common stock are entitled to five votes
per share on all matters submitted to a vote of HLI's  stockholders.  Also, each
share of Class B common  stock is  convertible  into one share of Class A common
stock (a) upon the  transfer of such share of Class B common stock by the holder
thereof to a  non-affiliate  (except where the shares of Class B common stock so
transferred represent 50% or more of all the outstanding shares of common stock,
calculated without regard to the difference in voting rights between the classes
of common  stock) or (b) in the event that the  number of shares of  outstanding
Class  B  common  stock  is less  than  the 50% of all  the  common  stock  then
outstanding.  As of December  31, 1997,  The  Hartford  continued to maintain an
81.4% equity ownership in HLI.

In connection  with the Offering,  The Hartford  reported a $368 gain related to
the increased value of its equity ownership in HLI.  Management used or will use
the proceeds  from the  Offering to reduce  certain  debt  outstanding,  to fund
growth  initiatives  and for other general  corporate  purposes.  The Hartford's
current intent is to continue to beneficially own at least 80% of HLI, but it is
under no contractual obligation to do so.

DEBT

Total debt in 1997 increased $241 compared to a $624 increase in the prior year.
The  Hartford  used the  proceeds  of these  additional  borrowings  to fund the
insurance  operations of its

                                     - 37 -

subsidiaries  and to repay  outstanding  commercial  paper and other  short-term
debt.

As of December 31, 1997,  The Hartford had an unsecured  aggregate  $2.0 billion
credit facility with  twenty-seven  participating  banks which is comprised of a
$1.5 billion five year revolving credit facility with four years remaining and a
$500  short-term  credit  facility.  This  facility  is  available  for  general
corporate  purposes and to provide  additional support to the Company's existing
commercial  paper  program.  At December  31,  1997,  there were no  outstanding
borrowings under the facility.

During 1996, The Hartford  expanded its  commercial  paper program by increasing
the maximum  allowable  outstanding  amount of unsecured  short-term  commercial
paper notes from $1.0 billion to $2.0 billion.

On February 14, 1997, HLI filed a shelf registration  statement for the issuance
and sale of up to $1.0  billion  in the  aggregate  of senior  debt  securities,
subordinated  debt  securities and preferred stock of HLI. On June 12, 1997, HLI
issued and sold $650 of unsecured redeemable long-term debt in the form of notes
and debentures. Of this amount, $200 was in the form of 6.90% notes due June 15,
2004,  $200 of 7.10% notes due June 15, 2007,  and $250 of 7.65%  debentures due
June  15,  2027.  Interest  on each  of the  notes  and  debentures  is  payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15, of each year,  commencing December 15,
1997.  HLI also issued $50 of short-term  debt in the form of commercial  paper.
HLI used the proceeds from these  issuances for the repayment of short-term debt
and for other general corporate purposes.

In the first quarter of 1997,  HLI borrowed $1.1 billion  against a $1.3 billion
unsecured  short-term credit facility with four banks. During the second quarter
of 1997,  HLI retired the borrowing  with proceeds from the Offering and the new
debt issuances  (discussed above), and subsequently  reduced the capacity of its
unsecured short-term credit facility from $1.3 billion to $250.

In  connection  with a shelf  registration  statement  filed  with and  declared
effective  by the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  ("SEC")  in 1995,  The
Hartford  registered for sale up to an aggregate $1.0 billion of debt securities
and preferred  stock.  In 1995,  the Company issued and sold $500 in senior debt
securities.  The intended use of the proceeds  from the sale of such  securities
has been and will continue to be primarily for the repayment and/or  replacement
of outstanding  commercial  paper and other  short-term  debt. This reflects The
Hartford's  strategy  of  managing  its  capital  within  acceptable  ranges  of
volatility and financial  ratings while  achieving the lowest  long-term cost of
capital that is reasonably possible. On October 2, 1996, this shelf registration
statement was amended for an additional  $1.25 billion of securities,  making an
aggregate  of  $1.75  billion  available  for  sale.  The  amended  registration
statement also expanded the type of securities which could be offered under this
shelf registration  statement by including provisions for the offering of common
stock,  depositary shares,  warrants,  stock purchase contracts,  stock purchase
units and junior  subordinated  deferrable  interest  debentures of the Company,
preferred  securities  of any of the  Hartford  Trusts  (referred  to below) and
guarantees by the Company with respect to the preferred securities of any of the
Hartford  Trusts.  After the  issuance of QUIPS on October  30,  1996  discussed
below,  The Hartford had $1.25 billion  remaining on this shelf  registration at
December 31, 1997.

On January 19,  1996,  The  Hartford and several  wholly-owned  special  purpose
trusts  ("Hartford  Trusts")  formed by The Hartford  filed with the SEC a shelf
registration  statement  for the  potential  offering  and  sale of $500 of debt
securities  and  preferred  stock,  including  up to an  aggregate  $500  Junior
Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest  Debentures  of The  Hartford  and  Preferred
Securities  of the Hartford  Trusts which were issued as discussed  below.  (For
additional  information,  see Notes 7 and 8 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.)

COMPANY  OBLIGATED  MANDATORILY  REDEEMABLE  PREFERRED  SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY
TRUSTS HOLDING SOLELY PARENT JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES ("QUIPS")

On February 28, 1996,  Hartford Capital I, a subsidiary trust, issued 20,000,000
Series A, 7.7% Cumulative  Quarterly Income Preferred  Securities.  The proceeds
from  the  sale of  these  securities  were  used  to  acquire  $500  of  Junior
Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures from The Hartford. The Hartford used
the  proceeds  from the sale of such  debentures  for the partial  repayment  of
outstanding  commercial paper and short-term bank indebtedness.  (For additional
information, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

On October 30, 1996, Hartford Capital II, a subsidiary trust, issued 20,000,000,
Series B, 8.35% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred  Securities.  The proceeds
from  the  sale of  these  securities  were  used  to  acquire  $500  of  Junior
Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures from The Hartford. The Hartford used
the proceeds from the sale of such  debentures for general  corporate  purposes.
(For  additional  information,  see Note 8 of Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.)

DIVIDENDS

In 1997, The Hartford  declared $189 and paid $190 in dividends to shareholders.
In 1996, The Hartford declared $188 and paid $140 in dividends to shareholders.

On October 16,  1997,  The  Hartford  declared a dividend on its common stock of
$0.40 per share payable on January 2, 1998 to all  shareholders  of record as of
December 1, 1997.

On February 19, 1998, The Hartford's  Board of Directors  approved a 5% increase
in its  quarterly  dividend to $0.42 per share.  The dividend will be payable on
April 1,  1998 to  shareholders  of  record as of March 2,  1998.  The  Hartford
expects to continue paying quarterly  dividends on its common stock of $0.42 per
share throughout 1998.  Dividend  decisions will be based on, and affected by, a
number of factors, including the operating results and financial requirements of
The  Hartford  and  the  impact  of the  regulatory  restrictions  discussed  in
Liquidity Requirements below. 

                                     - 38 -

TREASURY STOCK

In December 1997, The Hartford's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of
up to $1.0 billion of the Company's  outstanding  common stock over a three-year
period  beginning  with the first  quarter of 1998.  During 1997, to make shares
available  to  employees  pursuant to certain  stock-based  benefit  plans,  The
Hartford  repurchased 550,000 shares of its common stock in the open market at a
total cost of $45.

RATINGS

The following table summarizes The Hartford's significant U.S. member companies'
current financial ratings from the major independent rating organizations.

                             A.M.  DUFF &   STANDARD
                             BEST  PHELPS   & POOR'S  MOODY'S
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
INSURANCE RATINGS:
  Hartford Fire               A+     AA        AA       Aa3
  Hartford Life               A+     AA+       AA       Aa3
  Hartford Life & Accident    A+     AA+       AA       Aa3
  The Hartford Life &
   Annuity                    A+     AA+       AA       Aa3
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
OTHER RATINGS:
  The Hartford Financial
   Services Group, Inc.:
   Senior debt                --      A+        A         A2
   Commercial paper           --      D-1      A-1       P-1
  Hartford Life, Inc.:
   Senior debt                --      A+        A         A2
   Commercial paper           --      D-1      A-1       P-1
  Hartford Capital I and
   II quarterly income
   preferred securities       --       A        A-        a2
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

In  January  1998,  ratings  from  Duff & Phelps  and  Standard  &  Poor's  were
reaffirmed for The Hartford's  significant U.S. member  companies.  In September
1997,  A.M.  Best  removed  the  ratings of The  Hartford's  significant  member
companies from under review and reaffirmed the ratings.

LIQUIDITY REQUIREMENTS

The liquidity requirements of The Hartford have been and will continue to be met
by funds from  operations  as well as the  issuance of  commercial  paper,  debt
securities and its credit facility.  The principal sources of funds are premiums
and investment  income as well as maturities and sales of invested  assets.  The
Hartford  Financial  Services  Group,  Inc. is a holding  company which receives
operating cash flow in the form of dividends from its subsidiaries,  enabling it
to service debt, pay dividends on The  Hartford's  common stock and pay business
expenses.

Dividends to The Hartford  Financial  Services Group, Inc. from its subsidiaries
are restricted.  The payment of dividends by  Connecticut-domiciled  insurers is
limited under the insurance  holding company laws of Connecticut.  Hartford Fire
adheres  to these  laws  which  require  notice  to and  approval  by the  state
insurance  commissioner  for the  declaration or payment of any dividend,  which
together with other dividends or distributions  made within the preceding twelve
months,  exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of the insurer's policyholder surplus as
of  December  31 of the  preceding  year or (ii) net  income  (or net gain  from
operations,  if such company is a life insurance  company) for the  twelve-month
period ending on the thirty-first  day of December last preceding,  in each case
determined under statutory insurance  accounting policies.  In addition,  if any
dividend  of  a  Connecticut-domiciled  insurer  exceeds  the  insurer's  earned
surplus,   it  requires  the  prior  approval  of  the   Connecticut   Insurance
Commissioner.  The total amount of statutory  dividends which may be paid by the
insurance  subsidiaries of The Hartford  Financial Services Group, Inc. in 1998,
without prior approval, is $810.

The  insurance  holding  company  laws of the other  jurisdictions  in which The
Hartford's  insurance  subsidiaries  are  incorporated  (or deemed  commercially
domiciled)  generally contain similar  (although in certain  instances  somewhat
more restrictive) limitations on the payment of dividends.

The primary uses of funds are to pay claims, policy benefits, operating expenses
and  commissions,  and to purchase new  investments.  In addition,  The Hartford
carries a significant  short-term  investment  position and accordingly does not
anticipate selling intermediate and long-term fixed maturity investments to meet
any liquidity needs. For a discussion of the Company's investment objectives and
strategies, see the Investments and Capital Markets Risk Management sections.

RISK-BASED CAPITAL

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") adopted regulations
establishing  minimum  capitalization  requirements  based on risk-based capital
("RBC") formulas for both property and casualty  companies  (effective  December
31, 1994) and life companies  (effective  December 31, 1993).  The  requirements
consist of formulas  which  identify  companies  that are  undercapitalized  and
require specific regulatory actions. RBC is calculated for property and casualty
companies after adjusting capital for certain  underwriting,  asset,  credit and
off-balance sheet risks. The RBC formula for life companies  establishes capital
requirements relating to insurance,  business, asset and interest rate risks. As
of December 31, 1997, each of The Hartford's  insurance  subsidiaries within the
North  American  Property & Casualty and Life segments had more than  sufficient
capital to meet the NAIC's RBC requirements.

                                     - 39 -

CASH FLOW

                               1997         1996        1995
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by
   operating activities    $   2,045    $     994   $   1,094
Net cash used for
   investing activities    $  (2,247)   $  (1,035)  $  (1,597)
Net cash provided by
   financing activities    $     239    $      59   $     533
Cash - end of year         $     140    $     112   $      95
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

During 1997, cash provided by operating activities increased from the prior year
due primarily to strong revenue  growth in the Life segment  combined with lower
paid losses at the North  American  Property & Casualty  segment  resulting from
lower  property  catastrophe  and  other  severe  weather-related  losses.  Cash
provided by financing  activities  increased from the prior year due to proceeds
of the  Offering  partially  offset by  declines  in  investment-type  contracts
written in the Life segment.  The increase in cash used for investing activities
reflects the  investment of the additional  proceeds  generated by operating and
financing activities.

During 1996, cash provided by operating activities decreased from the prior year
due primarily to increased policy  acquisition costs related to strong growth in
the Life segment.  The changes in cash provided by both  investing and financing
activities   between   1996  and  1995  was   primarily   due  to   declines  in
investment-type  contracts written in the Life segment coupled with increases in
investment-type contract maturities.

Operating  cash  flows in each of the last  three  years  have  been  more  than
adequate to meet liquidity requirements.

OMNI

On February 12, 1998,  The Hartford  completed  the purchase of all  outstanding
shares  of Omni  Insurance  Group,  Inc.  ("Omni"),  a  holding  company  of two
non-standard auto insurance  subsidiaries licensed in 25 states and the District
of Columbia. The Hartford paid cash of $31.75 per share, plus transaction costs,
for a total of $189. The acquisition will be reported as a purchase  transaction
and  accordingly,  the  results of Omni's  operations  will be  included  in The
Hartford's  consolidated  financial  statements  from  the  closing  date of the
transaction.

REGULATORY INITIATIVES AND CONTINGENCIES

LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES

Although  the  Federal  government  does not  directly  regulate  the  insurance
business,  Federal initiatives often have an impact on the insurance industry in
a variety of ways. Current and proposed Federal measures which may significantly
affect the life insurance business include medical testing for insurability, tax
law changes  affecting  the tax  treatment  of life  insurance  products and its
impact on the relative  desirability of various personal investment vehicles and
proposed legislation to prohibit the use of gender in determining  insurance and
pension rates and benefits.  President  Clinton's 1998 Federal  Budget  Proposal
currently  contains certain  recommendations  for modifying tax rules related to
the  treatment  of  variable  annuities  and COLI by  contractholders,  which if
enacted as  described,  could have a material  adverse  impact on the  Company's
sales  of these  products.  It is too  early  to  determine  whether  these  tax
proposals will  ultimately be enacted by Congress and the potential  impact,  if
any, to the Company's  financial  condition or results of  operations.  Measures
which may  significantly  impact the  property  and  casualty  industry  include
possible modifications to the Superfund program, the tax laws governing property
and casualty insurance companies,  Federal catastrophe fund legislation and tort
reform proposals.

INSOLVENCY FUND

In all states,  insurers  licensed to transact  certain classes of insurance are
required to become members of an insolvency  fund. In most states,  in the event
of the  insolvency  of an insurer  writing  any such class of  insurance  in the
state,  all  members  of the fund are  assessed  to pay  certain  claims  of the
insolvent insurer. A particular state's fund assesses its members based on their
respective  written  premiums in the state for the classes of insurance in which
the insolvent insurer is engaged. Assessments are generally limited for any year
to one or two percent of premiums written per year depending on the state.  Such
assessments  paid by The Hartford  approximated $19 in 1997, $14 in 1996 and $15
in 1995.

NAIC PROPOSALS

The NAIC has been  developing  several model laws and  regulations,  including a
Model  Investment  Law  and  amendments  to the  Model  Holding  Company  System
Regulatory Act (the "Holding Act Amendments").  The Model Investment Law defines
the  investments  which are  permissible  for  property  and  casualty  and life
insurers to hold, and the Holding Act Amendments address the types of activities
in which  subsidiaries and affiliates may engage.  The NAIC adopted these models
in 1997 and 1996,  but the laws have not been  enacted for  insurance  companies
domiciled in the State of Connecticut,  such as Hartford Fire Insurance Company.
Even if  enacted  in  Connecticut  or  other  states  in  which  The  Hartford's
subsidiaries  are  domiciled,  it is  expected  that  these  laws  will  neither
significantly change The Hartford's  investment strategies nor have any material
adverse effect on The Hartford's liquidity or financial position.

The  NAIC  is  expected  to  adopt  its  codification  of  Statutory  Accounting
Principles  ("SAP") in early 1998 with a proposed  effective  date of January 1,
1999. The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) has not yet
determined  whether  SAP  will  qualify  as  an  Other  Comprehensive  Basis  of
Accounting  ("OCBOA").  If SAP is  granted  OCBOA  status  and is adopted by The
Hartford's  domiciliary  states,  the Company  will make the  necessary  changes
required  for  implementation.  These  changes  are  not  anticipated  to have a
material impact on the statutory financial statements of the Company.

                                     - 40 -

YEAR 2000

The Year 2000 issue  relates to the ability or inability of computer  systems to
properly  process  information and data containing or related to dates beginning
with the year 2000 and beyond. The Year 2000 issue exists because, historically,
many computer systems that are in use today were developed years ago when a year
was  identified  using a two-digit  field  rather than a  four-digit  field.  As
information and data containing or related to the century date are introduced to
computer  hardware,  software  and other  systems,  date  sensitive  systems may
recognize the year 2000 as "1900",  or not at all,  which may result in computer
systems processing information incorrectly. This, in turn, may significantly and
adversely affect the integrity and reliability of information  databases and may
result in a wide variety of adverse consequences to a company. In addition, Year
2000 problems that occur with third parties with which a company does  business,
such as suppliers, computer vendors, distributors and others, may also adversely
affect any given company.

As an insurance and financial  services  company,  The Hartford has thousands of
individual  and business  customers  that have  insurance  policies,  annuities,
mutual funds and other financial  products of The Hartford.  Nearly all of these
policies and products  contain date sensitive  data,  such as policy  expiration
dates,  birth dates,  premium  payment  dates,  and the like.  In addition,  The
Hartford has business  relationships  with  numerous  third  parties that affect
virtually all aspects of The Hartford's business, including, without limitation,
suppliers, computer hardware and software vendors, insurance agents and brokers,
securities broker-dealers and other distributors of financial products.

Beginning in 1990,  The Hartford  began  working on making its computer  systems
Year 2000 ready, either through installing new programs or replacing systems. In
January 1998, The Hartford commenced a company-wide program to further identify,
assess and remediate the impact of Year 2000 problems in The Hartford's business
segments.  The Hartford currently anticipates that this internal program will be
substantially completed by the end of 1998, and testing of computer systems will
continue  through 1999.  The costs of  addressing  the Year 2000 issue that have
been incurred by The Hartford  through the year ended December 31, 1997 have not
been material to The  Hartford's  financial  condition or results of operations.
The Hartford  will  continue to incur costs related to its Year 2000 efforts and
is in the process of attempting to determine the  approximate  total costs to be
incurred in the future, which costs are not currently anticipated to be material
to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

In addition, as part of its Year 2000 program, The Hartford is identifying third
parties with which it has significant  business relations in order to attempt to
assess  the  potential  impact on The  Hartford  of their  Year 2000  issues and
remediation plans. The Hartford currently anticipates that it will substantially
complete this  evaluation by the end of 1998, and will conduct  systems  testing
with certain third parties through 1999. The Hartford does not have control over
these third parties and, as a result, The Hartford cannot currently determine to
what extent future operating results may be adversely affected by the failure of
these third parties to successfully address their Year 2000 issues. However, The
Hartford expects to develop plans to attempt to minimize  identified third party
exposures.

EFFECT OF INFLATION

The rate of  inflation as measured by the change in the average  consumer  price
index has not had a material effect on the revenues or operating  results of The
Hartford during the three most recent fiscal years.

ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

For a discussion of accounting  standards,  see Note 1 of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements.

                                     - 41 -

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Reference  is  made  to the  Capital  Markets  Risk  Management  section  of the
Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules elsewhere herein.

ITEM  9.  CHANGES  IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE HARTFORD

Certain of the information  called for by Item 10 is set forth in the definitive
proxy  statement  for the  1998  annual  meeting  of  shareholders  (the  "Proxy
Statement")  filed or to be  filed  by The  Hartford  with  the  Securities  and
Exchange  Commission  within  120 days  after  the end of the last  fiscal  year
covered by this Form 10-K under the caption  "Item 1.  Election  of  Directors -
Directors  and  Nominees" and is  incorporated  herein by reference.  Additional
information  required by Item 10 regarding The Hartford's  executive officers is
set forth in Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the caption  "Executive  Officers of
The Hartford" and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information  called for by Item 11 is set forth in the Proxy Statement under
the captions  "Compensation  of Executive  Officers" and "The Board of Directors
and its  Committees - Directors'  Compensation"  and is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information  called for by Item 12 is set forth in the Proxy Statement under
the caption  "Stock  Ownership  of  Directors,  Executive  Officers  and Certain
Shareholders" and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

None.

PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  Documents filed as a part of this report:

     1.   CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. See Index to Consolidated Financial
          Statements elsewhere herein.

     2.   CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.  See Index to Consolidated
          Financial Statement Schedules elsewhere herein.

     3.   EXHIBITS. See Exhibit Index elsewhere herein.

(b) On December 18, 1997, The Hartford filed a Form 8-K, reporting under Item 5,
Other Events,  that The Hartford's Board of Directors  authorized the repurchase
of up to $1.0 billion of The Hartford's outstanding common stock.

(c)  See Item 14(a)(3).

(d)  See Item 14(a)(2).

                                     - 42 -
            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES


                                                                      Page(s)
Report of Management                                                   F-1
Report of Independent Public Accountants                               F-2
Consolidated Statements of Income for the three years ended 
December 31, 1997                                                      F-3
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1997 and 1996           F-4
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the three
years ended December 31, 1997                                          F-5
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years ended
 December 31, 1997                                                     F-6
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                             F-7-27
Summary of Investments - Other Than Investments in Affiliates          S-1
Supplementary Condensed Financial Statements                           S-2-3
Supplementary Insurance Information                                    S-4
Reinsurance                                                            S-5
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                                      S-6
Supplemental Information Concerning Property and Casualty 
Insurance Operations                                                   S-7




                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT


The management of The Hartford  Financial  Services  Group,  Inc.,  formerly ITT
Hartford Group,  Inc., and its subsidiaries  ("The Hartford") is responsible for
the  preparation  and  integrity of  information  contained in the  accompanying
consolidated  financial  statements and other sections of the Annual Report. The
financial   statements  are  prepared  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted
accounting principles,  and, where necessary,  include amounts that are based on
management's  informed  judgments  and  estimates.   Management  believes  these
statements  present  fairly The  Hartford's  financial  position  and results of
operation,  and,  that any other  information  contained in the Annual Report is
consistent with the financial statements.

Management has made available The Hartford's  financial records and related data
to Arthur Andersen LLP,  independent  public  accountants,  in order for them to
perform an audit of The  Hartford's  consolidated  financial  statements.  Their
report appears on page F-2.

An essential element in meeting management's  financial  responsibilities is The
Hartford's system of internal controls. These controls, which include accounting
controls and the internal auditing program,  are designed to provide  reasonable
assurance that assets are safeguarded, and transactions are properly authorized,
executed and recorded.  The controls,  which are documented and  communicated to
employees in the form of written  codes of conduct and policies and  procedures,
provide for careful  selection  of  personnel  and for  appropriate  division of
responsibility.  Management  continually  monitors  for  compliance,  while  The
Hartford's  internal  auditors  independently  assess the  effectiveness  of the
controls and make  recommendations  for improvement.  Also,  Arthur Andersen LLP
took  into   consideration   The  Hartford's  system  of  internal  controls  in
determining the nature, timing and extent of their audit tests.

Another important element is management's  recognition of its responsibility for
fostering  a strong,  ethical  climate,  thereby  ensuring  that The  Hartford's
affairs are  transacted  according  to the  highest  standards  of personal  and
professional  conduct. The Hartford has a long-standing  reputation of integrity
in business  conduct and  utilizes  communication  and  education  to create and
fortify a strong compliance culture.

The Audit  Committee  of the Board of  Directors  of The  Hartford,  composed of
non-employee  directors,  meets  periodically  with the  external  and  internal
auditors to evaluate the  effectiveness of work performed by them in discharging
their  respective  responsibilities  and to assure their  independence  and free
access to the Committee.

                                      F-1

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


TO THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.:

We have audited the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets of The Hartford
Financial Services Group, Inc. (a Delaware  corporation),  formerly ITT Hartford
Group,  Inc., and its subsidiaries  ("The Hartford") as of December 31, 1997 and
1996, and the related  Consolidated  Statements of Income,  Stockholders' Equity
and Cash Flows for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,
1997.  These  consolidated  financial  statements and the schedules  referred to
below are the responsibility of The Hartford's management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these  financial  statements and the schedules based on
our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in all material  respects,  the financial  position of The Hartford and
subsidiaries  as of  December  31,  1997  and  1996,  and the  results  of their
operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1997 in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

Our  audits  were  made for the  purpose  of  forming  an  opinion  on the basic
financial  statements  taken as a whole.  The  schedules  listed in the Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules are presented for the purpose of
complying with the Securities and Exchange  Commission's  rules and are not part
of the basic  financial  statements.  These schedules have been subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and,
in our  opinion,  fairly  state in all  material  respects  the  financial  data
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic  financial  statements
taken as a whole.



                                                       ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Hartford, Connecticut
January 27, 1998

                                      F-2




                 SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.


                                      F-3



SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

                                      F-4





                SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

                                      F-5







                SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

                                      F-6

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)


1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

(A)  BASIS OF PRESENTATION

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.,  formerly ITT Hartford Group, Inc.,
together with its  consolidated  subsidiaries  ("The Hartford" or the "Company")
provide  property  and  casualty  and  life  insurance  to both  individual  and
commercial customers in the United States and internationally.

In  June  1995,   the  Board  of  Directors  of  ITT   Industries,   Inc.   (the
"Corporation"),  formerly ITT Corporation ("ITT"),  approved the distribution to
holders of the  Corporation's  common stock of all outstanding  shares of common
stock of The  Hartford on a pro rata basis (see Note 2). The  Hartford  became a
publicly  traded  company that includes the  insurance  businesses of the former
ITT. For purposes of these financial statements,  all references to The Hartford
include  the  assets,  liabilities  and  results of  operations  of First  State
Insurance Company and its subsidiaries  ("First State") and Fencourt Reinsurance
Company,  Ltd., which were transferred to The Hartford prior to the distribution
(see Note 2).

These financial statements present the financial position, results of operations
and cash flows of The  Hartford as if it were a separate  entity for all periods
presented.  The Corporation's  historical basis in the assets and liabilities of
certain  companies,  that were  previously not a part of The Hartford,  has been
carried over and included in the  accompanying  financial  statements as if such
companies had been transferred for all periods presented, in a manner similar to
pooling of interest  accounting.  All  material  intercompany  transactions  and
balances  between  The  Hartford,  its  subsidiaries  and  affiliates  have been
eliminated.  The consolidated  financial statements are prepared on the basis of
generally  accepted  accounting  principles  which  differ  materially  from the
accounting prescribed by various insurance regulatory authorities.

The preparation of financial  statements,  in conformity with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  requires  management to make estimates and  assumptions
that affect the reported  amounts of assets and  liabilities  and  disclosure of
contingent  assets and  liabilities at the date of the financial  statements and
the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses  during the  reporting  period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

The most significant estimates include those used in determining deferred policy
acquisition  costs and the liability for future policy  benefits,  unpaid claims
and claim  adjustment  expenses.  Although some variability is inherent in these
estimates, management believes the amounts provided are adequate.

Certain  reclassifications have been made to prior year financial information to
conform to current year presentation.

(B)  CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

In December 1997, the American  Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued
Statement Of Position  ("SOP") No.  97-3,  "Accounting  by  Insurance  and Other
Enterprises for Insurance-Related Assessments". This SOP addresses accounting by
insurance and other enterprises for assessments related to insurance  activities
including  recognition,  measurement  and  disclosure  of guaranty fund or other
assessments.  SOP 97-3  will be  effective  for  fiscal  years  beginning  after
December  15,  1998,  and is not  expected  to  have a  material  impact  on the
Company's financial condition or results of operations.

In February  1997, the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  ("FASB")  issued
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS") No. 128,  "Earnings  per
Share".  This  statement  establishes  standards for  computing  and  presenting
earnings per share  ("EPS") and applies to entities  with  publicly  held common
stock or potential  common  stock.  SFAS No. 128  simplifies  the  standards for
computing  earnings per share  previously  found in Accounting  Principles Board
Opinion No. 15, "Earnings per Share", and makes them comparable to international
EPS standards. It replaces the presentation of primary EPS with the presentation
of basic EPS. It also requires dual presentation of basic and diluted EPS on the
face of the income  statement for all entities with complex  capital  structures
and  requires  a  disclosure  reconciling  the  computation  of basic EPS to the
computation of diluted EPS. This statement is effective for financial statements
for both  interim  and annual  periods  ending  after  December  15,  1997.  For
additional information, see Note 10.

On  November  14,  1996,  the  Emerging  Issues  Task Force  ("EITF")  reached a
consensus on Issue No. 96-12,  "Recognition of Interest Income and Balance Sheet
Classification  of Structured  Notes".  This Issue requires  companies to record
income on certain structured securities on a retrospective  interest method. The
Company adopted EITF No. 96-12 for structured securities acquired after November
14,  1996.  Adoption  of EITF No.  96-12 did not have a  material  effect on the
Company's financial condition or results of operations.

In June 1996,  the FASB issued  SFAS No.  125,  "Accounting  for  Transfers  and
Servicing of  Financial  Assets and  Extinguishment  of  Liabilities",  which is
effective for transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of
liabilities  occurring  after  December 31,  1996.  This  statement  established
criteria for determining  whether  transferred assets should be accounted for as
sales or secured  borrowings.  Subsequently,  in December  1996, the FASB issued
SFAS  No.  127,  "Deferral  of  Effective  Date of  Certain  Provisions  of FASB
Statement  No. 125",  which defers the effective  date of certain  provisions of
SFAS No.  125 for one  year.  Adoption  of SFAS No.  125 did not have and is not
expected  to have a material  effect on the  Company's  financial  condition  or
results of operations.

                                      F-7

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(B)  CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (CONTINUED)

Effective  January 1, 1996, The Hartford  adopted SFAS No. 121,  "Accounting for
the Impairment of Long-Lived  Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of
".  This  statement  establishes  accounting  standards  for the  impairment  of
long-lived assets,  certain  identifiable  intangibles,  and goodwill related to
those  assets  to be  held  and  used  and for  long-lived  assets  and  certain
identifiable  intangibles  to be disposed  of.  Adoption of SFAS No. 121 did not
have a  material  effect on the  Company's  financial  condition  or  results of
operations.

In October  1995,  the FASB  issued SFAS No. 123,  "Accounting  for  Stock-Based
Compensation",  which was effective in 1996 for calendar year end companies.  As
permitted by SFAS No. 123, The Hartford continues to measure  compensation costs
of employee  stock option plans using the intrinsic  value method  prescribed by
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 and has made pro forma disclosures of
net income and earnings per share as if the fair value method prescribed by SFAS
No. 123 had been applied. For additional information, see Note 11.

The  Hartford's  cash flows were not  impacted  by these  changes in  accounting
principles.

(C)  INVESTMENTS

The  Hartford's  investments  in  fixed  maturities  include  bonds,  redeemable
preferred  stock and  commercial  paper which are  classified as "available  for
sale" and  accordingly  are carried at fair value with the after-tax  difference
from  cost  reflected  as  a  component  of  Stockholders'   Equity   designated
"unrealized gain (loss) on securities,  net of tax".  Equity  securities,  which
include common and  non-redeemable  preferred stocks,  are carried at fair value
with the  after-tax  difference  from cost  reflected in  Stockholders'  Equity.
Policy loans are carried at outstanding  balance which  approximates fair value.
Net  realized  capital  gains  and  losses,  after  deducting  life and  pension
policyholders'  share, are reported as a component of revenue and are determined
on a specific identification basis.

The Company's accounting policy for impairment  recognition requires recognition
of an other than temporary  impairment  charge on a security if it is determined
that the  Company is unable to recover  all  amounts  due under the  contractual
obligations of the security. In addition, for securities expected to be sold, an
other than  temporary  impairment  charge is  recognized if the Company does not
expect the fair value of a security to recover to cost or  amortized  cost prior
to the expected date of sale. Once an impairment  charge has been recorded,  the
Company then  continues to review the other than temporary  impaired  securities
for  appropriate  valuation on an ongoing basis.  During 1996, it was determined
that certain individual  securities within the investment  portfolio  supporting
the Company's  block of traditional  guaranteed rate contract  business  written
prior to 1995 ("Closed  Book GRC") could not recover to amortized  cost prior to
sale.  Therefore,  an other than temporary  impairment loss of $88 after-tax was
recorded.

(D)  DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

The Hartford  utilizes a variety of  derivative  instruments,  including  swaps,
caps,  floors,  forwards and exchange traded futures and options,  in accordance
with  Company  policy  and in order to  achieve  one of three  Company  approved
objectives: to hedge risk arising from interest rate, price or currency exchange
rate  volatility;  to manage  liquidity;  or to control  transaction  costs. The
Company is considered an "end user" of derivative  instruments  and as such does
not make a market  or trade in these  instruments  for the  express  purpose  of
earning trading profits.  The Hartford's  accounting for derivative  instruments
used to manage risk is in accordance  with the concepts  established in SFAS No.
80,  "Accounting  for  Futures  Contracts",   SFAS  No.  52,  "Foreign  Currency
Translation",  American Institute of Certified Public  Accountants  Statement of
Position 86-2, "Accounting for Options" and various EITF pronouncements. Written
options are used, in all cases in conjunction  with other assets and derivatives
as part of the Company's  asset and liability  management  strategy.  Derivative
instruments  are carried at values  consistent with the asset or liability being
hedged.  Derivative  instruments  used to hedge fixed maturities or equities are
carried at fair value  with the  after-tax  difference  from cost  reflected  in
Stockholders' Equity. Derivative instruments used to hedge other invested assets
or liabilities are carried at cost.

Derivative  instruments  must be designated at inception as a hedge and measured
for  effectiveness  both at inception and on an ongoing  basis.  The  Hartford's
minimum  correlation  threshold for hedge  designation  is 80%. If  correlation,
which is assessed  monthly and measured  based on a rolling three month average,
falls below 80%, hedge  accounting  will be terminated.  Derivative  instruments
used to  create a  synthetic  asset  must  meet  synthetic  accounting  criteria
including  designation  at  inception  and  consistency  of  terms  between  the
synthetic and the instrument being replicated.  Synthetic instrument accounting,
consistent  with  industry  practice,  provides  that  the  synthetic  asset  is
accounted  for  like the  financial  instrument  it is  intended  to  replicate.
Derivative instruments which fail to meet risk management criteria are marked to
market with the impact reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

Gains or losses on financial  futures  contracts entered into in anticipation of
the future  receipt of product cash flows are  deferred  and, at the time of the
ultimate purchase, reflected as an adjustment to the cost basis of the purchased
asset.  Gains or losses on futures used in invested  asset risk  management  are
deferred and  adjusted  into the cost basis of the hedged asset when the futures
contracts  are closed,  except for futures  used in duration  hedging  which are
deferred and adjusted into the cost basis on a quarterly  basis. The adjustments
to the cost basis are

                                      F-8

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(D)  DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

amortized into net investment income over the remaining asset life.

Open forward  commitment  contracts are marked to market  through  Stockholders'
Equity.  Such  contracts are recorded at settlement by recording the purchase of
the specified  securities at the  previously  committed  price.  Gains or losses
resulting from the termination of the forward  commitment  contracts  before the
delivery  of the  securities  are  recognized  immediately  in the  Consolidated
Statements of Income as a component of net investment income.

The cost of  options  entered  into as part of a risk  management  strategy  are
adjusted into the basis of the underlying  asset or liability and amortized over
the remaining  life of the hedge.  Gains or losses on expiration or  termination
are adjusted into the basis of the  underlying  asset or liability and amortized
over the remaining life.

Interest  rate swaps  involve the  periodic  exchange  of  payments  without the
exchange of underlying  principal or notional amounts.  Net receipts or payments
are accrued and recognized  over the life of the swap agreement as an adjustment
to income. Should the swap be terminated,  the gain or loss is adjusted into the
basis of the asset or liability and amortized  over the remaining  life.  Should
the hedged asset be sold or liability  terminated  without  terminating the swap
position,  any swap  gains or losses are  immediately  recognized  in  earnings.
Interest   rate  swaps   purchased  in   anticipation   of  an  asset   purchase
("anticipatory transaction") are recognized consistent with the underlying asset
components such that the settlement  component is recognized in the Consolidated
Statements  of Income  while the  change in  market  value is  recognized  as an
unrealized gain or loss.

Premiums paid on purchased  floor or cap agreements and the premium  received on
issued cap or floor  agreements (used for risk management) are adjusted into the
basis of the  applicable  asset or  liability  and  amortized  over the asset or
liability  life.  Gains or losses on  termination of such positions are adjusted
into the basis of the asset or liability and amortized over the remaining  life.
Net payments are  recognized as an  adjustment  to income or basis  adjusted and
amortized depending on the specific hedge strategy.

Forward  exchange  contracts  and foreign  currency  swaps are  accounted for in
accordance with SFAS No. 52. Changes in the spot rate of instruments  designated
as hedges of the net  investment  in a foreign  subsidiary  are reflected in the
cumulative translation adjustments component of Stockholders' Equity.

(E)  SEPARATE ACCOUNTS

The Company maintains separate account assets and liabilities which are reported
at fair value.  Separate  account assets are segregated from other  investments,
and investment income and gains and losses accrue directly to the policyholders.
Separate  accounts  reflect two  categories of risk  assumption:  non-guaranteed
separate  accounts,  wherein the  policyholder  assumes the investment risk, and
guaranteed  separate  accounts,  wherein  the Company  contractually  guarantees
either a minimum return or account value to the policyholder.

(F)  DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS

PROPERTY  AND  CASUALTY   INSURANCE   OPERATIONS  -  Policy  acquisition  costs,
representing commissions, premium taxes and certain other underwriting expenses,
are deferred and  amortized  over policy  terms.  Estimates of future  revenues,
including net investment  income and tax benefits,  are compared to estimates of
future costs,  including  amortization of policy acquisition costs, to determine
if business  currently in force is expected to result in a net loss.  No revenue
deficiencies have been determined in the periods presented.

LIFE INSURANCE OPERATIONS - Policy acquisition costs,  including commissions and
certain underwriting  expenses associated with acquiring business,  are deferred
and amortized  over the estimated  lives of the  contracts,  generally 20 years.
Generally,  acquisition costs are deferred and amortized using the retrospective
deposit method.  Under the retrospective  deposit method,  acquisition costs are
amortized in  proportion  to the present  value of expected  gross  profits from
surrender  charges,  investment,  mortality  and expense  margins.  Actual gross
profits can vary from management's estimates resulting in increases or decreases
in the rate of amortization.  Management  periodically  updates these estimates,
when appropriate,  and evaluates the recoverability of the deferred  acquisition
cost  asset.  When  appropriate,  management  revises  its  assumptions  on  the
estimated gross profits of these contracts,  and the cumulative amortization for
the books of business are reestimated  and readjusted by a cumulative  charge or
credit to income.

(G) FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS, UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE  OPERATIONS - The Hartford  establishes reserves
to provide for the  estimated  costs of paying claims made by  policyholders  or
against  policyholders.  These reserves  include  estimates for both claims that
have been  reported  and those that have been  incurred  but not reported to The
Hartford and include  estimates of all expenses  associated  with processing and
settling these claims.  This estimation process is primarily based on historical
experience and involves a variety of actuarial  techniques  which analyze trends
and other relevant  factors.  A reconciliation  of liabilities for unpaid claims
and claim adjustment expenses follows:

                                      F-9

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(G)  FUTURE  POLICY  BENEFITS,  UNPAID  CLAIMS  AND  CLAIM  ADJUSTMENT  EXPENSES
     (CONTINUED)


                                           December 31,
                                   ------------------------------
                                     1997      1996      1995
                                   ------------------------------
BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
  CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
  EXPENSES-GROSS                      $18,303  $17,536   $17,435
Reinsurance recoverables                4,414    4,939     5,317
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
BEGINNING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
  CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
  EXPENSES-NET                         13,889   12,597    12,118
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ADD PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS
   AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
     Current year                       5,065    5,075     5,041
     Prior years   [1]                     98    1,049       254
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL PROVISION FOR UNPAID CLAIMS
  AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES         5,163    6,124     5,295
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
LESS PAYMENTS
     Current year                       1,961    2,082     1,905
     Prior years                        3,039    2,797     3,032
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL PAYMENTS                          5,000    4,879     4,937
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Foreign currency translation              (24)      47         6
ITT Ercos   [2]                            --       --        34
Other reclassifications                    --       --        81
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
  CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
  EXPENSES-NET                         14,028   13,889    12,597
Reinsurance recoverables                4,348    4,414     4,939
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING LIABILITIES FOR UNPAID
   CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT
   EXPENSES-GROSS                     $18,376  $18,303   $17,536
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  See Note 15(b)  Environmental and Asbestos Claims.  Excludes the effects of
     foreign exchange adjustments.

[2]  Represents  beginning  balances for liabilities for unpaid claims and claim
     adjustment expenses of ITT Ercos, a subsidiary acquired during 1995.

The  Company  has an  exposure  to  catastrophe  losses  which  can be caused by
significant  events  including  hurricanes,  severe winter storms,  earthquakes,
windstorms  and  fires.   The  frequency  and  severity  of   catastrophes   are
unpredictable  and the exposure to a catastrophe is a function of both the total
amount  insured in an area  affected by the event and the severity of the event.
Catastrophes generally impact limited geographic areas; however,  certain events
may produce significant damage in heavily populated areas. The Company generally
seeks to reduce its  exposure to  catastrophe  losses  through  individual  risk
selection and the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance.

LIFE INSURANCE  OPERATIONS - Liabilities for future policy benefits are computed
by the net level premium  method using interest  assumptions  ranging from 3% to
11% and withdrawal,  mortality and morbidity assumptions appropriate at the time
the policies  were  issued.  Health  reserves,  which are the result of sales of
group long-term and short-term  disability,  stop loss,  Medicare supplement and
individual disability products, are stated at amounts determined by estimates on
individual  cases and estimates of unreported  claims based on past  experience.
Liabilities  for  universal  life-type  and  investment  contracts are stated at
policyholder account values before surrender charges.

The following table displays the development of the claim reserves  (included in
future policy benefits in the Consolidated  Balance Sheets) resulting  primarily
from group disability products.

                                          December 31,
                                 --------------------------------
                                    1997      1996       1995
                                 --------------------------------
BEGINNING CLAIM RESERVES-GROSS     $1,496     $1,254    $1,115
Reinsurance recoverables               53         35        38
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
BEGINNING CLAIM RESERVES-NET        1,443      1,219     1,077
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
INCURRED EXPENSES RELATED TO
     Current year                     890        799       632
     Prior years                      (51)       (66)      (28)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL INCURRED                        839        733       604
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
PAID EXPENSES RELATED TO
     Current year                     274        236       227
     Prior years                      333        273       235
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL PAID                            607        509       462
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING CLAIM RESERVES-NET           1,675      1,443     1,219
Reinsurance recoverables               71         53        35
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ENDING CLAIM RESERVES-GROSS        $1,746     $1,496    $1,254
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

(H)  REVENUE RECOGNITION

PROPERTY AND  CASUALTY  INSURANCE  OPERATIONS - Property and casualty  insurance
premiums  are  earned  principally  on a pro rata  basis  over the  lives of the
policies and include  accruals for ultimate  premium revenue  anticipated  under
auditable and  retrospectively  rated policies.  Unearned premiums represent the
portion of premiums  written  applicable to the  unexpired  terms of policies in
force.   Unearned   premiums  also  include   estimated  and  unbilled   premium
adjustments.

LIFE  INSURANCE  OPERATIONS  - Revenues  for  universal  life-type  policies and
investment products consist of policy charges for the cost of insurance,  policy
administration and surrender charges assessed to policy account balances and are
recognized  in  the  period  in  which  services  are  provided.   Premiums  for
traditional life insurance policies are recognized as revenues when they are due
from policyholders.  Realized capital gains and losses on security  transactions
associated with the Company's immediate  participation  guaranteed contracts are
excluded from revenues and deferred,  since under the terms of the contracts the
realized gains and losses will be credited to  policyholders  in future years as
they are entitled to receive them.

                                      F-10

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

(I)  FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

Foreign  currency  translation  gains and losses are reflected in  Stockholders'
Equity. Balance sheet accounts are translated at the exchange rates in effect at
each year end and income statement  accounts are translated at the average rates
of  exchange  prevailing  during  the  year.  The  national  currencies  of  the
international operations are generally their functional currencies.

2.  THE DISTRIBUTION

On December 19, 1995, ITT distributed  all of the  outstanding  shares of common
stock  of  The   Hartford  to  the   shareholders   of  ITT  common  stock  (the
"Distribution"  or "Spin-off").  As a result of the  Distribution,  The Hartford
became an  independent  publicly-traded  company.  "Regular  Way" trading of The
Hartford  common  stock  securities  on the New York Stock  Exchange  (under the
symbol  "HIG")   commenced  on  December  20,  1995.  In  connection  with  this
transaction, ITT transferred First State and Fencourt Reinsurance Company, Ltd.,
both of which were  wholly-owned  companies of ITT, to The Hartford prior to the
Distribution.

The Distribution Agreement entered into by The Hartford, ITT Destinations, Inc.,
and  ITT  Industries,   Inc.  ("the  former  ITT  subsidiaries")  addressed  the
disposition of shared liabilities.  A shared liability is defined as a liability
arising  out  of,  or  related  to,  business  conducted  by  ITT  prior  to the
Distribution  that was not otherwise  specifically  related to one of the former
ITT subsidiaries.  Under the Distribution  Agreement,  responsibility for shared
liabilities  generally  will  be  borne  equally  by  each  of  the  former  ITT
subsidiaries,   including  related  attorney's  fees  and  other   out-of-pocket
expenses.  As of  December  31,  1997,  all known  liabilities  covered  by this
agreement had been accrued.

Additionally,  ITT and The Hartford have entered into a Tax Allocation Agreement
whereby The Hartford  will pay a share of ITT's  consolidated  tax liability for
the tax years that The  Hartford  was  included  in ITT's  consolidated  Federal
income tax return. The Tax Allocation  Agreement provides for the attribution to
specific  companies  of any state,  local and foreign  taxes  related to periods
prior to December 20, 1995.

3.  THE OFFERING

On February 10, 1997, Hartford Life, Inc. ("HLI"), the holding company parent of
The Hartford's  significant  life insurance  subsidiaries,  filed a registration
statement,  as amended,  with the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to
the  initial  public  offering  of HLI Class A common  stock  (the  "Offering").
Pursuant  to the  Offering  on May 22,  1997,  HLI sold to the public 26 million
shares at $28.25 per share and received proceeds,  net of offering expenses,  of
$687.

The 26 million shares sold in the Offering  represented  approximately  18.6% of
the equity ownership in HLI and approximately  4.4% of the combined voting power
of HLI's  Class A and Class B common  stock.  The  Hartford  owns all of the 114
million  outstanding  shares  of  Class B  common  stock  of  HLI,  representing
approximately  81.4% of the equity ownership in HLI and  approximately  95.6% of
the combined voting power of HLI's Class A and Class B common stock.  Holders of
Class A common stock  generally have identical  rights to the holders of Class B
common stock except that the holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one
vote per share while  holders of Class B common stock are entitled to five votes
per share on all matters submitted to a vote of HLI's  stockholders.  Also, each
share of Class B common  stock is  convertible  into one share of Class A common
stock (a) upon the  transfer of such share of Class B common stock by the holder
thereof to a  non-affiliate  (except where the shares of Class B common stock so
transferred represent 50% or more of all the outstanding shares of common stock,
calculated without regard to the difference in voting rights between the classes
of common  stock) or (b) in the event that the  number of shares of  outstanding
Class  B  common  stock  is less  than  the 50% of all  the  common  stock  then
outstanding.  As of December  31, 1997,  The  Hartford  continued to maintain an
81.4% equity ownership in HLI.

In connection  with the Offering,  The Hartford  reported a $368 gain related to
the  increased  value of its equity  ownership  in HLI. The  Hartford's  current
intent is to continue to  beneficially  own at least 80% of HLI, but it is under
no contractual obligation to do so.

                                      F-11


             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)



                                      F-12

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)


4.  INVESTMENTS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)





The amortized  cost and estimated  fair value of fixed  maturity  investments at
December 31, 1997 by estimated  maturity  year are shown to the right.  Expected
maturities  differ  from  contractual  maturities  due  to  call  or  prepayment
provisions.  Asset backed  securities,  including mortgage backed securities and
collateralized  mortgage obligations,  are distributed to maturity year based on
the Company's  estimates of the rate of future prepayments of principal over the
remaining  lives  of  the  securities.   These  estimates  are  developed  using
prepayment  speeds provided in broker consensus data. Such estimates are derived
from prepayment speeds experienced at the interest rate levels projected for the
applicable  underlying  collateral.  Actual prepayment  experience may vary from
these estimates.

                                     Amortized
MATURITY                                Cost       Fair Value
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
One year or less                     $     5,267   $     5,320
Over one year through five years          10,821        11,030
Over five years through ten years          9,591         9,877
Over ten years                             8,382         8,826
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
    TOTAL                            $    34,061   $    35,053
================================================================

                                      F-13

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

4.  INVESTMENTS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(E)  FIXED MATURITY INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)

Sales of fixed maturities,  excluding short-term fixed maturities, for the years
ended  December 31, 1997,  1996 and 1995 resulted in proceeds of $13.4  billion,
$11.3 billion and $10.7  billion,  gross gains of $264,  $161 and $210 and gross
losses (including writedowns) of $(223), $(408) and $(147), respectively.  Sales
of equity  security  investments for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and
1995 resulted in proceeds of $1.5 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.7 billion,  gross
gains of $343,  $184 and $150 and  gross  losses  of  $(64),  $(49)  and  $(73),
respectively.

(F)  CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

The Hartford is not exposed to any significant  credit  concentration  risk of a
single issuer greater than 10% of stockholders' equity.

(G)  DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

The Hartford  utilizes a variety of  derivative  instruments,  including  swaps,
caps,  floors,  forwards and exchange traded futures and options,  in accordance
with  Company  policy  and in order to  achieve  one of three  Company  approved
objectives: to hedge risk arising from interest rate, price or currency exchange
rate volatility;  to manage  liquidity;  or to control  transactions  costs. The
Company is considered an "end user" of derivative  instruments  and as such does
not make a market  or trade in these  instruments  for the  express  purpose  of
earning trading profits.

The  Company  uses  derivative  instruments  in its  management  of market  risk
consistent   with  four  risk   management   strategies:   hedging   anticipated
transactions, hedging liability instruments, hedging invested assets and hedging
portfolios of assets and/or liabilities.

The Company's derivatives  counterparty exposure policy establishes market-based
credit limits,  favors long-term financial stability and  creditworthiness,  and
typically requires credit  enhancement/credit  risk reducing agreements.  Credit
risk is  measured  as the amount owed to The  Hartford  based on current  market
conditions  and  potential  payment  obligations  between  the  Company  and its
counterparties.   Credit  exposures  are  quantified  weekly  and  netted,   and
collateral  is pledged to or held by the Company to the extent the current value
of derivative instruments exceed exposure policy thresholds.

Derivative  activities are monitored by an internal  compliance  unit,  reviewed
frequently  by  senior  management  and  reported  to  The  Hartford's   Finance
Committee. The notional amounts of derivative contracts represent the basis upon
which pay or receive  amounts are  calculated  and are not  reflective of credit
risk.   Notional  amounts  pertaining  to  derivative   instruments   (excluding
guaranteed  separate  accounts)  totaled  $7.9 billion and $11.1  billion  ($5.8
billion and $8.3 billion primarily related to life insurance  investments,  $2.1
billion and $2.6 billion on life insurance  liabilities and $17 and $200 related
to debt) at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

A summary  of  derivative  instruments  for The  Hartford,  segregated  by major
investment  and liability  category,  was as follows as of December 31, 1997 and
1996:



                                      F-14

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

4.  INVESTMENTS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)



A  reconciliation  between  notional amounts as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 by
derivative type and strategy is as follows:



                                      F-15

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

5.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

SFAS No. 107, "Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial  Instruments",  requires
disclosure  of fair value  information  of  financial  instruments.  For certain
financial  instruments  where  quoted  market  prices are not  available,  other
independent  valuation techniques and assumptions are used. Because considerable
judgment is used, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of amounts that
could be realized in a current market  exchange.  SFAS No. 107 excludes  certain
financial instruments from disclosure, including insurance contracts, other than
financial guarantees and investment  contracts.  The Hartford uses the following
methods and  assumptions in estimating the fair value of each class of financial
instrument.

Fair value for fixed maturities and marketable  equity  securities  approximates
those quotations  published by applicable stock exchanges or received from other
reliable sources.

For policy loans, carrying amounts approximate fair value.

Fair value for other invested  assets,  which primarily  consist of partnerships
and trusts,  is based on external market  valuations from  partnership and trust
management.

Other policy claims and benefits payable fair value information is determined by
estimating future cash flows, discounted at the current market rate.

For short-term debt, carrying amounts approximate fair value.

Fair  value  for  long-term  debt  and  QUIPS   (represents   company  obligated
mandatorily  redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts holding solely
parent junior  subordinated  debentures)  is based on external  valuation  using
discounted future cash flows at current market interest rates.

The fair value of  derivative  financial  instruments,  including  swaps,  caps,
floors, futures, options and forward commitments,  is determined using a pricing
model which is validated through periodic comparison to dealer quoted prices.

The carrying amounts and fair values of The Hartford's financial  instruments at
December 31, 1997 and 1996 were as follows:


                                 1997                1996
                           ------------------  ------------------
                           Carrying   Fair     Carrying Fair
                            Amount   Value       Amount  Value
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
ASSETS
  Fixed maturities           $35,053 $35,053     $31,449 $31,449
  Equity securities            1,922   1,922       1,865   1,865
  Policy loans                 3,759   3,759       3,839   3,839
  Other investments              388     463         486     516
LIABILITIES
  Other policy claims and
   benefits payable [1]       11,769  11,755      11,707  11,469
  Short-term debt                291     294         500     500
  Long-term debt               1,482   1,530       1,032   1,044
  QUIPS [2]                    1,000   1,034       1,000     993
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
[1]  Excludes corporate owned life insurance ("COLI"),  reinsurance recoverables
     and  universal  life  insurance  contracts  with a carrying  amount of $9.4
     billion and $10.5 billion at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
[2]  Represents company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of
     subsidiary trusts holding solely parent junior subordinated debentures.

6.  SEPARATE ACCOUNTS

The Hartford maintained  separate account assets and liabilities  totaling $70.1
billion and $50.5 billion at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively, which are
reported  at fair  value.  Separate  account  assets are  segregated  from other
investments, and net investment income and net realized capital gains and losses
accrue directly to the policyholder. Separate accounts reflect two categories of
risk assumption:  non-guaranteed  separate  accounts  totaling $59.4 billion and
$39.9  billion  at  December  31,  1997  and  1996,  respectively,  wherein  the
policyholder  assumes the  investment  risk, and  guaranteed  separate  accounts
totaling  $10.7  billion  and  $10.6  billion  at  December  31,  1997 and 1996,
respectively,  wherein The Hartford  contractually  guarantees  either a minimum
return or account  value to the  policyholder.  Included  in the  non-guaranteed
category  were policy loans  totaling  $1.9 billion and $2.0 billion at December
31, 1997 and 1996,  respectively.  Net investment income (including net realized
capital  gains and losses) and interest  credited to  policyholders  on separate
account assets are not reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

Separate  account  management  fees were $699,  $538 and $387 in 1997,  1996 and
1995, respectively. The guaranteed separate accounts include modified guaranteed
individual annuity and modified guaranteed life insurance.  The average credited
interest rate on these  contracts was 6.5% at December 31, 1997. The assets that
support these liabilities were comprised of $10.4

                                      F-16

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

6.  SEPARATE ACCOUNTS (CONTINUED)

billion  in fixed  maturities  as of  December  31,  1997.  The  portfolios  are
segregated from other  investments  and are managed so as to minimize  liquidity
and  interest  rate risk.  In order to  minimize  the risk of  disintermediation
associated with early withdrawals,  individual  annuity and modified  guaranteed
life insurance  contracts  carry a graded  surrender  charge as well as a market
value  adjustment.  Additional  investment  risk is hedged  using a  variety  of
derivative  instruments  which  totaled $119 and $86 in carrying  value and $3.2
billion and $2.4  billion in notional  amounts as of December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.




(A)  SHORT-TERM DEBT

The  Hartford's  commercial  paper ranks  equally with its other  unsecured  and
unsubordinated  indebtedness.  As of December  31,  1997,  The  Hartford  had an
unsecured aggregate $2.0 billion credit facility with twenty-seven participating
banks which is comprised of a $1.5 billion five year revolving  credit  facility
with four years remaining and a $500 short-term  credit facility.  This facility
is available for general corporate purposes and to provide additional support to
the Company's  commercial  paper  program.  At December 31, 1997,  there were no
outstanding borrowings under the facility.

During 1996, The Hartford  expanded its  commercial  paper program by increasing
the maximum  allowable  outstanding  amount of unsecured  short-term  commercial
paper notes from $1.0 billion to $2.0 billion.

In the first quarter of 1997,  HLI borrowed $1.1 billion  against a $1.3 billion
unsecured  short-term credit facility with four banks. During the second quarter
of 1997,  HLI retired the borrowing  with proceeds from the Offering and the new
debt issuances  (discussed below), and subsequently  reduced the capacity of its
unsecured short-term credit facility from $1.3 billion to $250.


(B)  LONG-TERM DEBT

The  Hartford's  long-term  debt  securities  are unsecured  obligations  of The
Hartford  and  rank on a parity  with all  other  unsecured  and  unsubordinated
indebtedness.  On October 11, 1995,  The Hartford  filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission a shelf  registration  statement for the potential offering
and sale of up to an aggregate  $1.0 billion in debt  securities  and  preferred
stock.  On  November 3, 1995,  the  Company  issued and sold $500 in senior debt
securities  in two  tranches  ($300  of 6.4%  notes  due  2002  and $200 in 7.3%
debentures due 2015). On October 2, 1996, this shelf registration  statement was
amended for an additional  $1.25 billion of  securities,  making an aggregate of
$1.75  billion  available  for sale.  The amended  registration  statement  also
expanded  the  type of  securities  which  could be  offered  under  this  shelf
registration statement by including provisions for the offering of common stock,
depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts,  stock purchase units and
junior subordinated  deferrable  interest  debentures of the Company,  preferred
securities of any of the Hartford  Trusts  (referred to below) and guarantees by
the Company  with  respect to the  preferred  securities  of any of the Hartford
Trusts. After the issuance of Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred
Securities  of Subsidiary  Trusts  Holding  Solely  Parent  Junior  Subordinated
Debentures on October 30, 1996 discussed  below,  The Hartford had $1.25 billion
remaining on this shelf registration at December 31, 1997.

                                      F-17

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

7.  DEBT (CONTINUED)

(B)  LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)

On February 14, 1997, HLI filed a shelf registration  statement for the issuance
and sale of up to $1.0  billion  in the  aggregate  of senior  debt  securities,
subordinated  debt  securities and preferred stock of HLI. On June 12, 1997, HLI
issued and sold $650 of unsecured redeemable long-term debt in the form of notes
and debentures. Of this amount, $200 was in the form of 6.90% notes due June 15,
2004,  $200 of 7.10% notes due June 15, 2007,  and $250 of 7.65%  debentures due
June  15,  2027.  Interest  on each  of the  notes  and  debentures  is  payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15, of each year,  commencing December 15,
1997. HLI used the proceeds from these issuances for the repayment of short-term
debt and for other general corporate purposes.

On January 19,  1996,  The  Hartford and several  wholly-owned  special  purpose
trusts ("Hartford  Trusts") formed by The Hartford filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission a shelf  registration  statement for the potential offering
and sale of $500 of debt  securities  and  preferred  stock,  including up to an
aggregate  $500  Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest  Debentures  of  The
Hartford and Preferred  Securities  of the Hartford  Trusts which were issued as
discussed in Note 8.

Interest  expense  incurred  related to short- and long-term  debt totaled $131,
$108 and $101 for 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

8.   COMPANY OBLIGATED MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY
     TRUSTS HOLDING SOLELY PARENT JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES

On February 28,  1996,  Hartford  Capital I, a special  purpose  Delaware  trust
formed by The Hartford,  issued 20,000,000  Series A, 7.7% Cumulative  Quarterly
Income Preferred Securities ("Series A Preferred Securities"). The proceeds from
the sale of the  Series A  Preferred  Securities  were used to  acquire  $500 of
Junior   Subordinated   Deferrable  Interest   Debentures,   Series  A  ("Junior
Subordinated  Debentures"),  issued  by The  Hartford.  The  Hartford  used  the
proceeds  from  the  sale  of  such  debentures  for the  partial  repayment  of
outstanding commercial paper and short-term bank indebtedness.

Series A Preferred  Securities  represent undivided  beneficial interests in the
assets of Hartford Capital I. The Hartford owns all of the beneficial  interests
represented  by Series A Common  Securities  of Hartford  Capital I.  Holders of
Series A Preferred  Securities are entitled to receive  preferential  cumulative
cash  distributions  accruing  from  February 28, 1996 and payable  quarterly in
arrears  commencing March 31, 1996 at the annual rate of 7.7% of the liquidation
amount of  $25.00  per  Series A  Preferred  Security.  The  Series A  Preferred
Securities  are subject to  mandatory  redemption  upon  repayment of the Junior
Subordinated  Debentures  at maturity or their  earlier  redemption.  Holders of
Series A Preferred Securities have limited voting rights.

The Junior  Subordinated  Debentures bear interest at the annual rate of 7.7% of
the principal amount,  payable  quarterly in arrears  commencing March 31, 1996,
and  mature on  February  28,  2016.  The  Junior  Subordinated  Debentures  are
unsecured and rank junior and subordinate in right of payment to all senior debt
of The  Hartford  and are  effectively  subordinated  to all existing and future
liabilities of its subsidiaries.

The  Hartford  has the  right  to  defer  payments  of  interest  on the  Junior
Subordinated  Debentures by extending the interest  payment  period for up to 20
consecutive  quarters for each deferral period,  up to the maturity date. During
any such  period,  interest  will  continue to accrue and The  Hartford  may not
declare or pay any cash  dividends or  distributions  on The  Hartford's  common
stock nor make any principal,  interest or premium payments on or repurchase any
debt securities  that rank pari passu with or junior to the Junior  Subordinated
Debentures.  In the event of failure to pay  interest  for 30  consecutive  days
(subject to the  deferral of any due date in the case of an  extension  period),
the Junior Subordinated Debentures will become due and payable. The Hartford has
guaranteed,  on a subordinated  basis, all of the Hartford Capital I obligations
under the Series A Preferred Securities,  including, to pay the redemption price
and any  accumulated and unpaid  distributions  to the extent of available funds
and upon  dissolution,  winding up or  liquidation,  but only to the extent that
Hartford Capital I has funds to make such payments.

On October 30,  1996,  Hartford  Capital II, a special  purpose  Delaware  trust
formed by The Hartford,  issued 20,000,000 Series B, 8.35% Cumulative  Quarterly
Income  Preferred  Securities  ("Series B Preferred  Securities").  The material
terms of the Series B Preferred  Securities  are  substantially  the same as the
Series A Preferred  Securities described above, except for the rate and maturity
date.  The Series B Debentures  bear interest at the annual rate of 8.35% of the
principal amount payable quarterly in arrears commencing  December 31, 1996, and
mature on October 30, 2026. The proceeds from the sale of the Series B Preferred
Securities were used to acquire $500 of Junior Subordinated  Deferrable Interest
Debentures,  Series B  ("Series  B  Debentures"),  issued by The  Hartford.  The
Hartford  used  the  proceeds  from  the  sale of such  debentures  for  general
corporate purposes.

Interest expense incurred with respect to the Series A Preferred  Securities and
Series B  Preferred  Securities  totaled  approximately  $82 and $40 in 1997 and
1996, respectively.

                                      F-18

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

9.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

(A)  COMMON STOCK

In December 1997, The Hartford's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of
up to $1.0 billion of the Company's  outstanding  common stock over a three-year
period beginning with the first quarter of 1998. Shares  repurchased in the open
market are carried at cost and reflected as a reduction to stockholders' equity.
Treasury  shares  subsequently  reissued  are reduced from  treasury  stock on a
weighted average cost basis.

(B)  PREFERRED STOCK

During 1995, pursuant to The Hartford's Rights Agreement dated as of November 1,
1995 between The Hartford and The Bank of New York as Rights Agent, The Hartford
authorized  the  issuance  of  50,000,000   shares  of  Series  A  Participating
Cumulative  Preferred  Stock  ("Series A Preferred  Stock"),  par value $.01 per
share.  The Company may not pay any common stock dividends  unless all preferred
dividend  requirements  on Series A Preferred  Stock (300,000  shares) have been
met.  The  holders  of Series A  Preferred  Stock  are  entitled  to  cumulative
dividends.  The holders of Series A Preferred Stock may not vote separately as a
class,  but may vote  together as one class with the holders of shares of common
stock. No shares were issued or outstanding at December 31, 1997.

(C)  STATUTORY RESULTS

                               For the years ended December 31,
                             -------------------------------------
                                  1997        1996        1995
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
STATUTORY NET INCOME (LOSS)
   Property and casualty
     operations              $    1,822    $  (103)   $     428
   Life operations                  246        190          133
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
     TOTAL                   $    2,068    $    87    $     561
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
STATUTORY SURPLUS
   Property and casualty
     operations              $    6,025    $  2,749   $    2,617
   Life operations                1,806       1,448        1,319
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
     TOTAL                   $    7,831    $  4,197   $    3,936
- ------------------------------------------------------------------

A significant  percentage of the consolidated  statutory  surplus is permanently
reinvested  or is subject to various  state and  foreign  government  regulatory
restrictions or other  agreements  which limit the payment of dividends  without
prior approval. The total amount of statutory dividends which may be paid by the
insurance subsidiaries of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
in 1998, without prior approval, is $810.

The domestic  insurance  subsidiaries of The Hartford  Financial Services Group,
Inc. prepare their statutory financial  statements in accordance with accounting
practices  prescribed  by  the  State  of  Connecticut   Insurance   Department.
Prescribed  statutory  accounting practices include publications of the National
Association  of  Insurance  Commissioners  ("NAIC"),  as  well  as  state  laws,
regulations, and general administrative rules.

10.  EARNINGS PER SHARE

The Company adopted SFAS No. 128,  "Earnings per Share",  effective December 15,
1997, and as a result,  the Company's  reported  earnings per share for 1996 and
1995 were  restated  to reflect the effect of  reporting  diluted  earnings  per
share. The following  tables present a reconciliation  of income and shares used
in calculating  basic  earnings per share to those used in  calculating  diluted
earnings per share.

                                      F-19

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)



Basic  earnings per share are computed  based on the weighted  average number of
shares  outstanding  during the year.  Diluted  earnings  per share  include the
dilutive  effect of outstanding  options,  using the treasury stock method,  and
also contingently issuable shares. Under the treasury stock method,  exercise of
options  is assumed  with the  proceeds  used to  purchase  common  stock at the
average market price for the period. The difference between the number of shares
assumed issued and number of shares  purchased  represents the dilutive  shares.
Contingently   issuable  shares  are  included  upon   satisfaction  of  certain
conditions  related to the contingency.  The impact of the treasury stock method
for 1996 was antidilutive.

11.  STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS

Prior to the Distribution, certain employees of The Hartford were granted awards
under ITT's stock incentive plans. Effective December 19, 1995, employees of The
Hartford who had awards  outstanding  under these plans were offered  substitute
awards  under The  Hartford  1995  Incentive  Stock Plan (the  "Plan").  For the
substitute awards, the number of shares subject to options was increased and the
option exercise price was decreased  immediately  following the  Distribution to
preserve, as closely as possible, the economic value of the options that existed
prior to the Distribution.

Under the Plan, options granted may be either non-qualified options or incentive
stock options  qualifying  under Section 422A of the Internal  Revenue Code. The
aggregate  number  of shares of stock  which may be  awarded  in any one year is
subject  to an annual  limit.  The  maximum  number of shares of stock for which
awards  may be granted  under the Plan in each year is 1.5% of the total  issued
and  outstanding  shares of The  Hartford  common  stock and  treasury  stock as
reported in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the preceding year
plus  unused  portions  of such  limit  from  prior  years.  Also,  no more than
5,000,000 shares of The Hartford common stock will be cumulatively available for
awards of incentive stock options. As of December 31, 1997, The Hartford has not
issued any incentive stock options under the Plan.

Performance  awards of common stock granted  under the Plan become  payable upon
the attainment of specific  performance  goals achieved over a three year period
and restricted stock granted is subject to a restriction period. On a cumulative
basis,  no more than 20% of the aggregate  number of shares which may be awarded
under the Plan will be available for performance shares and restricted stock.

All options  granted have an exercise price equal to the fair market value price
of the Company's common stock on the date of grant, and an option's maximum term
is ten years.  Certain  options  become  exercisable  over a three  year  period
commencing  with  the  date  of  grant,   while  certain  other  options  become
exercisable  upon the attainment of specified  market price  appreciation of the
Company's common shares or at seven years after the date of grant.

During the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company awarded special performance based
options and  restricted  stock to certain  key  executives  under the Plan.  The
awards will vest only if the  Company's  stock  trades at certain  predetermined
levels for ten  consecutive  days by March 1,  2001.  Vested  options  cannot be
exercised and restricted shares disposed of until March 1, 2001.

                                      F-20

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

11.  STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS (CONTINUED)

During the fourth quarter of 1996, the Company established The Hartford Employee
Stock  Purchase  Plan  ("ESPP").  Under this  plan,  eligible  employees  of The
Hartford  may purchase  common  stock of the Company at a 15% discount  from the
lower of the market  price at the  beginning  or end of the  quarterly  offering
period.  The  Company  may sell up to  2,700,000  shares  of  stock to  eligible
employees  under the ESPP,  and 134,344 and 39,214  shares were sold in 1997 and
1996, respectively. Additionally, during 1997, The Hartford established employee
stock  purchase  plans for  certain  employees  of the  Company's  international
subsidiaries.  Under these plans,  participants may purchase common stock of The
Hartford at a fixed option price at the end of a three year period.

The  Company  applies  Accounting  Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25 and related
interpretations   in  accounting  for  its   stock-based   compensation   plans.
Accordingly,  in the measurement of compensation  expense,  the Company utilizes
the excess of market price over  exercise  price on the first date that both the
number of shares and award  price are known.  For the years ended  December  31,
1997,  1996 and 1995,  compensation  expense  related to the Company's two stock
based compensation plans was immaterial. Had compensation cost for the Company's
incentive  stock  plan and ESPP been  determined  based on the fair value at the
grant dates for awards under those plans  consistent with the method of SFAS No.
123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation",  the Company's net income (loss)
and earnings  (loss) per share would have been reduced to the pro forma  amounts
indicated as follows:

                                      1997      1996     1995
- ----------------------------------- --------- --------- ---------
Net income (loss):
   As reported                      $1,332    $  (99)     $559
   Pro forma [1] [2]                $1,319     $(106)     $556
Basic earnings (loss) per share:
   As reported                      $11.29    $(0.84)    $4.77
   Pro forma [1] [2]                $11.18    $(0.90)    $4.74
Diluted earnings (loss) per share:
   As reported                      $11.16    $(0.84)    $4.75
   Pro forma [1] [2]                $11.05    $(0.90)    $4.72
- ----------------------------------- --------- --------- ---------
[1] The pro forma  disclosures  are not  representative  of the  effects  on net
income and earnings per share in future years.
[2] Includes The Hartford's  ownership  share of  compensation  costs related to
HLI's  incentive  stock plan and employee  stock  purchase  plan  determined  in
accordance with SFAS No. 123.

The fair value of each option  grant is estimated on the date of the grant using
the  Black-Scholes  options-pricing  model with the following  weighted  average
assumptions  used for grants in 1997, 1996 and 1995:  dividend yield of 1.7% for
1997 and 2.9% for both 1996 and 1995,  expected  price  variability of 22.1% for
1997 and 20.8% for 1996 and 1995, risk-free interest rates of 6.04% for the 1997
grants  and  5.71% and 6.30%  for the 1996 and 1995  grants,  respectively;  and
expected lives of six years for 1997 and five years for 1996 and 1995.

A summary of the  status of  non-qualified  options  included  in the  Company's
incentive  stock plan as of December 31, 1997,  1996 and 1995 and changes during
the years  ended  December  31, 1997 and 1996 and the period  December  19, 1995
through December 31, 1995, is presented below:



The  weighted  average  fair value of shares  sold under the ESPP was $18.46 and
$16.50 in 1997 and 1996, respectively.

The following table summarizes  information about stock options  outstanding and
exercisable (shares in thousands) at December 31, 1997:



                                      F-21

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)


12.  PENSION PLANS AND  POSTRETIREMENT  HEALTH CARE AND LIFE  INSURANCE  BENEFIT
     PLANS

(A)  PENSION PLANS

The Hartford  has a number of  noncontributory  defined  benefit  pension  plans
covering most U.S. and international  employees.  Plans covering U.S.  employees
provide  pension  benefits that are based on years of service and the employee's
compensation  during the last ten years of employment.  The  Hartford's  funding
policy is to  contribute  annually  at an amount  between  the  minimum  funding
requirements  set forth in the Employee  Retirement  Income Security Act of 1974
and the  maximum  amount  that can be  deducted  for  U.S.  Federal  income  tax
purposes.  Employees  of  international  subsidiaries  are  covered  by  various
postemployment benefit arrangements,  some of which are considered to be defined
benefit plans for accounting purposes.

The  following  table sets forth the defined  benefit  plans'  funded status and
amounts  recognized in the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets.  International  plans
represent an  immaterial  percentage of total pension  assets,  liabilities  and
expense and, for reporting purposes, are combined with domestic plans.



Total pension costs for 1997, 1996 and 1995 include the following components:


(B)   INVESTMENT AND SAVINGS PLAN

Prior to the  Distribution,  employees  of The  Hartford  participated  in ITT's
Investment  and  Savings  Plans.  As  part  of  the  Distribution,  the  Company
established  The Hartford  Investment and Savings Plan.  Substantially  all U.S.
employees  are  eligible  to  participate  in this plan under  which  designated
contributions  may be invested in common stock of The Hartford or certain  other
investments.  These contributions are matched, up to 3% of compensation,  by the
Company. In addition,  the Company allocates 0.5% of base salary to the plan for
each eligible employee.  Matching Company  contributions are used to acquire The
Hartford  common  stock.  The  cost to The  Hartford  for the  above  plans  was
approximately $22, $20 and $19 for 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

                                      F-22

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

12.  PENSION PLANS AND  POSTRETIREMENT  HEALTH CARE AND LIFE  INSURANCE  BENEFIT
     PLANS (CONTINUED)

(C)  POSTRETIREMENT HEALTH CARE AND LIFE INSURANCE BENEFIT PLANS

The  Hartford  provides  certain  health care and life  insurance  benefits  for
eligible retired employees.  A substantial  portion of The Hartford's  employees
may  become  eligible  for  these  benefits  upon  retirement.   The  Hartford's
contribution  for health care benefits  will depend upon the  retiree's  date of
retirement and years of service. In addition,  the plan has a defined dollar cap
which limits average Company contributions. The Hartford has prefunded a portion
of the health care and life insurance obligations through trust funds where such
prefunding can be accomplished on a tax effective basis.  Postretirement  health
care and life  insurance  expense  (benefit)  was  comprised of the following in
1997, 1996 and 1995:

                             1997          1996         1995
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost            $       7      $      6     $      6
Interest cost                  20            18           21
Return on assets               (8)           (7)          (6)
Net deferral                  (24)          (23)         (23)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
  NET BENEFIT           $      (5)     $     (6)    $     (2)
===============================================================

The following table sets forth the funded status of the  postretirement  benefit
plans other than  pensions,  the amounts  recognized in The  Hartford's  balance
sheet at December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the  principal  assumptions  inherent in
their determination:

                                               1997      1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
 Accumulated postretirement benefit
   obligation                              $    295   $    252
 Plan assets at fair value, primarily
   listed U.S. stocks and bonds                  88         77
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated postretirement benefit
   obligation in excess of plan assets         (207)      (175)
Unrecognized net (gain) loss                      2        (24)
Unrecognized past service liability            (211)      (234)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
   LIABILITY RECOGNIZED IN THE
     BALANCE SHEET                         $   (416)  $   (433)
================================================================
Benefit discount rate                          7.50%      8.00%
Rate of return on invested assets              9.75%      9.75%
Ultimate health care trend rate                6.00%      6.00%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

The assumed rate of future  increases in the per capita cost of health care (the
health  care trend  rate) was 8.5% for 1997,  decreasing  ratably to 6.0% in the
year 2001.  Increasing  the table of health  care trend rates by one percent per
year would have the effect of increasing the accumulated  postretirement benefit
obligation  by $8 and the  annual  expense  by $1.  To the  extent  that  actual
experience differs from the inherent  assumptions,  the effect will be amortized
over the average future service of the covered active employees.

13.  REINSURANCE

The Hartford  cedes  insurance  to other  insurers in order to limit its maximum
loss. Such transfer does not relieve The Hartford of its primary liability.  The
Hartford also assumes reinsurance from other insurers.  Failure of reinsurers to
honor their  obligations  could result in losses to The  Hartford.  The Hartford
evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and monitors  concentrations
of credit risk.

The effect of reinsurance on property and casualty  premiums  written and earned
was as follows:

                            For the years ended December 31,
                          --------------------------------------
                               1997        1996         1995
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
PREMIUMS WRITTEN
     Direct               $   7,000     $  6,798   $    6,898
     Assumed                    932          903          825
     Ceded                     (770)        (795)        (803)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
       NET                $   7,162     $  6,906   $    6,920
================================================================
PREMIUMS EARNED
     Direct               $   6,882     $  6,850   $    6,895
     Assumed                    900          878          817
     Ceded                     (782)        (837)        (822)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
       NET                $   7,000     $  6,891   $    6,890
================================================================

Reinsurance  cessions which reduce claims and claim expenses incurred were $492,
$651  and  $678  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  1997,   1996  and  1995,
respectively.

Life insurance net retained premiums were comprised of the following:

                             For the years ended December 31,
                           --------------------------------------
                                1997        1996         1995
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Gross premiums              $    3,519  $    3,200  $   2,447
Assumed                            165         406        613
Ceded                             (361)       (421)      (322)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
  NET RETAINED PREMIUMS     $    3,323  $    3,185  $   2,738
=================================================================

Life insurance recoveries,  which reduce death and other benefits,  approximated
$205,  $239 and $162 for the  years  ended  December  31,  1997,  1996 and 1995,
respectively.

As of  December  31,  1997,  the Company had  reinsurance  recoverables  of $5.0
billion  from Mutual  Benefit Life  Assurance  Corporation  ("Mutual  Benefit"),
supported by assets in a security trust of $5.0 billion  (including policy loans
of $4.5 billion). The risk of Mutual Benefit becoming insolvent is

                                      F-23

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

13.  REINSURANCE (CONTINUED)

mitigated by the reinsurance  agreement's requirement that the assets be kept in
a security trust with the Company as sole beneficiary. The Hartford has no other
significant reinsurance-related concentrations of credit risk.

14.  INCOME TAX


Deferred  tax assets  (liabilities)  include the  following  for the years ended
December 31:



No  additional  provision  was made  for U.S.  taxes  payable  on  undistributed
international  earnings  amounting to  approximately  $366 at December 31, 1997,
since these amounts are  permanently  reinvested.  

A reconciliation  of the tax provision at the U.S. Federal statutory rate to the
provision (benefit) for income taxes is as follows:



                                      F-24

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

(A)   LITIGATION

The Hartford is involved in various legal actions,  some of which involve claims
for substantial  amounts.  In the opinion of management,  the ultimate liability
with respect to such lawsuits is not expected to be material to the consolidated
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of The Hartford.

(B)   ENVIRONMENTAL AND ASBESTOS CLAIMS

Historically,   The  Hartford  has  found  it  difficult  to  estimate  ultimate
liabilities  related to  environmental  and asbestos claims due to uncertainties
surrounding  these  exposures.   Within  the  property  and  casualty  insurance
industry,  progress  has  been  made in  developing  sophisticated,  alternative
methodologies  utilizing company experience and supplemental databases to assess
environmental  and  asbestos  liabilities.  A  study  which  incorporated  these
methodologies  was initiated by The Hartford in April 1996. The study included a
review of identified  environmental and asbestos exposures of the North American
Property & Casualty  segment,  U.S.  exposures of The  Hartford's  International
segment and exposures of the Other Operations segment, and covered the Company's
Personal, Commercial and Reinsurance lines of business. The methodology utilized
a  ground  up  analysis  of  policy,   site  and  exposure   level  data  for  a
representative  sample of The Hartford's  claims.  The results of the evaluation
were  extrapolated  against the balance of the claim  population to estimate the
Company's  overall  exposure  for  reported  claims.  In addition to  estimating
liabilities  on  reported   environmental  and  asbestos  claims,  The  Hartford
estimated reserves for claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve
was  estimated  using  information  on  reporting  patterns  of known  insureds,
characteristics of insureds such as limits exposed, attachment points and number
of coverage years involved,  third party costs, and closed claims. Also included
in The Hartford's  analysis of environmental and asbestos exposures was a review
of  applicable  reinsurance  coverage.  Reinsurance  coverage  applicable to the
sample was used to estimate the reinsurance coverage that applied to the balance
of the reported environmental and asbestos claims and to the IBNR estimates.

Upon  completion of the study and assessment of the results in October 1996, the
Company  determined  that its  environmental  and  asbestos  reserves  should be
increased,  on an undiscounted basis, by $493 (net of reinsurance) and $292 (net
of reinsurance), respectively, for the year ended December 31, 1996.

The Hartford  believes that the  environmental and asbestos reserves reported at
December 31, 1997, are a reasonable estimate of the ultimate remaining liability
for these claims based upon known facts,  current assumptions and The Hartford's
methodologies.  Future social,  economic,  legal or legislative developments may
continue to expand the  original  intent of policies  and the scope of coverage.
The Hartford will continue to evaluate new  developments  and  methodologies  as
they become  available for use in supplementing  the Company's  ongoing analysis
and review of its environmental and asbestos exposures. These future reviews may
result in a change in reserves,  impacting The Hartford's  results of operations
in the period in which the reserve  estimates are changed.  While the effects of
future changes in facts,  legal and other issues could have a material effect on
future  results of  operations,  The Hartford does not expect such changes would
have a material effect on its liquidity or financial condition.

(C )  LEASE COMMITMENTS

Total rental expense on operating leases was $134 in 1997, $110 in 1996 and $121
in 1995. Future minimum lease commitments are as follows:

1998                                              $        96
1999                                                       86
2000                                                       64
2001                                                       69
2002                                                       55
Thereafter                                                260
- ------------------------------------------------ --- -----------
  TOTAL                                           $       630
================================================ === ===========

16.  TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES

Prior to the  Distribution  (see Note 2), The Hartford had substantial  dealings
with ITT and its affiliates as described below.

The Hartford and its U.S.  subsidiaries were included in ITT's consolidated U.S.
Federal  income tax return and received from ITT an income tax benefit  computed
in  accordance  with  a  tax-sharing  arrangement.  This  arrangement  generally
reimbursed The Hartford on a current basis for taxes it would have been refunded
if it had filed a separate U.S. Federal income tax return.  The balance due from
ITT as a result of the tax-sharing arrangement was $90 at December 19, 1995. The
Hartford filed a separate  consolidated  U.S.  Federal income tax return for the
period December 20, 1995 through December 31, 1995 and will continue to file its
owned consolidated returns thereafter.

ITT furnished The Hartford with technical, administrative, personnel, financial,
accounting and operating advice and assistance,  as well as other services.  The
Hartford  reimbursed  ITT for the cost of such  services.  These  reimbursements
totaled $16 in 1995.

In June 1995, ownership of ITT Lyndon Insurance Company was transferred from ITT
to The Hartford via a capital contribution of $180,  representing the net assets
of the company.

                                      F-25

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

16.  TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES (CONTINUED)

In 1995,  The Hartford paid common stock  dividends to ITT  Corporation of $779,
including  cash  dividends of $384 and non-cash  dividends of $395. The non-cash
dividend was primarily Alcatel Alsthom Stock, which represented a portion of the
total ITT holdings in that company.

17.  SUBSEQUENT EVENT (UNAUDITED)

On February 12, 1998,  The Hartford  completed  the purchase of all  outstanding
shares  of Omni  Insurance  Group,  Inc.  ("Omni"),  a  holding  company  of two
non-standard auto insurance  subsidiaries licensed in 25 states and the District
of Columbia. The Hartford paid cash of $31.75 per share, plus transaction costs,
for a total of $189. The acquisition will be reported as a purchase  transaction
and  accordingly,  the  results of Omni's  operations  will be  included  in The
Hartford's  consolidated  financial  statements  from  the  closing  date of the
transaction.

18.  BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Hartford  provides  insurance and financial  services in the United  States,
Canada,  Western Europe,  Latin America and Asia. The Company's primary business
segments are North American  Property & Casualty,  Life and  International.  The
North American Property & Casualty segment offers insurance  coverages including
personal automobile and homeowners, commercial insurance for small, mid-size and
large  accounts,  specialty  risk  insurance and  reinsurance.  The Life segment
markets a variety of insurance and financial services which provides  investment
products such as individual  variable  annuities and market value adjusted fixed
rate annuities, deferred compensation plan services and mutual funds for savings
and retirement  needs, life insurance for income protection and estate planning,
and  employee  benefits  products  such as  group  life,  group  disability  and
corporate owned life insurance products.  The International  segment consists of
European companies offering a variety of insurance products  (primarily property
and casualty  products in both personal and commercial  lines)  designed to meet
the needs of local customers.

The following table outlines  revenues,  operating income and assets by business
segment and geographical segment information.



                                      F-26

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

18.  BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)


19.  QUARTERLY RESULTS FOR 1997 AND 1996  (UNAUDITED)



                                      F-27

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                                   SCHEDULE I



                                      S-1

                  THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                                   SCHEDULE II





                                      S-2

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                                   SCHEDULE II





                                      S-3

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                                  SCHEDULE III





                                      S-4


                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                                   SCHEDULE IV



                                      S-5

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                                   SCHEDULE V



                                      S-6

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                                   SCHEDULE VI



                                      S-7

                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                     THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                                     By:  /s/ James J. Westervelt
                                        ---------------------------
                                     James J. Westervelt
                                     Senior Vice President and Group Controller

Date:  March 27, 1998

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been  signed by the  following  persons in the  capacities  and on the dates
indicated.


                                      II-1

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
                                    FORM 10-K

                                 EXHIBITS INDEX

EXHIBIT #
- ---------

3.01    Amended  and  Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of The  Hartford
        Financial  Services Group,  Inc.,  formerly known as ITT Hartford Group,
        Inc.,  ("The  Hartford"),  amended  effective May 2, 1997,  was filed as
        Exhibit 3.01 to The Hartford's Form 10-Q for the quarterly  period ended
        June 30, 1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

3.02    Amended By-Laws of The Hartford,  amended  effective  December 18, 1997,
        are filed herewith.

4.01    Amended and Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  and By-Laws of The
        Hartford (included as Exhibits 3.01 and 3.02, respectively).

4.02    Rights  Agreement  dated as of November 1, 1995 between The Hartford and
        The Bank of New York as Rights  agent was filed as  Exhibit  4.02 to The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

4.03    Form of  certificate  of the voting  powers,  preferences  and  relative
        participating,   optional  and  other  special  rights,  qualifications,
        limitations  or  restrictions  of  Series  A  Participating   Cumulative
        Preferred  Stock of The  Hartford  (attached  as Exhibit A to the Rights
        Agreement that is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.02 hereto).

4.04    Form of Right Certificate (attached as Exhibit B to the Rights Agreement
        that is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.02 hereto).

4.05    Indenture  dated as of May 15, 1991  between The  Hartford and The Chase
        Manhattan Bank (National  Association),  as trustee, with respect to The
        Hartford's 8.20% Notes due October 15, 1998, 7.25% Notes due December 1,
        1996, and 8.30% Notes due December 1, 2001 (incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 4(b) to The Hartford's Form 10 filed on May 9, 1991, as amended,
        file no. 0-19277).

4.06    Forms of The  Hartford's  8.20% Notes due October 15, 1998,  7.25% Notes
        due December 1, 1996 and 8.30% Notes due  December 1, 2001(  included in
        the Indenture incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.05 hereto).

4.07    Senior Indenture, dated as of October 20, 1995, between The Hartford and
        The Chase  Manhattan  Bank  (National  Association),  as  trustee,  with
        respect to The  Hartford's  6.375%  Notes Due November 1, 2002 and 7.30%
        Debentures  Due November 1, 2015  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
        4.08 to The Hartford's Report on Form 8-K dated November 15, 1995).

4.08    Forms of The  Hartford's  6.375%  Notes Due  November  1, 2002 and 7.30%
        Debentures due November 1, 2015  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibits
        4.09 and 4.10, respectively,  of The Hartford's Report on Form 8-K dated
        November 15, 1995).

4.09    Junior  Subordinated  Indenture,  dated as of February 28, 1996, between
        The Hartford and Wilmington Trust Company,  as Trustee,  with respect to
        The Hartford's 7.70% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures,
        Series A, due  February  28,  2016  ("Junior  Debentures")  was filed as
        Exhibit  4.09 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
        December 31, 1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.10    Supplemental  Indenture  No. 1 dated as of February 28, 1996 between The
        Hartford and Wilmington Trust Company,  as Trustee,  with respect to the
        Junior Debentures, was filed as Exhibit 4.10 to The Hartford's Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is  incorporated  herein
        by reference.

4.11    Form of The Hartford's  7.70% Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest
        Debenture,  Series A, due February 28, 2016  (included in the  Indenture
        incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.09 hereto).

                                      II-2

                           EXHIBITS INDEX (CONTINUED)

EXHIBIT #
- ---------

4.12    Amended and Restated  Trust  Agreement  dated as of February 28, 1996 of
        Hartford  Capital I, relating to the 7.70%  Cumulative  Quarterly Income
        Preferred  Securities,  Series A ("Preferred  Securities")  was filed as
        Exhibit  4.12 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
        December 31, 1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.13    Agreement as to Expenses and  Liabilities  dated as of February 28, 1996
        between The Hartford and Hartford Capital I was filed as Exhibit 4.13 to
        The Hartford's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and
        is incorporated herein by reference.

4.14    Preferred  Security  Certificate  for  Hartford  Capital I (included  as
        Exhibit E of the Trust  Agreement  incorporated  by reference as Exhibit
        4.12 hereto).

4.15    Guarantee  Agreement  dated as of February 28, 1996 between The Hartford
        and Wilmington Trust, as trustee,  relating to The Hartford's  guarantee
        of the Preferred Securities, was filed as Exhibit 4.15 to The Hartford's
        Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended   December  31,  1995  and  is
        incorporated herein by reference.

4.16    Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of October 30, 1996, between The
        Hartford and Wilmington Trust Company,  as Trustee,  with respect to The
        Hartford's 8.35% Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest  Debentures,
        Series B, due October 30, 2026 ("Series B Junior  Debentures") was filed
        as Exhibit  4.16 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
        December 31, 1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.17    Form of The Hartford's  8.35% Junior  Subordinated  Deferrable  Interest
        Debenture,  Series B, due  October  30, 2026 was filed as Exhibit 4.2 to
        The  Hartford's  Form 8-K dated  November 4, 1996,  and is  incorporated
        herein by reference.

4.18    Amended and  Restated  Trust  Agreement  dated as of October 30, 1996 of
        Hartford Capital II, relating to the 8.35%  Cumulative  Quarterly Income
        Preferred  Securities,  Series B, ("Series B Preferred  Securities") was
        filed as Exhibit 4.1 to The  Hartford's  Form 8-K dated November 4, 1996
        and is incorporated herein by reference.

4.19    Agreement  as to Expenses and  Liabilities  dated as of October 30, 1996
        between The Hartford  and Hartford  Capital II (included as Exhibit D of
        Exhibit 4.18 that is incorporated by reference herein).

4.20    Preferred  Security  Certificate  for  Hartford  Capital II (included as
        Exhibit E of Exhibit 4.18 that is incorporated by reference herein).

4.21    Guarantee  Agreement  dated as of October 30, 1996  between The Hartford
        and Wilmington Trust, as trustee,  relating to The Hartford's  guarantee
        of the Series B Preferred  Securities,  was filed as Exhibit 4.21 to The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

10.01   Distribution Agreement among ITT Corporation, ITT Destinations, Inc. and
        The Hartford was filed as Exhibit 10.01 to The Hartford's  Form 10-K for
        the fiscal year ended  December 31, 1995 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

10.02   Intellectual  Property  License  Agreement  among ITT  Corporation,  ITT
        Destinations,  Inc. and The  Hartford was filed as Exhibit  10.02 to The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

10.03   Tax Allocation Agreement among ITT Corporation,  ITT Destinations,  Inc.
        and The Hartford was filed as Exhibit 10.03 to The Hartford's  Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is  incorporated  herein
        by reference.

10.04   Form of Trade  Name and  Service  Mark  License  Agreement  between  ITT
        Corporation  and  The  Hartford  was  filed  as  Exhibit  10.04  to  The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

10.05   License Assignment Agreement among ITT Destinations,  Inc., The Hartford
        and  Nutmeg  Insurance  Company  was  filed  as  Exhibit  10.05  to  The
        Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

                                      II-3

                           EXHIBITS INDEX (CONTINUED)

EXHIBIT #
- ---------

10.06   License  Assignment  Agreement  among  ITT  Destinations,  Inc.,  Nutmeg
        Insurance  Company  and  Hartford  Fire  Insurance  Company was filed as
        Exhibit  10.06 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
        December 31, 1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.07   Employee Benefit Services and Liability Agreement among ITT Corporation,
        ITT  Destinations,  Inc. and The Hartford was filed as Exhibit  10.07 to
        The Hartford's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and
        is incorporated herein by reference.

10.08   Debt  allocation  agreement  dated as of  November  1, 1995  between ITT
        Corporation and The Hartford,  and related Fourth Supplemental Indenture
        dated as of November 1, 1995 among ITT  Corporation,  The  Hartford  and
        State Street Bank and Trust Company, as successor trustee, were filed as
        Exhibit  10.10 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
        December 31, 1995 and are incorporated herein by reference.

10.09   Five-Year  Competitive  Advance and Revolving Credit Facility  Agreement
        dated as of December  20,  1996 among The  Hartford,  the Lenders  named
        therein and The Chase Manhattan Bank as  Administrative  Agent was filed
        as Exhibit 10.11 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
        December 31, 1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.10   364 Day  Competitive  Advance and Revolving  Credit  Facility  Agreement
        dated as of December  20,  1996 among The  Hartford,  the lenders  named
        therein and The Chase Manhattan Bank as  Administrative  Agent was filed
        as Exhibit 10.12 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
        December 31, 1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.11   80,000,000  brittish pound sterling  credit facility dated September 29,
        1995 among London & Edinburgh Insurance Group Limited, as borrower,  The
        Hartford,  as  guarantor,  the managers and banks named  therein and The
        Sumitomo  Bank,  Limited,  was filed as Exhibit 10.12 to The  Hartford's
        Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended   December  31,  1995  and  is
        incorporated herein by reference.

10.12   Employment  Agreement dated July 1, 1997 between The Hartford and Ramani
        Ayer was  filed as  Exhibit  10.01 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-Q for the
        quarterly period ended September 30, 1997 and is incorporated  herein by
        reference.

10.13   Employment  Agreement  dated July 1, 1997 between  Hartford  Life,  Inc.
        ("Hartford  Life"),  The  Hartford  and  Lowndes  A.  Smith was filed as
        Exhibit 10.02 to The Hartford's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
        September 30, 1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.14   Employment  Agreement  dated July 1, 1997 between The Hartford and David
        K. Zwiener was filed as Exhibit  10.03 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-Q for
        the quarterly period ended September 30, 1997 and is incorporated herein
        by reference.

10.15   Form  of  Employment  Protection  Agreement  between  The  Hartford  and
        fourteen executive officers of The Hartford is filed herewith.

10.16   The Hartford 1996 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee  Directors,  as
        amended,  was filed as Exhibit 10.02 to The Hartford's Form 10-Q for the
        quarterly  period  ended  March 31, 1997 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

10.17   The Hartford 1995 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended, is filed herewith.

10.18   1996 The  Hartford  Deferred  Restricted  Stock  Unit  Plan was filed as
        Exhibit  10.16 to The  Hartford's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
        December 31, 1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.19   Master Intercompany Agreement among Hartford Life, The Hartford and with
        respect to  Articles VI and XII,  Hartford  Fire  Insurance  Company was
        filed as  Exhibit  10.01 to  Hartford  Life's  Form  10-Q  filed for the
        quarterly  period  ended  June 30,  1997 and is  incorporated  herein by
        reference.

                                      II-4

                           EXHIBITS INDEX (CONTINUED)

EXHIBIT #
- ---------


10.20   Tax Sharing Agreement among The Hartford and its subsidiaries, including
        Hartford Life,  was filed as Exhibit 10.02 to Hartford  Life's Form 10-Q
        filed for the quarterly  period ended June 30, 1997 and is  incorporated
        herein by reference.

10.21   Management  Agreement  between  Hartford Life Insurance  Company and The
        Hartford Investment  Management  Company,  was filed as Exhibit 10.03 to
        Hartford Life's Form 10-Q filed for the quarterly  period ended June 30,
        1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.22   Management  Agreement  among certain  subsidiaries  of Hartford Life and
        Hartford  Investment  Services,  Inc.,  was  filed as  Exhibit  10.04 to
        Hartford Life's Form 10-Q filed for the quarterly  period ended June 30,
        1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.23   Sublease  Agreement between Hartford Fire Insurance Company and Hartford
        Life was filed as Exhibit  10.05 to Hartford  Life's Form 10-Q filed for
        the quarterly  period ended June 30, 1997 and is incorporated  herein by
        reference.

10.24   1997 Hartford Life, Inc. Incentive Stock Plan, as amended,  was filed as
        Exhibit  10.7 to  Hartford  Life's  Form 10-K filed for the fiscal  year
        ended December 31, 1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.25   1997 Hartford Life, Inc.  Deferred  Restricted Stock Unit Plan was filed
        as Exhibit  10.08 to Hartford  Life's Form 10-Q filed for the  quarterly
        period ended June 30, 1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

10.26   1997  Hartford  Life,  Inc.   Restricted  Stock  Plan  for  Non-Employee
        Directors was filed as Exhibit 10.09 to Hartford  Life's Form 10-Q filed
        for the quarterly period ended June 30, 1997 and is incorporated  herein
        by reference.

10.27   Promissory  Note dated February 20, 1997,  executed by Hartford Life for
        the  benefit of  Hartford  Accident &  Indemnity  Company,  was filed as
        Exhibit  10.09 to Hartford  Life's  Registration  Statement  on Form S-1
        (Amendment No. 2) dated April 24, 1997  (Registration No. 333-21459) and
        is incorporated herein by reference.

10.28   Promissory  Note dated April 4, 1997,  executed by Hartford Life for the
        benefit of Hartford Accident and Indemnity Company, was filed as Exhibit
        10.16 to Hartford Life's  Registration  Statement on Form S-1 (Amendment
        No.  2)  dated  April  24,  1997  (Registration  No.  333-21459)  and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

12.01   Statement Re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges is filed
        herewith.

21.01   Subsidiaries of The Hartford  Financial  Services  Group,  Inc. is filed
        herewith.

23.01   Consent of Arthur  Andersen LLP to the  incorporation  by reference into
        The Hartford's  Registration Statements on Forms S-8 and Form S-3 of the
        report of Arthur  Andersen LLP contained in this Form 10-K regarding the
        audited financial statements is filed herewith.

27.01   Financial Data Schedule is filed herewith.

                                      II-5

                                                                    EXHIBIT 3.02







                              Amended and Restated

                                     BY-LAWS


                                       of


                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.


                                 adopted by the


                               Board of Directors


                                       on


                                October 10, 1995

                                       and

                                   amended on

                                   May 2, 1997

                                       and

                                December 18, 1997






                                                                ------------------





                                     Section                              Page
                                     -------                              ----
     



     1   STOCKHOLDERS ...............................................       1


   1.1   Place of Stockholders' Meetings ............................       1


   1.2   Day and Time of Annual Meetings of Stockholders ............       1


   1.3   Purposes of Annual Meetings ................................       1


   1.4   Special Meetings of Stockholders ...........................       2


   1.5   Notice of Meetings of Stockholders .........................       2


   1.6   Quorum of Stockholders .....................................       3


   1.7   Chairman and Secretary of Meeting ..........................       3


   1.8   Voting by Stockholders .....................................       4


   1.9   Proxies ....................................................       4


  1.10   Inspectors .................................................       4


  1.11   List of Stockholders .......................................       5


  1.12   Confidential Voting ........................................       6


  1.13   Action by Written Consent ..................................       6


     2   DIRECTORS ..................................................       6


   2.1   Powers of Directors ........................................       6


   2.2   Number, Method of Election, Terms of Office of Directors ...       6


   2.3   Vacancies on Board .........................................       8


   2.4   Meetings of the Board ......................................       8


   2.5   Quorum and Action ..........................................       9


   2.6   Presiding Officer and Secretary of Meeting .................       9


   2.7   Action by Consent without Meeting ..........................       9


   2.8   Standing Committees ........................................      10


   2.9   Other Committees ...........................................      11


  2.10   Compensation of Directors ..................................      11


  2.11   Independent Directors ......................................      12


     3   OFFICERS ...................................................      12


   3.1   Officers, Titles, Elections, Terms .........................      12


   3.2   General Powers of Officers .................................      14


   3.3   Powers and Duties of the Chairman ..........................      14


   3.4   Powers and Duties of the President .........................      14


   3.5   Powers and Duties of Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice       14
         Presidents and Vice Presidents .............................       .


   3.6   Powers and Duties of the Chief Financial Officer ...........      14


   3.7   Powers and Duties of the Controller and Assistant Controllers     15


   3.8   Powers and Duties of the Treasurer and Assistant Treasurers       15


   3.9   Powers and Duties of the Secretary and Assistant Secretaries      16


     4   INDEMNIFICATION ............................................      16


   4.1   Right to Indemnification and Effect of Amendments ..........      16


   4.2   Insurance, Contracts and Funding ...........................      17


   4.3   Indemnification; Not Exclusive Right .......................      18


   4.4   Advancement of Expenses ....................................      18


   4.5   Indemnification Procedures; Presumptions 
         and Effect of Certain Proceedings; Remedies ................      19


   4.6   Indemnification of Employees and Agents ....................      23


   4.7   Severability ...............................................      24


     5   CAPITAL STOCK ..............................................      24


   5.1   Stock Certificates .........................................      24


   5.2   Record Ownership ...........................................      25


   5.3   Transfer of Record Ownership ...............................      25


   5.4   Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates .....................      25


   5.5   Transfer Agent; Registrar; Rules Respecting Certificates ...      25


   5.6   Fixing Record Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record    25


     6   SECURITIES HELD BY THE CORPORATION .........................      26


   6.1   Voting .....................................................      26


   6.2   General Authorization to Transfer Securities Held by the 
         Corporation ................................................      26


     7   DEPOSITARIES AND SIGNATORIES ...............................      27


   7.1   Depositaries ...............................................      27


   7.2   Signatories ................................................      28


     8   SEAL .......................................................      28


     9   FISCAL YEAR ................................................      28


    10   WAIVER OF OR DISPENSING WITH NOTICE ........................      28


    11   AMENDMENT OF BYLAWS ........................................      29


    12   OFFICES AND AGENT ..........................................      30





                                     BY-LAWS

                                       OF

                   THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

                   (A DELAWARE CORPORATION, THE "CORPORATION")





1.  STOCKHOLDERS.

   1.1 Place of Stockholders'  Meetings. All meetings of the stockholders of the
Corporation  shall be held at such place or places,  within or outside the state
of  Delaware,  as may be fixed by the  Corporation's  Board  of  Directors  (the
"Board",  and each member thereof a "Director") from time to time or as shall be
specified in the respective notices thereof.

   1.2 Day and Time of Annual  Meetings of  Stockholders.  An annual  meeting of
stockholders  shall  be held at such  place  (within  or  outside  the  state of
Delaware),  date and hour as shall be determined by the Board and  designated in
the notice thereof.

   1.3 Purposes of Annual Meetings. (a) At each annual meeting, the stockholders
shall elect the members of the Board for the succeeding year. At any such annual
meeting any business properly brought before the meeting may be transacted.

   (b) To be properly  brought  before an annual  meeting,  business must be (i)
specified in the notice of the meeting (or any  supplement  thereto) given by or
at the  direction  of the Board,  (ii)  otherwise  properly  brought  before the
meeting by or at the direction of the Board or (iii) otherwise  properly brought
before the meeting by a stockholder.  For business to be properly brought before
an annual  meeting by a  stockholder,  the  stockholder  must have given written
notice thereof,  either by personal  delivery or by United States mail,  postage
prepaid, to the Secretary,  not later than 90 days in advance of the anniversary
date of the  immediately  preceding  annual  meeting  (or not more than ten days
after the first public disclosure,  which may include any public filing with the
Securities  and Exchange  Commission,  of the  Originally  Scheduled Date of the
annual  meeting,  whichever is  earlier).  Any such notice shall set forth as to
each matter the  stockholder  proposes to bring 

                                     - 1 -

before the annual meeting (i) a brief  description of the business desired to be
brought before the meeting and the reasons for  conducting  such business at the
meeting and in the event that such business  includes a proposal to amend either
the Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws of the Corporation,  the language of
the proposed amendment,  (ii) the name and address of the stockholder  proposing
such business, (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record
of stock of the  Corporation  entitled  to vote at such  meeting  and intends to
appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose  such  business,(iv)  any
material interest of the stockholder in such business and (v) if the stockholder
intends  to  solicit  proxies  in  support  of such  stockholder's  proposal,  a
representation  to that  effect.  No business  shall be  conducted  at an annual
meeting of stockholders  except in accordance with this Section 1.3(b),  and the
presiding officer of any annual meeting of stockholders may refuse to permit any
business to be brought  before an annual  meeting  without  compliance  with the
foregoing  procedures or if the stockholder  solicits proxies in support of such
stockholder's  proposal without such stockholder  having made the representation
required by clause (v) of the preceding  sentence.  For purposes of this Section
1.3(b), the "Originally  Scheduled Date" of any meeting of stockholders shall be
the date first  publicly  disclosed  on which such meeting is scheduled to occur
regardless of whether such meeting is continued or adjourned  and  regardless of
whether any  subsequent  notice is given for such  meeting or the record date of
such meeting is changed.

   1.4 Special Meetings of Stockholders.  Except as otherwise expressly required
by  applicable  law,  special  meetings of the  stockholders  or of any class or
series  entitled  to vote may be  called  for any  purpose  or  purposes  by the
Chairman  or by a majority  vote of the entire  Board,  to be held at such place
(within or outside the state of Delaware),  date and hour as shall be determined
by the Board and  designated  in the notice  thereof.  Only such  business as is
specified in the notice of any special  meeting of the  stockholders  shall come
before such meeting.

   1.5  Notice  of  Meetings  of  Stockholders.  Except as  otherwise  expressly
required or  permitted by  applicable  law, not less than ten days nor more than
sixty days before the date of every  stockholders'  meeting the Secretary  shall
cause to be delivered  to each  stockholder  of record  entitled to vote at such
meeting  written notice  stating the place,  day and time of the meeting and, in
the case of a special meeting,  the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is
called.  Except as provided in Section 1.6(d) or as otherwise expressly required
by applicable law, notice of 

                                     - 2 -

any adjourned  meeting of  stockholders  need not be given if the time and place
thereof are  announced  at the meeting at which the  adjournment  is taken.  Any
notice,  if  mailed,  shall be deemed to be given when  deposited  in the United
States mail,  postage  prepaid,  addressed to the stockholder at the address for
notices to such stockholder as it appears on the records of the Corporation.

   1.6  Quorum of  Stockholders.  (a) Unless  otherwise  expressly  required  by
applicable law, at any meeting of the stockholders, the presence in person or by
proxy  of  stockholders  entitled  to cast a  majority  of votes  thereat  shall
constitute a quorum for the entire  meeting,  notwithstanding  the withdrawal of
stockholders entitled to cast a sufficient number of votes in person or by proxy
to reduce the number of votes represented at the meeting below a quorum.  Shares
of  the  Corporation's   stock  belonging  to  the  Corporation  or  to  another
corporation,  if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in an election of the
directors of such other corporation is held by the Corporation, shall neither be
counted for the purpose of determining  the presence of a quorum nor entitled to
vote at any meeting of the stockholders.

   (b) At any meeting of the stockholders at which a quorum shall be present,  a
majority of those  present in person or by proxy may  adjourn  the meeting  from
time to time without  notice  other than  announcement  at the  meeting.  In the
absence of a quorum,  the officer  presiding thereat shall have power to adjourn
the meeting  from time to time until a quorum  shall be  present.  Notice of any
adjourned  meeting other than  announcement at the meeting shall not be required
to be given,  except as  provided  in  Section  1.6(d)  below and  except  where
expressly required by applicable law.

   (c) At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present, any business
may be transacted  which might have been  transacted  at the meeting  originally
called,  but  only  those  stockholders  entitled  to  vote  at the  meeting  as
originally  noticed shall be entitled to vote at any adjournment or adjournments
thereof unless a new record date is fixed by the Board.

   (d) If an  adjournment  is  for  more  than  thirty  days,  or if  after  the
adjournment  a new record date is fixed for the adjourned  meeting,  a notice of
the adjourned  meeting shall be given in the manner  specified in Section 1.5 to
each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.

   1.7  Chairman  and  Secretary  of  Meeting.  The  Chairman  or, in his or her
absence,  another officer of the Corporation  

                                     - 3 -

designated by the Chairman,  shall preside at meetings of the stockholders.  The
Secretary  shall act as  secretary  of the  meeting,  or in the  absence  of the
Secretary,  an Assistant Secretary shall so act, or if neither is present,  then
the presiding officer may appoint a person to act as secretary of the meeting.

   1.8 Voting by  Stockholders.  (a) Except as otherwise  expressly  required by
applicable law, at every meeting of the stockholders  each stockholder  shall be
entitled to the number of votes specified in the Certificate of Incorporation or
any  certificate  of  designations  providing  for the creation of any series of
Preferred  Stock, in person or by proxy, for each share of stock standing in his
or her name on the books of the  Corporation  on the date fixed  pursuant to the
provisions  of  Section  5.6  of  these  By-laws  as the  record  date  for  the
determination of the stockholders who shall be entitled to receive notice of and
to vote at such meeting.

   (b)  When a  quorum  is  present  at any  meeting  of the  stockholders,  all
questions  shall be  decided by the vote of a  majority  in voting  power of the
stockholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at such meeting,
unless a question is one upon which by express provision of law, the Certificate
of Incorporation or these By-laws,  a different vote is required,  in which case
such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question.

   (c)  Except  as  required  by  applicable  law,  the vote at any  meeting  of
stockholders  on any question  need not be by ballot,  unless so directed by the
presiding  officer of the  meeting.  On a vote by ballot,  each ballot  shall be
signed  by  the  stockholder  voting,  or by his  or  her  attorney-in-fact,  if
authorized by proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted.

   1.9 Proxies.  Any stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders
may vote  either  in person or by his or her  attorney-in-fact  or proxy.  Every
proxy shall be in writing and shall be subscribed by the  stockholder  or his or
her duly  authorized  attorney-in-fact,  but need not be  sealed,  witnessed  or
acknowledged.

   1.10  Inspectors.  (a) The election of Directors and any other vote by ballot
at  any  meeting  of the  stockholders  shall  be  supervised  by  one  or  more
inspectors.  Such  inspectors may be appointed by the Chairman  before or at the
meeting.  If the Chairman shall not have so appointed such  inspectors or if one
or both  inspectors so appointed  shall refuse to serve or shall not be present,
such  appointment  shall

                                     - 4 -

be made by the officer presiding at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering
upon the discharge of his or her duties,  shall take and sign an oath faithfully
to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the
best of his or her ability.

   (b)  The  inspectors  shall  (i)  ascertain  the  number  of  shares  of  the
Corporation  outstanding and the voting power of each, (ii) determine the shares
represented at any meeting of  stockholders  and the validity of the proxies and
ballots,  (iii) count all proxies and ballots,  (iv)  determine and retain for a
reasonable  period a record of the  disposition  of any  challenges  made to any
determination  by the  inspectors,  and (v) certify their  determination  of the
number of shares represented at the meeting,  and their count of all proxies and
ballots.  The  inspectors  may  appoint or retain  other  persons or entities to
assist the inspectors in the performance of the duties of the inspectors.

   (c) If  there  are  three or more  inspectors,  the act of a  majority  shall
govern.  On request of the officer  presiding at such  meeting,  the  inspectors
shall make a report of any challenge,  question or matter determined by them and
execute a certificate of any fact found by them. Any report or certificate  made
by them shall be prima face evidence of the facts therein stated and of the vote
as certified  by them,  and such report or  certificate  shall be filed with the
minutes of such meeting.

   1.11 List of  Stockholders.  (a) At least ten days  before  every  meeting of
stockholders,  the Chief Financial Officer shall cause to be prepared and made a
complete list of the stockholders  entitled to vote at the meeting,  arranged in
alphabetical order and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of
shares registered in the name of each stockholder.

   (b) During ordinary business hours for a period of at least ten days prior to
the meeting,  such list shall be open to examination by any  stockholder for any
purpose  germane  to the  meeting,  either at a place  within the city where the
meeting  is to be held,  which  place  shall be  specified  in the notice of the
meeting, or if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held.

   (c) The list  shall  also be  produced  and kept at the time and place of the
meeting  during the whole time of the  meeting,  and it may be  inspected by any
stockholder who is present.

                                     - 5 -

   (d)  The  stock  ledger  shall  be  the  only  evidence  as to  who  are  the
stockholders  entitled to examine the stock  ledger,  the list  required by this
Section 1.11 or the books of the  Corporation,  or to vote in person or by proxy
at any meeting of stockholders.

   1.12 Confidential  Voting. (a) Proxies and ballots that identify the votes of
specific  stockholders  shall be kept in  confidence by the  tabulators  and the
inspectors of election unless (i) there is an opposing solicitation with respect
to the  election  or  removal of  Directors,  (ii)  disclosure  is  required  by
applicable law, (iii) a stockholder  expressly requests or otherwise  authorizes
disclosure,  or (iv) the  Corporation  concludes  in good faith that a bona fide
dispute exists as to the authenticity of one or more proxies,  ballots or votes,
or as to the accuracy of any tabulation of such proxies, ballots or votes.

   (b) The tabulators  and  inspectors of election and any authorized  agents or
other  persons  engaged in the  receipt,  count and  tabulation  of proxies  and
ballots shall be advised of this By-law and instructed to comply herewith.

   (c) The inspectors of election shall certify,  to the best of their knowledge
based on due inquiry,  that proxies and ballots have been kept in  confidence as
required by this Section 1.12.

   1.13 Action by Written Consent.  Any action required or permitted to be taken
by the  stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual
or special  stockholders'  meeting and may not be effected by consent in writing
by such stockholders.

2.  DIRECTORS.

   2.1 Powers of Directors. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be
managed by or under the  direction  of the  Board,  which may  exercise  all the
powers of the Corporation  except such as are by applicable law, the Certificate
of  Incorporation  or these By-laws required to be exercised or performed by the
stockholders.

   2.2 Number, Method of Election,  Terms of Office of Directors.  The number of
Directors  which shall  constitute the whole Board shall be such as from time to
time shall be  determined  by  resolution  adopted  by a majority  of the entire
Board,  but the number  shall not be less than three nor more than  twenty-five,
provided that the tenure of a Director  shall not be affected by any decrease in
the number of Directors so made by the Board.  Each  Director  shall hold 

                                     - 6 -

office  until  the next  annual  meeting  of  stockholders  and until his or her
successor  is  elected  and  qualified  or  until  his  or  her  earlier  death,
retirement,  resignation or removal from office in accordance with these By-laws
or any applicable law or pursuant to an order of a court.  Directors need not be
stockholders of the Corporation or citizens of the United States of America.

  Nominations  of persons for election as Directors  may be made by the Board or
by any  stockholder  entitled  to  vote  for  the  election  of  Directors.  Any
stockholder entitled to vote for the election of Directors may nominate a person
or  persons  for  election  as  Directors   only  if  written   notice  of  such
stockholder's  intent to make such  nomination is given in  accordance  with the
procedures for bringing  business before the meeting set forth in Section 1.3(b)
of these By-laws,  either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage
prepaid,  to the  Secretary not later than (i) with respect to an election to be
held at an annual meeting of stockholders, 90 days in advance of the anniversary
date of the  immediately  preceding  annual  meeting  (or not more than ten days
after the first public disclosure,  which may include any public filing with the
Securities  and Exchange  Commission,  of the  Originally  Scheduled Date of the
annual meeting, whichever is earlier) and (ii) with respect to an election to be
held at a special  meeting of  stockholders  for the election of Directors,  the
close of business on the seventh day  following the date on which notice of such
meeting is first given to  stockholders.  Each such notice shall set forth:  (a)
the name and address of the  stockholder  who intends to make the nomination and
of the  person  or  persons  to be  nominated;  (b) a  representation  that  the
stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the  Corporation  entitled to vote
at such  meeting  and  intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to
nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description of all
arrangements or understandings  between the stockholder and each nominee and any
other person or persons  (naming  such person or persons)  pursuant to which the
nomination  or  nominations  are to be made by the  stockholder;  (d) such other
information  regarding each nominee  proposed by such  stockholder as would have
been required to be included in a proxy  statement  filed  pursuant to the proxy
rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had each nominee been nominated,
or intended to be  nominated,  by the  Board;(e)  the consent of each nominee to
serve as a Director if so elected and (f) if the stockholder  intends to solicit
proxies in support of such  stockholder's  nominee(s),  a representation to that
effect.  The presiding officer of any meeting of stockholders to elect Directors
and the Board may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in
compliance with the foregoing  procedure or if the

                                     - 7 -

stockholder solicits proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee(s) without
such stockholder  having made the  representation  required by clause (f) of the
preceding sentence.  For purposes of this Section 2.2, the "Originally Scheduled
Date" of any meeting of stockholders  shall be the date first publicly disclosed
on which such meeting is scheduled to occur  regardless  of whether such meeting
is continued or adjourned  and  regardless of whether any  subsequent  notice is
given for such meeting or the record date of such meeting is changed.

   At each meeting of the  stockholders for the election of Directors at which a
quorum is present, the persons receiving the greatest number of votes, up to the
number of Directors to be elected, shall be the Directors.

   2.3  Vacancies on Board.  (a) Any Director may resign from office at any time
by  delivering  a written  resignation  to the  Chairman or the  Secretary.  The
resignation  will take effect at the time specified  therein,  or, if no time is
specified,  at the time of its receipt by the  Corporation.  The acceptance of a
resignation  shall not be necessary to make it  effective,  unless  expressly so
provided in the resignation.

   (b) Any  vacancy  and any  newly  created  Directorship  resulting  from  any
increase  in the  authorized  number  of  Directors  may be  filled by vote of a
majority of the  Directors  then in office,  though less than a quorum,  and any
Director so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election of Directors
by the stockholders and until a successor is duly elected and qualified or until
his or her earlier  death,  retirement,  resignation  or removal  from office in
accordance with these By-laws or any applicable law or pursuant to an order of a
court. If there are no Directors in office, then an election of Directors may be
held in the manner provided by applicable law.

   2.4 Meetings of the Board. (a) The Board may hold its meetings,  both regular
and special,  either within or outside the state of Delaware,  at such places as
from time to time may be  determined by the Board or as may be designated in the
respective notices or waivers of notice thereof.

   (b)  Regular  meetings  of the Board  shall be held at such times and at such
places as from time to time shall be determined by the Board.

   (c) The first  meeting of each newly  elected  Board shall be held as soon as
practicable  after the annual meeting of the  stockholders  and shall be for the
election  of officers  and 

                                     - 8 -

the transaction of such other business as may come before it.

   (d) Special  meetings of the Board shall be held whenever called by direction
of the  Chairman or at the request of  Directors  constituting  one-third of the
number of Directors then in office.

   (e) Members of the Board or any Committee of the Board may  participate  in a
meeting of the Board or  Committee,  as the case may be, by means of  conference
telephone  or similar  communications  equipment  by means of which all  persons
participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such  participation  shall
constitute presence in person at such meeting.

   (f) The  Secretary  shall give notice to each  Director of any meeting of the
Board  by  mailing  the  same  at  least  two  days  before  the  meeting  or by
telegraphing  or delivering  the same not later than the day before the meeting.
Such notice need not include a statement of the business to be transacted at, or
the purpose of, any such meeting.  Any and all business may be transacted at any
meeting of the  Board.  No notice of any  adjourned  meeting  need be given.  No
notice  to or waiver by any  Director  shall be  required  with  respect  to any
meeting at which the Director is present.

   2.5 Quorum and Action.  Except as otherwise  expressly required by applicable
law, the Certificate of  Incorporation  or these By-laws,  at any meeting of the
Board, the presence of at least one-third of the entire Board shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business; but if there shall be less than a quorum
at any meeting of the Board, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting
from time to time. Unless otherwise  provided by applicable law, the Certificate
of  Incorporation  or these  By-laws,  the vote of a majority  of the  Directors
present (and not  abstaining)  at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall
be necessary for the approval and adoption of any  resolution or the approval of
any act of the Board.

   2.6  Presiding  Officer and  Secretary  of Meeting.  The  Chairman or, in the
absence of the Chairman,  a member of the Board selected by the members present,
shall preside at meetings of the Board.  The Secretary shall act as secretary of
the meeting,  but in the Secretary's absence the presiding officer may appoint a
secretary of the meeting.

   2.7 Action by Consent without Meeting. Any action required or permitted to be
taken at any  meeting  of the  Board or of any  Committee  thereof  may be taken
without a 

                                     - 9 -

meeting if all members of the Board or  Committee,  as the case may be,  consent
thereto in writing  and the  writing or  writings  are filed with the minutes of
proceedings of the Board or Committee.

   2.8 Standing  Committees.  By resolution  adopted by a majority of the entire
Board,  the Board shall elect,  from among its members,  individuals to serve on
the Standing Committees established by this Section 2.8. Each Standing Committee
shall be comprised of such number of Directors, not less than three, as shall be
elected  to  such  Committee,  provided  that  no  officer  or  employee  of the
Corporation shall be eligible to serve on the Audit,  Compensation and Personnel
or  Nominating  Committees.  Each  Committee  shall  keep a  record  of all  its
proceedings  and  report the same to the Board.  One-third  of the  members of a
Committee,  but not less than two, shall  constitute a quorum,  and the act of a
majority of the members of a Committee  present at any meeting at which a quorum
is present shall be the act of the Committee. Each Standing Committee shall meet
at the call of its  chairman  or any two of its  members.  The  chairmen  of the
various  Committees  shall  preside,  when  present,  at all  meetings  of  such
Committees,  and shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board may
from time to time prescribe. The Standing Committees of the Board, and functions
of each, are as follows:

   (a)  Compensation  and Personnel  Committee.  The  Compensation and Personnel
Committee shall exercise the power of oversight of the compensation and benefits
of the  employees  of the  Corporation,  and shall be  charged  with  evaluating
management performance, and establishing executive compensation.  This Committee
shall have access to its own independent outside  compensation counsel and shall
consist of a majority of  independent  directors.  For  purposes of this Section
2.8(a),  "independent  director"  shall  mean a Director  who:  (i) has not been
employed by the Corporation in an executive capacity within the past five years;
(ii) is not, and is not affiliated with a company or firm that is, an advisor or
consultant  to the  Corporation;  (iii)  is not  affiliated  with a  significant
customer  or  supplier  of  the  Corporation;  (iv)  has  no  personal  services
contract(s) with the Corporation; (v) is not affiliated with a tax-exempt entity
that receives significant contributions from the Corporation;  and (vi) is not a
familial  relative of any person  described  by Clauses (i)  through  (v).  This
By-law shall not be amended or repealed except by a majority of the voting power
of the  stockholders  present in person or by proxy and  entitled to vote at any
meeting at which a quorum is present.

                                     - 10 -

   (b) Audit Committee. The Audit Committee shall recommend the selection of the
independent  auditors  for the  Corporation,  confirm  the scope of audits to be
performed by such  auditors,  review audit results and internal  accounting  and
control  procedures  and  policies,  review  the fees paid to the  Corporation's
independent auditors, and review and recommend approval of the audited financial
statements of the Corporation and the annual reports to stockholders.  The Audit
Committee shall also review expense accounts of senior executives.

   (c) Finance  Committee.  The Finance Committee shall have the  responsibility
for  reviewing  capital  expenditures  and  appropriations  and  maximizing  the
effective use of the assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. The Finance
Committee shall also have the responsibility for directing investment allocation
and risk management policies.

   (d)  Legal and  Public  Affairs  Committee.  The  Legal  and  Public  Affairs
Committee  shall review and  consider  major  claims and  litigation  and legal,
regulatory,  intellectual  property  and  related  governmental  policy  matters
affecting the  Corporation  and its  subsidiaries.  The Legal and Public Affairs
Committee shall review and approve management  policies and programs relating to
compliance  with  legal  and  regulatory   requirements,   business  ethics  and
environmental  matters. The Legal and Public Affairs Committee shall also review
and  define  the  Corporation's  social  responsibilities,  including  issues of
significance to the Corporation, its stockholders and its employees.

   (e) Nominating Committee. The Nominating Committee shall make recommendations
as to the  organization,  size  and  composition  of the  Board  and  Committees
thereof,  propose nominees for election to the Board and the Committees thereof,
and consider the qualifications, compensation and retirement of Directors.

   2.9 Other Committees. By resolution passed by a majority of the entire Board,
the  Board may also  appoint  from  among its  members  such  other  Committees,
Standing  or  otherwise,  as it may from  time to time  deem  desirable  and may
delegate  to  such  Committees  such  powers  of the  Board  as it may  consider
appropriate,  consistent with  applicable law, the Certificate of  Incorporation
and these By-laws.

   2.10   Compensation  of  Directors.   Unless  otherwise   restricted  by  the
Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, Directors shall receive for their
services on the Board or any Committee  thereof such  compensation and benefits,
including the granting of options,  together with

                                     - 11 -

expenses,  if any, as the Board may from time to time  determine.  The Directors
may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board or Committee
thereof  and/or a stated annual sum as a Director,  together with  expenses,  if
any, of  attendance at each meeting of the Board or Committee  thereof.  Nothing
herein  contained  shall be construed to preclude any Director  from serving the
Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.

   2.11  Independent  Directors.  (a)  Independence  of Nominees for Election as
Directors at the Annual Meeting. The persons nominated by the Board for election
as Directors at any annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation  shall
include a  sufficient  number of  persons  who have  been,  on the date of their
nomination,  determined  by  the  Board  to  be  eligible  to be  classified  as
independent  directors such that if all such nominees are elected,  the majority
of all Directors holding office would be independent directors.

   (b)  Directors  Elected to Fill  Vacancies on the Board.  If the Board elects
Directors  between annual  meetings of  stockholders  to fill vacancies or newly
created Directorships,  the majority of all Directors holding office immediately
after such elections shall be independent directors.

   (c)  Definition of Independent  Director.  For purposes of this Section 2.11,
"independent  director"  shall mean a Director who: (i) has not been employed by
the  Corporation in an executive  capacity  within the past five years;  (ii) is
not,  and is not  affiliated  with a company  or a firm that is, an  adviser  or
consultant  to the  Corporation;  (iii)  is not  affiliated  with a  significant
customer  or  supplier  of  the  Corporation;  (iv)  has  no  personal  services
contract(s) with the Corporation; (v) is not affiliated with a tax-exempt entity
that receives  significant  contributions  from the  Corporation;  (vi) is not a
familial  relative of any person described by Clauses (i) through (v); and (vii)
is free of any other  relationship  which would  interfere  with the exercise of
independent judgment by such Director.

3.  OFFICERS.

   3.1 Officers,  Titles, Elections,  Terms. (a) The Board may from time to time
elect a Chairman,  a President,  one or more Executive Vice  Presidents,  one or
more Senior Vice  Presidents,  one or more Vice  Presidents,  a Chief  Financial
Officer, a Controller,  a Treasurer, a Secretary, a General Counsel, one or more
Assistant Controllers,  one or more Assistant Treasurers,  one or more Assistant
Secretaries,  and 

                                     - 12 -

one or more Associate or Assistant General Counsels, to serve at the pleasure of
the Board or  otherwise  as shall be  specified by the Board at the time of such
election  and until their  successors  are elected and  qualified or until their
earlier death, retirement, resignation or removal from office in accordance with
these By-laws or any applicable law or pursuant to an order of a court.

   (b) The Board may elect or appoint at any time such other  officers or agents
with such duties as it may deem  necessary or desirable.  Such other officers or
agents  shall  serve  at the  pleasure  of the  Board or  otherwise  as shall be
specified by the Board at the time of such election or  appointment  and, in the
case of such other officers, until their successors are elected and qualified or
until their earlier  death,  retirement,  resignation  or removal from office in
accordance with these By-laws or any applicable law or pursuant to an order of a
court.  Each such officer or agent shall have such  authority  and shall perform
such duties as may be provided  herein or as the Board may prescribe.  The Board
may from time to time  authorize  any officer or agent to appoint and remove any
other such officer or agent and to prescribe such person's authority and duties.

   (c) No person may be elected or  appointed an officer who is not a citizen of
the United  States of America if such election or  appointment  is prohibited by
applicable law or regulation.

   (d) Any vacancy in any office may be filled for the unexpired  portion of the
term by the Board.  Each officer elected or appointed during the year shall hold
office  until  the next  annual  meeting  of the  Board at  which  officers  are
regularly  elected or  appointed  and until his or her  successor  is elected or
appointed  and  qualified  or  until  his  or  her  earlier  death,  retirement,
resignation  or removal  from  office in  accordance  with these  By-laws or any
applicable law or pursuant to an order of a court.

   (e) Any officer or agent  elected or appointed by the Board may be removed at
any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board.

   (f) Any officer may resign from office at any time. Such resignation shall be
made  in  writing  and  given  to the  President  or  the  Secretary.  Any  such
resignation shall take effect at the time specified  therein,  or, if no time is
specified,  at the time of its receipt by the  Corporation.  The acceptance of a
resignation  shall not be necessary to make it  effective,  unless  expressly so
provided in the resignation.

                                     - 13 -

   3.2  General  Powers of  Officers.  Except as may be  otherwise  provided  by
applicable law or in Article 6 or Article 7 of these By-laws, the Chairman,  the
President,  any Executive Vice President,  any Senior Vice  President,  any Vice
President, the Chief Financial Officer, the General Counsel, the Controller, the
Treasurer and the Secretary,  or any of them, may (i) execute and deliver in the
name of the  Corporation,  in the name of any Division of the  Corporation or in
both names any  agreement,  contract,  instrument,  power of  attorney  or other
document  pertaining  to the  business  or  affairs  of the  Corporation  or any
Division  of  the  Corporation,   including  without  limitation  agreements  or
contracts   with  any   government  or   governmental   department,   agency  or
instrumentality, and (ii) delegate to any employee or agent the power to execute
and deliver any such agreement, contract, instrument, power of attorney or other
document.

   3.3  Powers  and  Duties of the  Chairman.  The  Chairman  shall be the Chief
Executive of the Corporation  and shall report directly to the Board.  Except in
such  instances as the Board may confer powers in particular  transactions  upon
any other  officer,  and subject to the control and direction of the Board,  the
Chairman shall manage and direct the business and affairs of the Corporation and
shall communicate to the Board and any Committee thereof reports,  proposals and
recommendations  for their respective  consideration or action. He or she may do
and perform all acts on behalf of the  Corporation and shall preside at meetings
of the Board and the stockholders.

   3.4 Powers and Duties of the President.  The President shall have such powers
and  perform  such  duties  as the Board or the  Chairman  may from time to time
prescribe or as may be prescribed in these By-laws.

   3.5 Powers and Duties of Executive Vice  Presidents,  Senior Vice  Presidents
and Vice Presidents.  Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice
Presidents  shall have such powers and  perform  such duties as the Board or the
Chairman  may  from  time to time  prescribe  or as may be  prescribed  in these
By-laws.

   3.6 Powers and Duties of the Chief  Financial  Officer.  The Chief  Financial
Officer  shall have such  powers  and  perform  such  duties as the Board or the
Chairman  may  from  time to time  prescribe  or as may be  prescribed  in these
By-laws.  The Chief Financial  Officer shall cause to be prepared and maintained
(i) at the office of the  Corporation,  a stock ledger  containing the names and
addresses of all stockholders and the number of shares held

                                     - 14 -

by each and (ii) the list of stockholders  for each meeting of the  stockholders
as required by Section 1.11 of these By-laws.  The Chief Financial Officer shall
be  responsible  for the  custody of all stock books and of all  unissued  stock
certificates.

   3.7 Powers and Duties of the  Controller and Assistant  Controllers.  (a) The
Controller  shall be  responsible  for the  maintenance  of adequate  accounting
records of all assets, liabilities, capital and transactions of the Corporation.
The Controller shall prepare and render such balance sheets,  income statements,
budgets and other financial  statements and reports as the Board or the Chairman
may  require,  and shall  perform  such  other  duties as may be  prescribed  or
assigned  pursuant to these  By-laws and all other acts incident to the position
of Controller.

   (b) Each Assistant  Controller shall perform such duties as from time to time
may be assigned by the Controller or by the Board.  In the event of the absence,
incapacity or inability to act of the Controller,  then any Assistant Controller
may  perform  any of the  duties  and  may  exercise  any of the  powers  of the
Controller.

   3.8 Powers and Duties of the  Treasurer  and  Assistant  Treasurers.  (a) The
Treasurer shall have the care and custody of all the funds and securities of the
Corporation  except as may be  otherwise  ordered by the Board,  and shall cause
such funds (i) to be invested or reinvested from time to time for the benefit of
the Corporation as may be designated by the Board, the Chairman,  the President,
the Chief  Financial  Officer or the  Treasurer  or (ii) to be  deposited to the
credit of the  Corporation in such banks or depositories as may be designated by
the Board,  the Chairman,  the  President,  the Chief  Financial  Officer or the
Treasurer,  and shall cause such  securities to be placed in safekeeping in such
manner as may be designated by the Board, the Chairman, the President, the Chief
Financial Officer or the Treasurer.

   (b) The Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer or such other person or persons as
may be designated  for such purpose by the Board,  the Chairman,  the President,
the Chief  Financial  Officer or the  Treasurer  may  endorse in the name and on
behalf of the Corporation  all  instruments  for the payment of money,  bills of
lading,  warehouse receipts,  insurance policies and other commercial  documents
requiring such endorsement.

   (c) The Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer or such other person or persons as
may be designated  for such purpose by

                                     - 15 -

the Board,  the Chairman,  the  President,  the Chief  Financial  Officer or the
Treasurer  (i) may sign all  receipts  and  vouchers  for  payments  made to the
Corporation,  (ii)  shall  render  a  statement  of  the  cash  account  of  the
Corporation  to the Board as often as it shall require the same; and (iii) shall
enter  regularly in books to be kept for that purpose full and accurate  account
of all  moneys  received  and  paid on  account  of the  Corporation  and of all
securities received and delivered by the Corporation.

   (d) The  Treasurer  shall  perform such other duties as may be  prescribed or
assigned  pursuant to these  By-laws and all other acts incident to the position
of Treasurer.  Each  Assistant  Treasurer  shall perform such duties as may from
time to time be assigned by the  Treasurer or by the Board.  In the event of the
absence,  incapacity  or inability to act of the  Treasurer,  then any Assistant
Treasurer  may perform any of the duties and may  exercise  any of the powers of
the Treasurer.

   3.9 Powers and Duties of the  Secretary and  Assistant  Secretaries.  (a) The
Secretary  shall keep the minutes of all  proceedings of the  stockholders,  the
Board and the Committees of the Board.  The Secretary shall attend to the giving
and serving of all notices of the Corporation, in accordance with the provisions
of these By-laws and as required by applicable  law. The Secretary  shall be the
custodian of the seal of the Corporation.  The Secretary shall affix or cause to
be affixed the seal of the Corporation to such contracts,  instruments and other
documents requiring the seal of the Corporation,  and when so affixed may attest
the same and shall  perform such other duties as may be  prescribed  or assigned
pursuant  to these  By-laws  and all other  acts  incident  to the  position  of
Secretary.

   (b) Each  Assistant  Secretary  shall perform such duties as may from time to
time be assigned by the Secretary or by the Board.  In the event of the absence,
incapacity or inability to act of the  Secretary,  then any Assistant  Secretary
may  perform  any of the  duties  and  may  exercise  any of the  powers  of the
Secretary.

4.  INDEMNIFICATION.

   4.1(a)  Right to  Indemnification.  The  Corporation,  to the fullest  extent
permitted by applicable law as then in effect, shall indemnify any person who is
or was a Director or officer of the  Corporation  and who is or was  involved in
any  manner  (including,  without  limitation,  as a party or a  witness)  or is
threatened  to be made so  involved  in any

                                     - 16 -

threatened,   pending  or  completed  investigation,   claim,  action,  suit  or
proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including,
without  limitation,  any action,  suit or  proceeding by or in the right of the
Corporation  to procure a judgment in its favor) (a  "Proceeding")  by reason of
the fact that such  person is or was a Director,  officer,  employee or agent of
the  Corporation  or is or was  serving at the request of the  Corporation  as a
director,  officer,  employee,   fiduciary  or  agent  of  another  corporation,
partnership,  joint  venture,  trust or  other  enterprise  (including,  without
limitation,  any  employee  benefit  plan) (a  "Covered  Entity"),  against  all
expenses  (including  attorneys'  fees),  judgments,  fines and amounts  paid in
settlement  actually and reasonably  incurred by such person in connection  with
such  Proceeding.  Any  such  former  or  present  Director  or  officer  of the
Corporation  finally determined to be entitled to indemnification as provided in
this  Article  4  is  hereinafter  called  an  "Indemnitee."  Until  such  final
determination  is made,  such former or present  Director or officer  shall be a
"Potential  Indemnitee"  for  purposes of this  Article 4.  Notwithstanding  the
foregoing provisions of this Section 4.1(a), the Corporation shall not indemnify
an Indemnitee with respect to any Proceeding commenced by such Indemnitee unless
the  commencement  of such  Proceeding by such Indemnitee has been approved by a
majority  vote of the  Disinterested  Directors  (as defined in Section  4.5(d);
provided,  however,  that  such  approval  of a  majority  of the  Disinterested
- --------   -------
Directors shall not be required with respect to any Proceeding commenced by such
Indemnitee  after a Change  in  Control  (as  defined  in  Section  4.5(d))  has
occurred.

   (b)  Effect of  Amendments.  Neither  the  amendment  or repeal  of,  nor the
adoption of a provision  inconsistent  with,  any  provision  of this  Article 4
(including,  without limitation, this Section 4.1(b)) shall adversely affect the
rights of any  Director or officer  under this Article 4 (i) with respect to any
Proceeding  commenced or threatened prior to such amendment,  repeal or adoption
of an  inconsistent  provision  or (ii)  after  the  occurrence  of a Change  in
Control,  with respect to any  Proceeding  arising out of any action or omission
occurring  prior  to such  amendment,  repeal  or  adoption  of an  inconsistent
provision,  in either  case  without  the  written  consent of such  Director or
officer.

   4.2  Insurance,  Contracts  and  Funding.  The  Corporation  may purchase and
maintain  insurance to protect  itself and any  Director,  officer,  employee or
agent of the Corporation against any expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid
in settlement as specified in Section 4.1(a) or Section 4.6 of this Article 4 or
incurred  by any  Director,  officer,

                                     - 17 -

employee or agent of the Corporation in connection with any Proceeding  referred
to in such Sections,  to the fullest extent  permitted by applicable law as then
in effect. The Corporation may enter into contracts with any Director,  officer,
employee  or  agent  of the  Corporation  or any  director,  officer,  employee,
fiduciary or agent of any Covered  Entity in  furtherance  of the  provisions of
this  Article  4 and may  create a trust  fund or use  other  means  (including,
without limitation, a letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as
may be necessary to effect indemnification as provided in this Article 4.

   4.3  Indemnification;  Not  Exclusive  Right.  The  right of  indemnification
provided in this  Article 4 shall not be  exclusive of any other rights to which
any  Indemnitee  or Potential  Indemnitee  may  otherwise  be entitled,  and the
provisions  of this  Article 4 shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal
representatives  of any Indemnitee or Potential  Indemnitee under this Article 4
and  shall be  applicable  to  Proceedings  commenced  or  continuing  after the
adoption of this  Article 4, whether  arising  from acts or omissions  occurring
before or after such adoption.


   4.4 Advancement of Expenses.  Each Potential  Indemnitee shall be entitled to
receive advance payment of any expenses actually and reasonably incurred by such
Potential Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding prior to a determination
of entitlement to  indemnification  pursuant to Section  4.5(a).  Each Potential
Indemnitee shall submit a statement or statements to the Corporation  requesting
such  advance or  advances  from time to time,  whether  prior to or after final
disposition of such Proceeding,  reasonably  evidencing the expenses incurred by
such Potential  Indemnitee and  accompanied by an undertaking by or on behalf of
such Potential  Indemnitee to repay the amounts advanced if ultimately it should
be determined  that such Potential  Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified
against  such  expenses  pursuant  to this  Article  4. A  determination  of the
reasonableness of such expenses shall be made and such reasonable expenses shall
be advanced  pursuant to procedures to be  established  from time to time by the
Board or its designee(s) (the "Advancement Procedures"). The amendment or repeal
of, and the  adoption of a provision  inconsistent  with,  any  provision of the
Advancement  Procedures  shall be governed by Section  4.1(b) of this Article 4.
Notwithstanding  the foregoing  provisions of this Section 4.4, the  Corporation
shall not  advance  expenses  to a  Potential  Indemnitee  with  respect  to any
Proceeding  commenced by such Potential  Indemnitee  unless the  commencement of
such  Proceeding by such  Potential  Indemnitee

                                     - 18 -

has been approved by a majority vote of the Disinterested  Directors;  provided,
                                                                       --------
however,  that such approval of a majority of the Disinterested  Directors shall
- -------
not be required  with  respect to any  Proceeding  commenced  by such  Potential
Indemnitee after a Change in Control has occurred.

   4.5   Indemnification   Procedures;   Presumptions   and  Effect  of  Certain
Proceedings;  Remedies. In furtherance,  but not in limitation, of the foregoing
provisions  of this  Article  4,  the  following  procedures,  presumptions  and
remedies  shall apply with  respect to the right to  indemnification  under this
Article 4:

   (a) Procedures for  Determination of Entitlement to  Indemnification.  (i) To
obtain indemnification under this Article 4, a Potential Indemnitee shall submit
to  the  Secretary  of  the  Corporation  a  written  request,   including  such
documentation  and  information  as is  reasonably  available  to the  Potential
Indemnitee and reasonably  necessary to determine whether and to what extent the
Potential   Indemnitee   is  entitled  to   indemnification   (the   "Supporting
Documentation").  The determination of the Potential Indemnitee's entitlement to
indemnification  shall be made not later than 60 days after the later of (A) the
receipt by the Corporation of the written request for  indemnification  together
with the  Supporting  Documentation  and (B) the receipt by the  Corporation  of
written notice of final disposition of the Proceeding for which  indemnification
is sought. The Secretary of the Corporation shall, promptly upon receipt of such
a request for  indemnification,  advise the Board in writing that the Indemnitee
has requested indemnification.

   (ii) The Potential  Indemnitee's  entitlement to  indemnification  under this
Article 4 shall be determined in one of the  following  ways:  (A) by a majority
vote of the  Disinterested  Directors whether or not they constitute a quorum of
the Board;  (B) by a committee of the  Disinterested  Directors  designated by a
majority vote of the Disinterested  Directors,  whether or not they constitute a
quorum of the Board; (C) by a written opinion of Independent  Counsel as defined
in  Section  4.5(d))  if (x) a Change in Control  shall  have  occurred  and the
Potential Indemnitee so requests or (y) there are no Disinterested  Directors or
a majority of such Disinterested  Directors so directs;  (D) by the stockholders
of the Corporation; or (E) as provided in Section 4.5(b) of this Article 4.

   (iii) In the event the determination of entitlement to  indemnification is to
be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 4.5(a)(ii), a majority of the

                                     - 19 -

Disinterested  Directors  (or,  if there  are no  Disinterested  Directors,  the
General  Counsel of the Corporation or, if the General Counsel is or was a party
to the  Proceeding in respect of which  indemnification  is sought,  the highest
ranking  officer  of the  Corporation  who is not and  was  not a party  to such
Proceeding)  shall  select  the  Independent  Counsel,  but only an  Independent
Counsel to which the Potential Indemnitee does not reasonably object;  provided,
                                                                       --------
however,  that if a  Change  in  Control  shall  have  occurred,  the  Potential
- -------
Indemnitee  shall  select  such  Independent  Counsel,  but only an  Independent
Counsel to which a majority of the  Disinterested  Directors does not reasonably
object.

   (b)  Presumptions  and Effect of  Certain  Proceedings.  Except as  otherwise
expressly  provided  in this  Article  4, if a  Change  in  Control  shall  have
occurred,  the  Potential  Indemnitee  shall  be  presumed  to  be  entitled  to
indemnification under this Article 4 (with respect to actions or failures to act
occurring  prior to such Change in  Control)  upon  submission  of a request for
indemnification  together with the Supporting  Documentation  in accordance with
Section  5(a)(i)(b) of this Article 4, and thereafter the Corporation shall have
the  burden  of proof to  overcome  that  presumption  in  reaching  a  contrary
determination.  In any event,  if the person or persons  empowered under Section
4.5(a) of this Article 4 to determine  entitlement to indemnification  shall not
have been appointed or shall not have made a determination  within 60 days after
the  later  of  (x)  receipt  by the  Corporation  of the  written  request  for
indemnification  together with the Supporting  Documentation and (y) the receipt
by the Corporation of written notice of final  disposition of the Proceeding for
which indemnification is sought, the Potential Indemnitee shall be deemed to be,
and shall be, entitled to indemnification . The termination of any Proceeding or
of any  claim,  issue or matter  therein,  by  judgment,  order,  settlement  or
conviction,  or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent,  shall not, of
itself,   adversely   affect   the  right  of  the   Potential   Indemnitee   to
indemnification  or create a presumption  that the Potential  Indemnitee did not
act in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be
in or not opposed to the best interests of the  Corporation  or, with respect to
any criminal  Proceeding,  that the Potential Indemnitee had reasonable cause to
believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.

   (d)  Remedies.  (i) In the event that a  determination  is made  pursuant  to
Section  4.5(a) of this Article 4 that the Potential  Indemnitee is not entitled
to indemnification  under this Article 4, (A) the Potential  Indemnitee shall be
entitled  to  seek  an   adjudication   of  his  or  her   entitlement

                                     - 20 -

to such  indemnification  either, at the Potential  Indemnitee's sole option, in
(x) an  appropriate  court  of the  state  of  Delaware  or any  other  court of
competent  jurisdiction  or (y)  an  arbitration  to be  conducted  by a  single
arbitrator pursuant to the rules of the American  Arbitration  Association;  (B)
any such judicial  proceeding or arbitration shall be de novo and the Indemnitee
shall not be  prejudiced by reason of such adverse  determination;  and (C) if a
Change in Control  shall  have  occurred,  in any such  judicial  proceeding  or
arbitration the Corporation  shall have the burden of proving that the Potential
Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Article 4 (with respect
to actions or omissions occurring prior to such Change in Control).

   (ii) If a  determination  shall  have been made or deemed to have been  made,
pursuant  to  Section  4.5(a)or  (b) of  this  Article  4,  that  the  Potential
Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be obligated to
pay the amounts  constituting such  indemnification  within five days after such
determination  has  been  made  or  deemed  to  have  been  made  and  shall  be
conclusively   bound   by  such   determination   unless   (A)  the   Indemnitee
misrepresented  or failed to disclose a material  fact in making the request for
indemnification or in the Supporting  Documentation or (B) such  indemnification
is prohibited by law. In the event that payment of  indemnification  is not made
within five days after a  determination  of entitlement to  indemnification  has
been made or deemed to have been made pursuant to Section  4.5(a) or (b) of this
Article 4, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek judicial  enforcement of the
Corporation's   obligation  to  pay  to  the  Indemnitee  such  indemnification.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  the  Corporation  may bring an  action,  in an
appropriate  court in the  state of  Delaware  or any other  court of  competent
jurisdiction,  contesting the right of the Indemnitee to receive indemnification
hereunder due to the occurrence of an event described in Subclause (A) or (B) of
this subsection (each, a "Disqualifying Event"); provided,  however, that in any
such action the  Corporation  shall have the burden of proving the occurrence of
such Disqualifying Event.

   (iii) The  Corporation  shall be  precluded  from  asserting  in any judicial
proceeding or  arbitration  commenced  pursuant to this Section  4.5(c) that the
procedures  and  presumptions  of this  Article  4 are not  valid,  binding  and
enforceable  and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator
that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Article 4.

                                     - 21 -

   (iv) In the event that the  Indemnitee or Potential  Indemnitee,  pursuant to
this Section 4.5(c), seeks a judicial adjudication of or an award in arbitration
to enforce his or her rights  under,  or to recover  damages for breach of, this
Article 4, such person  shall be entitled to recover from the  Corporation,  and
shall be  indemnified  by the  Corporation  against,  any expenses  actually and
reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such judicial adjudication
or  arbitration.  If it shall be  determined in such  judicial  adjudication  or
arbitration  that such  person is  entitled  to receive  part but not all of the
indemnification or advancement of expenses sought, the expenses incurred by such
person in connection  with such judicial  adjudication  or arbitration  shall be
prorated accordingly.

   (e) Definitions.  For purposes of this Article 4:

   (i) "Change in  Control"  means a change in control of the  Corporation  of a
nature  that would be  required  to be reported in response to Item 6(e) (or any
successor  provision)  of Schedule 14A of  Regulation  14A (or any  amendment or
successor  provision thereto)  promulgated under the Securities  Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (the "Act"),  whether or not the Corporation is then subject to
such reporting requirement;  provided that, without limitation, such a change in
control  shall be deemed to have  occurred if (A) any  "person" (as such term is
used in  Sections  13(d) and  14(d) of the Act) is or  becomes  the  "beneficial
owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3  under the Act),  directly  or  indirectly,  of
securities of the  Corporation  representing  20% or more of the voting power of
all outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in
an election of Directors  without the prior  approval of at least  two-thirds of
the members of the Board in office  immediately prior to such  acquisition;  (B)
the  Corporation  is a  party  to any  merger  or  consolidation  in  which  the
Corporation is not the continuing or surviving  corporation or pursuant to which
shares  of  the  Corporation's  common  stock  would  be  converted  into  cash,
securities or other  property,  other than a merger of the  Corporation in which
the holders of the  Corporation's  common stock  immediately prior to the merger
have  the  same  proportionate  ownership  of  common  stock  of  the  surviving
corporation  immediately after the merger; (C) there is a sale, lease,  exchange
or other transfer (in one  transaction or a series of related  transactions)  of
all, or  substantially  all, the assets of the  Corporation,  or  liquidation or
dissolution  of the  Corporation;  (D) the  Corporation  is a party to a merger,
consolidation,  sale of assets or other reorganization, or a proxy contest, as a
consequence  of which members of the Board in office  

                                     - 22 -

immediately  prior to such  transaction or event constitute less than a majority
of the Board  thereafter;  or (E) during any  period of two  consecutive  years,
individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board (including
for this purpose any new Director  whose  election or nomination for election by
the  stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Directors
then still in office who were  Directors at the  beginning of such period) cease
for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board.

   (ii) "Disinterested  Director" means a Director who is not or was not a party
to  the  Proceeding  in  respect  of  which  indemnification  is  sought  by the
Indemnitee or Potential Indemnitee.

   (iii)  "Independent  Counsel" means a law firm or a member of a law firm that
neither  presently  is,  nor in the  past  five  years  has  been,  retained  to
represent:  (a) the  Corporation  or the  Indemnitee  in any matter  material to
either  such party or (b) any other  party to the  Proceeding  giving  rise to a
claim for indemnification  under this Article 4.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the  term  "Independent  Counsel"  shall  not  include  any  person  who,  under
applicable  standards of professional  conduct then prevailing  under the law of
the State of Delaware,  would have a conflict of interest in representing either
the  Corporation  or the  Indemnitee or Potential  Indemnitee's  in an action to
determine the Indemnitee's or Potential  Indemnitee's  rights under this Article
4.

   4.6  Indemnification  of  Employees  and  Agents.  Notwithstanding  any other
provision of this Article 4, the Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law as then in effect, may indemnify any person other than a Director
or  officer  of  the  Corporation  who is or was an  employee  or  agent  of the
Corporation  and  who  is or was  involved  in any  manner  (including,  without
limitation,  as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in
any threatened, pending or completed Proceeding by reasons of the fact that such
person is or was an employee or agent of the  Corporation  or was or is serving,
at the request of the Corporation, as a director, officer, employee, or agent of
a Covered Entity against all expenses  (including  attorneys' fees),  judgments,
fines and amounts paid in settlement  actually and  reasonably  incurred by such
person in connection  with such  Proceeding.  The  Corporation  may also advance
expenses  incurred by such employee,  fiduciary or agent in connection  with any
such  Proceeding,  consistent  with the  provisions of applicable law as then in
effect.  If made or  advanced,  such  indemnification  shall  be 

                                     - 23 -

made and such reasonable expenses shall be advanced pursuant to procedures to be
established from time to time by the Board or its designee(s).

   4.7  Severability.  If any of this  Article  4 shall  be held to be  invalid,
illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever:  (i) the validity,  legality
and  enforceability  of the  remaining  provisions of this Article 4 (including,
without limitation, all portions of any Section of this Article 4 containing any
such  provision  held to be  invalid,  illegal  or  unenforceable,  that are not
themselves invalid,  illegal or unenforceable)  shall not in any way be affected
or impaired thereby; and (ii) to the fullest extent possible,  the provisions of
this Article 4 (including,  without  limitation,  all portions of any Section of
this  Article 4 containing  any such  provision  held to be invalid,  illegal or
unenforceable,  that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall
be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held
invalid, illegal or unenforceable.

5. CAPITAL STOCK

   5.1 Stock Certificates. (a) Every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be
entitled to have a certificate  certifying  the number of shares owned by him or
her in the  Corporation  and  designating the class and series of stock to which
such shares belong,  which  certificate  shall  otherwise be in such form as the
Board shall prescribe and as provided in Section 5.1(d).  Each such  certificate
shall be signed by, or in the name of, the  Corporation  by the  Chairman or the
President or any Vice President, and by the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer
or the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary.

   (b) If such  certificate is  countersigned by a transfer agent other than the
Corporation or its employee, or by a registrar other than the Corporation or its
employee,  the signatures of the officers of the  Corporation may be facsimiles,
and, if permitted by applicable  law, any other signature on the certificate may
be a facsimile.

   (c) In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile  signature has been
placed  upon a  certificate  shall have  ceased to be such  officer  before such
certificate is issued,  it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect
as if such person were such officer at the date of issue.

   (d) Certificates of stock shall be issued in such form not inconsistent  with
the Certificate of  Incorporation.  They shall be numbered and registered in the
order in which they 

                                     - 24 -

are issued. No certificate shall be issued until fully paid.

   (e) All certificates surrendered to the Corporation shall be cancelled (other
than treasury shares) with the date of cancellation and shall be retained by the
Chief  Financial  Officer,  together with the powers of attorney to transfer and
the assignments of the shares represented by such certificates,  for such period
of time as such officer shall designate.

   5.2 Record Ownership. A record of the name of the person, firm or corporation
and address of such holder of each certificate, the number of shares represented
thereby and the date of issue thereof shall be made on the Corporation's  books.
The Corporation  shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share of
stock as the  holder  in fact  thereof,  and  accordingly  shall not be bound to
recognize  any  equitable or other claim to or interest in any share on the part
of any person,  whether or not it shall have  express or other  notice  thereof,
except as required by applicable law.

   5.3  Transfer of Record  Ownership.  Transfers  of stock shall be made on the
books  of  the  Corporation  only  by  direction  of  the  person  named  in the
certificate or such person's attorney, lawfully constituted in writing, and only
upon the surrender of the certificate  therefor and a written  assignment of the
shares  evidenced  thereby.  Whenever  any  transfer  of stock shall be made for
collateral security,  and not absolutely,  it shall be so expressed in the entry
of the transfer if, when the  certificates  are presented to the Corporation for
transfer, both the transferor and transferee request the Corporation to do so.

   5.4 Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates.  Certificates representing shares
of the stock of the  Corporation  shall be  issued  in place of any  certificate
alleged to have been lost,  stolen or destroyed in such manner and on such terms
and  conditions as the Board from time to time may authorize in accordance  with
applicable law.

   5.5 Transfer Agent; Registrar; Rules Respecting Certificates. The Corporation
shall  maintain  one or more  transfer  offices or  agencies  where stock of the
Corporation  shall be transferable.  The Corporation  shall also maintain one or
more registry  offices where such stock shall be registered.  The Board may make
such  rules and  regulations  as it may deem  expedient  concerning  the  issue,
transfer and  registration  of stock  certificates in accordance with applicable
law.

                                     - 25 -

   5.6 Fixing Record Date for  Determination of Stockholders of Record.  (a) The
Board  may  fix,  in  advance,  a date as the  record  date for the  purpose  of
determining the  stockholders  entitled to notice of, or to vote at, any meeting
of the  stockholders  or any  adjournment  thereof,  which record date shall not
precede the date upon which the resolution  fixing the record date is adopted by
the Board, and which record date shall not be more than sixty days nor less than
ten days before the date of a meeting of the stockholders.  If no record date is
fixed by the Board, the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to
notice  of or to  vote at a  stockholders'  meeting  shall  be at the  close  of
business  on the day next  preceding  the day on which  notice is given,  or, if
notice is waived,  at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on
which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to
notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment
of the meeting; provided,  however, that the Board may fix a new record date for
the adjourned meeting.

   (b) The Board may fix, in advance,  a date as the record date for the purpose
of determining the  stockholders  entitled to receive payment of any dividend or
other  distribution or the allotment of any rights,  or entitled to exercise any
rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or in order to
make a  determination  of the  stockholders  for the purpose of any other lawful
action,  which record date shall not precede the date upon which the  resolution
fixing the record date is adopted by the Board,  and which record date shall not
be more than sixty  calendar  days prior to such  action.  If no record  date is
fixed by the Board,  the record date for  determining the  stockholders  for any
such  purpose  shall be at the close of  business  on the day on which the Board
adopts the resolution relating thereto.

6. SECURITIES HELD BY THE CORPORATION.

   6.1  Voting.  Unless the Board  shall  otherwise  order,  the  Chairman,  the
President,  any Executive Vice President,  any Senior Vice  President,  any Vice
President,  the Chief Financial  Officer,  the Controller,  the Treasurer or the
Secretary shall have full power and authority, on behalf of the Corporation,  to
attend,  act and vote at any meeting of the  stockholders  of any corporation in
which the  Corporation may hold stock and at such meeting to exercise any or all
rights and powers  incident to the  ownership  of such stock,  and to execute on
behalf of the Corporation a proxy or proxies empowering another or others to act
as aforesaid.  

                                     - 26 -

The Board  from time to time may confer  like  powers  upon any other  person or
persons.

   6.2 General Authorization to Transfer Securities Held by the Corporation. (a)
Any of the  following  officers,  to  wit:  the  Chairman,  the  President,  any
Executive Vice  President,  any Senior Vice President,  any Vice President,  the
Chief  Financial  Officer,   the  Controller,   the  Treasurer,   any  Assistant
Controller,  any Assistant Treasurer, and each of them, hereby is authorized and
empowered to transfer,  convert, endorse, sell, assign, set over and deliver any
and all shares of stock, bonds, debentures,  notes, subscription warrants, stock
purchase  warrants,  evidences  of  indebtedness,  or  other  securities  now or
hereafter  standing  in the name of or owned  by the  Corporation,  and to make,
execute and deliver any and all written  instruments  of assignment and transfer
necessary or proper to effectuate the authority hereby conferred.

   (b)  Whenever  there shall be annexed to any  instrument  of  assignment  and
transfer  executed  pursuant to and in  accordance  with the  foregoing  Section
6.2(a),  a certificate of the Secretary or any Assistant  Secretary in office at
the date of such  certificate  setting forth the  provisions  hereof and stating
that they are in full force and effect  and  setting  forth the names of persons
who are then officers of the  corporation,  all persons to whom such  instrument
and annexed certificate shall thereafter come shall be entitled, without further
inquiry or  investigation  and  regardless of the date of such  certificate,  to
assume and to act in reliance upon the  assumption  that (i) the shares of stock
or other  securities named in such instrument were theretofore duly and properly
transferred,   endorsed,   sold,  assigned,   set  over  and  delivered  by  the
Corporation,  and (ii) with respect to such  securities,  the authority of these
provisions  of these  By-laws  and of such  officers  is still in full force and
effect.

7. DEPOSITARIES AND SIGNATORIES.

   7.1 Depositaries.  The Chairman, the President,  the Chief Financial Officer,
and the Treasurer are each authorized to designate depositaries for the funds of
the Corporation  deposited in its name or that of a Division of the Corporation,
or both, and the signatories with respect thereto in each case, and from time to
time,  to change  such  depositaries  and  signatories,  with the same force and
effect as if each such depositary and the  signatories  with respect thereto and
changes therein had been specifically designated or authorized by the Board; and
each depositary designated by the Board or by the Chairman,  the President,  the
Chief  

                                     - 27 -

Financial  Officer,  or the  Treasurer  shall  be  entitled  to  rely  upon  the
certificate of the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Corporation or of
a Division of the Corporation  setting forth the fact of such designation and of
the appointment of the officers of the Corporation or of the Division or of both
or of other persons who are to be signatories  with respect to the withdrawal of
funds  deposited  with  such  depositary,  or from  time to time the fact of any
change in any depositary or in the signatories with respect thereto.

   7.2 Signatories. Unless otherwise designated by the Board or by the Chairman,
the President,  the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer, all notes, drafts,
checks,  acceptances,  orders for the payment of money and all other  negotiable
instruments  obligating  the  Corporation  for the payment of money shall be (a)
signed by the Treasurer or any Assistant  Treasurer and (b) countersigned by the
Controller or any Assistant Controller, or (c) either signed or countersigned by
the Chairman,  the  President,  any Executive  Vice  President,  any Senior Vice
President or any Vice  President in lieu of either the  officers  designated  in
Clause (a) or the officers designated in Clause (b) of this Section 7.2.

8. SEAL.

   The seal of the Corporation shall be in such form and shall have such content
as the Board shall from time to time determine.

9. FISCAL YEAR.

   The fiscal year of the Corporation  shall end on December 31 in each year, or
on such other date as the Board shall determine.

10. WAIVER OF OR DISPENSING WITH NOTICE.

   (a) Whenever  any notice of the time,  place or purpose of any meeting of the
stockholders  is required to be given by  applicable  law,  the  Certificate  of
Incorporation  or these  By-laws,  a  written  waiver  of  notice,  signed  by a
stockholder entitled to notice of a stockholders' meeting, whether by telegraph,
cable or other form of recorded  communication,  whether  signed before or after
the time set for a given meeting,  shall be deemed  equivalent to notice of such
meeting.  Attendance of a stockholder  in person or by proxy at a  stockholders'
meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice to such stockholder of such meeting,
except when the  stockholder  attends  the  meeting  for the express  purpose of

                                     - 28 -

objecting  at the  beginning of the meeting to the  transaction  of any business
because the meeting was not lawfully called or convened.

   (b)  Whenever  any notice of the time or place of any meeting of the Board or
Committee  of  the  Board  is  required  to be  given  by  applicable  law,  the
Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, a written waiver of notice signed
by  a  Director,   whether  by  telegraph,  cable  or  other  form  of  recorded
communication,  whether signed before or after the time set for a given meeting,
shall be deemed  equivalent to notice of such meeting.  Attendance of a Director
at a meeting in person (or by  conference  telephone  or similar  communications
equipment) shall constitute a waiver of notice to such Director of such meeting.

   (c) No notice  need be given to any person  with whom  communication  is made
unlawful by any law of the United States or any rule,  regulation,  proclamation
or executive order issued under any such law.

11. AMENDMENT OF BY-LAWS.

   Except as  otherwise  provided  in  Section  2.8(a) of these  By-laws,  these
By-laws,  or any of them,  may from  time to time be  supplemented,  amended  or
repealed,  or new By-laws may be adopted, by the Board at any regular or special
meeting of the Board,  if such  supplement,  amendment,  repeal or  adoption  is
approved by a majority of the entire Board.  These By-laws,  or any of them, may
from time to time be  supplemented,  amended or repealed,  or new By-laws may be
adopted,  by  the  stockholders  at  any  regular  or  special  meeting  of  the
stockholders at which a quorum is present, if such supplement, amendment, repeal
or adoption is  approved  by the  affirmative  vote of the holders of at least a
majority  of the  voting  power  of  all  outstanding  shares  of  stock  of the
Corporation entitled to vote generally in an election of directors.

                                     - 29 -


12.  OFFICES AND AGENT

   (a) Registered  Office and Agent. The registered office of the Corporation in
the State of Delaware shall be 1209 Orange Street,  Wilmington,  Delaware 19801.
The  name  of the  registered  agent  is The  Corporation  Trust  Company.  Such
registered agent has a business office identical with such registered office.

   (b) Other  Offices.  The  Corporation  may also have offices at other places,
either  within or outside the State of Delaware,  as the Board of Directors  may
from time to time determine or as the business of the Corporation may require.


State of                                    }
                                            }        ss.
County of                                   }


This is to  certify  that the  foregoing  is a true  copy of the  Bylaws  of The
Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. in full force and effect on this date.


Attest:



- ------------------------------
Secretary


Dated:


mrb/bylawsfi.doc

                                     - 30 -

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.15


                  KEY EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT PROTECTION AGREEMENT
                  ---------------------------------------------


               THIS  AGREEMENT,  dated as of October 1, 1997, by and between The
Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"),
and ________ ("Executive").

                              W I T N E S S E T H :
                              - - - - - - - - - - 


               WHEREAS,  the Company has  employed  the  Executive in an officer
position and has determined that the Executive holds an important  position with
the Company;

               WHEREAS, the Company believes that, in the event it is confronted
with a situation  that could  result in a change in  ownership or control of the
Company,  continuity of management  will be essential to its ability to evaluate
and respond to such situation in the best interests of shareholders;

               WHEREAS,  the Company  understands  that any such  situation will
present significant concerns for Executive with respect to Executive's financial
and job security;

               WHEREAS,  the  Company  desires to assure  itself of  Executive's
services during the period in which it is confronting  such a situation,  and to
provide  Executive  with certain  financial  assurances  to enable  Executive to
perform the  responsibilities of Executive's  position without undue distraction
and to exercise judgment without bias due to Executive's personal circumstances;

               WHEREAS,  to achieve these objectives,  the Company and Executive
desire to enter into an  agreement  providing  the  Company and  Executive  with
certain  rights and  obligations  upon the  occurrence of a Change of Control or
Potential Change of Control (as defined in Section 2 hereof);

               NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the  premises  and mutual
covenants herein  contained,  it is hereby agreed by and between the Company and
Executive as follows:



1.  OPERATION OF AGREEMENT.
    ----------------------

        (A) EFFECTIVE DATE. The effective date of this Agreement (the "Effective
            --------------
        Date") shall be the earlier of: (i) the date on which a Potential Change
        of Control occurs, or (ii) the date on which a Change of Control occurs,
        provided  that if Executive  is not actively  employed by the Company on
        --------  ----
        the Effective Date, this Agreement shall be void and without effect.

        (B) TERMINATION FOLLOWING A POTENTIAL CHANGE OF CONTROL.  Consonant with
            ---------------------------------------------------
        Section 1(a), in the event that Executive's  employment is terminated by
        the Company in a Termination Without Cause or is terminated by Executive
        in  a  Termination  For  Good  Reason  (as  defined  herein)  after  the
        occurrence  of a Potential  Change of  Control,  and a Change of Control
        occurs within one year  following the date of such  Termination  Without
        Cause or Termination  For Good Reason,  then solely for purposes of this
        Agreement,  Executive  shall be deemed to have remained in the Company's
        employ until the  occurrence  of such Change of Control and to have then
        been  terminated  by the Company in a  Termination  Without  Cause,  and
        Executive  shall be  entitled  to receive  the  benefits  payable  under
        Section  7 of  this  Agreement,  but  reduced  by any  amounts  paid  to
        Executive by the Company on account of the  termination  of  Executive's
        employment prior to the occurrence of such Change of Control.


2.  CERTAIN APPLICABLE DEFINITIONS.
    ------------------------------

        (A) BENEFICIAL OWNER. For purposes of this Agreement, "Beneficial Owner"
            ----------------
        means any Person who,  directly or indirectly,  has the right to vote or
        dispose of or has  "beneficial  ownership"  (within  the meaning of Rule
        13d-3 under the  Securities  and Exchange  Act of 1934,  as amended (the
        "Act"))  of any  securities  of a  company,  including  any  such  right
        pursuant to any agreement,  arrangement or understanding (whether or not
        in  writing),  provided  that:  (i) a Person  shall  not be  deemed  the
                       --------------
        Beneficial   Owner  of  any  security  as  a  result  of  an  agreement,
        arrangement  or  understanding  to vote such security (A) arising solely
        from a revocable proxy or consent given in response to a public proxy or
        consent  solicitation  made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the Act
        and the  applicable  rules and  regulations  thereunder,  or (B) made in
        connection  with,  or to  otherwise  participate  in, a proxy or consent
        solicitation  made, or to be made,  pursuant to, and in accordance with,
        the  applicable  provisions  of the  Act and the  applicable  rules  and
        regulations  thereunder,  in either case  described in clause (A) or (B)
        above,  whether or not such agreement,  arrangement or  understanding 

                                     - 2 -

        is also then reportable by such Person on Schedule 13D under the Act (or
        any  comparable  or  successor  report);  and (ii) a Person  engaged  in
        business as an underwriter  of securities  shall not be deemed to be the
        Beneficial  Owner  of  any  security   acquired  through  such  Person's
        participation in good faith in a firm commitment  underwriting until the
        expiration of forty days after the date of such acquisition.

        (B)  CHANGE OF  CONTROL.  For  purposes  of this  Agreement,  "Change of
             ------------------
        Control" means:

               (I) a report on Schedule  13D shall be filed with the  Securities
               and  Exchange  Commission  pursuant  to Section  13(d) of the Act
               disclosing  that any person  (within the meaning of Section 13(d)
               of the  Act),  other  than the  Company  or a  subsidiary  of the
               Company or any employee  benefit plan sponsored by the Company or
               a subsidiary of the Company,  is the  Beneficial  Owner of twenty
               percent or more of the outstanding stock of the Company;

               (II) any person (within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Act),
               other than the  Company  or a  subsidiary  of the  Company or any
               employee benefit plan sponsored by the Company or a subsidiary of
               the Company,  shall purchase shares pursuant to a tender offer or
               exchange offer to acquire any stock of the Company (or securities
               convertible  into  stock)  for  cash,  securities  or  any  other
               consideration, provided that after consummation of the offer, the
               person in question is the Beneficial  Owner of fifteen percent or
               more of the  outstanding  stock  of the  Company  (calculated  as
               provided in paragraph (d) of Rule 13d-3 under the Act in the case
               of rights to acquire stock);

               (III) the  stockholders  of the  Company  shall  approve  (A) any
               consolidation   or  merger  in  which  the  Company  is  not  the
               continuing or surviving  corporation  or pursuant to which shares
               of stock of the Company would be converted into cash,  securities
               or other  property,  other than a merger of the  Company in which
               holders of stock of the Company  immediately  prior to the merger
               have the same  proportionate  ownership  of  common  stock of the
               surviving corporation immediately after the merger as immediately
               before,  or (B) any sale,  lease,  exchange or other transfer (in
               one  transaction or a series of related  transactions)  of all or
               substantially all the assets of the Company; or

                                     - 3 -

               (IV) within any 12 month period,  the persons who were  directors
               of the Company  immediately  before the  beginning of such period
               (the  "Incumbent  Directors")  shall cease (for any reason  other
               than  death) to  constitute  at least a majority  of the board of
               directors of the Company (the  "Board") or the board of directors
               of any  successor to the Company,  provided that any director who
               was not a  director  at the  beginning  of such  period  shall be
               deemed  to be an  Incumbent  Director  if such  director  (A) was
               elected to the Board by, or on the  recommendation of or with the
               approval  of,  at  least  two-thirds  of the  directors  who then
               qualified  as  Incumbent  Directors  either  actually or by prior
               operation of this clause (iv),  and (B) was not  designated  by a
               person who has  entered  into an  agreement  with the  Company to
               effect  a  transaction  described  in the  immediately  preceding
               clause (iii).

        (C) PERSON.  For  purposes of this  Agreement,  "Person" has the meaning
            ------
        ascribed to such term in Section  3(a)(9) of the Act, as supplemented by
        Section 13(d)(3) of the Act;  provided,  however,  that Person shall not
        include  (i) the  Company,  any  subsidiary  of the Company or any other
        Person  controlled by the Company,  (ii) any trustee or other  fiduciary
        holding  securities under any employee benefit plan of the Company or of
        any subsidiary of the Company, or (iii) a corporation owned, directly or
        indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same
        proportions as their ownership of securities of the Company.

        (D)  POTENTIAL  CHANGE  OF  CONTROL.  For  purposes  of this  Agreement,
             ------------------------------
        "Potential Change of Control" means:

               (I) a Person shall commence a tender offer, which if successfully
               consummated,  would  result in such Person  being the  Beneficial
               Owner of at least 15% of the voting securities of the Company;

               (II) the Company shall enter into an agreement,  the consummation
               of which shall constitute a Change of Control;

               (III)  proxies for the election of directors of the Company shall
               be solicited by anyone other than the Company; or


                                     - 4 -

               (IV)  any  other  event  shall  occur  which  is  deemed  to be a
               Potential  Change  of  Control  by the  Board or the  appropriate
               committee thereof.

3.  EMPLOYMENT PERIOD.
    -----------------

Subject to Section 7 of this Agreement, the Company agrees to continue Executive
in its employ, and Executive agrees to remain in the employ of the Company,  for
the period  commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the third anniversary
of the date on which a Change  of  Control  occurs  (the  "Employment  Period").
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if, prior to the Effective  Date,  Executive is
demoted to a position  lower than the position  held by Executive as of the date
first above written,  or is otherwise  determined by the chairman of the Company
(the  "Chairman")  prior to the Effective Date to hold a position  inappropriate
for coverage  under this  Agreement,  this  Agreement  shall be void and without
effect,  unless the Board, any appropriate  committee  thereof,  or the Chairman
declares  that  this  Agreement  shall  continue  in effect  by  written  notice
delivered to Executive  within 60 days  following  such  demotion,  placement or
determination.


4.  POSITION AND DUTIES.
    -------------------

        (A) NO REDUCTION IN POSITION. During the Employment Period,  Executive's
            ------------------------
        position (including titles),  authority and responsibilities shall be at
        least commensurate with those held,  exercised and assigned  immediately
        prior to the Effective Date. It is understood that, for purposes of this
        Agreement,  such position,  authority and responsibilities  shall not be
        regarded  as not  commensurate  merely  by  virtue  of the  fact  that a
        successor shall have acquired all or  substantially  all of the business
        and/or  assets of the Company as  contemplated  by Section 11(d) of this
        Agreement.

        (B) BUSINESS TIME. On and after the Effective Date,  Executive agrees to
            -------------
        devote full attention  during normal  business hours to the business and
        affairs of the Company and to use best efforts to perform faithfully and
        efficiently the responsibilities assigned to Executive hereunder, to the
        extent necessary to discharge such responsibilities, except for (i) time
        spent (A) serving on the board of directors of any business  corporation
        with the consent of the Board,  the appropriate  committee of the Board,
        or the  Chairman,  (B)  serving  on the board of, or  working  for,  any
        charitable or community  organization  (with the consent of the Board or
        the  Chairman  if any such  service  or work is to be  performed  during
        normal business hours), or (C) pursuing  Executive's  personal financial

                                     - 5 -

        and legal affairs, so long as the foregoing activities,  individually or
        collectively,  do not  substantially  interfere with the  performance of
        Executive's  responsibilities hereunder or violate any of the provisions
        of Section 10 hereof, and (ii) periods of vacation,  sick leave or other
        leave to which  Executive is entitled under the programs and policies of
        the Company that apply to similarly situated executives. It is expressly
        understood and agreed that Executive's continuing to serve on any boards
        and committees on which  Executive is serving or with which Executive is
        otherwise associated  immediately preceding the Effective Date shall not
        be deemed to interfere substantially with the performance of Executive's
        responsibilities hereunder.


5.  COMPENSATION.
    ------------

        (A) BASE SALARY.  During the  Employment  Period,  the Company shall pay
            -----------
        Executive  a base  salary at an annual rate no less than the annual rate
        in effect  immediately  prior to the  Effective  Date.  Such base salary
        shall be reviewed at least once each  during each  calendar  year of the
        Employment  Period,  and may be  increased  at any time and from time to
        time by action of the Board or the appropriate  committee thereof or any
        individual  having  authority to take such action in accordance with the
        Company's regular  practices,  but shall not be reduced below the annual
        rate in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date. Executive's base
        salary,  as it may be increased from time to time,  shall be referred to
        herein as "Base  Salary."  Neither the Base  Salary nor any  increase in
        Base Salary after the Effective  Date shall serve to limit or reduce any
        obligation of the Company hereunder.

        (B) ANNUAL BONUS.  For each  calendar year ending during the  Employment
            ------------
        Period,  Executive  shall have the  opportunity  to earn and  receive an
        annual bonus,  based on the achievement of target levels of performance,
        equal to no less than the percentage of Executive's  Base Salary used to
        calculate  such  bonus   immediately   prior  to  the  Effective   Date.
        Executive's annual bonus  opportunity,  as it may be increased from time
        to time  during the  Employment  Period,  shall be referred to herein as
        "Target Bonus." The actual bonus, if any,  payable for any calendar year
        during the Employment  Period shall be determined in accordance with the
        terms of the Company's  Annual  Executive Bonus Program or any successor
        annual  incentive plan (the "Annual Plan") based upon the performance of
        the Company and/or its applicable  affiliates  and/or Executive  against
        target  objectives  established  under  such  Annual  Plan.  Subject  to
        Executive's  election  to defer all or a  portion  of any  annual  bonus
        payable 

                                     - 6 -

        hereunder pursuant to the terms of any deferred  compensation or savings
        plan or  arrangement  maintained  or  established  by the Company or its
        affiliates  and made  available to  Executive,  any annual bonus payable
        under this Section 5(b) shall be paid to  Executive in  accordance  with
        the terms of the Annual Plan.

        (C) LONG-TERM  INCENTIVE  COMPENSATION.  During the  Employment  Period,
            ----------------------------------
        Executive shall participate in all of the Company's  existing and future
        long-term incentive  compensation programs for key executives at a level
        commensurate with Executive's participation in such programs immediately
        prior to the Effective Date, or, if more favorable to the Executive,  at
        the level  made  available  to  Executive  or other  similarly  situated
        executives at any time thereafter.


6.   BENEFITS, PERQUISITES AND EXPENSES.
     ----------------------------------

        (A)  BENEFITS.  During the  Employment  Period,  Executive  (and, to the
             --------
        extent  applicable,   his  or  her  dependents)  shall  be  entitled  to
        participate  in or be  covered  under  (i)  each  welfare  benefit  plan
        maintained or as hereafter  amended or established by the Company or its
        applicable affiliates,  including,  without limitation, each group life,
        hospitalization,   medical,   dental,  health,  accident  or  disability
        insurance or similar  plan or program  thereof,  and (ii) each  pension,
        retirement,  savings,  deferred  compensation,  stock  purchase or other
        similar  plan  or  program   maintained  or  as  hereafter   amended  or
        established by the Company or its applicable affiliates, in each case at
        a level commensurate with the Executive's participation in such plans or
        programs  immediately prior to the Effective Date, or, if more favorable
        to the  Executive,  at the level made  available  to  Executive or other
        similarly situated executives at any time thereafter.

        (B)  PERQUISITES.  For each calendar year during the Employment  Period,
             -----------
        Executive  shall be entitled to no less than the number of paid vacation
        days per year that  Executive was entitled to  immediately  prior to the
        Effective  Date,  and shall  also be  entitled  to  receive  such  other
        perquisites  commensurate  with those  generally  provided to  Executive
        immediately  prior to the Effective  Date,  or, if more favorable to the
        Executive, at the level made available from time to time to Executive or
        other similarly situated executives at any time thereafter.

        (C) BUSINESS  EXPENSES.  During the Employment Period, the Company shall
        pay or reimburse Executive for all reasonable business expenses incurred
        or 

                                     - 7 -

        paid  by  Executive  in the  performance  of  Executive's  duties,  upon
        presentation   of  expense   statements   or  vouchers  and  such  other
        information as the Company

        may require and in accordance with the generally applicable policies and
        procedures  of  the  Company  as in  effect  immediately  prior  to  the
        Effective  Date, or, if more  favorable to the Executive,  in accordance
        with the policies and procedures in effect at any time thereafter.

        (D) OFFICE AND SUPPORT STAFF.  During the Employment  Period,  Executive
            ------------------------
        shall be  entitled  to an office  with  furnishings  and other  material
        appointments,  and to  secretarial  and  other  assistance,  at a  level
        commensurate  with  the  foregoing  provided  immediately  prior  to the
        Effective  Date, or, if more  favorable to the Executive,  in accordance
        with the policies and procedures in effect at any time thereafter.


        (E)  INDEMNIFICATION.  The Company  shall  indemnify  Executive and hold
             ---------------
        Executive  harmless from and against any claim, loss or cause of action,
        regardless  whether  asserted  during  or after the  Employment  Period,
        arising from or out of Executive's  performance as an officer,  director
        or  employee  of the  Company or any of its  affiliates  or in any other
        capacity, including any fiduciary capacity, in which Executive serves at
        the  request  of  the  Company,  to  the  maximum  extent  permitted  by
        applicable law and under the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws of
        the  Company,  as may be  amended  from  time  to time  (the  "Governing
        Documents"),  provided that in no event shall the protection afforded to
                      -------- ----
        Executive be less than that afforded under the Governing Documents as in
        effect immediately prior to the Effective Date.

7.  EARLY TERMINATION OF THE EMPLOYMENT PERIOD.
    ------------------------------------------

        (A) TERMINATION. Notwithstanding Section 3 hereof, the Employment Period
            -----------
        shall end upon the  earliest  to occur of (i) a  Termination  For Cause,
        (ii) a Termination  Without Cause,  (iii) a Termination For Good Reason,
        (iv) a Voluntary Termination,  (v) a Termination Due to Retirement, (vi)
        a Termination Due to Disability, or (vii) a Termination Due to Death.

                                     - 8 -

        (B)  NOTICE  OF  TERMINATION.   Communication   of  termination  of  the
             -----------------------
        Employment  Period  shall  be made  to the  other  party  by  Notice  of
        Termination  (as  defined  in  this  Section  7) in  the  case  of (i) a
        Termination  For  Cause,  (ii) a  Termination  Without  Cause,  (iii)  a
        Termination For Good Reason, or (iv) a Voluntary Termination.

        (C) BENEFITS PAYABLE UPON TERMINATION;  RULES FOR DETERMINING REASON FOR
            --------------------------------------------------------------------
        TERMINATION.
        -----------

               (I) BENEFITS PAYABLE UPON  TERMINATION.  Following the end of the
                   ----------------------------------
               Employment Period,  Executive (or in the event of the Executive's
               death,  his or her surviving  spouse,  if any, or if none, his or
               her  estate)  shall be paid  the  type or  types of  compensation
               determined to be payable in accordance with the following  table,
               such  payment to be made in the form  specified in such table and
               at the time established pursuant to Section 8 hereof. Capitalized
               terms used in such table  shall  have the  meanings  set forth in
               Section 7(d) hereof.

               (II) RULES FOR DETERMINING REASON FOR TERMINATION.
                    --------------------------------------------

                       (A) No Termination  Without Cause or Termination For Good
                       Reason  shall  be  treated  as  a   Termination   Due  to
                       Retirement  or  a  Termination   Due  to  Disability  for
                       purposes of any Pro Rata Target Bonus, Severance Payment,
                       Equity   Awards   or   Vested    Benefits    Enhancement,
                       notwithstanding the fact that, either on, before or after
                       the  Date  of  Termination  with  respect  thereto,   (I)
                       Executive  was eligible for  Retirement as defined in The
                       Hartford  Investment  and Savings Plan, as may be amended
                       from time to time,  or any  successor  plan  thereof (the
                       "Savings Plan"),  (II) Executive  requested to be treated
                       as a retiree  for  purposes  of the  Savings  Plan or any
                       other plan or program of the  Company or its  affiliates,
                       or (III)  Executive or the Company could have  terminated
                       Executive's employment in a Termination Due to Disability
                       hereunder.

                       (B) No Termination Due to Retirement  shall be treated as
                       a Voluntary Termination.

                                     - 9 -







        (D)  DEFINITIONS.   For  purposes  of  this  Agreement,   the  following
             -----------
        capitalized terms used herein shall have the following meanings:

                "ACCRUED  SALARY"  means Base Salary  earned,  but  unpaid,  for
                services  rendered  to the  Company  on or  prior to the Date of
                Termination   (other  than  Base  Salary  deferred  pursuant  to
                Executive's  election,  as contemplated by Section 5(b) hereof),
                plus any vacation pay accrued by Executive as of such date.

                "AVAILABLE"  means  that a  particular  benefit  shall  be  made
                available  to  Executive  to the  extent  specifically  provided
                herein or required by applicable law.

                "DATE OF TERMINATION" means (i) in the case of a termination for
                which a Notice of Termination  is required,  the date of receipt
                of such Notice of Termination  or, if later,  the date specified
                therein,  as the case may be,  or (ii) in all other  cases,  the
                actual date on which  Executive's  employment  terminates during
                the Employment Period.

                "DETERMINED   UNDER  THE   APPLICABLE   PLAN"   means  that  the
                determination of whether a particular benefit shall or shall not
                be paid to Executive,  and, where specifically  provided by this
                Agreement,  the timing or form of any benefit payment,  shall be
                made solely by  application  of the terms of the plan or program
                providing  such benefit,  except to the extent that the terms of
                such plan or program  are  expressly  superseded  or modified by
                this Agreement.

                "EQUITY AWARDS" means the outstanding  stock option,  restricted
                stock, performance share and other equity or long-term incentive
                compensation awards, if any, held by Executive as of the Date of
                Termination.

                "ERPS"  means  any  excess  retirement  plans  maintained  or as
                hereafter   amended  or   established  by  the  Company  or  its
                applicable affiliates.

                "ESPS" means any excess  investment and savings plans maintained
                or as  hereafter  amended or  established  by the Company or its
                applicable affiliates.

                "LUMP SUM" means a single lump sum cash payment.

                "NOT AVAILABLE"  means that the particular  benefit shall not be
                made  available to Executive,  except to the extent  required by
                applicable law.

                                     - 11 -

                "NOT  PAYABLE"  means that the  particular  benefit shall not be
                paid or otherwise provided to Executive.

                "NOTICE OF  TERMINATION"  means (i) in the case of a Termination
                For Cause,  a written  notice given by the Company to Executive,
                within 30 calendar days of the Company's having actual knowledge
                of the events giving rise to such Termination For Cause, (ii) in
                the case of a Termination  Without Cause, a written notice given
                by the Company to Executive at least 30 calendar days before the
                effective date of such Termination  Without Cause,  (iii) in the
                case of a Termination For Good Reason, a written notice given by
                Executive to the Company within 180 days of  Executive's  having
                actual  knowledge of the events giving rise to such  Termination
                For  Good  Reason,   and  which  (A)   indicates   the  specific
                termination  provision in this  Agreement  relied upon, (B) sets
                forth in reasonable detail the facts and  circumstances  claimed
                to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment
                under the provision so indicated, and (C) if the applicable Date
                of Termination is other than the date of receipt of such notice,
                specifies such Date of Termination (which date shall be not more
                than 15 days after the giving of such notice), provided that the
                                                               -------------
                failure by Executive to set forth in such Notice of  Termination
                any fact or circumstance  that  contributes to a showing of Good
                Reason  shall  not waive any  right of  Executive  hereunder  or
                preclude  Executive from asserting such fact or  circumstance in
                enforcing his or her rights hereunder, and (iv) in the case of a
                Voluntary  Termination,  a written  notice given by Executive to
                the  Company  at  least  30  calendar  days  before  the Date of
                Termination specified therein.

                "PAYABLE"  means  that a  particular  benefit  shall  be paid to
                Executive in the amount,  at the time, and in the form specified
                herein.

                "PRO-RATA TARGET BONUS" means an amount equal to the product of:
                (i) Executive's Target Bonus under Section 5(b) for the calendar
                year in which the Date of Termination occurs, multiplied by (ii)
                a fraction (the "Service  Fraction"),  the numerator of which is
                equal to the  number of  rounded  months in such  calendar  year
                which  have  elapsed  as of such  Date of  Termination,  and the
                denominator  of  which  is 12;  provided  that,  if the  Date of
                                                --------------
                Termination  occurs in the last  quarter of any  calendar  year,
                Pro-Rata Target Bonus shall mean the amount determined under the
                above formula or, if greater, the product of: (A) the bonus that
                would have been paid to  Executive  based on actual  performance
                for such calendar year, and (B) the Service Fraction.

                                     - 12 -

                "SEVERANCE  PAYMENT"  means a cash amount equal to two times the
                sum of: (i) Executive's  Base Salary at the rate in effect as of
                the Date of  Termination,  and  (ii)  Executive's  Target  Bonus
                amount under  Section 5(b) hereof for the calendar year in which
                the Date of Termination occurs.

                "TERMINATION  DUE TO DEATH" means a termination  of  Executive's
                employment due to the death of Executive.

                "TERMINATION  DUE TO  DISABILITY"  means:  (i) a termination  of
                Executive's   employment  by  the  Company  as  a  result  of  a
                determination by the Board, the appropriate committee thereof or
                the Chairman that Executive has been incapable of  substantially
                fulfilling   the   positions,   duties,   responsibilities   and
                obligations  set forth in this Agreement on account of physical,
                mental or emotional incapacity  resulting from injury,  sickness
                or disease for a period of (A) at least four consecutive months,
                or (B) more than six months in any twelve month period,  or (ii)
                Executive's  termination  of employment on account of Disability
                as defined in the Savings Plan.

                "TERMINATION DUE TO RETIREMENT" means Executive's termination of
                employment  on account of  Executive's  Retirement as defined in
                the Savings Plan.

                "TERMINATION  FOR  CAUSE"  means the  Company's  termination  of
                Executive's  employment due to (i)  Executive's  conviction of a
                felony;  (ii) an act or  acts of  extreme  dishonesty  or  gross
                misconduct on  Executive's  part which result or are intended to
                result  in  material   damage  to  the  Company's   business  or
                reputation;  or (iii) repeated material  violations by Executive
                of his or her  obligations  under  Section 4 of this  Agreement,
                which violations are demonstrably  willful and deliberate on the
                Executive's  part and  which  result in  material  damage to the
                Company's business or reputation.

                "TERMINATION FOR GOOD REASON" means the occurrence of any of the
                following after the occurrence of a Potential  Change of Control
                or a Change of Control:

                        (I)  (A)  the  assignment  to  Executive  of any  duties
                        inconsistent  in  any  material   adverse  respect  with
                        Executive's    position,     duties,     authority    or
                        responsibilities  as  contemplated  by Section 4 of this
                        Agreement,  or (B) any other material  adverse change in
                        such position,  including titles,  duties,  authority or
                        responsibilities;

                                     - 13 -

                        (II) any  failure by the  Company to comply  with any of
                        the  provisions of Sections 5 and 6 of this Agreement at
                        a level of least  equal  to that in  effect  immediately
                        preceding such Change of Control or Potential  Change of
                        Control,  other  than an  insubstantial  or  inadvertent
                        failure  remedied by the Company  promptly after receipt
                        of notice thereof given by Executive;

                        (III) the Company's  requiring  Executive to be based at
                        any  office  or  location  more  than 25 miles  from the
                        location  at  which  Executive  performed  the  services
                        specified  under Section 4 hereof  immediately  prior to
                        such Change of Control or  Potential  Change of Control,
                        except for travel reasonably required in the performance
                        of Executive's responsibilities;

                        (IV) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption
                        and  agreement to perform this  Agreement by a successor
                        as contemplated by Section 11(d); or

                        (V) any attempt by the Company to terminate  Executive's
                        employment in a Termination For Cause that is determined
                        in a  proceeding  pursuant  to  Section 10 or Section 11
                        hereof not to constitute a Termination For Cause.

                Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  a termination  of  Executive's
                employment shall not be treated as a Termination For Good Reason
                (I)  if  Executive  shall  have  consented  in  writing  to  the
                occurrence of the event giving rise to the claim of  Termination
                For Good  Reason,  or (II) if Executive  shall have  delivered a
                Notice  of  Termination  to  the  Company,  and  the  facts  and
                circumstances  specified  therein as  providing a basis for such
                Termination  For Good Reason are cured by the Company  within 10
                days of its receipt of such Notice of Termination.

                "TERMINATION WITHOUT CAUSE" means any involuntary termination of
                Executive's  employment by the Company, other than a Termination
                For Cause,  a Termination  Due to Disability by the Company or a
                Termination Due to Death.

                "VESTED   BENEFITS"  means  amounts  that  are  vested  or  that
                Executive  is  otherwise   entitled  to  receive,   without  the
                performance  by Executive of further  services or the resolution
                of a contingency, under the terms of or in accordance with any

                                     - 14 -

                investment  and savings plan or retirement  plan  (including any
                plan providing  retiree medical  benefits) of the Company or its
                affiliates,  and  any  ERPs  or ESPs  related  thereto,  and any
                deferred compensation or employee stock purchase plan or similar
                plan or program of the Company or its affiliates.

                "VESTED BENEFITS  ENHANCEMENT"  means (i) a cash amount equal to
                the present value, calculated using a discount rate equal to the
                then  prevailing  applicable  Federal rate as  determined  under
                Section 1274(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
                (the "Code"),  of the additional  retirement benefits that would
                have been  payable or  available  to  Executive  under any ERPs,
                based on (A) the age and service  Executive  would have attained
                or completed  had Executive  continued in the  Company's  employ
                until the second anniversary of the Date of Termination, and (B)
                where compensation is a relevant factor, Executive's pensionable
                compensation as of such Date of Termination,  such  compensation
                to include, on the same terms as apply to other executives,  any
                Severance  Payment  made  to  Executive,  and  (ii)  solely  for
                purposes of vesting in any  benefits  under any ESPs,  Executive
                shall be treated as having  continued  in the  Company's  employ
                until  the  second  anniversary  of such  Date  of  Termination.

                "VOLUNTARY  TERMINATION"  means  any  voluntary  termination  of
                Executive's  employment by  Executive,  other than a Termination
                For  Good  Reason,  a  Termination  Due  to  Retirement,   or  a
                Termination Due to Disability by Executive.

                "WELFARE  BENEFITS  CONTINUATION"  means  that  until the second
                anniversary  of the  Date  of  Termination,  Executive  and,  if
                applicable, his or her dependents, shall be entitled to continue
                participation in the life and health insurance  benefit plans of
                the Company or its  affiliates  in which  Executive  and/or such
                dependents were participating as of the Date of Termination, and
                such other welfare benefit plans thereof in which the Company is
                required by law to permit the  participation of Executive and/or
                his dependents,  (collectively,  the "Welfare  Benefit  Plans").
                Such  participation  shall be on the same  terms and  conditions
                (including  the  requirement  that  Executive  pay any  premiums
                generally  paid by an employee) as would apply if Executive were
                still in the employ of the Company;  provided that the continued
                                                     -------- ----
                participation of Executive and/or the dependents of Executive in
                such Welfare  Benefit  Plans shall cease on such earlier date as
                Executive may become  eligible for comparable  welfare  benefits
                provided by a subsequent

                                     - 15 -

                employer.  To the  extent  that  Welfare  Benefits  Continuation
                cannot  be  provided  under the  terms of the  applicable  plan,
                policy or  program,  the  Company  shall  provide  a  comparable
                benefit under another plan or from the Company's general assets.

        (D) OUT-PLACEMENT  SERVICES. If the Employment Period terminates because
            -----------------------
        of a  Termination  Without  Cause  or a  Termination  For  Good  Reason,
        Executive shall be entitled to out-placement  services,  provided by the
        Company  or  its  designee  at the  Company's  expense,  for  12  months
        following  the  Date  of  Termination,  or  such  lesser  period  as the
        Executive may require such services.

        (E) CERTAIN FURTHER PAYMENTS BY COMPANY.
            -----------------------------------

                (I) TAX REIMBURSEMENT  PAYMENT.  In the event that any amount or
                    --------------------------
                benefit  paid  or  distributed  to  Executive  pursuant  to this
                Agreement, taken together with any amounts or benefits otherwise
                paid or distributed to Executive by the Company or any affiliate
                (collectively, the "Covered Payments"), are or become subject to
                the tax (the "Excise  Tax")  imposed  under  Section 4999 of the
                Code,  or any similar  tax that may  hereafter  be imposed,  the
                Company  shall pay to  Executive  at the time  specified in this
                Section an additional amount (the "Tax  Reimbursement  Payment")
                such that the net amount  retained by the Executive with respect
                to such Covered  Payments,  after deduction of any Excise Tax on
                the Covered Payments and any Federal, state and local income tax
                and other tax on the Tax  Reimbursement  Payment provided for by
                this Section,  but before  deduction  for any Federal,  state or
                local  income or  employment  tax  withholding  on such  Covered
                Payments, shall be equal to the amount of the Covered Payments.

                (II) APPLICABLE  RULES. For purposes of determining  whether any
                     -----------------
                of the  Covered  Payments  will be subject to the Excise Tax and
                the amount of such Excise Tax:

                        (A) Such Covered Payments shall be treated as "parachute
                        payments"  within the  meaning  of  Section  280G of the
                        Code,  and all  "parachute  payments"  in  excess of the
                        "base amount" (as defined  under  Section  280G(b)(3) of
                        the Code) shall be treated as subject to the Excise Tax,
                        unless, and except to the extent that, in the good faith
                        judgment of the Company's  independent  certified public
                        accountants appointed prior to the Effective Date or tax
                        counsel    selected    by    such    accountants    (the
                        "Accountants"),  the Company has a  reasonable  basis to
                        conclude  that  such  Covered  Payments  (in whole or in
                        part) either do not constitute  "parachute  payments" or
                        represent reasonable  compensation for personal 

                                     - 16 -

                        services   actually  rendered  (within  the  meaning  of
                        Section  280G(b)(4)(B)  of the  Code) in  excess  of the
                        "base   amount,"  or  such   "parachute   payments"  are
                        otherwise not subject to such Excise Tax, and

                        (B) The value of any  non-cash  benefits or any deferred
                        payment  or   benefit   shall  be   determined   by  the
                        Accountants in accordance with the principles of Section
                        280G of the Code.

                (III)  ADDITIONAL  RULES. For purposes of determining the amount
                       -----------------
                of the Tax Reimbursement  Payment, the Executive shall be deemed
                to pay:  (A)  Federal  income  taxes at the  highest  applicable
                marginal rate of Federal  income  taxation for the calendar year
                in which the Tax  Reimbursement  Payment is to be made,  and (B)
                any  applicable  state and local  income and other  taxes at the
                highest  applicable  marginal  rate of taxation for the calendar
                year in which the Tax  Reimbursement  Payment is to be made, net
                of the maximum reduction in Federal incomes taxes which could be
                obtained from the deduction of such state or local taxes if paid
                in such year.

                (IV) REPAYMENT OR ADDITIONAL PAYMENT IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.
                     --------------------------------------------------------

                        (A)  REPAYMENT.  In the  event  that the  Excise  Tax is
                             ---------
                        subsequently  determined by the  Accountants or pursuant
                        to any  proceeding  or  negotiations  with the  Internal
                        Revenue  Service to be less than the  amount  taken into
                        account  hereunder in calculating the Tax  Reimbursement
                        Payment made,  Executive shall repay to the Company,  at
                        the time that the amount of such reduction in the Excise
                        Tax is finally determined, the portion of such prior Tax
                        Reimbursement  Payment  that would not have been paid if
                        such  lesser  Excise Tax had been  applied in  initially
                        calculating  such  Tax   Reimbursement   Payment,   plus
                        interest  on the  amount of such  repayment  at the rate
                        provided   in   Section   1274(b)(2)(B)   of  the  Code.
                        Notwithstanding the foregoing,  in the event any portion
                        of the Tax  Reimbursement  Payment  to be  repaid to the
                        Company has been paid to any Federal, state or local tax
                        authority, repayment thereof shall not be required until
                        actual refund or credit of such portion has been made to
                        Executive by the applicable tax authority,  and interest
                        payable  to  the  Company  shall  not  exceed   interest
                        received  or  credited  to the  Executive  by  such  tax
                        authority for the period it held such portion. Executive
                        and the Company shall  mutually agree upon the course of
                        action to be pursued (and the method of  allocating  the
                        expenses  thereof) if  Executive's  good faith claim for
                        refund or credit is denied.

                                     - 17 -

                        (B) ADDITIONAL TAX REIMBURSEMENT  PAYMENT.  In the event
                            -------------------------------------
                        that  the  Excise  Tax  is  later   determined   by  the
                        Accountants   or   pursuant   to   any   proceeding   or
                        negotiations with the Internal Revenue Service to exceed
                        the amount taken into account  hereunder at the time the
                        Tax  Reimbursement  Payment is made (including,  but not
                        limited to, by reason of any payment  the  existence  or
                        amount of which cannot be  determined at the time of the
                        Tax  Reimbursement  Payment),  the Company shall make an
                        additional Tax Reimbursement  Payment in respect of such
                        excess  (plus  any  interest  or  penalty  payable  with
                        respect  to such  excess) at the time that the amount of
                        such excess is finally determined.

                (V) TIMING FOR TAX REIMBURSEMENT  PAYMENT. The Tax Reimbursement
                    -------------------------------------
                Payment  (or portion  thereof)  provided  for in this  Section 7
                shall be paid to  Executive  not  later  than 10  business  days
                following  the  payment  of  the  Covered  Payments;   provided,
                however,  that if the amount of such Tax  Reimbursement  Payment
                (or portion  thereof) cannot be finally  determined on or before
                the date on which  payment  is due,  the  Company  shall  pay to
                Executive by such date an amount  estimated in good faith by the
                Accountants to be the minimum  amount of such Tax  Reimbursement
                Payment and shall pay the  remainder  of such Tax  Reimbursement
                Payment  (together with interest at the rate provided in Section
                1274(b)(2)(B)  of the Code) as soon as the amount thereof can be
                determined,  but in no event later than 45  calendar  days after
                payment of the related  Covered  Payment.  In the event that the
                amount of the estimated Tax  Reimbursement  Payment  exceeds the
                amount  subsequently  determined  to have been due,  such excess
                shall constitute a loan by the Company to Executive,  payable on
                the fifth  business day after written  demand by the Company for
                payment  (together with interest at the rate provided in Section
                1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code).


8.  TIMING OF PAYMENTS.
    ------------------

Accrued Salary,  Severance  Payments and Vested Benefits  Enhancements  shall be
paid no later than 10 days following the Date of  Termination.  Pro-Rata  Target
Bonus  shall be paid no later than the same time as  similar  awards are paid to
other  executives  participating in the plans or programs under which the awards
are paid. Vested Benefits and Equity Awards shall be paid no later than the time
for payment  Determined Under the Applicable Plan except as otherwise  expressly
superseded or modified by this Agreement.  Tax  Reimbursement  Payments shall be
paid at the time specified in Section 7 hereof.

                                     - 18 -

9.  FULL DISCHARGE OF COMPANY OBLIGATIONS.
    -------------------------------------

Except as expressly provided in the last sentence of this Section 9, the amounts
payable to  Executive  pursuant to Section 7 following  the Date of  Termination
(including amounts payable with respect to Vested Benefits) shall be in full and
complete  satisfaction of Executive's  rights under this Agreement and any other
claims that Executive may have in respect of employment by the Company or any of
its affiliates. Such amounts shall constitute liquidated damages with respect to
any and all such  rights  and  claims  and,  upon  Executive's  receipt  of such
amounts, the Company shall be released and discharged from any and all liability
to Executive in connection  with this Agreement or otherwise in connection  with
Executive's  employment  with the  Company and its  affiliates.  Nothing in this
Section 9 shall be  construed  to release the  Company  from its  obligation  to
indemnify Executive as provided in Section 6(e) hereof.


10. NONCOMPETITION, CONFIDENTIALITY AND OTHER COVENANTS. By and in consideration
    ---------------------------------------------------
of the  compensation  and  benefits to be  provided  by the  Company  hereunder,
including the severance  arrangements set forth herein,  Executive agrees to the
following:

        (A)  NONCOMPETITION.  During the Employment Period,  Executive shall not
             --------------
        become  associated  with any entity,  whether as a  principal,  partner,
        employee,  agent, consultant,  shareholder (other than as a holder, or a
        member  of a group  which is a  holder,  of not in  excess  of 1% of the
        outstanding  voting  shares of any  publicly  traded  company) or in any
        other relationship or capacity, paid or unpaid, that is actively engaged
        in any geographic area in any business which is in competition  with the
        business of the Company.

        (B)  CONFIDENTIALITY.  Without the prior written consent of the Company,
             ---------------
        except to the extent  required by an order of a court  having  competent
        jurisdiction  or under subpoena from an appropriate  government  agency,
        Executive  shall not disclose to any third person,  or permit the use of
        for the  benefit of any person or any entity  other than The  Company or
        its affiliates, any trade secrets, customer lists, information regarding
        product   development,   marketing   plans,   sales  plans,   management
        organization  information (including data and other information relating
        to members of the Board and management),  operating policies or manuals,
        business plans,  financial records, or other financial,  organizational,
        commercial,  business, sales, marketing,  technical, product or employee
        information  relating to the Company or its  affiliates  or  information
        designated as confidential,  proprietary,  and/or a trade secret, or any
        other  information  relating

                                     - 19 -

        to  the  Company  or  its  affiliates  that  Executive  knows  from  the
        circumstances,  in good faith and good conscience,  should be treated as
        confidential,  or any information that the Company or its affiliates may
        receive  belonging to  customers,  agents or others who do business with
        the  Company  or its  affiliates,  except  to the  extent  that any such
        information  previously  has been disclosed to the public by the Company
        or is in  the  public  domain  (other  than  by  reason  of  Executive's
        violation of this Section 10(b)).

        (C)  NON-SOLICITATION  OF  EMPLOYEES.   During  the  Employment  Period,
             -------------------------------
        Executive shall not directly or indirectly solicit,  encourage or induce
        any employee of the Company or its  affiliates  to terminate  employment
        with  such  entity,  and  shall  not  directly  or  indirectly,   either
        individually  or as owner,  agent,  employee,  consultant  or otherwise,
        employ or offer  employment  to any person who is or was employed by the
        Company or an affiliate  thereof unless such person shall have ceased to
        be employed by such entity for a period of at least six months.

        (D) COMPANY  PROPERTY.  Except as expressly  provided  herein,  promptly
            -----------------
        following any  termination of the  Employment  Period,  Executive  shall
        return to the  Company  all  property  of the  Company,  and all  copies
        thereof in Executive's possession or under his control.

        (E)  INJUNCTIVE  RELIEF AND OTHER  REMEDIES  WITH RESPECT TO  COVENANTS.
             ------------------------------------------------------------------
        Executive  acknowledges and agrees that the covenants and obligations of
        Executive    with    respect   to    noncompetition,    confidentiality,
        nonsolicitation,  and Company  property  relate to  special,  unique and
        extraordinary  matters and that a violation  of any of the terms of such
        covenants and obligations will cause the Company  irreparable injury for
        which adequate remedies are not available at law.  Therefore,  Executive
        agrees that the Company shall be entitled to an injunction,  restraining
        order or such other  equitable  relief  (without the requirement to post
        bond)  restraining  Executive  from  committing  any  violation  of  the
        covenants and  obligations  contained in this Section 10. These remedies
        are  cumulative and are in addition to any other rights and remedies the
        Company may have at law or in equity.


11.     MISCELLANEOUS.
        -------------

        (A)  SURVIVAL.  All  of  the  provisions  of  Sections  7  (relating  to
             --------
        termination of the Employment  Period following a Change of Control or a
        Potential   Change  of  Control),   10   (relating  to   noncompetition,
        confidentiality,  nonsolicitation and

                                     - 20 -

        Company property),  11(b) (relating to arbitration),  11(c) (relating to
        legal fees) and 11(n)  (relating  to  governing  law) of this  Agreement
        shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

        (B)  ARBITRATION.  Except as  provided  in Section  10,  any  dispute or
             -----------
        controversy  arising under or in connection with this Agreement shall be
        resolved by binding  arbitration.  Such arbitration shall be held in the
        city of Hartford, Connecticut and except to the extent inconsistent with
        this  Agreement,  shall be conducted in accordance  with the  Commercial
        Arbitration Rules of the American  Arbitration  Association in effect at
        the  time of the  arbitration,  and  otherwise  in  accordance  with the
        principles  that  would  be  applied  by a court of law or  equity.  The
        arbitrator shall be acceptable to both the Company and Executive. If the
        parties  cannot  agree  on an  acceptable  arbitrator,  the  dispute  or
        controversy  shall  be  heard  by a  panel  of  three  arbitrators;  one
        appointed  by each of the parties and the third  appointed  by the other
        two arbitrators.  The Company and Executive further agree that they will
        abide by and perform any award or awards rendered by the arbitrators and
        that a judgment  may be entered on any award or awards  rendered  by any
        state or federal court having jurisdiction over the Company or Executive
        or any of their respective property.

        (C) LEGAL  FEES AND  EXPENSES.  In any  contest  (whether  initiated  by
            -------------------------
        Executive  or by the  Company)  as to the  validity,  enforceability  or
        interpretation of any provision of this Agreement, the Company shall pay
        Executive's   legal  expenses  (or  cause  such  expenses  to  be  paid)
        including,  without limitation,  Executive's reasonable attorney's fees,
        on a quarterly basis,  upon  presentation of proof of such expenses in a
        form acceptable to the Company,  provided that Executive shall reimburse
                                         -------- ----
        the Company for such amounts, plus simple interest thereon at the 90-day
        United  States  Treasury  Bill  rate as in  effect  from  time to  time,
        compounded  annually,  if Executive  shall not  prevail,  in whole or in
        part,  as to any material  issue as to the validity,  enforceability  or
        interpretation of any provision of this Agreement.


        (D)  SUCCESSORS;  BINDING  EFFECT.  This  Agreement  shall  inure to the
             ----------------------------
        benefit of and be  binding  upon the  Company  and its  successors.  The
        Company shall require any successor to all or  substantially  all of the
        business  and/or assets of the Company,  whether direct or indirect,  by
        purchase, merger, consolidation,  acquisition of stock, or otherwise, by
        an agreement in form and substance satisfactory to Executive,  expressly
        to assume and agree to perform this  Agreement in the same manner and to
        the  same  extent  as the  Company  would be  required  to  perform  the
        Agreement  if no such  succession  had taken  place.  This  

                                     - 21 -

        Agreement is personal to the  Executive  and,  without the prior written
        consent of the Company,  shall not be assignable by Executive  otherwise
        than by will or the law of  descent  and  distribution.  This  Agreement
        shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable  by  Executive's  legal
        representatives.

        (E)  ASSIGNMENT.  Except as  provided  in Section  11(d),  neither  this
             ----------
        Agreement  nor any of the  rights  or  obligations  hereunder  shall  be
        assigned or  delegated  by any party  hereto  without the prior  written
        consent of the other party.

        (F) ENTIRE  AGREEMENT.  This Agreement  constitutes the entire agreement
            -----------------
        between the  parties  hereto  with  respect to the  matters  referred to
        herein.  This Agreement  supersedes and replaces any prior or subsequent
        severance  plan or arrangement  that otherwise  would apply to Executive
        following a Change of Control or a Potential Change of Control. No other
        agreement  relating  to  the  terms  of  Executive's  employment  by the
        Company, oral or otherwise,  shall be binding between the parties unless
        it is in writing and signed by the party  against  whom  enforcement  is
        sought.   There  are  no  promises,   representations,   inducements  or
        statements  between  the  parties  other than  those that are  expressly
        contained herein. Executive acknowledges that he or she is entering into
        this  Agreement  of his or her own  free  will and  accord,  and with no
        duress,  and that he or she has read this  Agreement  and that he or she
        understands it and its legal consequences.

        (G)  SEVERABILITY;  REFORMATION.  In the  event  that one or more of the
             --------------------------
        provisions  of  this  Agreement   shall  become   invalid,   illegal  or
        unenforceable in any respect, the validity,  legality and enforceability
        of the  remaining  provisions  contained  herein  shall not be  affected
        thereby.  In the event of a determination  that any of the provisions of
        Section  10(a),  Section 10(b) or Section 10(c) are not  enforceable  in
        accordance  with their terms,  Executive and the Company agree that such
        Sections shall be reformed to make such Sections enforceable in a manner
        that provides the Company the maximum rights permitted at law.

        (H) WAIVER.  Waiver by any party  hereto of any breach or default by the
            ------
        other party of any of the terms of this Agreement shall not operate as a
        waiver of any other breach or default,  whether  similar to or different
        from the breach or default  waived.  No waiver of any  provision of this
        Agreement  shall be  implied  from any  course of  dealing  between  the
        parties  hereto or from any failure by either party hereto to assert its
        or his or her rights hereunder on any occasion or series of occasions.

                                     - 22 -

        (I) NOTICES.  Any notice  required or desired to be delivered under this
            -------
        Agreement  shall be in writing  and shall be  delivered  personally,  by
        courier service,  by registered mail,  return receipt  requested,  or by
        telecopy  and shall be  effective  upon  actual  receipt by the party to
        which such notice shall be  directed,  and shall be addressed as follows
        (or to  such  other  address  as the  party  entitled  to  notice  shall
        hereafter designate in accordance with the terms hereof):

        If to the Company:           The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
                                     Law Department, HO-1-09
                                     Hartford Plaza
                                     690 Asylum Avenue
                                     Hartford, CT  06115
                                     Attention:  Corporate Secretary

               with a copy to:       Debevoise & Plimpton
                                     875 Third Avenue
                                     New York, NY 10022
                                     Attn:  Lawrence K. Cagney, Esq.

        If to Executive:             The home address of Executive
                                     shown on the records of the Company

        (J) AMENDMENTS.  This Agreement may not be altered,  modified or amended
            ----------
        except by a written instrument signed by each of the parties hereto.

        (K)  HEADINGS.   Except  as  expressly  provided  herein,   headings  to
             --------
        provisions of this Agreement are for the convenience of the parties only
        and  are  not  intended  to be  part  of or to  affect  the  meaning  or
        interpretation hereof.

        (L) COUNTERPARTS.  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts,  each
            ------------
        of which shall be deemed an  original  but all of which  together  shall
        constitute one and the same instrument.

        (M)  WITHHOLDING.  Any payments  provided for herein shall be reduced by
             -----------
        any amounts  required  to be  withheld by the Company  from time to time
        under applicable  Federal,  State or local income or employment tax laws
        or similar statutes or other provisions of law then in effect.

                                     - 23 -

        (N) GOVERNING LAW. This  Agreement  shall be governed by the laws of the
            -------------
        State of  Connecticut,  without  reference to principles of conflicts or
        choice of law under which the law of any other jurisdiction would apply.


               IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the Company has caused this Agreement to be
executed by its duly authorized  officer,  and Executive has hereunto set his or
her hand, as of the day and year first above written.


                                             THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL
                                             SERVICES GROUP, INC.

WITNESSED:

                                             -----------------------------------
                                             By:  Ramani Ayer
                                             Title:  Chairman, President
                                                     and Chief Executive Officer
- ----------------------------


                                             EXECUTIVE

WITNESSED:

                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Name:
- ----------------------------


                                     - 24 -


                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.17

                     THE HARTFORD 1995 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN

    The following is the text of the Plan:

     1.  PURPOSE

    The purpose of the The Hartford 1995 Incentive Stock Plan is to motivate and
reward superior performance on the part of employees of ITT Hartford Group, Inc.
and  its  subsidiaries  ("The  Hartford")  and to  thereby  attract  and  retain
employees  of superior  ability.  In  addition,  the Plan is intended to further
opportunities  for stock  ownership by such employees in order to increase their
proprietary  interest in The Hartford  and, as a result,  their  interest in the
success of the Company. Awards will be made, in the discretion of the Committee,
to Key Employees (including officers and directors who are also employees) whose
responsibilities   and  decisions   directly   affect  the  performance  of  any
Participating Company and its subsidiaries. Such incentive awards may consist of
stock options,  stock appreciation rights payable in stock or cash,  performance
shares,  restricted stock or any combination of the foregoing,  as the Committee
may determine.

    2.  DEFINITIONS

    When used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

    "Acceleration Event" means the occurrence of an event defined in Section 9
of the Plan.

    "Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

    "Annual  Limit" means the maximum number of shares of Stock for which Awards
may be granted  under the Plan in each Plan Year as provided in Section 3 of the
Plan.

    "Award" means an award  granted to any Key Employee in  accordance  with the
provisions  of the Plan in the form of Options,  Rights,  Performance  Shares or
Restricted Stock, or any combination of the foregoing.

    "Award Agreement" means the written agreement  evidencing each Award granted
to a Key Employee under the Plan.

    "Beneficiary" means the beneficiary or beneficiaries  designated pursuant to
Section 10 to receive the amount,  if any, payable under the Plan upon the death
of a Key Employee.


    "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

    "Code"  means  the  Internal  Revenue  Code of 1986,  as now in effect or as
hereafter  amended.  (All citations to sections of the Code are to such sections
as they may from time to time be amended or renumbered.)

    "Committee"  means the Compensation and Personnel  Committee of the Board or
such other committee as may be designated by the Board to administer the Plan.

    "Company" means The Hartford and its successors and assigns.

    "Fair Market Value",  unless  otherwise  indicated in the provisions of this
Plan,  means, as of any date, the composite closing price for one share of Stock
on the New York Stock Exchange or, if no sales of Stock have taken place on such
date,  the  composite  closing  price on the most recent  date on which  selling
prices  were  quoted,  the  determination  to be made in the  discretion  of the
Committee.

    "Incentive Stock Option" means a stock option qualified under Section 422 of
the Code.

    "Key Employee"  means an employee  (including any officer or director who is
also an  employee)  of any  Participating  Company  whose  responsibilities  and
decisions, in the judgment of the Committee,  directly affect the performance of
the Company and its subsidiaries.

    "Limited Stock  Appreciation  Right" means a stock  appreciation right which
shall become  exercisable  automatically  upon the occurrence of an Acceleration
Event as described in Section 9 of the Plan.

    "Option"  means an option  awarded  under  Section 5 of the Plan to purchase
Stock of the  Company,  which  option  may be an  Incentive  Stock  Option  or a
non-qualified stock option.

    "Participating  Company"  means  the  Company  or any  subsidiary  or  other
affiliate of the Company;  provided,  however, for Incentive Stock Options only,
"Participating  Company" means the Company or any corporation  which at the time
such Option is granted  qualifies as a "subsidiary" of the Company under Section
424(f) of the Code.

    "Performance Share" means a performance share awarded under Section 6 of the
Plan.

    "Plan" means the The Hartford 1995 Incentive  Stock Plan, as the same may be
amended, administered or interpreted from time to time.

                                     - 2 -

    "Plan Year" means the calendar year.

    "Retirement"  means  eligibility to receive  immediate  retirement  benefits
under a Participating Company pension plan.

    "Restricted  Stock" means Stock  awarded under Section 7 of the Plan subject
to such restrictions as the Committee deems appropriate or desirable.

    "Right"  means a stock  appreciation  right  awarded in  connection  with an
Option under Section 5 of the Plan.

    "Stock" means the common stock ($.01 par value) of the Company.

    "Total  Disability"  means the  complete  and  permanent  inability of a Key
Employee  to  perform  all of his or her  duties  under  the terms of his or her
employment with any Participating  Company,  as determined by the Committee upon
the basis of such evidence,  including  independent medical reports and data, as
the Committee deems appropriate or necessary.

     "Transferee" means any person or entity to whom or to which a non-qualified
stock option has been  transferred  and assigned in accordance with Section 5(h)
of the Plan.

    3.  SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

    The aggregate  number of shares of Stock which may be awarded under the Plan
in any Plan Year shall be  subject to an annual  limit.  The  maximum  number of
shares of Stock for which Awards may be granted under the Plan in each Plan Year
shall be 1.5 percent (1.5%) of the total of the issued and outstanding shares of
The Hartford Common Stock and Treasury Stock as reported in the Annual Report on
Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal  year  ending  immediately  prior to any
Plan  Year.  Any unused  portion of the Annual  Limit for any Plan Year shall be
carried forward and be made available for awards in succeeding Plan Years.

    In  addition  to the  foregoing,  in no event  shall more than five  million
(5,000,000)  shares of ITT Hartford Common Stock be  cumulatively  available for
Awards of incentive stock options under the Plan, and provided further,  that no
more than twenty  percent  (20%) of the total  number of shares on a  cumulative
basis shall be available for restricted stock and performance shares Awards. For
any Plan Year, no individual  employee may receive an Award of stock options for
more than the lesser of (i) ten percent  (10%) of the Annual  Limit on available
shares  applicable to that Plan Year and (ii) 500,000  shares;  except that, for
the Plan Year that follows the Distribution  Date, each individual  employee may
receive in addition to the foregoing limit that number of stock options equal to
the  lesser of (x)  525,000  and (y) the  number  of  substitute  stock  options
required to replace ITT Corporation  stock options  surrendered by such employee
in connection with the spin-off by ITT Corporation of the shares of The Hartford
to ITT Corporation shareholders.

                                     - 3 -

    Subject to the above limitations,  shares of The Hartford Common Stock to be
issued under the Plan may be made  available  from the  authorized  but unissued
shares,  or shares held by the Company in treasury or from shares  purchased  in
the open market.

    For the purpose of computing  the total number of shares of Stock  available
for  Awards  under  the Plan,  there  shall be  counted  against  the  foregoing
limitations  the number of shares of Stock  subject to issuance upon exercise or
settlement  of Awards and the number of shares of Stock which equal the value of
performance  share Awards, in each case determined as at the dates on which such
Awards are  granted.  If any Awards  under the Plan are  forfeited,  terminated,
expire  unexercised,  are settled in cash in lieu of Stock or are  exchanged for
other Awards, the shares of Stock which were theretofore  subject to such Awards
shall  again be  available  for  Awards  under  the Plan to the  extent  of such
forfeiture,  termination, expiration cash settlement or exchange of such Awards.
Further,  any shares that are exchanged (either actually or  constructively)  by
optionees  as full or partial  payment to the Company of the  purchase  price of
shares being  acquired  through the exercise of a stock option granted under the
Plan may be available for subsequent Awards.

    4.  GRANT OF AWARDS AND AWARD AGREEMENTS

    (a) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall (i) determine
and  designate  from time to time those Key Employees or groups of Key Employees
to whom Awards are to be granted;  (ii)  determine the form or forms of Award to
be granted to any Key Employee;  (iii)  determine the amount or number of shares
of Stock subject to each Award;  and (iv)  determine the terms and conditions of
each Award.

    (b) Each Award  granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written Award
Agreement.  Such agreement shall be subject to and incorporate the express terms
and conditions, if any, required under the Plan or required by the Committee.

    5.  STOCK OPTIONS AND RIGHTS

    (a) With respect to Options and Rights,  the  Committee  shall (i) authorize
the granting of Incentive  Stock  Options,  non-qualified  stock  options,  or a
combination of Incentive  Stock Options and  non-qualified  stock options;  (ii)
authorize the granting of Rights which may be granted in connection  with all or
part of any Option granted under this Plan,  either  concurrently with the grant
of the Option or at any time  thereafter  during the term of the  Option;  (iii)
determine  the number of shares of Stock subject to each Option or the number of
shares of Stock that shall be used to determine  the value of a Right;  and (iv)
determine  the time or times when and the  manner in which each  Option or Right
shall be exercisable and the duration of the exercise period.

                                     - 4 -

    (b) Any option issued hereunder which is intended to qualify as an Incentive
Stock  Option shall be subject to such  limitations  or  requirements  as may be
necessary  for the  purposes of Section 422 of the Code or any  regulations  and
rulings thereunder to the extent and in such form as determined by the Committee
in its discretion.

    (c) The  exercise  period for a  non-qualified  stock option and any related
Right  shall not exceed  ten years and two days from the date of grant,  and the
exercise  period for an Incentive  Stock Option and any related  Right shall not
exceed ten years from the date of grant.

    (d) The Option price per share shall be  determined  by the Committee at the
time any Option is granted and shall be not less than the Fair  Market  Value of
one share of Stock on the date the Option is granted.

    (e) No part of any Option or Right may be  exercised  until the Key Employee
who  has  been  granted  the  Award  shall  have  remained  in the  employ  of a
Participating  Company for such period after the date of grant as the  Committee
may specify,  if any, and the Committee may further  require  exercisability  in
installments.

    (f) The  purchase  price  of the  shares  as to  which  an  Option  shall be
exercised shall be paid to the Company at the time of exercise either in cash or
Stock  already  owned by the optionee  having a total Fair Market Value equal to
the  purchase  price,  or a  combination  of cash and Stock  having a total fair
market value, as so determined, equal to the purchase price. The Committee shall
determine  acceptable methods for tendering Stock as payment upon exercise of an
Option and may impose such  limitations and  prohibitions on the use of Stock to
exercise an Option as it deems appropriate.

    (g) In case of termination of employment, the following provisions shall 
apply:

        (A) If a Key  Employee  who has been  granted an Option shall die before
    such Option has  expired,  his or her Option may be exercised in full by (i)
    the  person or persons to whom the Key  Employee's  rights  under the Option
    pass by will, or if no such person has such right,  by his or here executors
    or  administrators;   (ii)  his  or  her  Transferee(s)   (with  respect  to
    non-qualified  stock options);  or (iii) his or her  Beneficiary  designated
    pursuant to Section 10, at any time, or from time to time, within five years
    after the date of the Key Employee's death or within such other period,  and
    subject to such terms and  conditions as the Committee may specify,  but not
    later than the expiration date specified in Section 5(c) above.

        (B) If the  Key  Employee's  employment  by  any  Participating  Company
    terminates  because of his or her Retirement or Total Disability,  he or she
    may exercise  his or her Options in full at any time,  or from time to time,
    within five years after the date of the termination of his or her employment
    or within such other period, and subject to such terms and conditions as the
    Committee may

                                     - 5 -

    specify,  but not later than the expiration  date specified in Section 5(d)
    above.  Any such Options not fully  exercisable  immediately  prior to such
    optionee's  retirement shall become fully  exercisable upon such retirement
    unless the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall otherwise determine.

        (C)  Except  as  provided  in  Section  9,  if the  Key  Employee  shall
    voluntarily  resign  before  eligibility  for  Retirement  or he or  she  is
    terminated for cause as determined by the  Committee,  the Options or Rights
    shall be canceled  coincident  with the effective date of the termination of
    employment.

        (D) If the Key Employee's employment terminates for any other reason, he
    or she may exercise  his or her Options,  to the extent that he or she shall
    have been  entitled  to do so at the date of the  termination  of his or her
    employment, at any time, or from time to time, within three months after the
    date of the  termination  of his or her  employment  or  within  such  other
    period,  and  subject  to such terms and  conditions  as the  Committee  may
    specify,  but not later than the  expiration  date specified in Section 5(c)
    above.

    (h) Except as  provided in this  Section  5(h),  no Option or Right  granted
under  the  Plan  shall  be  transferable  other  than by will or by the laws of
descent and  distribution.  During the  lifetime of the  optionee,  an Option or
Right shall be exercisable  only by the Key Employee to whom the Option or Right
is granted (or his or her estate or designated beneficiary). Notwithstanding the
foregoing,  all or a portion of a non-qualified  stock option may be transferred
and  assigned by such  persons  designated  by the  Committee,  to such  persons
designated by the Committee, and upon such terms and conitiions as the Committee
may from time to time authorize and determine in its sole descretion.


    (i) With respect to an Incentive  Stock Option,  the Committee shall specify
such terms and  provisions  as the  Committee  may  determine to be necessary or
desirable in order to qualify such Option as an "incentive  stock option" within
the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.

    (j) With respect to the exercisability and settlement of Rights:

        (i)  Upon  exercise  of a Right,  the Key  Employee  shall be  entitled,
    subject to such terms and conditions  the Committee may specify,  to receive
    upon exercise  thereof all or a portion of the excess of (A) the Fair Market
    Value of a specified  number of shares of Stock at the time of exercise,  as
    determined by the  Committee,  over (B) a specified  amount which shall not,
    subject  to  Section  5(e),  be less  than  the  Fair  Market  Value of such
    specified  number of shares of Stock at the time the Right is granted.  Upon
    exercise of a Right,  payment of such excess shall be made as the  Committee
    shall specify in cash, the issuance or transfer to the Key Employee of whole
    shares of Stock with a Fair  Market  Value at such time equal to any excess,
    or a  combination  of cash and shares of Stock with a combined  Fair  Market
    Value at such  time  equal  to any such  excess,  all as  determined  by the
    Committee.  The Company will not issue a fractional share of Stock and, if a
    fractional  share would  otherwise be issuable,  the Company  shall pay cash
    equal to the Fair  Market  Value  of the  fractional  share of Stock at such
    time.

                                     - 6 -

        (ii)  In  the  event  of the  exercise  of  such  Right,  the  Company's
    obligation in respect of any related Option or such portion  thereof will be
    discharged by payment of the Right so exercised.

    6.  PERFORMANCE SHARES

    (a) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall (i) determine
and  designate  from time to time those Key Employees or groups of Key Employees
to whom  Awards  of  Performance  Shares  are to be  made,  (ii)  determine  the
Performance  Period (the "Performance  Period") and Performance  Objectives (the
"Performance Objectives") applicable to such Awards, (iii) determine the form of
settlement of a  Performance  Share and (iv)  generally  determine the terms and
conditions of each such Award. At any date, each Performance  Share shall have a
value equal to the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock at such date;  provided
that the Committee may limit the aggregate amount payable upon the settlement of
any Award. The maximum award for any individual employee in any given year shall
be 100,000 Performance Shares.

    (b) The Committee shall determine a Performance  Period of not less than two
nor more than five years.  Performance Periods may overlap and Key Employees may
participate   simultaneously  with  respect  to  Performance  Shares  for  which
different Performance Periods are prescribed.

    (c) The Committee shall  determine the  Performance  Objectives of Awards of
Performance  Shares.  Performance  Objectives  may vary from Key Employee to Key
Employee and between groups of Key Employees and shall be based upon one or more
of the following objective criteria,  as the Committee deems appropriate,  which
may be (i) determined solely by reference to the performance of the Company, any
subsidiary  or  affiliate  of the Company or any  division or unit of any of the
foregoing,  or (ii) based on  comparative  performance of any one or more of the
following  relative to other  entities:  (A) earnings  per share,  (B) return on
equity,  (C) cash flow, (D) return on total capital,  (E) return on assets,  (F)
economic  value added,  (G)  increase in surplus,  (H)  reductions  in operating
expenses,  (I) increases in operating  margins (J) earnings  before income taxes
and depreciation,  (K) total shareholder  return (L) return on invested capital,
(M)  cost  reductions  and  savings,   (N)  earnings  before  interest,   taxes,
depreciation and amortization  ("EDITDA"),  (O) pre-tax  operating  income,  (P)
productivity  improvements,  or  (Q) a Key  Employee's  attainment  of  personal
objectives with respect to any of the foregoing  criteria or other criteria such
as growth and profitability,  customer satisfaction,  leadership  effectiveness,
business development, negotiating transactions and sales or developing long term
business goals.  If during the course of a Performance  Period there shall occur
significant  events which the Committee expects to have a substantial  effect on
the  applicable  Performance  Objectives  during such period,  the Committee may
revise such Performance Objectives.

                                     - 7 -

    (d) At the beginning of a Performance  Period, the Committee shall determine
for each Key Employee or group of Key Employees the number of Performance Shares
or the percentage of Performance  Shares which shall be paid to the Key Employee
or member of the group of Key Employees if the applicable Performance Objectives
are met in whole or in part.

    (e) If a Key Employee  terminates  service with all Participating  Companies
during a Performance Period because of death, Total Disability,  Retirement,  or
under other  circumstances where the Committee in its sole discretion finds that
a waiver would be in the best  interests of the Company,  that Key Employee may,
as  determined  by the  Committee,  be entitled to payment in settlement of such
Performance Shares at the end of the Performance Period based upon the extent to
which the  Performance  Objectives  were satisfied at the end of such period and
prorated for the portion of the Performance Period during which the Key Employee
was employed by any Participating Company; provided,  however, the Committee may
provide for an earlier payment in settlement of such Performance  Shares in such
amount and under such terms and conditions as the Committee deems appropriate or
desirable. If a Key Employee terminates service with all Participating Companies
during a Performance  Period for any other reason,  then such Key Employee shall
not be entitled to any Award with respect to that Performance  Period unless the
Committee shall otherwise determine.

    (f) Each  Award of a  Performance  Share  shall be paid in whole  shares  of
Stock,  or cash, or a combination of Stock and cash either as a lump sum payment
or in annual installments, all as the Committee shall determine, with payment to
commence  as soon as  practicable  after  the  end of the  relevant  Performance
Period.

    7.  RESTRICTED STOCK

    (a) Restricted  Stock shall be subject to a restriction  period (after which
restrictions  will lapse) which shall mean a period  commencing  on the date the
Award is granted and ending on such date as the Committee  shall  determine (the
"Restriction  Period").  The Committee may provide for the lapse of restrictions
in installments where deemed appropriate and it may also require the achievement
of predetermined performance objectives in order for such shares to vest.

    (b) Except when the Committee determines otherwise pursuant to Section 7(d),
if a Key Employee terminates employment with all Participating Companies for any
reason before the expiration of the Restriction Period, all shares of Restricted
Stock still  subject to  restriction  shall be forfeited by the Key Employee and
shall be reacquired by the Company.

                                     - 8 -

    (c) Except as otherwise  provided in this Section 7, no shares of Restricted
Stock received by a Key Employee shall be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged,
hypothecated or otherwise disposed of during the Restriction Period.

    (d) In cases of death, Total Disability or Retirement or in cases of special
circumstances,  the Committee may, in its sole  discretion  when it finds that a
waiver would be in the best interests of the Company,  elect to waive any or all
remaining restrictions with respect to such Key Employee's Restricted Stock.

    (e) The Committee may require,  under such terms and  conditions as it deems
appropriate or desirable,  that the  certificates  for Stock delivered under the
Plan may be held in custody by a bank or other institution,  or that the Company
may itself hold such shares in custody until the  Restriction  Period expires or
until restrictions  thereon otherwise lapse, and may require,  as a condition of
any Award of Restricted Stock that the Key Employee shall have delivered a stock
power endorsed in blank relating to the Restricted Stock.

    (f) Nothing in this Section 7 shall preclude a Key Employee from  exchanging
any shares of Restricted Stock subject to the restrictions  contained herein for
any other shares of Stock that are similarly restricted.

    (g)  Subject to Section  7(e) and Section 8, each Key  Employee  entitled to
receive  Restricted  Stock under the Plan shall be issued a certificate  for the
shares of Stock.  Such  certificate  shall be  registered in the name of the Key
Employee,  and shall bear an appropriate  legend reciting the terms,  conditions
and  restrictions,  if any,  applicable  to such  Award and shall be  subject to
appropriate stop-transfer orders.

    8.  CERTIFICATES FOR AWARDS OF STOCK

    (a) The Company  shall not be required to issue or deliver any  certificates
for  shares  of Stock  prior to (i) the  listing  of such  shares  on any  stock
exchange  on which the Stock may then be listed and (ii) the  completion  of any
registration or  qualification of such shares under any federal or state law, or
any ruling or regulation of any government  body which the Company shall, in its
sole discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable.

    (b) All certificates for shares of Stock delivered under the Plan shall also
be subject to such stop-transfer  orders and other restrictions as the Committee
may deem advisable under the rules,  regulations,  and other requirements of the
Securities and Exchange  Commission,  any stock exchange upon which the Stock is
then  listed  and any  applicable  federal  or state  securities  laws,  and the
Committee may cause a legend or legends to be placed on any such certificates to
make appropriate  reference to such restrictions.  In making such determination,
the Committee may rely upon an opinion of counsel for the Company.

                                     - 9 -

    (c) Except for the  restrictions  on Restricted  Stock under Section 7, each
Key Employee who receives  Stock in settlement of an Award of Stock,  shall have
all of the rights of a  shareholder  with respect to such shares,  including the
right to vote the shares and receive dividends and other  distributions.  No Key
Employee awarded an Option, a Right or Performance Share shall have any right as
a shareholder with respect to any shares covered by his or her Option,  Right or
Performance  Share prior to the date of issuance to him or her of a  certificate
or certificates for such shares.

    9.  ACCELERATION EVENTS

    (a) For the purposes of this Plan, an Acceleration  Event shall occur if (i)
a report  on  Schedule  13D  shall be filed  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  pursuant  to  Section  13(d) of the Act  disclosing  that any person
(within  the meaning of Section  13(d) of the Act),  other than the Company or a
subsidiary of the Company or any employee  benefit plan sponsored by the Company
or a subsidiary of the Company,  is the beneficial  owner directly or indirectly
of twenty  percent or more of the  outstanding  Stock of the  Company;  (ii) any
person (within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Act),  other than the Company
or a  subsidiary  of the Company or any employee  benefit plan  sponsored by the
Company or a subsidiary  of the Company,  shall  purchase  shares  pursuant to a
tender  offer or  exchange  offer  to  acquire  any  Stock  of the  Company  (or
securities   convertible   into  Stock)  for  cash,   securities  or  any  other
consideration,  provided  that after  consummation  of the offer,  the person in
question  is the  beneficial  owner (as such term is defined in Rule 13d-3 under
the Act), directly or indirectly,  of fifteen percent or more of the outstanding
Stock of the Company  (calculated  as provided  in  paragraph  (d) of Rule 13d-3
under the Act in the case of rights to acquire Stock); (iii) the stockholders of
the  Company  shall  approve (A) any  consolidation  or merger of the Company in
which the Company is not the continuing or surviving  corporation or pursuant to
which shares of Stock of the Company would be converted into cash, securities or
other property,  other than a merger of the Company in which holders of Stock of
the  Company  immediately  prior  to the  merger  have  the  same  proportionate
ownership of common stock of the  surviving  corporation  immediately  after the
merger as immediately before, or (B) any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer
(in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially
all the  assets of the  Company;  or (iv)  there  shall  have been a change in a
majority  of the  members  of the Board  within a  12-month  period  unless  the
election or nomination  for election by the Company's  stockholders  of each new
director  during such 12-month  period was approved by the vote of two-thirds of
the directors  then still in office who were  directors at the beginning of such
12-month period.

        (b) Notwithstanding any provisions in this Plan to the contrary:

        (i)  Each  outstanding  Option  granted  under  the  Plan  shall  become
    immediately  exercisable in full for the aggregate  number of shares covered
    thereby  and all

                                     - 10 -

    related  Rights shall also become  exercisable  upon the  occurrence  of an
    Acceleration  Event  described in this  Section 9 and shall  continue to be
    exercisable  in full for cash for a period of 60 calendar days beginning on
    the date  that  such  Acceleration  Event  occurs  and  ending  on the 60th
    calendar day  following  that date;  provided,  however,  that no Option or
    Right shall be exercisable beyond the expiration date of its original term.

        (ii) Options and Rights  shall not  terminate  and shall  continue to be
    fully  exercisable for a period of seven months  following the occurrence of
    an  Acceleration  Event in the case of an employee who is  terminated  other
    than for just cause or who voluntarily  terminates his employment because he
    in good faith  believes  that as a result of such  Acceleration  Event he is
    unable  effectively  to  discharge  his present  duties or the duties of the
    position  he  occupied  just prior to the  occurrence  of such  Acceleration
    Event. For purposes of Section 9 only, termination shall be for "just cause"
    only if such termination is based on fraud, misappropriation or embezzlement
    on the part of the employee which results in a final conviction of a felony.
    Under no  circumstances,  however,  shall any  Option or Right be  exercised
    beyond the expiration date of its original term.

        (iii) Any Right or portion  thereof may be exercised for cash within the
    60-calendar-day  period  following the occurrence of an  Acceleration  Event
    with settlement, except in the case of a Right related to an Incentive Stock
    Option,  based on the "Formula  Price" which shall be the highest of (A) the
    highest  composite  daily  closing  price of the  Stock  during  the  period
    beginning  on the 60th  calendar day prior to the date on which the Right is
    exercised  and ending on the date such Right is  exercised,  (B) the highest
    gross price paid for the Stock  during the same period of time,  as reported
    in a  report  on  Schedule  13D  filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
    Commission  or (C) the highest gross price paid or to be paid for a share of
    Stock  (whether by way of exchange,  conversion,  distribution  upon merger,
    liquidation  or  otherwise)  in any of the  transactions  set  forth in this
    Section 9 as constituting an Acceleration Event.

        (iv)  Upon  the  occurrence  of an  Acceleration  Event,  Limited  Stock
    Appreciation  Rights  shall  automatically  be granted as to any Option with
    respect to which Rights are not then outstanding;  provided,  however,  that
    Limited Stock Appreciation  Rights shall be provided at the time of grant of
    any Incentive Stock Option subject to exercisability  upon the occurrence of
    an Acceleration  Event.  Limited Stock Appreciation Rights shall entitle the
    holder  thereof,  upon  exercise of such rights and surrender of the related
    Option or any portion  thereof,  to receive,  without payment to the Company
    (except for applicable  withholding  taxes),  an amount in cash equal to the
    excess,  if any, of the  Formula  Price as that term is defined in Section 9
    over the option price of the Stock as provided in such Option; provided that
    in the case of the exercise of any such Limited Stock  Appreciation Right or
    portion thereof related to an Incentive Stock Option,  the Fair Market Value
    of the  Stock at the time of such  exercise  shall  be  substituted

                                     - 11 -

    for the Formula Price. Each such Limited Stock  Appreciation Right shall be
    exercisable  only during the period  beginning  on the first  business  day
    following the occurrence of such Acceleration  Event and ending on the 60th
    day following  such date and only to the same extent the related  Option is
    exercisable.  Upon  exercise  of a  Limited  Stock  Appreciation  Right and
    surrender of the related Option,  or portion thereof,  such Option,  to the
    extent surrendered, shall not thereafter be exercisable.

        (v) The  restrictions  applicable to Awards of  Restricted  Stock issued
    pursuant to Section 7 shall  lapse upon the  occurrence  of an  Acceleration
    Event and the Company shall issue stock  certificates  without a restrictive
    legend.   Key  Employees  holding   Restricted  Stock  on  the  date  of  an
    Acceleration  Event may tender such  Restricted  Stock to the Company  which
    shall pay the Formula Price as that term is defined in Section 9;  provided,
    such  Restricted  Stock must be tendered  to the Company  within 60 calendar
    days of the Acceleration Event.

        (vi) If an Acceleration  Event occurs during the course of a Performance
    Period  applicable to an Award of Performance  Shares pursuant to Section 6,
    then the Key  Employee  shall be deemed to have  satisfied  the  Performance
    Objectives and settlement of such  Performance  Shares shall be based on the
    Formula Price, as defined in this Section 9.

    10.  BENEFICIARY

     (a)  Each Key  Employee  and/or  his or her  Transferee  may file  with the
Company a written  designation  of one or more  persons as the  Beneficiary  who
shall be entitled to receive the Award, if any,  payable under the Plan upon his
or her death.  A Key  Employee  or  Transferee  may from time to time  revoke or
change  his or her  Beneficiary  designation  without  the  consent of any prior
Beneficiary  by  filing a new  designation  with  the  Company.  The  last  such
designation  received by the Company shall be  controlling;  provided,  however,
that no designation,  or change or revocation thereof, shall be effective unless
received by the Company prior to the Key Employee's or  Transferee's  death,  as
the case may be,  and in no event  shall it be  effective  as of a date prior to
such receipt.

     (b) If no such  Beneficiary  designation  is in effect at the time of a Key
Employee's  or  Transferee's  death,  as the  case may be,  or if no  designated
Beneficiary  survives the Key  Employee or  Transferee,  or if such  designation
conflicts with law, the Key Employee's or Transferee's  estate shall as the case
may be, be entitled to receive the Award,  if any,  payable  under the Plan upon
his or her death.  If the Committee is in doubt as to the right of any person to
receive such Award, the Company may retain such Award, without liability for any
interest  thereon,  until the Committee  determines the rights  thereto,  or the
Company may pay such Award into any court of appropriate  jurisdiction  and such
payment shall be a complete discharge of the liability of the Company therefor.

    11.  ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN

                                     - 12 -

    (a) Each  member  of the  Committee  shall be both a member of the Board and
        both a  "non-employee  director"  within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under
        the Act or successor  rule or regulation  and an "outside  director" for
        purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.

    (b) All decisions,  determinations or actions of the Committee made or taken
pursuant  to grants of  authority  under the Plan  shall be made or taken in the
sole  discretion of the Committee and shall be final,  conclusive and binding on
all persons for all purposes.

    (c) The  Committee  shall  have full  power,  discretion  and  authority  to
interpret,  construe  and  administer  the Plan and any  part  thereof,  and its
interpretations and constructions thereof and actions taken thereunder shall be,
except as otherwise  determined by the Board,  final,  conclusive and binding on
all persons for all purposes.

    (d) The Committee's  decisions and determinations under the Plan need not be
uniform and may be made selectively among Key Employees, whether or not such Key
Employees are similarly situated.

    (e) The Committee may, in its sole  discretion,  delegate such of its powers
as it deems  appropriate  to the chief  executive  officer  or other  members of
senior management, except that Awards to executive officers shall be made solely
by the Committee and subject to compliance with Rule 16b-3 of the Act.

    (f)  If an  Acceleration  Event  has  not  occurred  and  if  the  Committee
determines  that a Key Employee has taken action  inimical to the best interests
of any  Participating  Company,  the  Committee  may,  in its  sole  discretion,
terminate in whole or in part such portion of any Option  (including any related
Right) as has not yet become  exercisable at the time of termination,  terminate
any  Performance  Share  Award  for which the  Performance  Period  has not been
completed or terminate any Award of Restricted  Stock for which the  Restriction
Period has not lapsed.

    12.  AMENDMENT, EXTENSION OR TERMINATION

    The Board may, at any time,  amend or terminate the Plan and,  specifically,
may make  such  modifications  to the Plan as it deems  necessary  to avoid  the
application  of Section 162(m) of the Code and the Treasury  regulations  issued
thereunder.  However, no amendment  applicable to Incentive Stock Options shall,
without  approval by a majority  of the  Company's  stockholders,  (a) alter the
group of persons  eligible to participate in the Plan, or (b) except as provided
in Section 13 increase the maximum number of shares of Stock which are available
for Awards 

                                     - 13 -

under the Plan. If an Acceleration  Event has occurred,  no amendment
or  termination  shall  impair the rights of any person with  respect to a prior
Award.

    13.  ADJUSTMENTS IN EVENT OF CHANGE IN COMMON STOCK

    In the event of any reorganization, merger, recapitalization, consolidation,
liquidation,  stock  dividend,  stock split,  reclassification,  combination  of
shares,  rights  offering,  split-up  or  extraordinary  dividend  (including  a
spin-off)  or  divestiture,  or any other change in the  corporate  structure or
shares,  the Committee may make such  adjustment in the Stock subject to Awards,
including  Stock subject to purchase by an Option,  or the terms,  conditions or
restrictions  on Stock or Awards,  including the price payable upon the exercise
of such Option and the number of shares subject to restricted  stock awards,  as
the Committee deems equitable.

    14.  SUBSTITUTE AWARDS

    The Committee  shall be authorized to issue  substitute  The Hartford  stock
options and related rights to those key employees of Participating Companies who
surrender options to acquire stock in ITT Corporation.  The Committee may make a
determination as to the exercise price and number of such substitute  options as
it may determine in order to preserve the economic value of the  surrendered ITT
options  and  related  rights in the  aggregate  amount not to exceed  8,000,000
shares.  Subject to this  limitation,  shares of The Hartford Common Stock to be
issued upon the exercise of substitute  stock options may be made available from
authorized  but unissued  shares or from treasury or shares held by The Hartford
in shares purchased in the open market.

    The maximum  number of  substitute  The Hartford  stock  options and related
rights  that may be granted to an  individual  employee is 525,000 or such lower
number as may be necessary to preserve the economic value of the surrendered ITT
options and related rights by any such individual employee.

    The terms and conditions of each substitute stock award, including,  without
limitation,  the expiration date of the option,  the time or times when, and the
manner in which,  each substitute  option shall be exercisable,  the duration of
the exercise  period,  the method of exercise,  settlement and payment,  and the
rules in the event of termination, shall be the same as those of the surrendered
ITT award.

    The Committee  shall also be authorized  to issue  substitute  grants of The
Hartford  Restricted Stock to replace shares of ITT restricted stock surrendered
by employees of Participating Companies. Such substitute shares shall be subject
to the same terms and  conditions as the  surrendered  shares of ITT  restricted
stock, including, without limitation, the restriction period of such ITT shares.

                                     - 14 -

    15.  MISCELLANEOUS

    (a)  Except as  provided  in  Section  9,  nothing in this Plan or any Award
granted  hereunder  shall  confer upon any employee any right to continue in the
employ of any  Participating  Company or  interfere in any way with the right of
any  Participating  Company to terminate  his or her  employment at any time. No
Award  payable  under the Plan shall be deemed  salary or  compensation  for the
purpose  of  computing  benefits  under  any  employee  benefit  plan  or  other
arrangement of any Participating Company for the benefit of its employees unless
the Company shall determine  otherwise.  No Key Employee shall have any claim to
an Award until it is  actually  granted  under the Plan.  To the extent that any
person  acquires a right to receive  payments  from the Company under this Plan,
such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured  general  creditor
of the Company. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general
funds of the Company and no special or separate fund shall be established and no
segregation  of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as
provided in Section 7(e) with respect to Restricted Stock.

    (b) The  Committee  may cause to be made,  as a condition  precedent  to the
payment  of any  Award,  or  otherwise,  appropriate  arrangements  with the Key
Employee or his or her Beneficiary,  for the withholding of any federal,  state,
local or foreign taxes.

    (c) The Plan and the  grant of Awards  shall be  subject  to all  applicable
federal and state laws,  rules,  and  regulations  and to such  approvals by any
government or regulatory agency as may be required.

    (d) The terms of the Plan shall be binding upon the Company and its 
successors and assigns.

    (e) Captions  preceding the sections  hereof are inserted solely as a matter
of  convenience  and in no way  define  or  limit  the  scope or  intent  of any
provision hereof.

    16.  EFFECTIVE DATE, TERM OF PLAN AND SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL

    The effective date of the Plan shall be December 19, 1995. No Award shall be
granted  under  this  Plan  after  the  Plan's   termination  date.  The  Plan's
termination  date shall be December 31, 2005.  The Plan will  continue in effect
for existing Awards as long as any such Award is outstanding.


                                     - 15 -


                                                                   EXHIBIT 12.01


          THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                                                                   EXHIBIT 21.01




                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.01


                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                    -----------------------------------------





To The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.:

As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation of our
report  included  in  this  Form  10-K,  into  the  Company's  previously  filed
registration  statements  (i) on  Forms  S-3  (Registration  Nos.  33-98014  and
333-12617) and (ii) on Forms S-8  (Registration  Nos.  33-80663,  33-80665,  and
333-12563).


                                                         ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP



Hartford, Connecticut
March 27, 1998

