
10-K
UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

    FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                                   SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

               (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

                                       OR

             ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the transition period from ________ to _________

                         Commission file number 1-10524

                          UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST,
                                      INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Virginia                                             54-0857512
(State or other jurisdiction of                               (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation of organization)                               Identification No.)

              10 South Sixth Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219-3802
               (Address of principal executive offices - zip code)

                                 (804) 780-2691
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:







           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed  by  Section  13 or 15 (d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to filing  requirements
for at least the past 90 days.

                                     Yes     X        No

Indicate by check mark if the disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K ( ).

The aggregate market value of the shares of common stock held by  non-affiliates
(based upon the closing sales price on the New York Stock  Exchange) on March 2,
1999 was approximately $1 billion.  * As of March 2, 1999 there were 104,060,609
shares of common stock, $1 par value, outstanding.

Part III incorporates  certain information be reference from the Proxy Statement
to be filed with respect to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 11, 1999.

*In determining this figure,  the Company has assumed that all of its officers &
directors, and persons known to the Company to be beneficial owners of more than
5% of the Company's  shares,  are  affiliates.  Such  assumptions  should not be
deemed conclusive for any other purpose.







                          UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.

                                  
                                                                      PAGE
                                                                      ----
PART I.

      Item 1.     Business                                               3
      Item 2.     Properties                                            14
      Item 3.     Legal Proceedings                                     15
      Item 4.     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   15

PART II.

      Item 5.     Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related     17
                          Stockholder Matters
      Item 6.     Selected Financial Data                               19
      Item 7.     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial     21
                          Condition and Results of Operations
      Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data           37
      Item 9.     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on      37
                          Accounting and Financial Disclosure

PART III.

      Item 10.    Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant    38
      Item 11.    Executive Compensation                                38
      Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and   38
                          Management
      Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions        38

PART IV.

      Item 14.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and           39
                           Reports on Form 8-K






                                    Part I
Item 1.   BUSINESS

The Company
General

United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc., a Virginia  corporation,  (collectively with
its  subsidiaries,  the  Company),  is a  self-administered  equity  real estate
investment trust ("REIT"),  that operates within one defined business segment as
a fully  integrated  owner,  operator,  renovator  and  developer  of  apartment
communities located nationwide.

Formed in 1972, the Company is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia with regional
offices in  Richmond,  Dallas and  Atlanta.  In  addition,  the Company has area
offices in the previously  mentioned  cities plus Orlando,  Raleigh,  Charlotte,
Tampa,  Houston, San Francisco and Phoenix. The regional offices are responsible
for the operation, acquisition,  construction and asset management activities in
their  respective  geographic  regions.  The  Company  had  approximately  2,700
employees as of March 15, 1999.

The Company  manages  its  properties  directly,  rather  than  through  outside
property management firms. During 1998, the cost of internal property management
of the Company's  communities totaled 3.5% of rental revenue. In determining its
cost of self  management,  the Company  considers all direct and indirect  costs
associated with the internal property management function.

The  Company  operates as a real estate  investment  trust under the  applicable
provisions of the Internal  Revenue Code of 1986,  as amended (the  "Code").  To
qualify, the Company must meet certain tests which, among other things,  require
that its  assets  consist  primarily  of real  estate,  its  income  be  derived
primarily from real estate and at least 95% of its taxable income be distributed
to its common  shareholders.  Because the  Company  qualifies  as a REIT,  it is
generally not subject to federal income taxes.

Apartments and Markets

At December 31, 1998, the Company's apartment portfolio included 326 communities
having a total of 86,893  completed  apartment homes (See Item 2,  Properties.).
The  Company  had  eight  communities  and two  additional  phases  to  existing
communities  with 1,946 apartment homes under  development at December 31, 1998.
The apartment community is the Company's basic business unit and is staffed with
well trained  property  management  personnel.  The communities have a community
director,  leasing  assistants  and a  maintenance  staff who  oversee the daily
operation  of the  communities.  Other  than  Dallas,  Texas  where  9.5% of the
Company's  apartment homes are located,  no other market has more than 5% of the
Company's apartment homes. The Company's apartment communities consist primarily
of upper middle to moderate income garden and townhouse  communities  which make
up the broadest  segment of the apartment  market.  Most of the  communities are
considered  to be "B"  grade  quality  although  the  Company  does own  class A
properties  that  compete at or near the top of their  respective  markets.  "B"
grade communities are generally either of 1980's  construction,  located in good
neighborhoods or 1970's  construction in good neighborhoods where the apartments
have  been,  or can be,  significantly  upgraded  and  repositioned.  Management
believes that these well located apartments offer the Company a good combination
of current income and longer-term income growth.

Management's strategy is to be a national,  highly efficient provider of quality
apartment  homes  with  meaningful  size in  approximately  35  growth  markets.
Geographic  market  diversification  is important  as it balances the  portfolio
performance  and makes the Company less vunerable to cyclical real estate cycles
and economies in a specific market.  In a given year, the Company will have some
markets that are strong or  recovering,  some will be balanced and others may be
softening.  However,  with its market  diversification,  the Company's aggregate
results of operations are anticipated to be balanced year to year.




Physical  occupancy at the Company's  apartment  communities  averaged 91.9% for
December 1996 and bottomed out in January 1997 at 91.6%. Occupancy grew steadily
throughout  1997 as  these  markets  began to  recover,  and by  December  1997,
physical  occupancy  had  increased  to 92.6%,  one full basis  point  above the
beginning of the year. In 1997, the increased  supply led to softness in certain
of the  Company's  southeastern  markets,  however,  supply  and  demand  in the
Company's markets are generally in equilibrium.  During 1998, physical occupancy
of 92.9% was the same as 1997. In 1998,  the Company's best  performing  markets
were also its  largest:  Dallas,  Houston and Orlando.  The Company  experienced
improvements in markets that were weak in 1997, including Baltimore, Washington,
Atlanta and Jacksonville. Greenville, Greensboro and Albuquerque continued to be
soft.  During 1998,  apartment supply and demand are in relative balance in most
of  the  Company's  markets.   Although  there  was  an  increase  in  apartment
construction  in 1997 and 1998, a strong  economy led to good  absorption of the
new supply of apartments. Apartment supply and demand are in relative balance in
most of the Company's major markets.  During 1999, the Company  anticipates some
slowdown in economic growth and a slight increase in apartment completions which
is expected to result in a modest  decline in physical  occupancy  and  slightly
lower rent growth.

Although  there is no known move  toward  rent  control in any of the markets in
which the Company  currently  owns  apartments,  the Company's  ability to raise
rents to cover  increases in operating  expenses  might be impaired  should rent
control legislation be enacted. As the Company has expanded,  attempts have been
made to avoid markets where the exposure to reduced defense spending is believed
to be high.

Business and Operating Strategies

The Company seeks to increase  shareholder value by (i) generating growth in the
operating results of its existing  communities,  (ii) acquiring communities that
will provide a good long-term  investment,  (iii) developing  communities in its
existing  markets which provide above market  yields,  (iv) selling  communities
that no longer meet its investment  criteria and (v) financing its activities at
the lowest possible cost of capital.

The  apartment  sector has become  increasingly  competitive,  as ownership  has
shifted to large companies with more resources and sophisticated  management. In
order to compete more effectively,  the Company began a strategic  repositioning
in  1996,  with the  objective  of  being  better  positioned  to  achieve  more
consistent  earnings growth in the future. The repositioning  included expanding
geographically,  upgrading  the quality of its apartment  portfolio  through the
sale of  non-strategic  assets and the  upgrade of its  existing  portfolio  and
investing in scalable  management  systems.  The key  elements of the  Company's
strategic repositioning included: (i) investing in property upgrades,  including
revenue-enhancing  improvements, (ii) establishing a development pipeline, (iii)
selling   non-strategic   properties  and  reinvesting  the  proceeds  in  newer
communities   with  more   growth   potential,   (iv)   investing   in  scalable
infrastructure, primarily in the form of people and technology and (v) expanding
into new markets in new regions of the country.  The Company  believes  that the
repositioning strategy provides the following benefits:

          o     More stable operating growth
          o     Lower capital expenditures per apartment home
          o     Improved operating margins
          o     A balance between  acquisitions and development that will
                      provide better investment returns
          o     Lower general and administrative costs as a percentage of rental
                      income
          o     Increased productivity

Acquisitions

The  Company  seeks  to  acquire   communities   in  individual   and  portfolio
transactions that can provide returns on investment (property rental income less
property  operating  expenses divided by the average capital  investment in real
estate)  substantially  in excess of the Company's  cost of capital by the third
year of ownership. During 1998, the Company continued added size to its existing
markets  where it was  under-invested.  During  1998,  the  Company  acquired 24
communities,   in  individual  and  portfolio  transactions,   containing  6,959
apartment  homes  (excluding ASR  Investments  Corporation  ("ASR") and American
Apartment Communities II, Inc. ("AAC") at a total cost (including closing costs)
of $314.7 million or $45,200 per home.

When  evaluating  potential  acquisitions,  the Company  considers,  among other
things: (i) the geographic location,  (ii) construction  quality,  condition and
design of the  community,  (iii)  asset  quality and age of the  property,  (iv)
current and projected cash flow of the property, (v) the ability to increase the
value and cash flow of the property  through  upgrades and  repositioning,  (vi)
potential for rent  increases,  (vii)  competition  from  existing  multi-family
communities,  (viii)  anticipated  new  construction  and (ix) the potential for
economic growth in the market.




The following table  summarizes the Company's  growth during the last five years
(dollars in thousands):






(a) Includes 7,550  apartment  homes acquired in the ASR Merger on March 27,
    1998 and 14,001 apartment homes acquired in the AAC Merger on December 7,
    1998.
(b) Includes 14,320  completed  apartment  homes and 675 homes under development
    acquired in connection with the South West Property Trust Inc. Merger on
    December 31, 1996.

During 1999, the Company does not  anticipate  acquiring  communities  except to
reinvest a portion of the proceeds from property sales.

Mergers

Prior to 1990,  the  Company  was the only  major  publicly  held REIT  focusing
predominantly on apartment investments. Since then, a number of new multi-family
REITs have been  formed.  Some of these REITs may seek to be acquired by larger,
more  strongly  capitalized  REITs  that have  superior  access  to the  capital
markets.  During  the  past  few  years,  the  apartment  sector  has  undergone
consolidation  and the Company has been a major  participant in this real estate
consolidation process, completing the following mergers:

      On December 31, 1996, The Company  completed the acquisition of South West
      Property Trust Inc.  ("South West") in a statutory merger (the "South West
      Merger").  South West was a publicly traded multifamily REIT that owned 44
      communities  with 14,320  apartment homes  primarily  located in Texas and
      several other  Southwestern  markets.  The South West Merger  provided the
      Company with significant  diversification beyond its traditional Southeast
      and Mid-Atlantic markets, expanding the Company into Southwestern markets.

      On  March  27,  1998,  the  Company   completed  the  acquisition  of  ASR
      Investments  Corporation ("ASR") in a statutory merger (the "ASR Merger").
      ASR was a publicly traded  multifamily REIT that owned 39 communities with
      7,550 apartment homes located in Arizona,  Texas, New Mexico and the state
      of  Washington.  The ASR Merger  furthered  the  Company's  investment  in
      Southwestern  markets,  provided  an  initial  presence  in  the   Pacific
      Northwest,  and  provided the Company  with  critical  size in Houston and
      Phoenix.

      On December 7, 1998,  the Company  completed the  acquisition  of American
      Apartment  Communities  II,  Inc.  (AAC) in a  statutory  merger (the "AAC
      Merger").  In connection with the acquisition of AAC, the Company acquired
      53  communities   with  14,001   apartment  homes  located   primarily  in
      California, the Pacific Northwest, the Midwest and Florida. The AAC Merger
      allowed the Company to enter into new major  markets  that are believed to
      have the potential  for good  long-term  growth,  such as,  Portland,  San
      Francisco,   Sacramento,   San  Jose,  Monterey,   Los  Angeles,   Denver,
      Indianapolis  and  Detroit.  In  addition,  it added size to our  existing
      portfolios in Columbus, Tampa, South Florida and Seattle.






Real estate under development

Development activity is focused in certain of the Company's major markets.  With
acquisition  costs  approaching  replacement  cost  and  the  spreads  over  the
Company's cost of capital  narrowing,  building in selected  markets enables the
Company to increase its return on investment.  In determining whether to develop
in a certain market,  the Company  considers among other things,  the following:
(i) income levels and employment growth, (ii) location,  (iii) barriers to entry
that would limit  competition,  (iii)  demographic  information such as expected
household growth, (iv) supply/demand ratio and competition among other apartment
communities  or housing  alternatives  and (v) pricing and yields on acquisition
properties relative to development properties.

During 1998,  the Company  increased is commitment to development as part of its
strategic  repositioning,  investing $97.2 million on development projects which
included eight new communities,  four additional phases to existing  communities
and nine parcels of undeveloped land. The Company plans to invest  approximately
$150 million on development,  including  communities currently under development
plus six new starts  during  the year.  These  communities  are  anticipated  to
provide  stabilized returns on investment in excess of 10%. The Company believes
that having a  development  capability  provides  the  following  benefits:  (i)
returns on  investment in excess of returns on  acquisitions,  (ii) control over
the quality of the product which  includes  quality of features,  size and floor
plan,  (iii)  ability to add presence in existing  markets and (iv) a new,  high
quality community that requires no material capital expenditures for five years.

Same Communities

      The Company's net income is primarily generated from the operations of its
apartment  communities.  During 1998,  the  Company's  same  communities  (those
communities acquired, developed and stabilized prior to January 1, 1997 and held
throughout the annual reporting period) consisted of 180 communities  containing
47,875  apartment homes.  These same communities  provided rental growth of 3.3%
which  was coupled  with  a .3% decrease in  rental  expenses.  Average physical
occupancy  and  rental  rates  at the  Company's  same  communities  during  the
comparable periods are set forth below:

                                    1998      1997        1996
                                    ----      ----        ----
Physical occupancy                 92.9%       92.9%       92.6%
Average monthly rental rates       $602        $582        $572

      The  Company's  strategic   objectives  include  upgrading  the  apartment
portfolio  through the addition of features and  initiatives to the  communities
that are appropriate for the market and which will support higher rents. Value
enhancing improvements plus improvements that substantially extend the useful
life of an existing asset are capitalized. A significant portion of the
Company's capital expenditures relate to an upgrade and repositioning program
that began in 1996. The Company recognized the need to improve its asset quality
in order to compete with an increase in the supply of newer communities, and
consequently, embarked on the upgrade program. In addition, several initiatives
which are considered revenue enhancing or expense reducing are underway that
either allow the Company to increase rents by more than the inflationary rate or
allow the Company to pass expenses to residents including: (i) sub-metering of
water and sewer to residents where local and state regulations allow, (ii)
gating and fencing of apartment communities, (iii) installing monitoring devices
such as intrusion alarms or controlled access devices, (iv) adding business and
fitness centers and (v) constructing carports, garages and self storage units.

Sales

      The Company  continually  undertakes  portfolio  review  analysis with the
objective of identifying  communities  that do not meet the Company's  long-term
investment objectives.  When determining whether to dispose of communities,  the
Company considers the following factors: (i) size,  location,  asset quality and
age of the  community,  (ii) current  operating  performance  of the  community,
(iii)  markets where the economy is not expected to be strong over the long-term
and (iv)  markets  where the  Company  does not intend to  establish a long-term
concentration. These sales allow  the  Company to reduce the age of its existing
portfolio,   which  should  result  in  lower  operating  expenses  and  capital
expenditures associated with the older communities and to exit non-core markets.
Since  1997,  the   Company   sold 30  communities   with   7,888  non-strategic
apartment homes (average age of communities sold was 25 years), the net proceeds
from which were used to acquire and develop newer  communities that will provide
higher long-term returns on investment than the communities that are being sold.
The  Company  intends  to sell 6,000 to 7,000  apartment  homes  during  1999 to
complete the sale of non-strategic  assets, the proceeds from which will be used
to fund acquisitions in order to complete tax deferred exchanges,  to repay debt
and  to  fund  new  development.  At  December  31,  1998,  the  Company  had 26
communities,  four  commercial  properties  and one parcel of  undeveloped  land
included in real estate held for disposition.




Financing Strategies

As a qualified REIT, the Company  distributes a substantial  portion of its cash
flow to its  shareholders  in the form of  distributions.  The Company  seeks to
retain  sufficient  cash to cover  normal  operating  needs,  including  routine
replacements and to help fund additional  acquisitions and development activity.
The Company utilizes a variety of primarily  external  financing sources to fund
portfolio growth,  major capital improvement programs and balloon debt payments.
Bank  lines of credit  generally  have been used to  temporarily  finance  these
expenditures,  and subsequently this short-term bank debt has been replaced with
longer-term debt or equity.  The Company may also fund its capital  requirements
through (i) the assumption of mortgage indebtedness,  (ii) property sales, (iii)
common  shares  sold  through  the  Company's  Dividend  Reinvestment  and Stock
Purchase Plan, (iv) retained  operating cash flow, (v) the issuance of operating
partnership units and (vi) the use of unused credit facilities.

At December 31, 1998, the Company had the following credit facilities:  (i) $200
million three year  unsecured  revolving  credit  facility which includes a $100
million  competitive  bid option  which  allows the Company to solicit bids from
participating  banks at rates below the contractual rate, (ii) a $50 million one
year unsecured line of credit and (iii) a $15 million uncommitted line of credit
with a major U.S. financial  institution.  At December 31, 1998, the Company had
$240 million of borrowings outstanding under these credit facilities.

During 1998,  the Company  completed the  following  financing  activities:  (i)
issued 1.7 million  shares of common  stock at a gross sales price of $14.31 per
share to a Unit Investment Trust (UIT) and 1.1 million shares of common stock at
a gross  sales  price of  $14.19  to a second  UIT,  for net  proceeds  of $38.0
million, (ii) issued $150 million of 8.125% Notes, (iii) issued $62.5 million of
8.5%  Monthly  Income  Notes,  (iv)  raised  $36.6  million  under the  Dividend
Reinvestment  and Stock  Purchase  Plan,  (v) assumed debt of $753.5  million in
connection with the acquisition of communities,  (vi) issued 8,396,863 Operating
Partnership Units valued at $107.3 million in connection with the acquisition of
communities, (vii) issued  8,224,090 shares  of  common stock  with an aggregate
value of $115.6  million in connection  with  the  acquisition  of  communities,
(viii) issued eight million  shares of convertible  preferred  stock with a fair
value  of $175  million  in  connection  with  the AAC  Merger  and (ix) had net
borrowings under its bank credit facilities of $104.4 million.

In January  1999,  the Company  established a program for the sale of up to $200
million aggregate principal amount of medium-term notes (the "MTN Program"). The
Company subsequently sold an aggregate of $150 million of senior unsecured notes
under the MTN Program which consisted of the following: (i) $70 million of 7.60%
Notes due  January  25,  2002,  (ii) $58  million of 7.67% Notes due January 26,
2004, (iii) $10 million of variable-rate Notes due January 27, 2003 on which the
Company  subsequently  executed  a swap  fixing  the rate at 7.52%  and (iv) $12
million of 7.22% notes due February 19, 2003.  Net proceeds  from the  offerings
were used to repay  revolving  bank debt and prepay  mortgage  debt. The Company
anticipates  issuing  the  remaining  $50 million of notes under the MTN Program
during the first half of 1999, the net proceeds of which will be used to repay a
senior unsecured note maturing in April 1999.

The Company is currently  negotiating  a $130  million  five year  variable-rate
revolving credit  agreement ("the Credit  Facility") with a lender through which
the  Company  will have  access to  secured  funding  through  Federal  National
Mortgage  Association.  The proceeds  from the Credit  Facility  will be used to
repay a $91 million secured credit  facility  assumed in connection with the AAC
transaction  and repay unsecured bank debt.  Additional  features of this Credit
Facility  may allow the Company to extend the maturity for five or ten years and
increase the amount  available under the Credit Facility to $200 million.  It is
anticipated  that this Credit Facility will be executed during the first quarter
of 1999.




Depending  on the  volume  and  timing  of  acquisition  activity,  the  Company
anticipates  raising  additional debt during the next twelve months primarily to
refinance debt maturities, however, 1999 acquisition and development activity is
expected to be funded  primarily  with the  proceeds  from the planned  sales of
communities.

Competition

In  most  of  the  Company's  markets,   the  competition  for  residents  among
communities is extremely  intense as some competing  communities  offer features
that the Company's communities do not have. Also, some competing communities are
larger and/or newer than the Company's communities. The competitive situation of
each community varies and intensifies as additional properties are constructed.

When in the market for new  acquisitions,  the Company  competes  with  numerous
other investors, including other REITs, individuals, partnerships, corporations,
pension  funds,  insurance  companies,  foreign  investors and other real estate
entities. Although the Company has certain advantages because of its substantial
presence in its markets and its access to capital,  some competing investors are
larger than and may have a  competitive  advantage  over the Company in terms of
assets and other  investment  resources.  During 1998, the  competition for both
single property and portfolio  acquisitions  intensified which resulted in lower
acquisition  capitalization  rates.  Management  believes  that the Company,  in
general,  is well positioned in terms of economic and other resources to compete
effectively and intends to maintain its pricing  discipline  while continuing to
pursue acquisitions that meet the Company's long-term investment objectives.

Environmental Regulations

To date,  compliance with federal,  state,  and local  environmental  protection
regulations has not had a material effect on the capital expenditures,  earnings
or competitive  position of the Company.  However,  over the past few years, the
issue has been raised  regarding  the presence of asbestos  and other  hazardous
materials in existing real estate  properties.  In response to this, on March 1,
1991, the Company adopted a property management plan for hazardous materials. As
part of the plan, Phase I environmental site investigation and reports have been
completed for each property owned by the Company and not  previously  inspected.
In addition,  all proposed  acquisitions  are  inspected  prior to  acquisition.
Acquisitions  through  merger  are  inspected  on a case  by  case  basis  given
historical  information  available.  The  inspections are conducted by qualified
environmental  consultants,  and the report  issued is  reviewed  by the Company
prior to the  purchase  or  development  of any  property.  Nevertheless,  it is
possible  that the  Company's  environmental  assessments  will not  reveal  all
environmental liabilities, or that some material environmental liabilities exist
in which the Company is  unaware.  In some  cases,  the  Company  has  abandoned
otherwise economically  attractive  acquisitions because the costs of removal or
control have been  prohibitive  and/or the Company has been  unwilling to accept
the potential risks  involved.  The Company does not believe it will be required
to engage in any large scale  abatement at any of its  properties as asbestos is
managed in place in accordance with current  environmental laws and regulations.
Management  believes that through  professional  environmental  inspections  and
testing for asbestos and other hazardous materials,  coupled with a conservative
posture  toward  accepting  known risk, the Company can minimize its exposure to
potential liability associated with environmental hazards.

Recently   enacted  federal   legislation   requires  owners  and  landlords  of
residential housing constructed prior to 1978 to disclose to potential residents
or  purchasers of the  communities  any known lead paint hazards and will impose
treble damages for failure to so notify. In addition, lead based paint in any of
the  communities  may result in lead  poisoning  in  children  residing  in that
community if chips or particles of such lead based paint are  ingested,  and the
Company may be held  liable  under  state laws for any such  injuries  caused by
ingestion of lead based paint by children living at the communities.

The  Company is unaware of any  environmental  hazards at any of its  properties
which individually or in the aggregate may have a material adverse impact on its
operations  or  financial  position.  The Company  has not been  notified by any
governmental   authority,   and  is  not  otherwise   aware,   of  any  material
non-compliance,  liability or claim  relating to  environmental  liabilities  in
connection  with any of its  properties.  The Company  does not believe that the
cost of continued compliance with applicable  environmental laws and regulations
will have a material adverse effect on the Company or its financial condition or
results  of  operations.  There  can  be  no  assurance,  however,  that  future
environmental  laws,  regulations  or  ordinances  will not  require  additional
remediation of existing conditions that are not currently  actionable.  Also, if
more stringent  requirements are imposed on the Company in the future, the costs
of  compliance  could  have a  material  adverse  effect on the  Company  or its
financial condition. To the best of its knowledge,  the Company is in compliance
with all applicable environmental rules and regulations.






 Operating Partnership - United Dominion Realty Trust, L.P.

On October 23, 1995, the Company  organized  United Dominion  Realty,  L.P. (the
"Partnership")  under the Virginia  Revised Uniform Limited  Partnership Act, as
amended (the "Partnership  Act"). The Company is the sole General Partner of the
Partnership and currently holds a 79.8% interest. The Partnership is intended to
assist the Company in competing for the  acquisition of properties that meet the
Company's investment  strategies from seller partnerships,  some or all of whose
partners may wish to defer taxation of gain realized on sale through an exchange
of partnership interests.

The Partnership  was organized  under a First Amended and Restated  Agreement of
Limited Partnership dated as of December 31, 1995 which was subsequently amended
in the Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited  Partnership dated as of
August 30, 1997 and later amended by the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of
Limited Partnership dated as of December 7, 1998 (the "Partnership  Agreement").
A summary of certain provisions of the Partnership Agreement is set forth below.
The summary does not purport to be complete  and is subject to and  qualified in
its entirety by reference to applicable  provisions of the  Partnership  Act and
the complete  Partnership  Agreement.  The Partnership  Agreement is filed as an
exhibit to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1998.

Admission of Limited Partners; Investment Agreements
The Company  presently  intends to limit admission to the Partnership to Limited
Partners  who are  "accredited  investors,"  as defined in Rule 501(a) under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). Limited Partners will
be admitted upon executing and delivering to the Company an Investment Agreement
(the "Investment Agreement") and delivering to the Partnership the consideration
prescribed therein. In the Investment Agreement, the prospective Limited Partner
makes both  representations as to his status as an accredited investor and other
representations and agreements  regarding the Units (defined below) to be issued
to him,  thus,  assuring  compliance  with the  Securities  Act.  Any  rights to
Securities  Act  registration  of the Common Stock of the Company issued to such
Limited  Partner upon redemption of his Units (see  "Redemption  Rights" below),
will also be set forth in the  Investment  Agreement or a separate  registration
rights agreement.

Units
The interests in the  Partnership  of the  Partnership's  limited  partners (the
"Limited  Partners") are  represented by units of limited  partnership  interest
(the  "Units").  All  holders  of  Units  are  entitled  to  share  in the  cash
distributions  from,  and  in  the  profits  and  losses  of,  the  Partnership.
Distributions  by the  Partnership  are made  equally for each Unit  outstanding
except  that  outside   partners  have  first   priority  as  described  in  the
"Distributions"  section. As the Partnership's sole General Partner, the Company
intends to make  distributions per Unit in the same amount as the cash dividends
paid by the Company on each share of Common Stock. However,  because Partnership
properties,  which are the primary source of cash available for  distribution to
Unit  holders,  are  significantly  fewer than  properties  held directly by the
Company  and  may  not  perform  as  well,   there  can  be  no  assurance  that
distributions  per Unit will always equal Common Stock  dividends  per share.  A
distribution  made to the Company  that  enables it to maintain  its REIT status
(see "Management and Operations" below) may deplete cash otherwise  available to
Unit  holders.  The  Partnership  may borrow from the Company for the purpose of
equalizing  per  Unit  and per  Common  share  distributions,  but  neither  the
Partnership  nor the  Company  is under  any  obligation  regarding  Partnership
borrowings for this or any other purpose.

The Limited  Partners  have the rights to which  limited  partners  are entitled
under the Partnership  Act. The Units are illiquid,  they are not registered for
secondary sale under any securities laws,  state or federal,  and they cannot be
transferred  by a holder  except as provided in the  Partnership  Agreement  and
unless they are  registered as such or an exemption  from such  registration  is
available.  Except as provided in any  Investment  Agreement or other  agreement
with a partner,  neither the Partnership nor the Company is under any obligation
to  effect  any  such  registration  or to  establish  any such  exemption.  The
Partnership Agreement imposes additional  restrictions on the transfer of Units,
as described below under "Transferability of Interests."





Management and Operations
The Company, as the sole General Partner of the Partnership, has full, exclusive
and complete  responsibility and discretion in the management and control of the
Partnership. The Limited Partners have no authority to transact business for, or
participate in the management activities or decisions of the Partnership.

The Partnership  Agreement requires that the Partnership be operated in a manner
that  will  enable  the  Company  to both  satisfy  the  requirements  for being
classified  as a REIT and avoid any federal  income tax  liability.  The General
Partner is expressly directed,  notwithstanding  anything to the contrary in the
Partnership Agreement, to cause the Partnership to distribute amounts (including
proceeds of Partnership  borrowings) that sufficiently enable the Company to pay
distributions  to its  shareholders  that are required in order to maintain REIT
status and to avoid income tax or excise tax liability.


Ability to Engage in Other  Businesses; Conflicts of Interest
The Company and other persons (including officers, directors,  employees, agents
and other  affiliates of the Company) are not prohibited  under the  Partnership
Agreement  from  engaging  in  other  business  activities,  including  business
activities  substantially similar or identical to those of the Partnership.  The
Company  will not be  required  to present  any  business  opportunities  to the
Partnership or to any Limited Partner.

Borrowing by the Partnership
The General Partner is authorized  under the Partnership  Agreement to cause the
Partnership  to  borrow  money  and to  issue  and  guarantee  debt as it  deems
necessary for the conduct of the activities of the Partnership. Such debt may be
secured by mortgages,  deeds of Company, pledges or other liens on the assets of
the Partnership.

Reimbursement of General Partner;  Transactions with the General Partner and its
Affiliates
The General  Partner  will receive no  compensation  for its services as General
Partner  of the  Partnership.  However,  as a partner  in the  Partnership,  the
General  Partner  has the  same  right to  allocations  of  profit  and loss and
distributions as other partners of the Partnership. In addition, the Partnership
will  reimburse the General  Partner for all expenses it incurs  relating to the
ownership  and  operation  of, or for the  benefit of, the  Partnership  and any
offering of Units or other partnership interests,  and for the pro rata share of
the  expenses of any  offering of  securities  of the Company some or all of the
proceeds of which are contributed to the Partnership.

Liability of General Partner and Limited Partners
The General Partner is liable for all general  obligations of the Partnership to
the extent not paid by the  Partnership.  The General  Partner is not liable for
the non-recourse obligations of the Partnership.

The Limited  Partners are not required to make further capital  contributions to
the Partnership  after their respective  initial  contributions  are fully paid.
Assuming that a Limited  Partner acts in conformity  with the  provisions of the
Partnership  Agreement,  the liability of the Limited Partner for obligations of
the  Partnership  under the  Partnership  Agreement and  Partnership Act will be
limited  to,  subject to certain  possible  exceptions,  the loss of the Limited
Partner's investment in the Partnership.

The Partnership is qualified to conduct  business in each state in which it owns
property and may qualify to conduct business in other jurisdictions. Maintenance
of limited liability may require  compliance with certain legal  requirements of
those  jurisdictions  and  certain  other  jurisdictions.   Limitations  on  the
liability of a limited partner for the obligations of a limited partnership have
not clearly been established in many states.  Accordingly, if it were determined
that the  right,  or  exercise  of the right by the  Limited  Partners,  to make
certain amendments to the Partnership Agreement or to take other action pursuant
to the Partnership Agreement constituted "control" of the Partnership's business
for the  purposes of the statutes of any relevant  state,  the Limited  Partners
might  be  held  personally  liable  for  the  Partnership's  obligations.   The
Partnership  will  operate in a manner the  General  Partner  deems  reasonable,
necessary  and  appropriate  to preserve  the limited  liability  of the Limited
Partners.

Exculpation and Indemnification of the General Partner
If acting in good faith,  the  Partnership  Agreement  provides that the General
Partner will incur no liability for monetary  damages to the  Partnership or any
Limited  Partner for losses  sustained  or  liabilities  incurred as a result of
errors in judgment or of any act or omission.  In addition,  the General Partner
is not  responsible  for any misconduct or negligence on the part of its agents,
provided the General Partner appointed such agents in good faith.






The  Partnership  Agreement  also  provides for  indemnification  of the General
Partner, the directors,  officers and employees of the General Partner, and such
other persons as the General  Partner may from time to time  designate,  against
any and all losses, claims,  damages,  liabilities (joint or several),  expenses
(including reasonable legal fees and expenses),  judgments,  fines,  settlements
and other amounts arising from any and all claims,  demands,  actions,  suits or
proceedings,  whether civil,  criminal,  administrative or  investigative,  that
relate to the operations of the  Partnership in which any such indemnitee may be
involved, or is threatened to be involved, unless it is established that (i) the
act or omission of such indemnitee was material to the matter giving rise to the
proceeding and either was committed in bad faith or was the result of active and
deliberate  dishonesty,  (ii) such  indemnitee  actually  received  an  improper
personal  benefit in money,  property  or  services  or (iii) in the case of any
criminal  proceeding,  such indemnitee had reasonable  cause to believe that the
act or omission was unlawful.

Sale of Assets; Merger
Under the Partnership Agreement, the General Partner generally has the exclusive
authority  to  determine  whether,  when and on what  terms  the  assets  of the
Partnership  will be sold or on which the Partnership  will merge or consolidate
with another entity.

Removal of the General  Partner;  Transfer  of General  Partner's  Interest
The Partnership  Agreement does not authorize the Limited Partners to remove the
General  Partner  and the Limited  Partners  have no right to remove the General
Partner under the  Partnership  Act. The General Partner may not transfer any of
its interest as General Partner and withdraw as General Partner, except (a) to a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the General Partner or the owner of all the ownership
interests in the General Partner, (b) in connection with a merger or sale of all
or substantially  all of the assets of the General Partner or (c) as a result of
the  bankruptcy  of the General  Partner.  A substitute  or  additional  General
Partner may be admitted upon  compliance  with the applicable  provisions of the
Partnership  Agreement,  including delivery by counsel for the Partnership of an
opinion  that  admission  of  such  General  Partner  will  not  cause  (i)  the
Partnership to be classified  other than as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes  or (ii) the  loss of any  Limited  Partner's  limited  liability.  The
General Partner may not sell all or  substantially  all of its assets,  or enter
into  a  merger,  unless  the  sale  or  merger  includes  the  sale  of  all or
substantially  all of the assets of, or the merger of, the  Partnership  and the
Limited Partners receive for each Unit  substantially the same  consideration as
the holder of one share of Common Stock.

Transferability of Interests
A Limited  Partner  generally  may not transfer his interest in the  Partnership
without the consent of the General Partner which may be withheld at its absolute
discretion.  The General  Partner may require,  as a condition of any  transfer,
that  the  transferring  Limited  Partner  assume  all  costs  incurred  by  the
Partnership in connection with such a transfer.

Redemption Rights
Each  Limited  Partner has the right (the  "Redemption  Right"),  subject to the
purchase right of the General Partner  described  below, to cause the redemption
of such  Limited  Partner's  Units for cash in an amount  per Unit  equal to the
average of the closing sale prices of the Common Stock of the Company on the New
York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") for the ten trading days immediately  preceding
the date of receipt by the General  Partner of notice of such Limited  Partner's
exercise of the Redemption  Right provided that such Units have been outstanding
for at least one year.  Subject  to  certain  restrictions  intended  to prevent
undesirable tax  consequences  and assure  compliance with the Securities Act, a
Limited Partner may exercise the Redemption  Right at any time but not more than
twice  within  the same  calendar  year and not with  respect to less than 1,000
Units (or all Units  owned by such  Limited  Partner,  if less  than  1,000).  A
Limited  Partner that  exercises  the  Redemption  Right shall be deemed to have
offered to sell the Units to be redeemed to the General Partner, and the General
Partner  may elect to  purchase  such  Units by paying to such  Limited  Partner
either the redemption  price in cash or by delivering to such Limited  Partner a
number of shares of Common  Stock of the  Company  equal to the  product  of the
number of such  Units,  multiplied  by the  "Conversion  Factor,"  which is 1.0,
subject to customary antidilution  provisions in the event of stock dividends on
or subdivisions  or  combinations of the Common Stock  subsequent to issuance of
such Units.  Any Common Stock issued to the  redeeming  Limited  Partner will be
listed on the NYSE and, if to the extent  provided in such  Redeeming  Partner's
Investment  Agreement or other  agreement,  registered  under the Securities Act
and/or entitled to rights to Securities Act registration.



No Withdrawal of Capital by Limited Partners
No  Limited  Partner  has  the  right  to  withdraw  any  part  of  his  capital
contribution  to  the  Partnership  or  interest   thereon  or  to  receive  any
distribution, except as provided in the Partnership Agreement.

Issuance of Additional Limited  Partnership  Interests  and Other  Partnership
Securities
The General Partner is authorized,  without the consent of the Limited Partners,
to cause  the  Partnership  to  issue  additional  Units  or  other  Partnership
securities to the partners or to other persons on such terms and  conditions and
for such consideration, including cash or any property or other assets permitted
by the Partnership Act, as the General Partner deems appropriate.

Meetings
The  Partnership  Agreement does not provide for annual  meetings of the Limited
Partners, and the General Partner does not anticipate calling such meetings.

Amendment of Partnership Agreement
Amendments to the Partnership  Agreement may, with four  exceptions,  be made by
the General Partner without the consent of the Limited  Partners.  Any amendment
to the Partnership Agreement which would (i) affect the Conversion Factor or the
Redemption Rights of the Limited  Partners,  (ii) adversely affect the rights of
the  Limited  Partners  to  receive  distributions  payable  to them  under  the
Partnership  Agreement,  or  (iii)  alter  the  Partnership's  profit  and  loss
allocations  shall require the consent of Limited  Partners.  Any amendment that
would impose any obligation upon the Limited Partners to make additional capital
contributions  to the  Partnership  shall  require the  consent of each  Limited
Partner owning more than 50% of the percentage interests in the Partnership.

Books and Reports
The  General  Partner  is  required  to  keep  at the  specified  office  of the
Partnership  the  Partnership's  books  and  records,  including  copies  of the
Partnership's  federal,  state and local tax returns, a list of the partners and
their last known business addresses,  the Partnership Agreement, the Partnership
certificate  and all amendments  thereto and any other documents and information
required  under  the  Partnership  Act.  Any  partner  or  his  duly  authorized
representative,  upon  paying  duplicating,  collection  and mailing  costs,  is
entitled to inspect or copy such records during ordinary business hours.

The General Partner will furnish to each Limited Partner, as soon as practicable
after the close of each  fiscal  year,  an annual  report  containing  financial
statements  of the  Partnership  (or  the  Company,  if  consolidated  financial
statements  including the  Partnership  are prepared) for such fiscal year.  The
financial  statements  will be audited by  accountants  selected  by the General
Partner.  In  addition,  as soon as  practicable  after the close of each fiscal
quarter  (other than the last quarter of the fiscal year),  the General  Partner
will furnish to each Limited  Partner a quarterly  report  containing  unaudited
financial  statements of the  Partnership  (or the Company and the  Partnership,
consolidated).

The General Partner will furnish to each Limited  Partner,  within 75 days after
the close of each fiscal year of the Partnership,  the tax information necessary
to file such Limited Partner's individual tax returns.

Loans to Partnership
The  Partnership   Agreement  provides  that  the  General  Partner  may  borrow
additional  Partnership  funds  for any  Partnership  purpose  from the  General
Partner or a subsidiary or subsidiaries of the General Partner or otherwise.

Adjustments of Capital Accounts and Percentage Interests
A separate  capital account will be established and maintained for each Partner.
The General  Partner shall revalue the property of the  Partnership  to its fair
market value (as determined by the General  Partner,  in its sole discretion) in
accordance  with  applicable  federal  income tax  regulations  if: (i) a new or
existing   general  or  limited   partner  of  the  Partnership  (a  Partner  or
collectively  Partners)  acquires an additional  interest in the  Partnership in
exchange for more than a de minimis capital  contribution,  (ii) the Partnership
distributes to a Partner more than a de minimis  amount of Partnership  property
as  consideration  for a  Partnership  interest  or  (iii)  the  Partnership  is
liquidated for federal income tax purposes.  When the Partnership's  property is
revalued by the General  Partner,  the capital accounts of the partners shall be
adjusted in accordance  with such  regulations,  which  generally  requires such
capital  accounts to be  adjusted to reflect the manner in which the  unrealized
gain or loss  inherent  in such  property  (that has not been  reflected  in the
capital accounts  previously)  would be allocated among the Partners pursuant to
the Partnership  Agreement if there were a taxable  disposition of such property
for its fair market value on the date of the revaluation.





If the number of outstanding Units increases or decreases during a taxable year,
each Partner's  percentage  interest in the Partnership shall be adjusted by the
General  Partner as of the effective date of each such increase or decrease to a
percentage  equal to the  number of Units  held by such  Partner  divided by the
aggregate number of Units  outstanding,  after giving effect to such increase or
decrease,  and  profits  and  losses  for the year will be  allocated  among the
Partners in a manner selected by the General Partner to give appropriate  effect
to such adjustments.

Registration Rights
Limited  Partners have no rights to Securities  Act  registration  of any Common
Stock of the Company  received in connection  with redemption of Units except as
provided in their respective  Investment Agreements or other agreements with the
Company.

Tax Matters; Profit and Loss Allocations
Pursuant to the Partnership Agreement,  the General Partner is the "tax matters"
partner of the Partnership  and, as such, has the authority to handle tax audits
and to make tax elections under the Code on behalf of the Partnership.

Profits of the  Partnership  are to be allocated first to partners in proportion
to and up to the amount of cash distributions, and second in accordance with the
respective partnership  interests.  Losses are allocated in accordance with each
partners percentage interest.

Distributions
The Partnership  Agreement  provides that the General  Partner shall  distribute
cash  quarterly,  in  amounts  determined  by the  General  Partner  in its sole
discretion (i) first to the outside limited partners, (ii) second to the Company
(or  appropriate  subsidiary)  until the Company has received an amount equal to
prior  distributions  to the outside limited  partners,  and (iii) third, to the
outside  limited  partners and the Company (or the  appropriate  subsidiary)  in
accordance with their percentage interests in the Partnership.  Also, the amount
of cash  distributable  to a Limited  Partner who has not been a Limited Partner
for the full quarter for which the  distribution  is paid is subject to pro rata
reduction.  Upon liquidation of the  Partnership,  after payment of, or adequate
provision for, debts and obligations of the  Partnership,  including any Partner
loans,  any  remaining  assets of the  Partnership  will be  distributed  to all
Partners with positive  capital  accounts in  accordance  with their  respective
positive capital account balances. If the General Partner has a negative balance
in its capital account  following a liquidation of the  Partnership,  it will be
obligated to contribute cash to the Partnership equal to the negative balance in
its capital account.

Term
The Partnership will continue until December 31, 2051, or until sooner dissolved
upon (i) the bankruptcy,  dissolution,  death or withdrawal of a General Partner
(unless the Limited  Partners  elect to continue the  Partnership by electing by
unanimous  consent  a  substitute   General  Partner  within  90  days  of  such
occurrence),  (ii) the passage of 90 days after the sale or other disposition of
all or substantially all the assets of the Partnership,  (iii) the redemption of
all Limited  Partners'  interests  in the  Partnership  or (iv)  election by the
General Partner.  Upon dissolution of the Partnership,  the General Partner will
proceed to liquidate the assets of the  Partnership  and distribute the proceeds
remaining  after  payment or  adequate  provision  for  payment of all debts and
obligations of the Partnership as provided in the Partnership Agreement.






Item 2.  Properties


Real Estate Owned





The table below sets forth a summary by major geographic market of the Company's
portfolio of apartment communities at December 31, 1998.


Included  in  the  table  below  are  (i)  26  apartment  communities  held  for
disposition in the amount of  $163,366,912,  net of accumulated  depreciation in
the amount of $34,176,249 and (ii) real estate under  development which includes
eight new communities and two additional  phases  (excludes land held for future
development).  At December 31, 1998, the Company also had two shopping  centers,
three other  commercial  properties  and one parcel of  undeveloped  land in the
consolidated balance sheet classified as real estate held for disposition in the
amount  of  $16,294,529,  net  of  accumulated  depreciation  in the  amount  of
$1,791,161, which are not included in the table below.



See also Notes 1 and 2 to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and Schedule
III- Summary of Real Estate Owned.








(A)  These communities are encumbered by the following: (i) 23 communities
     encumbered by two REMIC financings aggregating $75,919,228, (ii) six
     communities encumbered by one secrued note payable in the amount of
     $31,700,000, (iii) 24 communities encumbered by two fixed-rate notes
     payable aggregating $159,732,050 and (iv) 18 communities encumbered by two
     variable-rate notes payable aggregating $111,360,025.
     Excludes a $3.5 million mortgage note on one commercial property.

(B)  Average Monthly Rental Rates for the Year Ended December 31, 1998,
     represents potential rent collections (gross potential rents less market
     adjustments), which approximates net effective rents.
     These amounts exclude the 1998 acquisitions.

(C)  Physical occupancy for the year excludes the communities acquired on
     December 7, 1998, in connection with the American Apartment Communities II,
     Inc. statutory merger ("AAC Merger").

(D)  Average Monthly Rental Rates for the year ended December 31, 1998 exclude
     the 14,001 apartment homes acquired on December 7, 1998 in connection with
     the AAC Merger and the 7,550 apartment homes acquired on March 27, 1998 in
     connection with the acquisition of ASR Investments Corporation. These
     apartment homes are excluded because the results are not meaningful on a
     yearly comparison as these apartment homes were not owned for a full year.










Item  3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      Neither the  Company nor any of its  apartment  communities  is  presently
subject to any  material  litigation  nor, to the  Company's  knowledge,  is any
litigation threatened against the Company or any of the communities,  other than
routine  actions  arising  in the  ordinary  course of  business.  Some of these
routine actions are expected to be covered by liability insurance,  and none are
expected  to  have a  material  adverse  effect  on the  business  or  financial
condition or results of operations of the Company.

Item  4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No  matters  were  submitted  to a vote of  security  holders  during the fourth
quarter of the Company's fiscal year ended December 31, 1998.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

      The  executive  officers  of the  Company,  listed  below,  serve in their
respective capacities for approximate one year terms.

Name                    Age               Office                  Since
- - ----                    ---               ------                  ------

John P. McCann          54    Chairman of the Board               1974
                              and Chief Executive Officer

John S. Schneider       60    Vice-Chairman of the Board,         1996
                              Chief Operations Officer
                              and President

James Dolphin           49    Executive Vice President            1979
                              and Chief Financial Officer

Richard A. Giannotti    43    Senior Vice President and Director  1985
                              of Development-East







Mark E. Wood            54    Senior Vice President and Director  1996
                              of Development-West

Katheryn E. Surface     40    Senior Vice President, Corporate    1992
                              Secretary and General Counsel

Curt W. Carter          42    Senior Vice President and Director  1985
                              of Apartment Operations-Northern
                              Region

Robert L. Landis        40    Senior Vice President and Director  1996
                              of Apartment Operations-Western
                              Region



Walter J. Lamperski     41    Senior Vice President and Director  1996
                              of Apartment Operations-Southern
                              Region




     Mr. McCann has been the Company's managing Chief Executive Officer since
1974. Mr. McCann was elected Chairman of the Board in 1996.

     Mr. Schneider is the former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the
Board of South West Property Trust Inc. (South West). Mr. Schneider was employed
with the investment banking firm of Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette until from
1967 until 1973, when he co-founded a predecessor firm to South West. Mr.
Schneider was elected Vice Chairman of the Board and Executive Vice President in
1996 in connection with the merger with South West and President in 1998.

     Mr. Dolphin was first employed by the Company in 1979 as Controller. He was
elected Vice President of Finance in 1985 and has served as the Company's Chief
Financial Officer through December 31, 1998. He was elected Senior Vice
President in 1987 and Executive Vice President in 1996. Effective at the close
of business on December 31, 1998, Mr. Dolphin was no longer employed by the
Company.

     Mr. Giannotti joined the Company as Director of Development and
Construction in September 1985. He was elected Assistant Vice President in 1988,
Vice President in 1989 and Senior Vice President in 1996. In 1998, Mr. Giannotti
was elected Director of Development-East.

     Mr. Wood joined the Company as Vice President of Construction in connection
with the merger of South West in 1996. He was promoted to Senior Vice President
and Director Development-West in 1998.

     Ms. Surface joined the Company in 1992 as Assistant Vice President and
Legal Counsel, elected General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Vice President
in 1994 and elected to Senior Vice President in 1997.

     Mr. Carter joined the Company in 1991 as an Assistant Vice President of
Apartment Operations. In 1992, he was promoted to Vice President of Apartment
Operations. In 1995, he was elected Regional Vice President- Northern Region,
and in 1997 was promoted to Senior Vice President and Director of Apartment
Operations- Northern Region.

     Mr. Landis joined the Company in 1996 as Regional Vice President-Florida
Region and was promoted in 1997 to Senior Vice President and Director of
Apartment Operations-Florida Region. During 1998, Mr. Landis became the Senior
Vice President and Director of Apartment Operations-Western Region. Prior to
joining the Company, he was Vice President of Asset Management and Property
Management for CRI/CAPREIT, Inc.

     Mr. Lamperski joined the Company joined the Company in 1996 as the Regional
Vice President-Southern Region and was promoted in 1997 to Senior Vice President
and Director of Apartment Operations-Southern Region. From February 1990 to
August 1996, he was Vice President and Director of Property Management for
Steven D. Bell, a property management company located in Greensboro, North
Carolina.






                                    PART II

Item 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

      The Company's Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
under the symbol UDR. The following  tables set forth the quarterly high and low
closing  sale prices per common  share  reported on the NYSE for each quarter of
the  last  two  years.   Distribution  information  for  Common  Stock  reflects
distributions  declared per share for each calendar  quarter and paid at the end
of the following month.

COMMON STOCK
                                                         Distributions
                           High           Low            Declared
1st  Quarter              $ 16           $ 14 5/8       $  .2525
2nd Quarter                 15 1/8         13 3/8          .2525
3rd  Quarter                15 3/8         13 7/8          .2525
4th  Quarter                15 1/8         13 5/8          .2525

1st  Quarter              $ 14 13/16     $ 13 3/4       $  .2625
2nd Quarter                 14 1/2         13 5/16         .2625
3rd  Quarter                14 1/16        10 11/16        .2625
4th  Quarter                11 3/4         10 1/16         .2625

The Company  determined  that,  for federal  income tax purposes,  approximately
87.8% of the  distributions  for each of the four  quarters of 1998  represented
ordinary income to its shareholders and 12.2%  represented  return of capital to
its shareholders.

On March 2, 1999, the closing sale price of the Common Stock was $9.81 per share
on the NYSE, and there were 8,809 holders of record of the 104,060,609 shares of
Common Stock.

The Company pays regular quarterly  distributions to holders of shares of Common
Stock.  Future  distributions  by the Company will be at the  discretion  of its
Board of Directors after considering the Company's actual funds from operations,
financial   condition  and  capital   requirements,   the  annual   distribution
requirements  under the REIT  provisions of the Internal  Revenue Code and other
factors.  The annual  distribution  payment for calendar year 1998 necessary for
the Company to maintain its status as a REIT was approximately  $0.84 per share.
The Company paid total distributions of $1.04 per share for 1998.

SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK
      The Company's Series A Preferred Stock ("Series A Preferred") and Series B
Preferred  Stock ("Series B Preferred") is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE)  under the symbol  "UDRpfa" and  "UDRpfb",  respectively.  The  following
tables  set forth the  quarterly  high and low  closing  sale  prices  per share
reported  on the NYSE for each  quarter  of the last two years for the  Series A
Preferred  and Series B  Preferred.  Distribution  information  for the Series A
Preferred and Series B Preferred reflects  distributions  declared per share for
each calendar quarter and paid at the end of the following month.





                                                            Distributions
                    High                    Low               Declared
1st  Quarter     $  26 7/8              $  25 3/4             $  .578
2nd Quarter         26 5/8                 25 5/8                .578
3rd  Quarter        27 1/8                 25 7/8                .578
4th  Quarter        26 7/8                 25 1/8                .578

1st  Quarter     $  26 11/16            $  26 1/8             $  .578
2nd Quarter         26 7/8                 25 3/4                .578
3rd  Quarter        25 15/16               24 1/2                .578
4th  Quarter        25 11/16               24 3/8                .578

On or after April 24,  2000,  the Series A Preferred  Stock may be redeemed  for
cash at a redemption  price of $25 per share,  plus accrued and unpaid dividends
from  the  proceeds  from  the  sale of  additional  capital  stock  (common  or
preferred).

SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK
                                                           Distributions
High              Low                  Declared
1st  Quarter         --                   --                        --
2nd Quarter    $   25 1/2              $  25                        --
3rd  Quarter       26 7/8                 25 1/4                  .5554
4th  Quarter       26 5/8                 25 7/8                  .5375

1st  Quarter   $   27 3/8                 26 3/16                 .5375
2nd Quarter        26 1/2                 25 5/8                  .5375
3rd  Quarter       26 13/16               24 9/16                 .5375
4th  Quarter       25 7/8                 24 9/16

The Series B Preferred Stock may be redeemed  beginning May 29, 2007 at the sole
option of the Company at a redemption  price of $25 per share,  plus accrued and
unpaid  dividends  from the proceeds from the sale of  additional  capital stock
(common or preferred).

SERIES D PREFERRED STOCK
On December 7, 1998, in connection  with the  acquisition of American  Apartment
Communities II, Inc. (AAC), the Company  issued eight million shares of Series D
Convertible  Redeemable Preferred Stock (Series D) to one of the sellers of AAC.
The Series D is convertible  into 1.5385 shares of common stock at the option of
the holder at any time at $16.25 per share. The Series D is not redeemable prior
to December  7, 2003.  On or after this date,  the  Company  may, at its option,
redeem all or part of the Series D at a price per share of $25, plus accrued and
unpaid  dividends  from the proceeds from the sale of  additional  capital stock
(common or  preferred).  Distributions  declared  during the fourth quarter were
$.12 per share. The Series D is not listed on any exchange.

DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT AND STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
The  Company has a Dividend  Reinvestment  and Stock  Purchase  Plan under which
holders of Common and Preferred Stock may elect to automatically  reinvest their
distributions and make additional cash payments to acquire  additional shares of
the Company's Common Stock at a discount.




OPERATING PARTNERSHIP UNITS
From time to time, the Company issues shares of its common stock in exchange for
Operating  Partnership  Units  (OP Unit)  tendered  to the  Company's  operating
partnership,  United Dominion Realty L.P., for redemption in accordance with the
provisions of the Agreement of limited  Partnership  of United  Dominion  Realty
L.P. Such shares are issued based on the exchange ratio of one share for each OP
Unit.  During 1998,  the Company issued a total of 39,041 shares of common stock
in exchange for OP Units.

Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

      The following table sets forth selected  consolidated  financial and other
information  for the  Company  as of and for each of the  years in the five year
period ended December 31, 1998. The table should be read in conjunction with the
Consolidated Financial Statements of United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. and the
Notes thereto included elsewhere herein.





Selected Financial Data










(a) During the past three years, the Company has completed three statutory
    mergers which include the  following:  (i) South West Property Trust Inc. on
    December 31, 1996 for an aggregate purchase price of $572 million,  (ii) ASR
    Investments  Corporation  Inc. on March 27, 1998 for an  aggregate  purchase
    price of $323  million, and (iii) American Apartment Communities II, Inc. on
    December 7, 1998, for an aggregate purchase price of $794 million.
(b) Funds from  operations ("FFO") is defined as income before gains (losses) on
    sales of investments,  minority interests and extraordinary  items (computed
    in accordance  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles)  plus real
    estate  depreciation,  less  preferred  dividends and after  adjustment  for
    significant non-recurring items. This definition conforms to recommendations
    set forth in a White  Paper  adopted  by the  National  Association  of Real
    Estate  Investment Trusts (NAREIT) in early 1995. FFO for the years prior to
    1995 have been  adjusted  to conform to the NAREIT  definition.  The Company
    considers  FFO  in  evaluating  property   acquisitions  and  its  operating
    performance  and believes that FFO should be considered  along with, but not
    as an  alternative  to,  net  income  and  cash  flows as a  measure  of the
    Company's  activities  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  accounting
    principles and is not necessarily  indicative of cash available to fund cash
    needs.
(c) Reflects the adjustment for internal acquisition costs that were capitalized
    prior to March 19, 1998.
(d) During 1998, the Company recorded a loss of $15.6 million on the termination
    of an interest rate risk management contract.


                                     PART II

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

Overview
The following  discussion  should be read in conjunction  with the  Consolidated
Financial  Statements and Notes thereto of United  Dominion  Realty Trust,  Inc.
(the "Company")  appearing elsewhere in this report. This annual report contains
forward-looking  statements  within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities
Act of 1993, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as  amended.  Such  forward-looking   statements  include,  without  limitation,
statements  concerning  1999  property   acquisitions  and  dispositions,   1999
development activity and capital expenditures,  1999 capital raising activities,
1999 rent growth,  occupancy and rental expense growth.  Such statements involve
known and unknown  risks,  uncertainties  and other  factors which may cause the
actual  results,  performance  or  achievement  of the Company to be  materially
different  from the results of operations or plans  expressed or implied by such
forward-looking   statements.   Such  factors   include,   among  other  things,
unanticipated  adverse business developments  affecting the Company,  and/or its
properties,  adverse  changes in the real  estate  markets and general and local
economies  and  business  conditions.  Although  the Company  believes  that the
assumptions  underlying  the  forward-looking  statements  contained  herein are
reasonable,  any of the assumptions could be inaccurate, and therefore there can
be no assurance  that such  statements  included in this report will prove to be
accurate.   In  light  of  the   significant   uncertainties   inherent  in  the
forward-looking  statements  included herein,  the inclusion of such information
should not be regarded as representation by the Company or any other person that
the results or conditions  described in such  statements or the  objectives  and
plans of the Company will be achieved.

The  Company  operates in one defined  business  segment as an owner,  operator,
renovator  and  developer  of  apartment  communities  nationwide.  Management's
strategy is to be a national,  highly  efficient  provider of quality  apartment
homes with meaningful size in approximately  35 growth markets.  The Company has
implemented  this  strategy  through the  acquisition  of  portfolios  of higher
quality communities, the sale of lower quality communities, a greater commitment
to development and the upgrade of older  communities.  The Company seeks to be a
market leader by operating a sufficiently  sized portfolio of apartments  within
each market in order to drive down  operating  costs through  economies of scale
and management  efficiencies.  The Company believes that market  diversification
increases investment opportunity and decreases the risk associated with cyclical
local real estate markets and economies. At December 31, 1998, the Company owned
326 communities  containing  86,893  apartment homes  nationwide.  The following
table summarizes the Company's apartment information by market:






The following table  summarizes the Company's  apartment  market  information by
strategic geographic market:






(a)        Average  monthly rental rates  represent  potential rent  collections
           (gross potential rents less market  adjustments),  which  approximate
           net effective rents. These figures exclude 1998 acquisitions.
(b)        Physical  occupancy  is defined as rental  income  (potential  rental
           collections less vacancy loss,  management  units,  units held out of
           service and move-in  concessions)  divided by  potential  collections
           (gross  potential  rent  less  management  units,  units  held out of
           service  and move-in  concessions)  for the  period,  expressed  as a
           percentage.
(c)        The  Physical  Occupancy  and Average  Monthly  Rental  Rates for the
           twelve months ended December 31, 1998,  does not include  communities
           which  were  acquired  on  March  27,  1998 in  connection  with  the
           acquisition of ASR Investments  Corporation nor communities  acquired
           on December 7, 1998 in connection  with the  acquisition  of American
           Apartment Communities II or the 1998 single acquisitions.
(d)        The  Physical  Occupancy  and Average  Monthly  Rental  Rates are not
           available  for the  communities  included in this  market  which were
           acquired on December 7, 1998 in connection  with the  acquisition  of
           American Apartment Communities II.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
As a qualified real estate investment trust ("REIT"),  the Company distributes a
substantial  portion  of its  cash  flow  to its  shareholders  in the  form  of
quarterly  distributions.  The Company believes that cash provided by operations
will  be  adequate  to  meet  normal  operating   requirements  and  payment  of
distributions  by the Company in accordance  with REIT  requirements in both the
short and  long-term.  For the year ended  December 31, 1998, the Company's cash
flow from operating activities exceeded cash distributions paid to preferred and
common shareholders and operating partnership  unitholders by $17.2 million. The
Company  utilizes  a variety of  primarily  external  financing  sources to fund
portfolio growth,  major capital improvement programs and balloon debt payments.
The  Company's  bank  lines of credit  generally  have been used to  temporarily
finance these expenditures,  and subsequently this short-term bank debt has been
replaced with longer-term debt or equity.  At December 31, 1998, the Company had
cash and cash  equivalents  of $18.5  million  and amounts  available  under its
various credit facilities aggregating $25.0 million.

The Company expects to meet its short-term  liquidity  requirements  through net
cash provided by operations  and  borrowings  under credit  facilities.  To meet
certain  long-term  liquidity  requirements,  such as scheduled debt maturities,
development activity and significant capital  improvements,  the Company expects
to issue  secured and  unsecured  notes  payable.  The Company may also fund its
capital requirements  through: (i) proceeds from asset sales, (ii) common shares
sold through the Company's Dividend  Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, (iii)
retained operating cash flow and (iv) the use of unused credit  facilities.  The
Company anticipates issuing debt during 1999, primarily to replace existing debt
maturities and to pay down credit facilities.

The following  discussion explains the changes in net cash provided by operating
activities,  net cash used for  investing  activities  and net cash  provided by
financing   activities  which  are  presented  in  the  Company's   Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows.

Operating Activities
For the year ended  December 31, 1998,  the Company's  cash flow from  operating
activities  increased $7.4 million over the same period last year. This increase
is primarily due to the increased  operating income from the Company's  acquired
communities,  as well as  increases  in  property  operating  income  within the
Company's  same community  portfolio  achieved  primarily  through higher rental
rates as discussed below and under "Results of Operations".

Investing Activities
For the year ended December 31, 1998, net cash used for investing activities was
$296.4 million compared to $345.7 million for 1997, a decrease of $49.3 million.
Changes in the level of  investing  activities  from period to period  primarily
reflect the changing levels of the Company's  acquisition,  capital expenditure,
development and sales programs.



Acquisitions
The Company seeks to acquire communities in individual or portfolio transactions
that can provide  returns on  investment  (property  rental income less property
operating  expenses  divided by the average  capital  investment in real estate)
substantially  in excess of the  Company's  cost of capital by the third year of
ownership.  During 1999, the Company does not anticipate  acquiring  communities
except to reinvest a portion of the proceeds from property  sales.  During 1998,
the Company acquired 24 communities,  in individual and portfolio  transactions,
containing  6,959  apartment  homes  (excluding  ASR and  AAC)  at a total  cost
(including  closing  costs) of $314.7  million or $45,200 per home. All of these
acquisitions were located within one of the Company's designated major markets.
The communities acquired by market were as follows:



Mergers
On March 27, 1998,  the Company  completed the  acquisition  of ASR  Investments
Corporation ("ASR") in a statutory merger (the "ASR Merger"). ASR was a publicly
traded  multifamily  REIT that owned 39 communities  with 7,550  apartment homes
located  in  Arizona,  Texas,  New  Mexico  and the  state  of  Washington.  The
acquisition  was  structured  as a  tax-free  transaction  and was  treated as a
purchase for accounting  purposes.  No goodwill was recorded in connection  with
this  transaction.  In connection  with the  acquisition,  the Company  acquired
primarily real estate assets totaling $313.7 million. Each share of ASR's common
stock  was  exchanged   for  1.575  shares  of  the   Company's   common  stock.
Consideration  given by the Company  included  7,742,839 shares of the Company's
common  stock  valued at $14 per share for an  aggregate  equity value of $108.4
million plus the  issuance of  1,529,990  OP Units in the Heritage  Communities,
L.P. valued at $21.4 million.  In addition,  the Company assumed, at fair value,
mortgage debt totaling  $179.4  million and other  liabilities of $13.6 million.
The aggregate  purchase  price in the ASR Merger was $323.1  million,  including
transaction costs.

On December 7, 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of American Apartment
Communities II ("AAC") in a statutory  merger (the "AAC Merger").  In connection
with the  acquisition of AAC, the Company  acquired 53  communities  with 14,001
apartment  homes located  primarily in California,  the Pacific  Northwest,  the
Midwest and Florida.  The AAC Merger was structured as a tax-free merger and was
treated as a purchase  for  accounting  purposes.  No goodwill  was  recorded in
connection with this transaction. In connection with the AAC Merger, the Company
acquired  primarily real estate assets totaling  $766.9  million.  The aggregate
purchase price consisted of the following: (i) 8,000,000 shares of the Company's



7.5% Series D Convertible  Preferred Stock ($25  liquidation  preference  value)
with a fair market value of $175 million which is convertible into the Company's
Common  Stock at $16.25 per share,  (ii) the  issuance of  5,614,035 OP Units to
holders of the 21% interest in AAC with an aggregate  fair market value of $67.4
million, (iii) the assumption of $457.7 million of secured notes payable at fair
market  value,  (iv)  the  assumption  of  liabilities  and  minority  interests
aggregating  $27.8  million  and (v) the payment of $59.8  million of cash.  The
aggregate  purchase  price  in the AAC  Merger  was  $793.7  million,  including
transaction costs.

The AAC Merger and ASR Merger  established  the  Company as a national  owner of
apartment communities.  These two transactions enabled the Company to enter into
new markets in the Pacific  Northwest,  California,  Colorado  and the  Midwest.
Entry into these markets  provides the Company with market  diversification  and
reduces cyclical risks by making the Company less dependent on any one market.

Real Estate under Development
Consistent  with the Company's  acquisition  strategy,  development  activity is
focused in certain of its major markets.  During 1998, the Company increased its
level of development activity, completing the development of 228 apartment homes
in two additional phases to existing communities and 662 apartment homes in four
new communities.  During 1998, the Company invested $97.2 million on development
projects,  which  included  eight new  communities,  four  additional  phases to
existing communities and nine parcels of undeveloped land.

At December 31, 1998, the Company had 1,946 apartment homes under development as
outlined below (dollars in thousands except estimated cost per home):




During 1998, the following development projects were completed and moved to real
estate held for investment (dollars in thousands):



The Company has increased its commitment to development as part of its strategic
repositioning.  During 1999, the Company  expects to invest  approximately  $150
million on the development,  including  communities  currently under development
plus six new starts during the year.



Capital Expenditures
The Company  capitalizes  value enhancing  improvements  plus  improvements that
substantially  extend the useful life of an existing  asset.  In addition to the
Company's  capital  expenditures on new acquisitions,  a significant  portion of
capital  expenditures  relate to the Company's same  communities.  These capital
expenditures  include an upgrade  program and other  initiatives  which began in
1996 and are considered revenue enhancing or expense reducing.

During 1998, the Company invested $100.4 million on capital  improvements to its
apartment  portfolio which include an upgrade program and other initiatives that
began in 1996. For the same community  apartments  (those owned prior to January
1, 1997), capital expenditures averaged $1,112 per home as follows: (i) ordinary
capital  expenditures   including  floor  coverings,   HVAC  equipment,   roofs,
appliances and other ordinary capital  expenditures of $14.5 million or $303 per
home, (ii) asset preservation  expenditures including landscaping,  parking lots
and other land  improvements  of $9.4 million or $197 per home and (iii) revenue
enhancing  expenditures  including  sub-metering  of water and  sewer,  interior
improvements  and upgrades,  construction of carports,  garages and self-storage
units, business and fitness centers,  security alarms, gating and access devices
and intrusion  alarms,  washer and dryer connections and other revenue enhancing
expenditures of $29.3 million or $612 per home.

The Company has completed  most of its same community  upgrade  program and will
reduce its capital  expenditures  related to same  communities  during 1999, but
will  continue to  selectively  add  revenue  enhancing  improvements  which can
provide a high return on investment.

Disposition of Investments
The Company continually  undertakes portfolio review analyses with the objective
of identifying  communities that do not meet the Company's long-term  investment
objectives due to size, location,  age, quality and/or performance.  These sales
allow the  Company to reduce the age of its  existing  portfolio,  which  should
result in lower operating expenses and capital expenditures associated  with the
older communities and to exit non-core markets. Since 1997, the Company has sold
30  communities  with  7,888  non-strategic  apartment  homes  (average  age  of
communities sold was 25 years), the net proceeds from which were used to acquire
and develop newer  communities  that will provide  higher  long-term  returns on
investment  than the  communities  that are being sold.  The sales are initially
dilutive  to earnings as the initial  returns on  investment  on higher  quality
apartments  are lower than the returns on  investment on the  communities  being
sold. During 1998, the sales program had approximately a $.03 per share dilutive
impact on the Company's net income available to common shareholders.

During 1998, the Company  transferred 19 communities and one commercial property
aggregating  $128.4  million,  net of  accumulated  depreciation  and  valuation
allowance,  from  real  estate  held  for  investment  to real  estate  held for
disposition.

During 1998, the Company sold 18 communities  with 5,318 apartment homes and one
shopping center for an aggregate  sales price of $156.6 million.  For income tax
purposes, 11 of the 18 community sales were structured to qualify as a like-kind
exchange under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code, so the related capital
gain  will be  deferred  for  federal  income  tax  purposes.  Net  proceeds  of
approximately $135.2 million were primarily used to fund acquisitions.

The  Company  intends  to sell 6,000 to 7,000  apartment  homes  during  1999 to
complete  the  sale of  non-strategic  assets.  It is  anticipated  that the net
proceeds from the sales, estimated between $200 million to $250 million, will be
used to fund acquisitions in order to complete  tax-deferred  exchanges to defer
large capital gains, to fund development activity and repay mortgage debt.

Financing Activities
Net cash  provided  by  financing  activities  during  1998 was  $169.2  million
compared to $194.8 million for 1997.



Cash Provided by Financing Activities
During  the  first  quarter  of 1998,  the  Company  entered  into two  separate
transactions  to sell its common stock to Unit  Investment  Trusts  ("UIT").  In
February  1998,  the Company  issued 1.7 million shares of its common stock at a
gross  sales  price of $14.31 per share to a UIT.  In March  1998,  the  Company
issued 1.1 million  shares of its common  stock at a gross sales price of $14.19
to a second UIT. The net proceeds from the two UIT's  aggregating  $38.0 million
were primarily used to curtail bank debt.

The Company  issued  2,824,627  shares of its common  stock and  received  $36.6
million  under its Dividend  Reinvestment  and Stock  Purchase Plan during 1998,
which included $23.5 million in optional cash  investments  and $13.1 million of
reinvested distributions.

On November 10, 1998,  the Company  sold an aggregate  $212.5  million of senior
unsecured notes payable in two  simultaneous but separate public offerings which
consisted  of the  following:  (i) $150 million of 8.125% Notes due November 15,
2000 and (ii)  $62.5  million  (including  the  over-allotment  option)  of 8.5%
Monthly  Income Notes due November 15, 2008. Net proceeds from the two offerings
(net  of  underwriting   discounts,   commissions  and  offering   expenses)  of
approximately  $207.6 million were used to repay bank debt outstanding under the
Company's various credit facilities and to fund the acquisition of AAC.

In January  1999,  the Company  established a program for the sale of up to $200
million aggregate principal amount of medium-term notes (the "MTN Program"). The
Company subsequently sold an aggregate of $150 million of senior unsecured notes
under the MTN Program which consisted of the following: (i) $70 million of 7.60%
Notes due  January  25,  2002,  (ii) $58  million of 7.67% Notes due January 26,
2004, (iii) $10 million of variable-rate Notes due January 27, 2003 on which the
Company  subsequently  executed  a swap  fixing  the rate at 7.52%  and (iv) $12
million of 7.22% notes due February 19, 2003.  Net proceeds  from the  offerings
were used to repay  revolving  bank debt and prepay  mortgage  debt. The Company
anticipates  issuing  the  remaining  $50 million of notes under the MTN Program
during the first half of 1999, the net proceeds of which will be used to repay a
senior unsecured note maturing in April 1999.

The Company is currently  negotiating  a $130  million  five year  variable-rate
revolving credit  agreement ("the Credit  Facility") with a lender through which
the  Company  will have  access to  secured  funding  through  Federal  National
Mortgage  Association.  The proceeds  from the Credit  Facility  will be used to
repay a $91 million secured credit  facility  assumed in connection with the AAC
transaction  and repay unsecured bank debt.  Additional  features of this Credit
Facility  may allow the Company to extend the maturity for five or ten years and
increase the amount  available under the Credit Facility to $200 million.  It is
anticipated  that this Credit Facility will be executed during the first quarter
of 1999.

Derivative Instruments
The Company,  from time to time,  uses derivative  instruments to  synthetically
alter  on-balance   sheet   liabilities  or  to  hedge   anticipated   financing
transactions.

In order to reduce  the  interest  rate  risk  associated  with the  anticipated
issuance of unsecured notes during 1998, the Company entered into a $100 million
(notional amount) fixed pay forward starting swap agreement  (interest rate risk
management  agreement) with a major Wall Street investment  banking firm in July
1997.  The Company  settled  the  interest  rate risk  management  agreement  on
November 9, 1998, by paying $15.6 million to the  counterparty.  The Company was
unable to issue the  unsecured  notes  contemplated  by the  interest  rate risk
management agreement because of changed market conditions, and accordingly,  the
cost  associated  with the settlement of this agreement was expensed  during the
fourth quarter of 1998.

Market Risk Disclosures
The  Company is exposed  to market  risk  principally  from  interest  rate risk
associated  with  variable-rate  notes  payable and maturing debt that has to be
refinanced.  The  Company  does  not  hold  financial  instruments  for  trading



purposes,  but rather,  holds these financial  instruments to finance owning and
managing  real estate.  The  Company's  interest  rate  sensitivity  position is
managed  by  its  treasury   department.   Interest  rate   sensitivity  is  the
relationship  between  changes  in market  interest  rates and  changes  in rate
sensitive income due to the repricing characteristics of assets and liabilities.
The Company's  earnings are affected by changes in short-term  interest rates on
its variable-rate debt and the repricing of fixed-rate debt maturities.  A large
portion of the Company's  market risk is exposure to short-term  interest  rates
from variable-rate  borrowings  outstanding under its various credit facilities,
which was $240  million  at  December  31,  1998.  The  impact on the  Company's
financial statements of refinancing fixed-rate debt that matured during 1998 was
not material.

At December 31, 1998,  the notional value of the Company's  derivative  products
for the purpose of managing  interest rate risk was $45 million of interest rate
swaps  which  have an  average  pay rate  fixed at 5.98% to 8.00% and an average
receive rate of one month to three month LIBOR. These agreements effectively fix
$45 million of the Company's  variable-rate  secured notes payable to a weighted
average  interest rate of 7.29%.  At December 31, 1998, the fair market value of
the interest rate swaps in an unfavorable value position to the Company was $1.3
million.  If interest  rates were 100 basis  points more or less at December 31,
1998,  the  fair  market  value  would  have  been  $80,000  and  $1.8  million,
respectively.

If market interest rates for variable-rate debt average 100 basis points more in
1999  than  they  did  during  1998,  the  Company's  interest  expense,   after
considering  the effects of its interest rate swap  agreements,  would increase,
and income before taxes would decrease by $2.9 million. Comparatively, if market
interest  rates for  variable-rate  debt  averaged 100 basis points more in 1998
than it did in 1997,  the Company's  interest  expense,  after  considering  the
effects of its interest rate swap agreements,  would have increased,  and income
before  taxes  would  have  decreased  by $1.0  million.  If  market  rates  for
fixed-rate  debt were 100 basis points  higher at December  31,  1998,  the fair
value of  fixed-rate  debt would  have  decreased  from  $1.75  billion to $1.68
billion.  If market  interest  rates for  fixed-rate  debt were 100 basis points
lower at  December  31,  1998,  the fair  value of  fixed-rate  debt  would have
increased from $1.75 billion to $1.82 billion.

These  amounts are  determined  by  considering  the impact of the  hypothetical
interest  rates  on  the  Company's   borrowing  cost  and  interest  rate  swap
agreements.  These  analyses do not consider the effects of the reduced level of
overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment.  Further,  in
the event of a change of such magnitude, management would likely take actions to
further mitigate its exposure to the change.  However, due to the uncertainty of
the  specific  actions  that  would be taken and  their  possible  effects,  the
sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in the Company's financial structure.

Credit Facilities
The Company has a $200 million three year unsecured  revolving  credit  facility
(the "Credit  Facility"),  a $50 million one year  unsecured line of credit (the
"Line of Credit") and a $15 million uncommitted line of credit with a major U.S.
financial  institution.  Under the  Credit  Facility,  pricing is based upon the
higher of the Company's senior unsecured debt ratings from S&P and Moody's which
are currently BBB and Baa2,  respectively.  At these rating levels,  contractual
interest  under the Credit  Facility is LIBOR plus 55 basis  points.  The Credit
Facility  also includes a $100 million  competitive  bid option which allows the
Company to solicit bids from participating  banks at rates below the contractual
rate. The Credit Facility and Line of Credit are subject to customary  financial
covenants and limitations.

At and for the year ended  December  31,  1998,  the Company  had the  following
credit facilities (dollars in thousands):





Funds from Operations
Funds from  operations  ("FFO") is defined as income  before  gains  (losses) on
sales of investments,  minority  interests and extraordinary  items (computed in
accordance  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles)  plus real estate
depreciation,  less preferred  dividends and after  adjustment  for  significant
non-recurring   items.   The  Company   computes  FFO  in  accordance  with  the
recommendations set forth by the National  Association of Real Estate Investment
Trusts ("NAREIT"). The Company considers FFO in evaluating property acquisitions
and its operating performance,  and believes that FFO should be considered along
with,  but not as an  alternative  to, net income and cash flows as a measure of
the Company's operating  performance and liquidity.  FFO does not represent cash
generated  from  operating  activities in  accordance  with  generally  accepted
accounting  principles  and is not  necessarily  indicative of cash available to
fund cash needs.

For 1998, FFO increased  18.1% to $138.4  million,  compared with $117.2 million
during 1997.  For 1997, FFO  increased  65.5% to $117.2  million,  compared with
$70.8 million for 1996. The increase in FFO for both periods was principally due
to the  increased  property  operating  income  from  the  Company's  non-mature
apartment homes that were acquired and developed.




Results of Operations
The  Company's  net income is primarily  generated  from the  operations  of its
communities.  For purposes of evaluating its comparative operating  performance,
the Company categorizes its communities into two categories,  same community and
non-mature.  For the 1998  versus  1997  comparison,  these  communities  are as
follows:  (i)  same  community--those   communities   acquired,   developed  and
stabilized  prior to January 1, 1997 and held  throughout both 1998 and 1997 and
(ii)  non-mature--those  communities  acquired,  developed or sold subsequent to
January 1, 1997. For the 1997 versus 1996 comparison,  these  communities are as
follows: (i) same community--those communities acquired prior to January 1, 1996
and held  throughout  the annual  reporting  period  and (ii)  non-mature--those
communities acquired and developed subsequent to January 1, 1996.

All per  share  amounts  refer to basic  earnings  per  share  unless  otherwise
indicated.

1998-vs-1997
For 1998, net income  available to common  shareholders  decreased $4.1 million,
with a  corresponding  decrease of $.12 and $.11 for basic and diluted  earnings
per share, respectively, compared to 1997. The decrease per share over last year
is  primarily  attributable  to the $15.6  million  ($.15 per share) loss on the
termination  of an interest  rate risk  management  agreement  during the fourth
quarter of 1998. Net income available to common  shareholders for the year ended
December 31, 1998 includes  aggregate gains on the sales of investments of $26.7
million ($.27 per share) compared to $12.7 million ($.15 per share) last year.

1997-vs-1996
Net income  available to common  shareholders  increased  $24.5 million,  with a
corresponding  increase  of $.12 and $.11 for basic  and  diluted  earnings  per
share, respectively,  compared to 1996. The per share increase over last year is



primarily  attributable  to gains  recognized on the sales of investments  which
aggregated  $12.7 million ($.15 per share) for the year ended December 31, 1997.
From January 1, 1996 to December 31, 1997, the Company  acquired and developed a
total of 31,270  apartment homes in 98 communities  (including those acquired in
the South West Property Trust Inc. Merger on December 31, 1996)  representing an
82% expansion in the number of apartment  homes owned during that period.  These
non-mature  apartment  homes  provided a  substantial  portion of the  aggregate
reported increases.  However,  these increases were moderated in part due to the
Company's  financing   activities  during  1997  as  the  Company  financed  its
acquisition and development  activity primarily with common and preferred equity
and the proceeds from property  sales rather than debt which was used to finance
much of the 1996 acquisition and development programs.

All Communities
The  operating  performance  for the  Company's  total  apartment  portfolio  is
summarized below (dollars in thousands):



1998-vs-1997
During 1998, the weighted  average number of apartment  homes increased 21.9% to
70,724,  which resulted in significant  increases in property  rental income and
property operating expenses. This includes 7,550 apartment homes acquired in the
ASR Merger on March 27,  1998 and 14,001  apartment  homes  acquired  in the AAC
Merger on December 7, 1998.

1997-vs-1996
Due to the acquisition and development of 31,270 apartment homes from January 1,
1996 to December 31, 1997 (including the 14,320  apartment homes acquired in the
South West  Property  Trust Inc.  Merger on December  31,  1996),  the  weighted
average number of apartment  homes  increased 54.8% to 58,038 for the year ended
December 31, 1997,  which  resulted in  significant  increases in both  property
rental income and property operating expenses.

Same Communities
The  operating  performance  of  the  Company's  same  community  apartments  is
summarized  below  (dollars in  thousands).  For 1998 vs.  1997,  there were 180
communities  with 47,875 apartment homes that were classified as same community.
For 1997 vs. 1996,  there were 127 communities  with 31,519 apartment homes were
classified as same community.



1998-vs-1997
For 1998, the Company's same  communities  provided  approximately  70.1% of its
total property  operating  income.  During 1998, the Company's same  communities
continued to generate rent growth  greater than the rate of inflation.  Compared
to the same period last year, property rental income grew 3.3%, or approximately
$10.6 million, reflecting an increase in average monthly rental rates of 3.4% to
$602 per month while  physical  occupancy of 92.9% remained  stable  compared to



last year.  Management believes a portion of the rent growth reflects the impact
of the Company's upgrade and revenue enhancing capital expenditure  programs. It
is anticipated that there will be a slowdown in the U.S. economic growth,  while
new apartment  completions  increase.  As a result, the Company expects a modest
decline in occupancy  and slightly  lower rent growth  during 1999.  The Company
expects to maintain  rent growth in the 3% range and  physical  occupancy in the
92% range during 1999.

For 1998, property operating expenses at these same communities  decreased 0.3%,
or $421,000.  The decline is primarily the result of the following:  (i) utility
expenses decreased $2.1 million, which is directly attributable to the Company's
water and sewer sub-metering  initiative where local and state regulations allow
and (ii) an overall decrease in repair and maintenance expenses of $2.6 million.
The  decrease  in  repair  and  maintenance  expenses  occurred  as the  Company
continued  to  benefit  from its  upgrade  program  and  centralized  purchasing
initiatives.  However,  these  decreases were offset by increases in real estate
taxes,  personnel  costs and  property  management  expenses.  Real estate taxes
increased $1.3 million primarily in certain Florida and Texas markets. Personnel
costs increased $1.6 million as the Company experienced pressure on wages due to
low unemployment  and tighter job markets,  particularly in the service area. In
addition,  the Company's cost of property management increased $1.1 million as a
result  of  the  added   infrastructure  costs  in  areas  such  as  Information
Technology,  Human Resources and Training,  and the cost of entering new markets
in new  regions of the country  during  1998.  The  Company's  objective  is for
operating  expenses  to be  unchanged  in 1999  primarily  as a result  of lower
utility expenses due to the continuing  transfer of water and sewer costs to the
resident.

Primarily as a result of an increase in property  rental  income,  the operating
margin improved 1.4% to 59.6% over 1997.

1997-vs-1996
For 1997, the Company's same  communities  provided  approximately  53.6% of its
total property  operating  income.  During 1997, the Company's same  communities
continued to generate rent growth  greater than the pace of inflation and double
digit  growth of other  income.  Compared to the same  period in 1996,  property
rental  income  from these  apartment  homes grew 3.8%,  or  approximately  $7.6
million,  reflecting  an increase in average  monthly  rents of 3.9% to $572 per
month.  Growth in property  rental income was slightly offset by a .04% decrease
in  physical  occupancy.  In  addition,  other  income,  primarily  fee  income,
increased  approximately  $1.2  million or 17.6%.  Overall,  physical  occupancy
bottomed out in January 1997 at 90.8% and grew  steadily  through  August before
declining  slightly to 92.3% in December  1997, an  improvement  of 1.9% for the
year.  Physical  occupancy  declined  due  to the  weakening  of  certain  major
southeastern markets during the last half of 1996.

For 1997,  property operating  expenses at these communities  increased 2.2%, or
$1.9 million.  The 2.2% increase in property operating expenses was attributable
to higher  personnel  costs,  marketing and advertising  costs and the Company's
cost of  property  management.  Personnel  costs  increased  approximately  $1.8
million,  primarily due to understaffing at some properties during much of 1996.
Marketing and advertising  costs increased 33.9% or approximately  $845,000 over
the same period in 1996 as a direct result of softening in certain major markets
as discussed  above. The cost of property  management  increased $1.7 million as
the Company invested heavily in its personnel and  technological  infrastructure
during 1997 in response to growth.  However, these expense increases were offset
by decreases in repair and maintenance  expense and utility expense.  Repair and
maintenance expense decreased 13.1% or approximately $2.0 million primarily as a
result of less exterior painting,  extraordinary repairs, mechanical repairs and
the effect of the upgrade  program.  In  addition,  the Company  benefited  from
economies of scale due to its  increased  size and some  centralized  purchasing
during the 1997  period.  Utility  expense  decreased  primarily  as a result of
sub-metering water and sewer that began in 1997.

Due to the increase in property  rental income,  the operating  margin  improved
0.8% to 57.3%.

Non-Mature Communities
For  1998  vs.  1997,  the  Company's  non-mature  communities  include:  (i) 28
communities  with 8,524 apartment homes acquired during 1997, net of one resold,
(ii) 39  communities  with 7,550  apartment  homes acquired on March 27, 1998 in



connection with the ASR Merger, (iii) 53 communities with 14,001 apartment homes
acquired  on  December  7,  1998 in  connection  with  the AAC  Merger,  (iv) 24
communities  with 6,959  apartment  homes  acquired in individual  and portfolio
transactions  during 1998, (v) 7,888  apartment homes sold since January 1, 1997
and (vi) the 1,957 apartment  homes  developed  since January 1, 1997,  which is
summarized in the chart below (dollars in thousands):

For 1997 vs. 1996,  the  Company's  non-mature  communities  include:  (i) 7,590
apartment  homes  acquired  during  1996,  net of one  resold,  and a  community
acquired in 1995 and not  stabilized  due to  significant  rehabilitation,  (ii)
13,671  apartment  homes  acquired on December 31, 1996 in  connection  with the
South  West  Property  Trust  Inc.  Merger,  net of one  resold  and  one  under
development,  (iii) 8,524 apartment homes acquired since January 1, 1997, net of
one resold, (iv) 3,222 apartment homes sold from January 1, 1996 to December 31,
1997 and (v) the 1,232  apartment  homes  developed  during  1996 and 1997.  The
operating performance of these non-mature communities is summarized in the chart
below (dollars in thousands):

Years Ended December 31, 1998 and 1997:




Years Ended December 31, 1997 and 1996:




1998-vs-1997
For 1998, the Company's non-mature  communities provided  approximately 29.9% of
its total  property  operating  income.  Property  rental  income  and  property
operating  expenses  increased  from  1997 to 1998  directly  as a result of the
increase in the weighted  average  number of apartment  homes owned during 1998.
For the year ended December 31, 1998,  average economic occupancy was 88.6%, and
the operating margin was 55.9% for the non-mature communities.

1997 Acquisitions
On an average  investment of $355.2 million,  the 1997  acquisitions  provided a
9.1% return on  investment  during 1998.  For the year,  these  communities  had
physical  occupancy  of 91.9% and an  operating  margin of 56.7%.  During  1998,
property  operating  expenses were adversely impacted by (i) an increase in real
estate taxes due to  reassessments  at several Florida  communities and (ii) the
delay in the Company's  implementation  of its water  billing and  reimbursement
schedule for these communities.

1998 Acquisitions
1998 Single  Acquisitions
Included in this  category are the 24  communities  with 6,959  apartment  homes
acquired by the Company  during  1998 which are  projected  to have a first year
return on investment of  approximately  9%. The annualized  return on investment
for the 1998 single  acquisitions on an average investment of $311.9 million was



8.7%.  These results were below the  Company's  full year  forecasted  return on
investment  of 9%  primarily  as a result of market  softness in San Antonio and
Phoenix where the Company acquired  communities in 1998. However, it is expected
that these  communities will experience  improved  operating  results in 1999 as
improvements are completed.

ASR Investments Corporation (ASR)
The acquisition of the 39 communities  containing 7,550 apartment homes included
in the ASR Merger on March 27, 1998,  provided the largest increases in property
rental  income and  property  operating  expenses  for the  Company's  apartment
portfolio.  The annualized  return on investment for the ASR properties was 7.3%
on an average investment of $312.5 million during 1998. The under-performance of
this portfolio is primarily  attributable to weak markets and seasonality in the
Phoenix/Tuscon/Albuquerque  markets,  however,  certain  assets  are  undergoing
upgrading and  repositioning  that is expected to improve  operating  results in
1999. While the Phoenix and Tuscon markets suffer  temporarily from an abundance
of supply in the apartment  sector,  the Company  believes in these markets over
the  long-term.  For the year ended  December 31, 1998,  these  communities  had
economic occupancy of 87.9% and an operating margin of 49.5%.

American Apartment Communities (AAC)
The acquisition of the 53 communities containing 14,001 apartment homes included
in the AAC Merger on December 7, 1998,  had  economic  occupancy of 94.0% and an
operating  margin of 67.4% for the 24 days  owned  during  1998.  The  return on
investment  for the AAC  properties is projected to be  approximately  9% during
1999 on an initial investment of $766.9 million. This acquisition did not have a
material effect on 1998 results of operations.

Sales Communities
Since January 1, 1997, the Company sold  approximately  $225 million of property
consisting of 30 communities  with 7,888 apartment  homes, the net proceeds from
which were used to acquire newer  communities that will provide higher long-term
returns on investment  than the  communities  being sold.  The  properties  sold
during 1998 had an annualized return on investment in excess of 10%.

Development Communities
The  development  communities  consist  of  1,957  apartment  homes  in five new
communities and five additional phases to existing  communities  developed since
January 1, 1997.  Once  stabilized,  development  communities  are  projected to
generate an average return on investment in excess of 10%.

1997-vs-1996
For 1997, the Company's non-mature  communities provided  approximately 46.4% of
the  Company's  total  property  operating  income.  Property  rental income and
property  operating expenses increased from 1996 to 1997 directly as a result of
the increase in the  weighted  average  number of  apartment  homes owned during
1997.  For the year ended  December 31, 1997,  average  physical  occupancy  was
90.7%, and the operating margin was 57.9% for the non-mature communities.

1996 Acquisitions (excluding the South West Merger)
The 29 communities  containing  7,590  apartment homes that were acquired during
1996 (net of one community containing 122 apartment homes resold and a community
acquired in 1995 and not stabilized due to significant  rehabilitation) provided
a significant increase in property rental income and property operating expenses
for the Company's  apartment portfolio for 1997. For 1997, these communities had
economic  occupancy  of 89.8% and an operating  margin of 59.4%.  The first year
return on investment for these communities in 1997, on an average  investment of
$319 million, was 9.0% (excluding one community under renovation). This reflects
the under-performance of nine communities in the Greensboro/Winston-Salem, North
Carolina  market  that  were  acquired  in  August  1996 as part of a  portfolio
transaction.  Occupancy  in this  region  peaked in August 1996 when the Company
acquired these  properties and  subsequently  fell,  reflecting an oversupply of
apartment product in this market.  However, the Company believes Greensboro is a
good long-term market.

South West Property Trust Inc. (South West)
The acquisition of the 43 communities containing 13,671 apartment homes included
in the South West Merger on December 31, 1996,  net of one community  resold and



one under development,  provided the largest increases in property rental income
and property operating expenses for the Company's entire apartment portfolio for
the year ended  December 31, 1997.  The return on investment  for the South West
properties  was 9.4% during 1997.  For the year ended  December 31, 1997,  these
communities had economic occupancy of 92.7% and an operating margin of 57.5%.

1997 Acquisitions, Development and Sales
Included in this category are the following:  (i) the 28 communities  containing
8,524  apartment  homes acquired by the Company during 1997 (net of one resold),
(ii) the 1,232 apartment  homes developed  during 1996 and 1997 and (iii) the 16
communities  containing  3,222  apartment homes sold between January 1, 1996 and
December 31, 1997. The annualized  return on investment for 1997 acquisitions on
an  average  investment  of $345  million  was  projected  to be 9.5%,  but fell
slightly short at 9.3%.

Interest Expense
During 1998,  interest expense  increased $27.2 million or $.15 per common share
over 1997. The weighted  average amount of debt employed  during 1998 was higher
than it was in 1997  ($1.5  billion in 1998  versus $1  billion  in 1997)  which
accounted  for the  majority of the increase in interest  expense.  The weighted
average  interest  rate on this debt was  slightly  lower than it was last year,
decreasing  from  7.5% in 1997 to 7.4% in 1998  reflecting  the  fact  that  the
Company's  reliance on the lower rate short-term  bank  borrowings  increased in
1998  compared to 1997 ($238.6  million  weighted  average  outstanding  in 1998
versus  $74.6  million  in  1997).  For  1998,  1997 and  1996,  total  interest
capitalized was $3.4 million, $2.6 million and $541,000, respectively.

For 1997, interest expense increased $28.2 million or $.02 per common share over
1996. The weighted  average amount of debt employed  during 1997 was higher than
it was in 1996 ($1 billion in 1997 versus $647  million in 1996).  The  weighted
average  interest rate on this debt was slightly lower in 1997,  decreasing from
7.6% in 1996 to 7.5% in 1997.  The  slightly  lower  interest  rate  during 1997
reflected the fact that the weighted  average  interest rate on short-term  bank
borrowings  decreased compared to 1996 and the Company's reliance on these lower
rate  short-term  bank  borrowings  increased  in 1997  compared  to 1996 ($74.6
million weighted average outstanding in 1997 versus $49.9 million in 1996).

General and Administrative
During the year ended  December 31, 1998,  general and  administrative  expenses
increased by $3.1 million over 1997. In 1998, the Company incurred  increases in
most of its general and  administrative  expense  categories which were directly
attributable  to the  increased  size  of the  Company  and  its  investment  in
infrastructure.  The largest increases  occurred in payroll and  payroll-related
expenses.  General and  administrative  expense as a percentage of rental income
increased  0.3% from 1.8% during 1997 to 2.1% during 1998  primarily  due to (i)
the added infrastructure costs incurred due to the increased size of the Company
and (ii) the change in accounting for internal  acquisition  costs subsequent to
March 19, 1998.

During 1997, general and administrative  expenses increased by $1.7 million over
the same period in the prior year. In 1997,  the Company  incurred  increases in
most of its general and administrative expense categories. The largest increases
occurred in payroll expenses,  investor relations expenses and office rent which
was directly related to increasing the size of the Company. However, general and
administrative  expense,  as a percentage of property  rental  income,  remained
relatively flat compared to 1996.

Impairment Loss
During 1997, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $1.4 million relating to
two communities included in the Company's real estate held for investment. These
communities were  subsequently  moved to real estate held for disposition  based
upon management's decision to dispose of these properties.

Gains on Sales of Investments
For the year ended December 31, 1998, the Company  recognized gains on the sales
of investments for financial  reporting purposes  aggregating $26.7 million as a
result of the sale of 18 communities with 5,318 apartment homes and one shopping
center for an aggregate sales price of $156.6 million.



During  1997,  the  Company   recognized  gains  on  the  sales  of  investments
aggregating  $12.7  million as a result of the:  (i) first  quarter  sale of the
Company's  investment in the preferred stock of First  Washington  Realty Trust,
Inc. on which the Company recognized a gain for financial  reporting purposes of
$2.1  million and (ii) the sale of 12  communities  containing  2,570  apartment
homes and one shopping  center for an aggregate  sales price of $68.4 million on
which the Company recognized aggregate gains for financial reporting purposes of
$10.6 million.

Distributions to Preferred Shareholders
Distributions to preferred  shareholders totaled $23.6 million for 1998 compared
to  $17.3  million  for  1997.  The  increase  in   distributions  to  preferred
shareholders  is a result of the  issuance of eight  million  shares of Series D
7.50%  Cumulative  Convertible  Redeemable  Preferred Stock in December 1998, in
connection with the acquisition of AAC and the issuance of six million shares of
Series B 8.60% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock in May 1997.

Distributions to preferred shareholders totaled $17.3 million for the year ended
December  31,  1997  compared  to  $9.7  million  for  1996.   The  increase  in
distributions  to  preferred  shareholders  was a result of the  issuance of six
million shares of Series B 8.60%  Cumulative  Redeemable  Preferred Stock in May
1997.

Inflation
The Company  believes  that the direct  effects of  inflation  on the  Company's
operations have been inconsequential.

Year 2000
The Year 2000 issue is the result of computer  programs  being written using two
digits  rather than four to define the  applicable  year.  Any of the  Company's
computer  programs or  hardware  that have date  sensitive  software or embedded
chips may  recognize  a date using  "00"" as the year 1900  rather than the year
2000. This could result in system failure or miscalculations causing disruptions
of operations,  including,  among other things, a temporary inability to process
transactions or engage in similar normal business activities.

The Company continues to identify and address issues regarding the transition to
Year 2000, as it is dependent on computer  systems and  applications  to conduct
its business.  The Company has  performed a thorough  assessment of its personal
computers,  desktop  software  and major  applications  and is in the process of
completing  its  server  environment  assessment.  To  ensure  that the  Company
completed a formalized  and  thorough  assessment  of its Year 2000 issues,  the
Company engaged an outside consulting firm to conduct a Year 2000 assessment and
develop a remediation  plan. The plans covers four stages:  (i) inventory,  (ii)
assessment,  (iii) remediation and (iv) testing and  certification.  Because the
Company  operates in a  structured,  standardized  environment,  the  assessment
indicated a high degree of Year 2000 compliance with few items for  remediation.
All  mission-critical   applications  have  been  determined  to  be  Year  2000
compliant.  Desktop hardware and software are 90% compliant, with remediation of
the  non-compliant  10% to be completed by July 1999. None of the  non-compliant
issues identified are mission-critical.

The Company is commencing the assessment phase for non-IT operating equipment at
its communities (gates,  security,  telephone,  elevator, HVAC systems and other
such  systems).  This  assessment  will be  completed  by May 1, 1999,  with any
remediation to be completed by November 1, 1999.

The  Company is also  assessing  the Year 2000  compliance  of vendors and other
external  relationships  to  determine  the extent to which the  Company  may be
vulnerable to such parties'  failure to resolve their own Year 2000 issues.  The
Company has  initiated  formal  communication  with these  parties.  The Company
cannot  insure  timely  compliance  of third  parties and;  therefore,  could be
adversely  affected by failure of a significant  third party to become Year 2000
compliant.  The effect,  if any, on the Company's results of operations from the
failure  of such  third  parties  to be Year 2000  compliant  is not  reasonably
estimable.

The  Company   estimates   that  the  total  Year  2000  project  cost  will  be
approximately  $100,000,  of which  approximately  50% has been  incurred  as of
December 31, 1998.  Amounts  expended to ensure Year 2000  compliance  have been



funded by cash flows from  operations  and are not  expected  to have a material
impact on the  Company's  financial  position,  results of  operations,  or cash
flows.  The Company  believes  that its Year 2000  initiatives  are  adequate to
address reasonably likely Year 2000 issues.



Failure to correct a material  Year 2000 problem  could result in the failure of
certain normal business activities or operations. Management believes that, with
the  implementation  of new or upgraded  business  systems,  as needed,  and the
completion of the Year 2000 project as scheduled, the possibility of significant
interruptions  of normal  operations due to the failure of those systems will be
reduced.  However, the Company is dependent on the power and  telecommunications
infrastructure  within the United States.  The most reasonably likely worst case
scenario would be that the Company may  experience  disruption in its operations
if any of the  third-party  suppliers  reported a system  failure.  Although the
Company's  Year 2000  project  will  reduce the level of  uncertainty  about the
compliance  and  readiness of its  material  third-party  providers,  due to the
general uncertainty over Year 2000 readiness of these third-party suppliers, the
Company is unable to  determine at this time  whether the  consequences  of Year
2000 failures will have a material impact.

The final phase of the  Company's  Year 2000  project  relates to a  contingency
plan. The Company  maintains  contingency plans in the normal course of business
designed   to  be  deployed   in  the  event  of  various   potential   business
interruptions.




Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

         Information required by this item regarding Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk is included in Part II, Item 7 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K included in Managements Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

      See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule on page F-1 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

      None.




                                       Part III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

      Incorporated  herein by reference from the Company's Proxy Statement to be
filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of  Shareholders  to be held on May 11,
1999.

      Information  required by this item regarding the executive officers of the
Company is included in Part I of this Annual  Report on Form 10-K in the section
entitled "Executive Officers of the Registrant".

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

      Incorporated  herein by reference from the Company's Proxy Statement to be
filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of  Shareholders  to be held on May 11,
1999.

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

      Incorporated  herein by reference from the Company's Proxy Statement to be
filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of  Shareholders  to be held on May 11,
1999.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

      Incorporated  herein by reference from the Company's Proxy Statement to be
filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of  Shareholders  to be held on May 11,
1999.





                                    PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

      (a) (1&2) See Index to Consolidated  Financial  Statements and Schedule on
page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

            (3)   Exhibits

      The  exhibits  listed  below  are  filed  as part of this  Annual  Report.
References  under the caption  Location to  exhibits,  forms,  or other  filings
indicate that the form or other filing has been filed,  that the indexed exhibit
and the exhibit  referred  to are the same and that the  exhibit  referred to is
incorporated by reference.


















Exhibits 10(i) through 10(v) inclusive, are management contracts or compensatory
plans or  arrangements  required  to be filed as an  exhibit  to this  Form 10-K
pursuant to Item 14(c) of this report.



      (b)   Reports on Form 8-K

      A Form 8-K dated  September  11,  1998 was filed with the  Securities  and
      Exchange  Commission on October 23, 1998. The filing reported the proposed
      merger of American  Apartment  Communities  II, Inc. by the  Company.  The
      filing  included the audited  financial  statements of American  Apartment
      Communities  II, Inc, and American  Apartment  Communities  II, LP for the
      year ended  December 31, 1997.

      A  Form  8-K  dated  October 28,  1998  was filed with the Securities and
      Exchange  Commission  on  October 28,  1998.  The  filing  reported on the
      Company's  results  of  operations for  the  three  and  nine months ended
      September 30, 1998.

      A Form 8-K  dated  November  2,  1998 was filed  with the  Securities  and
      Exchange  Commission on November 6, 1998. The filing included the Exhibits
      for the Consents of Experts as used in the Company's Prospectus Supplement
      for the issuance of debt securities.

      A Form 8-K dated  November  12,  1998 was filed  with the  Securities  and
      Exchange Commission on November 12, 1998. The filing included the Exhibits
      for the Underwriting  Agreements,  Pricing Agreements and Form of Notes as
      used in the  Company's  Prospectus  Supplement  for the  issuance  of debt
      securities.

      A Form 8-K/A amending the Form 8-K dated September 11, 1998 was filed with
      the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on December 21, 1998. The filing
      amended the Item under which the original 8-K was previously filed.

      A Form 8-K dated  December  7,  1998,  was filed with the  Securities  and
      Exchange  Commission  on  December  21,  1998.  The  filing  reported  the
      acquisition  of  American  Apartment  Communities  II, Inc. on December 7,
      1998.

      A Form 8-K dated  January  20,  1999 was  filed  with the  Securities  and
      Exchange  Commission  on January 20, 1999.  The filing  included pro forma
      financial  statements for the Company for the nine months ended  September
      30, 1998.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.
- - ----------------------------------
           (registrant)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below on March 9, 1999 by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated.

/s/ John P. McCann                         /s/ Jeff C. Bane
- - -------------------------------            ------------------------------
   John P. McCann                                    Jeff C. Bane
Chairman of the Board and Chief                       Director
  Executive Officer

 /s/ Lynne Sagalyn                        /s/ Mark J. Sandler
- - ------------------------                  -------------------------------
   Lynne Sagalyn                             Mark J. Sandler
     Director                                   Director


/s/ John S. Schneider
- - ----------------------------------       --------------------------------
   John S. Schneider                         Robert W. Scharar
Director, Vice Chairman of the Board,           Director
President and Chief Operating Officer


/s/ C. Harmon Williams, Jr.              /s/ R. Toms Dalton
- - ----------------------------             --------------------------------
  C. Harmon Williams, Jr.                      R. Toms Dalton
       Director                                   Director


/s/ Robert P. Freeman                     /s/ Jon A. Grove
- - ----------------------------             --------------------------------
  Robert P. Freeman                               Jon A. Grove
      Director                                      Director


/s/ James D. Klingbeil                    /s/ Barry M. Kornblau
- - ----------------------------             -------------------------------
  James D. Klingbeil                          Barry M. Kornblau
      Director                                    Director

/s/ Robin R. Flanagan
- - ---------------------------------------
   Robin R. Flanagan
Assistant Vice President, Controller-Corporate
Accounting and Chief Accounting Officer





            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.


                                                                         Page
                                                                         ----

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT

Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors                         F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1998 and 1997                 F-3

Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1998                                     F-4

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1998                                     F-5

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1998                         F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                F-7

SCHEDULE FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT

Schedule III-Summary of Real Estate Owned                                 F-26

All other schedules are omitted since the required information is not present in
amounts  sufficient  to require  submission  of the  schedule,  or  because  the
information required is included in the financial statements and notes thereto.









Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.

      We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of United
Dominion  Realty Trust,  Inc. (the  "Company") as of December 31, 1998 and 1997,
and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period  ended  December  31, 1998.
Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 14(a).  These financial  statements and schedule are the  responsibility of
the Company's  management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of United Dominion
Realty Trust,  Inc. at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the consolidated  results
of its  operations  and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended  December 31, 1998,  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered  in  relation  to the basic  financial  statements  taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects, the information set forth therein.




                                           Ernst & Young LLP

Richmond, Virginia
January 27, 1999



                                      F-2





                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                     (In thousands, except for share data)




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       F-3





                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                      (In thousands, except per share data)





See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       F-4





                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (In thousands)




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                       F-5






                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                      (In thousands, except per share data)




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       F-6








                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS




1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Organization  United Dominion Realty Trust,  Inc., a Virginia  corporation,  was
formed in 1972. The Company  operates within one defined business  segment.  The
Company is a fully  integrated  owner,  operator,  renovator  and  developer  of
apartment  communities  located  nationwide.  At December 31, 1998,  the Company
owned 326 communities  with 86,893  completed  apartment  homes. The Company had
eight communities and two additional  phases to existing  communities with 1,946
apartment homes under development at December 31, 1998.

Basis of presentation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include
the  accounts of the Company and its  subsidiaries,  including  United  Dominion
Realty,  L.P.,  its  Operating  Partnership,  and  Heritage  Communities,   L.P.
(collectively,  the "Company").  As of December 31, 1998,  there were 38,218,389
units in the Operating Partnership outstanding,  of which, 30,486,005,  or 79.8%
were owned by the Company and 7,732,384,  or 20.2% were owned by  non-affiliated
limited  partners.   In  connection  with  the  acquisition  of  ASR  Investment
Corporation, the Company acquired Heritage Communities, L.P., a Delaware limited
partnerhip (Heritage OP). As of December 31, 1998, there were 3,834,837 units in
the  Heritage OP  outstanding,  of which,  2,974,252  or 77.5% were owned by the
Company  and  22.5%  were  owned by  non-affiliated  limited  partnerships.  The
financial  statements  of the  Company  include  the  minority  interest  of the
unitholders  in  the  operating  partnerships.   All  significant  inter-company
accounts  and  transactions  have  been  eliminated  in  consolidation.  Certain
previously  reported amounts have been  reclassified to conform with the current
financial statement presentation.

Use of estimates The preparation of the financial  statements in conformity with
generally accepted  accounting  principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Federal income taxes The Company is operated as and elects to be taxed as a real
estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code).  Generally,  a real  estate  investment  trust  which  complies  with the
provisions of the Code and distributes at least 95% of its taxable income to its
shareholders,  does not pay  federal  income  taxes on its  distributed  income.
Accordingly, no provision has been made for federal income taxes.

Cash and cash equivalents All highly liquid investments with maturities of three
months or less, when purchased, are considered to be cash equivalents.

Real estate assets and  depreciation  Real estate assets held for investment are
carried at  historical  cost less  accumulated  depreciation  less any  recorded
impairment losses.

Ordinary  repair and  maintenance  costs are expensed as  incurred.  Significant
improvements,  renovations  and  replacements  related  to the  acquisition  and
improvement of real estate assets are capitalized at cost and  depreciated  over
their estimated useful lives.

The Company recognizes impairment losses on long-lived assets used in operations
when indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted future cash flows
are not sufficient to recover the assets  carrying value. If such indicators are
present,  an impairment  loss is recognized  based on the excess of the carrying
amount of the impaired asset over its fair value.

For long-lived  assets to be disposed of,  impairment losses are recognized when
the  fair  value  of the  asset  less  estimated  cost to sell is less  than the
carrying  value of the asset.  Real estate is classified as real estate held for
disposition when management has committed to sell and is actively  marketing the
property, and the Company expects to dispose of these properties within the next
twelve months. Real estate held for disposition is carried at the lower of cost,
net of accumulated  depreciation or fair value less cost to dispose,  determined
on an asset by asset basis. Depreciation is not recorded on real estate held for

                                       F-7




disposition  and gains (losses) from initial and  subsequent  adjustments to the
carrying  value of the assets,  if any, are recorded as a separate  component of
income from continuing operations.

Depreciation  is computed on a  straight-line  basis over the  estimated  useful
lives of the related assets which is 35 years for buildings,  10 to 35 years for
major improvements, and 5 to 20 years for fixtures, equipment and other assets.

All development  projects and related carrying costs,  principally  interest and
real estate taxes,  are  capitalized  and reported on the balance sheet as "real
estate  under  development"  until  such  time  as the  development  project  is
completed.  Upon completion,  the total cost of the building and associated land
is transferred to real estate held for investment and the assets are depreciated
over their estimated  useful lives.  The cost of development  projects  includes
interest,  property taxes,  insurance and allocated  development overhead during
the construction period.

Interest  and real estate  taxes  incurred  during the  construction  period are
capitalized  as part of the projects  under  development to the extent that such
charges  do not  cause  the  carrying  value  of the  asset  to  exceed  its net
realizable  value.  During 1998, 1997 and 1996,  total interest  capitalized was
$3,360,000, $2,634,000 and $541,000, respectively.

Commencing  with the adoption of EITF No.  97-11 on March 19, 1998,  "Accounting
for Internal Costs Relating to Real Estate Property  Acquisitions",  the Company
expenses direct  internal costs related to identifying  and acquiring  operating
properties.

Revenue  recognition  The Company's  apartment  homes are leased under operating
leases with terms generally of one year or less.  Rental income is recognized as
it is earned.

Restricted  cash  Restricted  cash mainly  consists of escrow  deposits  held by
lenders for property  taxes,  insurance  and  replacement  reserves and resident
security deposits.

Deferred  financing costs Deferred  financing costs include fees and other costs
incurred to obtain long-term debt obligations and are generally amortized over a
period not to exceed the term of the related debt.

Interest  rate swap  agreements  The  Company  enters  into  interest  rate swap
agreements  to alter the  interest  rate  characteristics  of  outstanding  debt
instruments.  Each  interest  rate swap  agreement is  designated  with all or a
portion of the  principal  balance and term of a specific debt  obligation.  The
interest rate swaps  involve the periodic  exchange of payments over the life of
the related agreements.  Amounts received or paid on the interest rate swaps are
recorded on an accrual basis as an adjustment to the related interest expense of
the  outstanding  debt based on the accrual  method of  accounting.  The related
amounts  payable to and  receivable  from  counterparties  are included in other
liabilities and other assets, respectively. The fair value of and changes in the
fair value as a result of changes in market interest rates for the interest rate
swap agreements are not reflected in the financial statements.

Gains and losses on  terminations  of interest rate swap agreements are deferred
as an adjustment to the carrying  amount of the  outstanding  debt and amortized
into interest  expense over the remaining term of the original  contract life of
the  terminated  swap  agreement.  In the  event  of early  extinguishment  of a
designated  debt  obligation,  any realized or unrealized  gain or loss from the
swap would be recognized in income  coincident with the  extinguishment  gain or
loss.  There  were no gains or  losses on  terminations  of  interest  rate swap
agreements recognized by the Company for the periods presented.

                                       F-8





Any interest rate swap agreements that are not designated with  outstanding debt
or notional  amounts of interest rate swap  agreements in excess of the original
amounts of the underlying debt obligations are recorded as an asset or liability
at fair value,  with the changes in the fair value  recorded in other  income or
expense (fair value method).

Interest rate risk  management  agreements The Company enters into interest rate
futures  contracts to hedge interest rate risk associated with  anticipated debt
transactions.   The  Company  follows  SFAS  No.  80,  "Accounting  for  Futures
Contracts", which permits hedge accounting for anticipatory transactions meeting
certain criteria.  Gains and losses, if any, on these  transactions are deferred
as an adjustment to the carrying  amount of the  outstanding  debt and amortized
over the terms of the related debt as an  adjustment  to interest  expense.  The
fair values of interest rate risk  management  agreements  are not recognized in
the financial statements.  At the time the anticipated  transaction is no longer
likely to occur,  the  Company  marks the  derivative  instrument  to market and
recognizes any adjustment in the consolidated statement of operations.

Earnings per share Basic  earnings  per common share is computed  based upon the
weighted average number of common shares  outstanding  during the year.  Diluted
earnings per common share is computed  based on common shares  outstanding  plus
the effect of dilutive stock options and other potentially dilutive common stock
equivalents.  The dilutive  effect of stock options and other  potential  common
stock  equivalents  is determined  using the treasury  stock method based on the
Company's average stock price. The early extinguishment of debt does not have an
effect on the  earnings per share  calculation  for the periods  presented.  The
effect of the  conversion of the  operating  partnership  units and  convertible
preferred  stock is not dilutive and is therefore  not included in the following
calculations.  The weighted  average  effect of the  conversion of the operating
partnership  units for the years  ended  December  31,  1998,  1997 and 1996 was
2,963,427, 317,120 and 68,502, respectively.  The weighted average effect of the
conversion of the  convertible  preferred  stock for the year ended December 31,
1998, was 809,273.  The following  table sets forth the computation of basic and
diluted earning per share (dollars in thousands, except per share data):





Investment in marketable  equity securities In connection with a shopping center
sale in 1995, the Company received marketable  preferred stock with a fair value
of $7.7 million on the date of receipt.  In January  1997,  the Company sold the
preferred  stock and received $9.9 million in cash and recognized a $2.1 million
gain on the sale of investment for financial reporting purposes.


                                       F-9






Minority  interests  in  operating   partnerships  Interests  in  the  Operating
Partnership held by limited  partners are represented by operating  partnerships
units (OP Units). The Operating  Partnerships' income is allocated to holders of
OP Units based upon net income available to common shareholders and the weighted
average  number of OP Units  outstanding  to total  common  shares plus OP Units
outstanding during the period. Capital contributions,  distributions and profits
and losses are allocated to minority  interests in accordance  with the terms of
the  individual  partnership  agreements.  OP Units can be exchanged for cash or
shares of the Company's  common stock on a one-for-one  basis,  at the option of
the Company.  OP Units as a percentage of total units and shares outstanding was
7.7%, 1.1% and 0.1% at December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

Minority  interests in other  partnerships  The Company has limited  partners in
certain real estate partnerships acquired as part of the acquisition of American
Apartment  Communities II on December 7, 1998. Net income for these partnerships
is allocated based on the percentage interest owned by these limited partners in
each respective real estate partnership.

Stock based compensation The Company has elected to follow Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting  for Stock Issued to Employees"  (APB 25) and
related Interpretations in accounting for its employee stock options because the
alternative fair value accounting  provided for under SFAS No. 123,  "Accounting
for Stock Based Compensation", requires use of option valuation models that were
not developed for use in valuing  employee stock options.  Under APB 25, because
the exercise  price of the Company's  employee  stock options  equals the market
price of the underlying  stock on the date of grant,  no  compensation  cost has
been recognized.

Impact of  recently  issued  accounting  standards  As of January  1, 1998,  the
Company adopted SFAS No. 130, "Reporting  Comprehensive Income" (Statement 130).
Statement  130   establishes   new  rules  for  the  reporting  and  display  of
comprehensive income and its components;  however, the adoption of Statement 130
had no impact on the  Company's  financial  statements  for each of the  periods
presented as the Company has no items of comprehensive income.

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging Activities"  (Statement 133)
which  is  required  to be  adopted  in years  beginning  after  June 15,  1999.
Statement 133 permits early  adoption as of the beginning of any fiscal  quarter
after its issuance,  however, the Company does not anticipate adopting Statement
133 until such time as it is required. Statement 133 will require the Company to
recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value.  Derivatives  that
are not hedges must be adjusted to fair value through income.  If the derivative
is a hedge,  depending  on the  nature of the  hedge,  changes  in fair value of
derivatives will either be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged
assets, liabilities, or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other
comprehensive  income  until the hedged  item is  recognized  in  earnings.  The
ineffective portion of the derivative's change in fair value will be immediately
recognized in earnings.  The Company has not yet  determined  what the effect of
Statement  133 will be on earnings  and the  financial  position of the Company,
however,  management does not anticipate that the adoption of Statement 133 will
have a significant effect on earnings or the financial position of the Company.


                                      F-10



2.  REAL ESTATE OWNED
The Company  operates  primarily in 34 major markets  dispersed  throughout a 22
state area. At December 31, 1998,  the Company's  largest  apartment  market was
Dallas,  where it owned 9.5% of its apartment homes,  based upon carrying value.
Excluding Dallas, the Company did not own more than 5% of its apartment homes in
any one market, based upon carrying value.

The following table summarizes the components of real estate held for investment
at December 31, (dollars in thousands):

                                           1998            1997
                                        -----------    ----------

Land and land improvements             $   647,328    $   393,505
Buildings and improvements               2,819,312      1,783,565
Furniture, fixtures and equipment          169,364        100,380
Construction in progress                     7,241          3,988
                                       -----------    -----------
Real estate held for investment          3,643,245      2,281,438
Accumulated depreciation                  (280,663)      (200,506)
                                       -----------    -----------
Real estate held for investment, net   $ 3,362,582    $ 2,080,932
                                       ===========    ===========


The following is a reconciliation of the carrying amount of real estate held for
investment at December 31, (dollars in thousands):






The following is a  reconciliation  of accumulated  depreciation for real estate
held for investment at December 31, (dollars in thousands):






   * Includes $1,095, $752, and $629 for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively,
     classified as "Other depreciation and amortization" in the Consolidated
     Statements of Operations.

                                      F-11




The  following  is a summary of real estate owned by market at December 31, 1998
(dollars in  thousands):

Real  Estate  Held  for  Investment  by  Market (Excluding  real  estate  under
development)






                                      F-12







Real Estate Held for Disposition (B)





(A)               There are 23  communities  encumbered by two REMIC  financings
                  aggregating  $75.9  million,  6 communities  encumbered by one
                  secured note payable aggregating $31.7 million, 24 communities
                  encumbered by fixed-rate debt  aggregating  $159.7 million and
                  18 communities  encumbered by  variable-rate  debt aggregating
                  $111.4 million.
(B)               Real  estate  held  for   disposition   contributed   property
                  operating   income   (property  rental  income  less  property
                  operating  expenses) in the aggregate amount of $19.7 million,
                  $19.5  million and $3.9  million,  respectively  for the years
                  ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
(C)               Excludes real estate under development.

In connection with the Company's periodic  evaluation of its apartment portfolio
during 1997 the Company  recorded an impairment loss of $1.4 million relating to
two  communities  included in real estate held for  investment.  These apartment
communities were  subsequently  moved to real estate held for disposition  based
upon management's decision to dispose of these properties.


                                      F-13



3. ACQUISITIONS

On March 27, 1998,  the Company  completed the  acquisition  of ASR  Investments
Corporation  ("ASR")  in a  statutory  merger  (the  "ASR  Merger").  ASR  was a
publicly-traded  multifamily REIT that owned 39 communities with 7,550 apartment
homes located in Arizona,  Texas,  New Mexico and the state of Washington.  Each
share of ASR's common  stock was  exchanged  for 1.575  shares of the  Company's
common  stock.  The  transaction  was  structured  as a tax-free  merger and was
treated as a purchase  for  accounting  purposes.  No good will was  recorded in
connection  with this  transaction.  In  connection  with the  acquisition,  the
Company   acquired   primarily  real  estate  assets  totaling  $313.7  million.
Consideration  given by the Company  included  7,742,839 shares of the Company's
common  stock  valued at $14 per share for an  aggregate  equity value of $108.4
million plus the issuance of  1,529,990 OP Units in Heritage  Communities,  L.P.
valued at $21.4  million.  In  addition,  the  Company  assumed,  at fair value,
mortgage debt totaling  $179.4  million and other  liabilities of $13.6 million.
The aggregate  purchase  price in the ASR Merger was $323.1  million,  including
transaction costs.

On December 7, 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of American Apartment
Communities II, Inc. ("AAC") in a statutory merger (the "AAC Merger").  American
Apartment  Communities II, Inc.'s principal asset was a 79% interest in American
Apartment  Communities  II, LP. In connection  with the  acquisition of AAC, the
Company acquired 53 communities with 14,001 apartment homes located primarily in
California,  the Pacific Northwest,  the Midwest and Florida. The AAC Merger was
structured  as a tax-free  merger and was treated as a purchase  for  accounting
purposes.  No good will was recorded in  connection  with this  transaction.  In
connection  with the AAC Merger,  the  Company  acquired  primarily  real estate
assets totaling $766.9  million.  The aggregate  purchase price consisted of the
following:  (i)  8,000,000  shares of the  Company's  7.5% Series D  Convertible
Preferred Stock ($25 liquidation  preference  value) with a fair market value of
$175 million which is convertible  into the Company's Common Stock at $16.25 per
share,  (ii) the  issuance of  5,614,035 OP units to holders of the 21% minority
interests in American Apartment Communities,  L.P. with an aggregate fair market
value of $67.4 million,  (iii) the assumption of $457.7 million of secured notes
payable at fair market value,  (iv) the assumption of  liabilities  and minority
interests aggregating $27.8 million and (v) $59.8 million of cash. The aggregate
purchase  price in the AAC  Merger  was $793.7  million,  including  transaction
costs.

Information  concerning unaudited pro forma results of operations of the Company
for the years ended  December 31, 1998 and 1997 are set forth  below.  For 1998,
such pro forma  information  assumes  the  following  transactions  occurred  on
January 1, 1997:  (i) the  acquisition  of ASR, (ii) the  acquisition of AAC and
(iii) the  acquisition  of 13  communities  with  4,318  apartment  homes for an
aggregate  purchase  price  of  $144  million.  For  1997,  in  addition  to the
acquisitions  previously  described,  such pro  forma  information  assumes  the
following  transactions  occurred on January 1, 1997: (i) the acquisition by the
Company of 17  communities  with 5,659  apartment  homes at a total cost of $219
million and (ii) the  acquisition by ASR of 22 communities  with 4,208 apartment
homes at a total cost of $176 million.

In  addition  to the ASR  Merger  and the AAC  Merger,  all of the  acquisitions
previously  described  have been  accounted  for as purchases of real estate and
operating  results  for those  communities  are  reflected  in the  accompanying
consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition.


                                      F-14






The unaudited  information is not  necessarily  indicative of what the Company's
consolidated   results  of  operations  would  have  been  if  the  acquisitions
previoulsy  described  had occurred at the  beginning of each period  presented.
Additionally, the pro forma information does not purport to be indicative of the
Company's results of operations for future periods.

4. NOTES PAYABLE-SECURED
Notes  payable-secured,  which  encumber  $1.9 billion or 48.7% of the Company's
real estate owned,  ($2.0 billion or 51.3% of the Company's real estate owned is
unencumbered)  consist  of the  following  at  December  31,  1998  (dollars  in
thousands):





(a)  Includes fair value adjustments aggregating  $18.9 million recorded in
     connection with the ASR Merger and the AAC Merger.


                                      F-15




Fixed-Rate
Mortgage  Notes Payable  Fixed-rate  mortgage notes payable are generally due in
monthly  installments of principal and interest and mature at various dates from
March 1999  through  June 2034 and carry  interest  rates  ranging from 7.13% to
9.58%.  During 1998, the Company assumed sixty fixed-rate mortgage notes payable
aggregating  $515.6  million with a weighted  average  interest rate of 8.03% in
connection with the acquisition of communities, including the ASR Merger and AAC
Merger.

Tax-Exempt Secured Notes Payable Fixed-rate  mortgage notes payable which secure
tax-exempt  housing  bond  issues  mature at various  dates from  November  2004
through December 2025 and carry interest rates from 6.03% to 8.50%.  Interest on
these notes is generally payable in semi-annual  installments.  During 1998, the
Company  assumed one  fixed-rate  tax-exempt  secured note  payable  carrying an
interest rate of 7.54%.

REMIC  Financings The Company has two  fixed-rate  REMIC  Financings  which bear
interest of 7.01% and 8.50% and mature on December  10,  2000 and  February  10,
2001,  respectively.  The Company  makes monthly  installments  of principal and
interest over the term of the REMIC Financings.  Principal  balances at maturity
are expected to be $29.3 million and $36.6 million, respectively.

Secured  Notes  Payable  Secured  notes  payable  consist  of  a  $31.7  million
variable-rate secured senior credit facility and two secured variable-rate notes
payable  aggregating  $13.3  million,  all of which mature in August  1999.  The
variable-rate  secured  notes  payable bear interest at LIBOR + .65% or 6.06% at
December 31, 1998.  The Company has five interest rate swap  agreements  with an
aggregate  notional  value  of  $45  million  under  which  the  Company  pays a
fixed-rate of interest and receives a variable-rate on the notional amounts. The
interest rate swap  agreements  effectively  change the Company's  interest rate
exposure on the $45 million  secured  notes  payable from a  variable-rate  to a
weighted average fixed-rate of 7.29%.

Variable-Rate
Secured Notes Payable Variable-rate  mortgage notes payable are generally due in
monthly  installments of principal and interest and mature at various dates from
August 1999 through  September  2027.  At December  31, 1998,  these notes carry
interest  rates ranging from 6.33% to 7.21%.  During 1998,  the Company  assumed
five  variable-rate  mortgage  notes payable  aggregating  $129.4 million with a
weighted average interest rate of 7.26%.

Tax-Exempt  Secured Notes  Payable  Variable-rate  mortgage  notes payable which
secure tax-exempt housing bond issues mature at various dates from December 2002
to April 2029. At December 31, 1998,  these notes carry  interest  rates ranging
from 3.07% to 7.00%.  During  1998,  the  Company  assumed  three  variable-rate
tax-exempt notes payable  aggregating $55 million which carry a weighted average
interest rate of 5.33%.


The aggregate maturities of secured notes payable for the five years subsequent
to December 31, 1998 is as follows (dollars in thousands):





                                      F-16




5.   NOTES PAYABLE-UNSECURED
A  summary  of  notes  payable-unsecured  at  December  31,  1998 and 1997 is as
follows:





(a) Payable in five equal principal installments of $7.4 million.
(b)  Includes  $5.4  million  and $6.2  million at  December  31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively,  of  deferred  gain from the  termination  of  interest  rate risk
management  agreements.
(c)  Debentures  include an investor put feature  which grants a one time option
to redeem debentures in September 2004.

On January 21,  1999,  the Company  established  a program for the sale of up to
$200  million  aggregate   principal  amount  of  Medium-Term  Notes  (the  "MTN
Program").  The Company sold an  aggregate  of $150 million of senior  unsecured
notes  which  consisted  of the  following:  (i) $70  million of 7.60% Notes due
January 25, 2002,  (ii) $58 million of 7.67% Notes due January 26,  2004,  (iii)
$10  million of  variable  rate Notes due  January 27, 2003 on which the Company
subsequently  executed  an  interest  rate  swap with a  notional  amount of $10
million which  effectively fixed the interest rate at 7.52% and (iv) $12 million
of 7.22% Notes due February 19, 2003.  Net proceeds from the  offerings  will be
used to repay revolving bank debt and prepay mortgage debt.

The  extraordinary  items for the years ended  December 31, 1998,  1997 and 1996
resulted  from the  write-off  of  deferred  financing  costs on  mortgage  debt
satisfied.

                                      F-17




Information  concerning  short-term  bank  borrowings is summarized in the table
that follows:




(d)  Includes balances on a $75 million bridge facility funded in July 1998 that
     matured in November 1998.

At December  31,  1998,  the Company had in place a  syndicated  three year $200
million  unsecured  revolving  credit facility (the "Credit  Facility") of which
$190 million was  outstanding  at December 31, 1998.  The Credit  Facility  will
expire on August 4, 2000.  Borrowings  under the Credit Facility  generally bear
interest at LIBOR plus 55 basis  points.  The Company is also  required to pay a
fee of .200% of the  committed  amount.  This fee and the interest rate are both
subject to change as the Company's credit ratings change.

At December 31, 1998, the Company had a $50 million interim  syndicated  364-day
credit  agreement (the "Credit  Agreement") of which $50 million was outstanding
at  December  31,  1998.  The Credit  Agreement  will  mature on August 4, 1999.
Borrowings under the Credit  Agreement  generally bear interest at LIBOR plus 55
basis  points.  The  Company  is  also  required  to pay a fee of  .150%  of the
committed  amount.  This fee and the interest rate are both subject to change as
the Company's credit ratings change.

At December 31,  1998,  the Company had a $15 million  unsecured  line of credit
with a  commercial  bank,  of which  there  were no  borrowings  outstanding  at
December 31, 1998.  Currently expiring on June 30, 1999, this credit facility is
renewable  annually by mutual  agreement  between the Company and the bank.  The
line is subject to periodic  bank review and  requires the Company to maintain a
depository relationship with the bank; however, there are no formal compensating
balance arrangements.  Borrowings bear interest generally at negotiated rates in
line with borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility.

The Credit  Facility and Credit  Agreement  are subject to  customary  financial
covenants and  limitations.  The  underlying  loan  agreements  contain  certain
covenants  which,  among other things,  require the Company to maintain  minimum
consolidated  tangible net worth,  as defined,  and maintain  certain  financial
ratios.

                                      F-18






6. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The following  disclosures of estimated fair value of financial instruments were
determined by the Company using  available  market  information  and appropriate
valuation methodologies. Considerable judgement is necessary to interpret market
data and develop  estimated  fair value.  Accordingly,  the estimates  presented
herein are not  necessarily  indicative of the amounts the Company would realize
on the  disposition of the financial  instruments.  The use of different  market
assumptions  and/or  estimation  methodologies may have a material effect on the
estimated fair value amounts.  The carrying  amounts and estimated fair value of
the Company's  financial  instruments at December 31, 1998 and 1997, both on and
off-balance sheet, are summarized as follows:




The following methods and assumptions were used by the Company in estimating the
fair values set forth above.

Cash and cash  equivalents  The  carrying  amount  of cash and cash  equivalents
approximates fair value.

Notes payable  Estimated  fair value is based on mortgage  rates and  tax-exempt
bond rates believed to be available to the Company for the issuance of debt with
similar  terms  and  remaining  lives.  The  carrying  amount  of the  Company's
variable-rate notes payable-secured  approximate fair value at December 31, 1998
and 1997.  The carrying  amounts of the Company's  borrowings  under  short-term
revolving credit agreements and lines of credit approximate their fair values.

Interest rate swap agreements Fair value is based on external market  quotations
from investment banks.

Interest rate risk management  agreements Fair value is based on external market
quotations from investment banks.

Derivative Instruments
Interest  rate swap  agreements  At December 31, 1998 and 1997,  the Company had
five  interest  rate swap  agreements  (the  "Agreements")  outstanding  with an
aggregate notional amount of $45 million.  These agreements  effectively fix the
interest  rate on  certain  variable-rate  secured  notes  payable to a weighted
average  fixed-rate of 7.29%.  These Agreements have a weighted average maturity
of 2.6 years  and  mature  at  various  times  from May 2000 to July  2004.  The
Company's  credit  exposure  on swaps is limited to the value of  interest  rate
swaps that are favorable to the Company at December 31, 1998.

For all periods presented,  the Company had no deferred gains or losses relating
to terminated swap contracts.

Interest rate risk  management  agreements  The Company  deferred  gains of $1.5
million in 1997 related to the  termination of an interest rate risk  management
agreement  used to hedge the  issuance of $125  million of notes issued in 1997.
This agreement had the economic  impact of reducing the interest rate from 7.31%
to 7.14% over the ten year term of the notes.

                                      F-19



In order to reduce  the  interest  rate  risk  associated  with the  anticipated
issuance of unsecured notes during 1998, the Company entered into a $100 million
(notional amount) fixed pay forward starting swap agreement  (interest rate risk
management  agreement) with a major Wall Street investment  banking firm in July
1997.  The Company  settled  the  interest  rate risk  management  agreement  on
November 9, 1998, by paying $15.6 million to the  counterparty.  The Company was
unable to issue the  unsecured  notes  contemplated  by the  interest  rate risk
management agreement, and accordingly,  the cost associated with this settlement
is reflected in the 1998 Statement of Operations.

The Company has no  interest  rate risk  management  agreements  outstanding  at
December 31, 1998.

The Company has not obtained  collateral or other security to support  financial
instruments. In the event of non-performance by the counterparty,  the Company's
credit  loss on its  derivative  instruments  is  limited  to the  value  of the
derivative  instruments  that are favorable to the Company at December 31, 1998.
However,  such  non-performance  is not  anticipated as the  counterparties  are
highly rated, credit quality U.S. financial institutions.

7. INCOME TAXES
The  differences  between  net  income  available  to  common  shareholders  for
financial  reporting  purposes and taxable  income  before  dividend  deductions
relate primarily to temporary differences,  principally real estate depreciation
and the  tax  deferral  of  certain  gains  on  property  sales.  The  temporary
differences in depreciation result from differences in the book and tax basis of
certain real estate assets and the  differences  in the methods of  depreciation
and lives of the real estate assets.

All  realized  gains  (losses)  on  sales  of  investments  are  distributed  to
shareholders if and when recognized for income tax purposes.  Since 1980,  gains
aggregating  approximately  $82.6  million  have been  deferred  for  income tax
purposes and are undistributed at December 31, 1998.

For income tax purposes,  distributions paid to common  shareholders  consist of
ordinary income,  capital gains, return of capital or a combination thereof. For
the three years ended  December  31, 1998,  distributions  paid per common share
were taxable as follows:

                                   1998              1997         1996
                                   ----              -----       ------

Ordinary income                 $ .913            $ .727         $ .638
Long-term capital gain            ---               .021           ---
Return of capital                 .127              .249           .307
                                 ------             ------       -------
                                $1.040            $ .997         $ .945
                                 ======             ======       =======


8. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
Profit Sharing Plan
The United Dominion Realty Trust,  Inc. Profit Sharing Plan (the "Profit Sharing
Plan") is a defined contribution plan covering all eligible full-time employees.
Under the Profit  Sharing Plan, the Company makes  discretionary  profit sharing
and  matching  contributions  to the Profit  Sharing Plan as  determined  by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Aggregate contributions,  both
matching and  discretionary,  which are included in the  Company's  consolidated
statements of operations for the three years ended  December 31, 1998,  1997 and
1996 were $550,000, $646,000 and $600,000, respectively.

                                      F-20



Stock Option Plan
The Company's 1985 Share Option Plan, (the "Option Plan"),  authorizes the grant
of options,  at the discretion of the Board of Directors,  to certain  officers,
directors and key employees of the Company,  for up to 10,000,000  shares of the
Company's  common stock which is limited to 8% of the number of shares of common
stock issued and outstanding.  The Option Plan generally  provides,  among other
things,  that options be granted at exercise prices equal to the market value of
the shares on the date of grant.  Shares under options which subsequently expire
or are canceled are available for subsequent grant. For options granted prior to
December 12, 1995,  the optionee has up to five years from the date on which the
options first become exercisable  during which to exercise the options.  For all
options granted subsequent to December 12, 1995, the options have ten year terms
and typically vest on December 31 of the year  subsequent to grant.  On December
8, 1998, the Company cancelled  1,047,165 options which were granted on December
9, 1997 at $14.25. The Company  subsequently  reissued these options on December
8, 1998 at the Company's then market price of $10.875.

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by
SFAS No. 123 "Accounting for Stock Based  Compensation"  (SFAS No. 123), and has
been  determined as if the Company had accounted for its employee  stock options
under the fair value method of  accounting  as defined in SFAS No. 123. The fair
value for these options was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following  weighted average  assumptions for 1998,
1997 and 1996:
                                               1998       1997      1996
                                               ----       ----       ----
Risk free interest rate                        4.9%       4.8%       4.8%
Dividend yields                                6.6%       6.6%       6.6%
Volatility factor                             .150       .150       .150
Weighted average expected life (years)           9          9          9

For  purposes  of the pro forma  disclosures,  the  estimated  fair value of the
options is amortized to expense over the options'  vesting period.  SFAS No. 123
is  applicable  only  to  options  granted  subsequent  to  December  31,  1994,
consequently,  the pro forma  effect  is not fully  reflected  until  1997.  The
Company's pro forma information is as follows:  (in thousands,  except per share
amounts):
                                       1998              1997          1996
                                       ----              ----           ----
Net income available
     to common shareholders
                  As reported         $   48,739     $   52,804     $   28,278
                  Pro forma               47,841         52,221         27,961
Earnings per common share-diluted
                  As reported         $      .49     $      .60     $      .49
                  Pro forma                  .48            .60            .48


                                      F-21



A summary of the Company's  stock option  activity  during the three years ended
December  31, 1998 is provided in the  following  table (in thousand of dollars,
except per share amounts).







(a) The number of shares of common stock  issuable  upon the exercise of options
outstanding  is limited to 8% of the number of shares of common stock issued and
outstanding.

Exercisable at December 31,
    1996                       713,791           $11.94    $7.44-$15.25
    1997                       916,981            12.67     7.44-15.38
    1998                     1,691,863            13.79     7.44-15.38

The weighted average  remaining  contractual life on all options  outstanding is
7.6 years.  Approximately 1,533,335 of share options had exercise prices between
$14.13 and $15.38, approximately 1,781,454 had  exercise prices  between  $10.88
and  $13.94  and  approximately  44,224  of  share options  had  exercise prices
between $7.44 and $9.19.

The weighted  average fair value of options  granted during 1998,  1997 and 1996
was $.66, $1.35 and $1.43, respectively.

9. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Preferred  Stock Both Series A and Series B  Preferred  Stock have no stated par
value, with a liquidation preference of $25 per share. With no voting rights and
no stated  maturity,  the  preferred  stock in both series is not subject to any
sinking  fund or  mandatory  redemption  and is not  convertible  into any other
securities  of the  Company.  The Series A and Series B Preferred  Stock are not
redeemable prior to April 24, 2000 and May 29, 2007,  respectively.  On or after
these dates,  the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock may be redeemed for cash
at the option of the Company,  in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $25
per share plus accrued and unpaid  dividends.  The  redemption  price is payable
solely out of the proceeds of the sales  proceeds of other  capital stock of the
Company.  All  dividends  due and payable on the Series A and Series B Preferred
Stock have been accrued or paid as of the end of each fiscal year.

On December 7, 1998, in connection with the AAC Merger, the Company issued eight
million shares of newly created Series D Convertible  Redeemable Preferred Stock
(Series D), with a liquidation  preference of $25 per share. The Series D has no
voting  rights,  no stated  maturity  and is not subject to any sinking  fund or
mandatory redemption. Series D is

                                      F-22



convertible  into 1.5385  shares of common  stock at the option of the holder of
Series D at any time at $16.25 per share.  The Series D is not redeemable  prior
to December  7, 2003.  On or after this date,  the  Company  may, at its option,
redeem  at any time all or part of the  Series  D at a price  per  share of $25,
payable in cash,  plus all  accrued  and  unpaid  dividends,  provided  that the
current market price of the common stock at least equals the  conversion  price,
initially set at $16.25 per share.  The  redemption is payable solely out of the
sale proceeds of other capital stock. In addition, the Company may not redeem in
any  consecutive  12 month  period a number  of  shares  of  Series D having  an
aggregate liquidation preference of more than $100 million.

Officers' Stock Purchase and Loan Plan Under the Officer Stock Purchase and Loan
Plan (the "Loan Plan"), certain officers have purchased common stock at the then
current  market price with  financing  provided by the Company at 7.5%  interest
only. Originally, the underlying notes began maturing in November 1998, however,
the maturity date for the 194,000 shares maturing  November 1998 was extended to
November 2001. A total of 823,500 shares have been issued and 576,500 shares are
available for future issuance under the Loan Plan.

Dividend   Reinvestment   and  Stock   Purchase  Plan  The  Company's   Dividend
Reinvestment  and Stock Purchase Plan (the "Stock  Purchase Plan") allows common
and preferred shareholders the opportunity to purchase,  through reinvestment of
cash  dividends  and  optional  cash  constributions,  additional  shares of the
Company's  common  stock.  As of December 31, 1998,  6,740,120  shares of common
stock had been issued  under the Stock  Purchase  Plan.  Shares in the amount of
7,259,880  were reserved for further  issuance  under the Stock Purchase Plan at
December 31, 1998.  During  1998,  2,824,627  shares were issued under the Stock
Purchase Plan for a total market equity value of approximately $36.6 million.

Purchase  Rights On  January  27,  1998,  the Board of  Directors  authorized  a
Shareholders  Rights Plan (the "Rights Plan") which will become exercisable only
if a person or group (the  "Acquiring  Person")  acquires or  announces a tender
offer for more than 15% of the  outstanding  common stock of the  Company.  Upon
exercise,  the Company may issue one share of common  stock in exchange for each
right.  Each right will entitle the holder to purchase for $45 one thousandth of
a share of  Series C  Preferred  stock or, at the  option  of the  Company,  the
Company's common stock having a value of $90.

10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Land and Other Leases
The Company is party to several ground leases relating to operating communities.
In addition,  the Company is party to various other operating  leases related to
the  operation of its  corporate  and regional  offices.  Future  minimum  lease
payments  for  noncancelable  land and other  leases at December 31, 1998 are as
follows (in thousands):

1999                        $     2,129
2000                              1,336
2001                              1,233
2002                              1,227
2003                              1,180
Thereafter                       29,996
                             -----------
            Total           $    37,101
                             ===========


The Company  incurred  $1,614,  $1,150,  and $707, of rent expense for the years
ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.


                                      F-23




Contingencies
The  Company is party to  various  legal  actions  which are  incidental  to its
business.  Management  believes  that  these  actions  will not have a  material
adverse affect on the consolidated balance sheets and statements of operation.

Commitments
The  Company  is  committed  to  completing  its  real  estate  currently  under
development which has an estimated cost to complete of $83.2 million at December
31, 1998.

11. UNAUDITED SUMMARIZED CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
Summarized consolidated quarterly financial data for the year ended December 31,
1998 is as follows (In thousands, except per share information):




(a)  The Company completed the acquisition of ASR Investments Corporation on
     March 27, 1998 and the acquisition of American Apartment Communities II on
     December 7, 1998.

(b)  The fourth quarter of 1998 includes a $15.6 million charge associated with
     the termination of an interest rate risk management agreement.



                                      F-24




Summarized consolidated quarterly financial data for the year ended December 31,
1997 is as follows (In thousands, except per share information):



                                      F-25




  SCHEDULE III.
  Summary of Real Estate Owned













                                      F-26












                                      F-27





















                                      F-28



















                                      F-29


















                                      F-30
















                                      F-31



































   






                                      F-33















                                      F-34























(a)  The aggregate cost for federal income tax purposes was approximately $3.3
     billion and $2.3 billion at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
(b)  Represents a $34,262,390 REMIC financing encumbering 12 apartment
     communities.
(c)  Represents  a  $41,656,838  REMIC  financing   encumbering  13  apartment
     communites.
(d)  Represents a $31,700,000 notes payable-secured which encumbers six
     apartment communities.
(e)  Represents  $114,833,855  of fixed rate debt which encumbers 15 apartment
     communities.
(f)  Represents $44,898,195 of fixed rate debt which encumbers 9 apartment
     communties.
(g) Represents  $97,265,000 of variable rate debt which encumbers 11 apartment
    communties.
(h) Represents $14,095,024 of variable rate debt which encumbers 7 apartment
    communities.
(i) The depreciable life for all buildings is 35 years.


