
10-K
UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC. 10-K




- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

       FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

               (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995

                                       OR

             ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


              For the transition period from _________ to _________

                         Commission file number 1-10524


                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         VIRGINIA                                    54-0857512
(State or other jurisdiction of                    (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation of organization)                    Identification No.)

         10 South  Sixth  Street,  Suite 203  Richmond,  Virginia  23219-3802
              (Address of principal executive offices-zip code)

                                 (804) 780-2691
               Registrant's telephone number, including area code


          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None





Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed  by  Section  13 or 15 (d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to filing  requirements
for at least the past 90 days.

                       Yes     X                No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best  of  the  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. ( )

The aggregate market value of the shares of common stock held by  non-affiliates
(based upon the closing sale price on the New York Stock Exchange) on March 15,
1996 was  approximately $854 million. As of March 15, 1996, there were
56,506,249 shares of common stock, $1 par value, outstanding.

Part III  incorporates  certain  information  by reference  from the  definitive
proxy  statement to be filed with respect to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held on May 7, 1996.

*In  determining  this figure,  the Company has assumed that all of its officers
and directors,  and persons known to the Company to be beneficial owners of more
than 5% of the Company's shares,  are affiliates.  Such assumption should not be
deemed to be conclusive for any other purpose.

- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.

                                               
                                                                         PAGE
PART I.

         Item 1.  Business                                                  3
         Item 2.  Properties                                               12
         Item 3.  Legal Proceedings                                        13
         Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security-Holders      13

PART II.

         Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related        15
                           Stockholder Matters
         Item 6.  Selected Financial Data                                  15
         Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial        17
                           Condition and Results of Operation
         Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data              22
         Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on         22
                           Accounting and Financial Disclosure

PART III.

         Item 10.          Directors and Executive Officers of the         23
                            Registrant
         Item 11.          Executive Compensation                          23
         Item 12.          Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial        23
                            Owners and Management
         Item 13.          Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  23

PART IV.

         Item 14.          Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and     24
                            Reports on Form 8-K




                                 Part I


Item 1.   Business

         United  Dominion  Realty  Trust,  Inc., a Virginia corporation, and its
subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") is a self-administered equity real
estate  investment  trust ("REIT"), formed in 1972, whose business is devoted to
one industry segment, the ownership and operation of income-producing real
estate, primarily  apartment communities located in the southeastern U.S. (the
"Southeast"). The Company is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia with divisional
offices in Richmond, Atlanta, Georgia, and Orlando, Florida, and regional
offices in the previously mentioned cities plus Columbia, Maryland, Raleigh,
North Carolina, and Nashville, Tennessee. The Company has approximately 1,100
associates as of March 15, 1996. The Company is a fully  integrated real estate
company with acquisition,  development and asset and property  management
capabilities. The Company  acquires,  upgrades and operates its  properties
with the goals of maximizing  its funds from  operations  ("FFO")  (defined as
income before gains [losses] on investments  and  extraordinary  items
[computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting  principles] plus
real estate  depreciation,  less preferred dividends and after adjustment for
significant  nonrecurring items, if any)  and  quarterly  distributions  to
shareholders,   while  building  equity primarily through real estate
appreciation.

         At the beginning of 1991, the Company  embarked on a major expansion of
its apartment portfolio in an effort to take advantage of unique buying
opportunities resulting from the real estate credit crisis. This enabled the
Company to (i) acquire more stable apartment properties having high occupancy
levels and not requiring substantial renovation, and (ii) enter into new markets
including the Baltimore/Washington area, central and south Florida, Nashville
and Memphis, Tennessee.  The Company's acquisition strategy focuses on acquiring
two types of apartment communities: (i) near Class A properties built since 1980
where the investment (purchase price plus planned improvements) represents a
significant discount to replacement cost and (ii) well-located communities built
in the late 1960s or 1970s that can be upgraded and repositioned for the longer
term. In 1995, the Company purchased 23 apartment communities with 5,142
apartment homes for approximately $195 million. This includes 9 apartment
communities with 1,596 apartment  homes acquired in a portfolio  purchase for
$65.7 million,  including closing costs. As of March 15, 1996, the Company's
portfolio of income-producing real estate  consisted of 154 properties including
144 apartment complexes, 6 shopping centers, and 4 other properties. A
geographic distribution of the Company's portfolio of apartment  communities
held for investment is included in Item 2, "Properties".

         The Company is  operated  so as to qualify as a real estate  investment
trust under the applicable  provisions of the Internal  Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the  "Code").  To qualify,  the Company must meet certain  tests which,
among other things,  require that its assets  consist  primarily of real estate,
its  income  be  derived  primarily  from real  estate,  and at least 95% of its
taxable income be distributed to its shareholders. Because the Company qualifies
as a REIT, it is generally not subject to Federal income taxes.

         The  Company  manages its  properties  directly,  rather  than  through
outside property  management  firms.  During 1995, the cost of internal property
management of the Company's apartment properties was approximately 2.6% of rents
collected  versus the 4-5% fee typically  charged by independent  fee management
companies in the Company's  region.  In determining its cost of self management,
the Company considers all direct and indirect costs associated with the internal
property management function.

         Near the end of 1992,  management  of the Company  determined  that the
Company  should  devote  substantially  all of its  resources  to the  apartment
business.  During 1994, the Company sold one shopping center and during 1995 the
Company sold seven shopping centers. As of the end of 1995, six of the Company's
remaining  seven shopping  centers were under  contract to be sold.  There is no
assurance that these sales transactions will be consummated.  Although no formal
plans for  divestiture  have  been  made,  the  Company  hopes to  substantially
liquidate its commercial properties over time as opportunities arise.

         A significant aspect of the Company's  investment  strategy has been to
concentrate its  investments  within the Southeast.  The Company  currently owns
properties in the seven coastal  states from Delaware to Florida plus  Tennessee
and Alabama. This strategy of geographically focusing on one region, has enabled
management  to regularly  inspect each property and to monitor  developments  in
local real estate  markets.  The Company is a significant  apartment owner in 15
Southeast  markets  with each market  averaging  approximately  2,000  apartment
homes.  The  Company's  strategy is to establish a dominant  presence in each of
these markets in order to:








(bullet)   Be a local market leader.

(bullet)   Improve operating efficiencies in the purchase of good and services.

(bullet)   Reduce the cost of community management.

(bullet)   Generate new sources of revenue from services marketed
           to residents.

(bullet)   Reduce costs and add revenues from utility deregulation.

(bullet)   Build stronger local organizations which are conducive to
           growing and retaining associates.

         The Company will  continue to grow  principally  through  acquisitions.
However,  given its size, as well as its objective to be a dominant owner in its
larger markets, management believes that it is important that the Company have
some development capability. During 1995, the Company began building its
prototype apartment building as a second phase to Clear Run Apartments in
Wilmington, North Carolina. The Company plans to build this prototype as a
second phase at four other communities in 1996. The Company also plans to do a
ground up development of 360  apartment homes in a suburb of Nashville.

         As a qualified REIT, the Company  distributes a substantial  portion of
its  cash  flow to its  shareholders  in the  form of  dividends.  Over the past
several  years,  the  Company  has  reduced  its  payout  ratio  (the  ratio  of
distributions   declared  per  share  to  FFO  per  share)  from  above  90%  to
approximately  76% in 1995.  For 1995,  the Company's  cash flow from  operating
activities   exceeded  cash  distributions   paid  to  common   shareholders  by
approximately  $20.7  million.  The  Company  utilizes  a variety  of  primarily
external  financing sources to fund new acquisitions,  property  renovations and
expansions,  major capital  improvements and balloon debt payments.  The Company
has frequently  utilized its bank lines of credit to  temporarily  finance these
expenditures and has subsequently  replaced the short-term bank debt with longer
term debt or equity. During 1995 the Company recognized cash proceeds from sales
of real estate owned of $23.5 million.  Property  sales should  continue to be a
funding source in the future.

         During 1995 the Company  raised  approximately  $218  million
externally.  This included  $78.7 million from the sale of common stock in
February,  September and October  and  $101.5  million  from the April sale of
4,200,000  shares of 9 1/4% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred  Stock ($25
per share liquidation  preference value) ("Preferred Stock"). Also during 1995,
the Company  completed new tax-exempt housing  bond  financings  or  assumed
such bond financings  and conventional mortgage notes in connection with certain
acquisitions in the aggregate  amount of approximately $38.0 million.

         In the past,  the Company  utilized fixed rate mortgage debt to finance
its growth.  As the Company's  capital base has broadened  over the past several
years  primarily  through  its sale of  common  stock in seven of the last  nine
years, its financial  strength and credit standing have improved.  The Company's
senior debt is currently rated BBB+ by Standard & Poor's and Baal by Moody's. As
a result of its investment grade debt ratings,  the Company has used and expects
to continue  to use  unsecured  debt as its primary  debt  funding  source.  The
Company also uses secured debt  financing  but to a much lesser  extent and only
(i) when such  financing  takes the form of tax-exempt  housing bonds or (ii) in
connection with an acquisition when existing mortgage financing is in place that
either is closed to prepayment or cannot be repaid at a reasonable cost.

         At December 31, 1995,  the Company had $70 million of revolving  credit
facilities with four commercial banks plus $33.5 million of additional available
lines of credit  with three of these  banks.  The  Company  will seek to further
expand these credit  arrangements during 1996. At December 31, 1995, the Company
had  $18.4  million  of  borrowings   outstanding  under  the  revolving  credit
facilities and no borrowings outstanding under its lines of credit.






         At the end of 1995,  the apartment  portion of the Company's  portfolio
included 141 complexes having a total of 34,224 apartment homes and constituting
95.8% of the Company's  real estate  owned,  at cost.  During 1995,  the Company
acquired 23 apartment  complexes,  having a total of 5,142  apartment  homes,  a
16.9% increase in the number of apartment  homes owned.  During 1995,  1994, and
1993,  apartments provided  approximately 96%, 93% and 89% respectively,  of the
Company's rental income. The Company's  apartment  communities consist primarily
of upper middle to moderate income  complexes which make up the broadest segment
of the apartment market.  Management believes that well located apartments offer
the Company a good  combination of current income and longer term equity growth.
Although  there is no known move  toward  rent  control in any of the markets in
which the  Company  now owns  apartments,  should rent  control  legislation  be
enacted,  the Company's  ability to raise rents to cover  increases in operating
expenses  might be impaired.  While the Company has been largely  unaffected  by
military  cutbacks and base  closures,  the effect of future defense cuts on the
Company's  region is unknown.  As the Company has expanded  beyond  Virginia and
North Carolina,  it has attempted to avoid markets where the exposure to reduced
defense  spending is believed to be high.  The Company has one property,  Indian
Hills in Anniston, Alabama, which caters to Fort McClellan which was included in
the list of  military  base  closings  announced  by the Defense  Department  in
February, 1995.

         Management  expects the Company's  apartment business to continue to be
stable during the next two to three years.  Apartment  markets in the Company's
region in 1994 and 1995 generally  benefitted from the combination of job growth
which led to strong  growth in the number of renter  households  and only modest
apartment construction.  Beginning in mid-year 1994 and lasting through mid-year
1995, physical occupancy of the Company's apartments steadily increased.
However, occupancy trended downward beginning in August, 1995 and continued to
decline albeit slowly through year end. Physical occupancy at the Company's
apartment properties averaged 93.9% for December, 1995. Management believes that
apartment markets within the Southeast will remain in balance over the next few
years if construction activity remains at 1994 and 1995 levels.  Because the
Company's apartment occupancy has stabilized at approximately 94% at the
beginning of 1996, it is anticipated that the Company will benefit more from
higher rent growth in 1996 and 1997 than from occupancy gains.

         It is widely believed by those who closely follow the industry that the
next few  years  will be a period of  consolidation  for  REITs.  Prior to 1990,
United   Dominion  was  the  only  major  publicly  held  REIT  focusing  almost
exclusively on apartment  investments.  Since then, a number of new  multifamily
REITs have been formed.  According to the  National  Association  of Real Estate
Investment  Trusts  (NAREIT),  there  were  more than 35  apartment  REITs as of
February 29, 1996. It is believed that some of these REITs may be forced to seek
to be acquired by larger,  better  capitalized REITs with superior access to the
capital markets,  such as the Company. If consolidation occurs, then the Company
expects to  participate in the process as an acquirer of other  apartment  REITs
when such  transactions  are accretive to FFO earnings and can enhance  dividend
growth and shareholder value.

         At  December  31,  1995,  commercial  properties,   primarily  shopping
centers,  constituted  the  remaining 4% of the  Company's  real estate owned at
cost. During 1995, 1994, and 1993,  commercial  properties  provided 4%, 7%, and
11%, respectively,  of the Company's rental income. The commercial portfolio has
become a non-material  portion of the  Company's total portfolio.

         In most of the Company's  markets,  the competition for residents among
properties is very intense.  Some  competing  properties are larger and/or newer
than the Company's  properties and offer features for prospective  residents not
offered by properties  owned by the Company.  The competitive  situation of each
property varies and intensifies as additional properties are constructed.

         The  Company  expects to continue to  aggressively  acquire  additional
apartment  properties within the Southeast during 1996. When it is in the market
for new  acquisitions,  the Company  competes  with  numerous  other  investors,
including  REITs,  individuals,   partnerships,   corporations,  pension  funds,
syndicators,  insurance  companies,  foreign  investors,  and other real  estate
entities.  Management  believes that the Company, in general, is well positioned
in terms of economic and other resources to compete effectively. Even though the
Company  has  certain  advantages  over some of its  competitors  because of its
substantial  presence  in the region and its access to capital,  some  competing
investors  are larger than the  Company in terms of assets and other  investment
resources and may have a competitive advantage.







         To date,  compliance  with  Federal,  State,  and  local  environmental
protection   regulations  has  not  had  a  material  effect  upon  the  capital
expenditures,  earnings,  or competitive position of the Company.  However, over
the past few years,  there have been increasing  concerns  raised  regarding the
presence of  asbestos  and other  hazardous  materials  in existing  real estate
properties.  In  response  to this,  on March 1,  1991,  the  Company  adopted a
property management plan for hazardous  materials.  As part of the plan, Phase I
environmental  site  investigation  and  reports  have been  completed  for each
property owned by the Company and not  previously  inspected.  In addition,  all
proposed acquisitions are inspected prior to acquisition. In general, within the
Company's  region,  owners of property for sale have been required by purchasers
to remove or  control  asbestos  and other  environmental  hazards  prior to the
transfer of the property. Consequently, when the Company sells properties in the
future,  management  anticipates  that the Company will similarly be required to
remove or control such hazards, if any. In some cases, the Company has abandoned
otherwise economically  attractive  acquisitions because the costs of removal or
control have been  prohibitive  and/or the Company has been  unwilling to accept
the potential risks  involved.  Management  believes that thorough  professional
environmental   inspections   and  testing  for  asbestos  and  other  hazardous
materials,  coupled with a conservative posture toward accepting known risk, the
Company  can  minimize  its  exposure to  potential  liability  associated  with
environmental  hazards. The Company is not aware of any environmental hazards on
or in its properties which  individually or in the aggregate may have a material
adverse  impact on its  operations  or  financial  position.  To the best of its
knowledge,  the Company is in compliance with all applicable environmental rules
and regulations.


                          UNITED DOMINION REALTY, L.P.


         On October 23, 1995, the Company organized United Dominion Realty, L.P.
(the "Partnership")  under the Virginia Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act.
The Company is the sole General Partner of the Partnership and currently holds a
99% interest therein.  The remaining 1% is currently held by UDRT of North
Carolina,  L.L.C., a wholly owned  subsidiary of the Company.  In 1995, the
Company  acquired two  apartment  communities  and land to develop an additional
apartment  community using the Partnership, and transferred seven of its
Tennessee properties into the Partnership. The Partnership is intended to assist
the Company in competing for acquisitions of properties  that meet the Company's
investment  strategies from seller partnerships some or all of whose partners
may wish to defer  taxation  of gain  realized on sale  through an exchange of
partnership interests.

         The  Partnership  is  organized  under a  First  Amended  and  Restated
Agreement of Limited Partnership dated as of December 31, 1995 (the "Partnership
Agreement"). A summary of certain provisions of the Partnership Agreement is set
forth  below.  The summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and
qualified  in  its  entirety  by  reference  to  applicable  provisions  of  the
Partnership  Act and the complete  Partnership  Agreement,  which is filed as an
exhibit to this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.

ADMISSION OF LIMITED PARTNERS; INVESTMENT AGREEMENTS

         The Company  presently intends to limit admission to the Partnership to
Limited Partners who are "accredited investors," as defined in Rule 501(a) under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").  Limited Partners
will be admitted  upon  executing  and  delivering  to the Company an Investment
Agreement (the "Investment Agreement")





and delivering to the Partnership the consideration  prescribed  therein. In the
Investment  Agreement,  the prospective Limited Partner makes representations as
to his status as an accredited investor and other representations and agreements
regarding the Units, defined below, to be issued to him,  intended to assure
compliance with the Securities Act. Any rights to Securities Act registration of
the Common Stock of the Company, if any, issued to such Limited Partner upon
redemption of his Units (see "Redemption Rights" below), will also be set forth
in the Investment Agreement.

UNITS

         The interests in the Partnership of the Partnership's  limited Partners
(the  "Limited  Partners")  are  represented  by  units of  limited  partnership
interest  (the  "Units").  All  holders of Units are  entitled  to share in cash
distributions  from,  and  in  the  profits  and  losses  of,  the  Partnership.
Distributions by the Partnership are made equally for each Unit outstanding.  As
the   Partnership's   sole  General   Partner,   the  Company  intends  to  make
distributions  per Unit in the same  amount  as the cash  dividends  paid by the
Company  on each  share  of  Common  Stock.  However,  because  the  Partnership
properties,  which are the primary source of cash available for  distribution to
Unit holders,  are significantly  fewer than the properties held directly by the
Company  and  may  not  perform  as  well,   there  can  be  no  assurance  that
distributions  per Unit will always equal Common Stock  dividends  per share.  A
distribution  made to the Company to enable it to maintain  its REIT status (see
"Management and Operations"  below) may deplete cash otherwise  distributable to
Unit  holders.  The  Partnership  may borrow from the Company for the purpose of
equalizing  per  Unit  and per share of Common  Stock  distributions,  but
neither  the Partnership  nor the  Company  is under  any  obligation  regarding
Partnership borrowings for this or any other purpose.

         The Limited  Partners  have the rights to which  limited  partners  are
entitled  under  the  Partnership  Act.  The Units  are  illiquid;  they are not
registered for secondary sale under any securities laws,  state or federal,  and
cannot be  transferred by a holder unless they are so registered or an exemption
from such registration is available.  Neither the Partnership nor the Company is
under any  obligation to effect any such  registration  or to establish any such
exemption.  The Partnership  Agreement  imposes  additional  restrictions on the
transfer of Units, as described below under "Transferability of Interests."

MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONS

         The Company, as the sole General Partner of the Partnership,  has full,
exclusive  and complete  responsibility  and  discretion in the  management  and
control of the  Partnership,  and the  Limited  Partners  have no  authority  to
transact business for, or participate in the management  activities or decisions
of, the Partnership.

         The Partnership  Agreement requires that the Partnership be operated in
a manner  that will enable the  Company to satisfy  the  requirements  for being
classified as a REIT and to avoid any federal income tax liability.  The General
Partner is expressly directed,  notwithstanding  anything to the contrary in the
Partnership Agreement, to cause the Partnership to distribute amounts (including
proceeds  of  Partnership  borrowings)  sufficient  to enable the Company to pay
distributions to its shareholders required to maintain its REIT status and avoid
income tax or excise tax liability.

ABILITY TO ENGAGE IN OTHER BUSINESSES; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

         The  Company  and  other  persons   (including   officers,   directors,
employees,  agents and other affiliates of the Company) are not prohibited under
the Partnership Agreement from engaging in other business activities,  including
business  activities   substantially  similar  or  identical  to  those  of  the
Partnership,  and the  Company  will not be  required  to present  any  business
opportunities to the Partnership or to any Limited Partner.

BORROWING BY THE PARTNERSHIP

         The General Partner is authorized  under the  Partnership  Agreement to
cause the  Partnership  to borrow  money and to issue and  guarantee  debt as it
deems necessary for the conduct of the activities of the Partnership.  Such debt
may be secured by  mortgages,  deeds of  Company,  pledges or other liens on the
assets of the Partnership.

REIMBURSEMENT OF GENERAL PARTNER; TRANSACTIONS WITH THE GENERAL PARTNER AND ITS
AFFILIATES

         The General  Partner will receive no  compensation  for its services as
General Partner of the  Partnership.  However,  as a partner in the Partnership,
the  General  Partner has the same right to  allocations  of profit and loss and
distributions as other partners of the Partnership. In addition, the Partnership
will reimburse the General Partner for all expenses it incurs





relating  to the  ownership  and  operation  of,  or for  the  benefit  of,  the
Partnership and any offering of Units or other partnership interests, and for
the pro rata share of the expenses of any offering securities of the Company
some or all the proceeds of which are contributed to the Partnership.

LIABILITY OF GENERAL PARTNER AND LIMITED PARTNERS

         The  General  Partner  is liable  for all  general  obligations  of the
Partnership to the extent not paid by the  Partnership.  The General  Partner is
not liable for the non-recourse obligations of the Partnership.

         The  Limited   Partners  are  not  required  to  make  further  capital
contributions to the Partnership  after their respective  initial  contributions
are fully paid.  Assuming  that a Limited  Partner acts in  conformity  with the
provisions of the  Partnership  Agreement,  the liability of the Limited Partner
for  obligations  of  the  Partnership  under  the  Partnership   Agreement  and
Partnership Act will be limited, subject to certain possible exceptions,  to the
loss of the Limited Partner's investment in the Partnership.

         The Partnership is qualified to conduct business in each state in which
it owns  property  and may qualify to conduct  business in other  jurisdictions.
Maintenance  of limited  liability  may require  compliance  with certain  legal
requirements of those jurisdictions and certain other jurisdictions. Limitations
on  the  liability  of a  limited  partner  for  the  obligations  of a  limited
partnership have not clearly been established in many states. Accordingly, if it
were  determined  that the  right,  or  exercise  of the  right  by the  Limited
Partners,  to make certain  amendments to the  Partnership  Agreement or to take
other action pursuant to the Partnership  Agreement constituted "control" of the
Partnership's  business for the purposes of the statutes of any relevant  state,
the  Limited  Partners  might be held  personally  liable for the  Partnership's
obligations.  The Partnership will operate in a manner the General Partner deems
reasonable,  necessary and appropriate to preserve the limited  liability of the
Limited Partners.

EXCULPATION AND INDEMNIFICATION OF THE GENERAL PARTNER

         The Partnership  Agreement provides that the General Partner will incur
no liability for monetary  damages to the Partnership or any Limited Partner for
losses sustained or liabilities incurred as a result of errors in judgment or of
any act or omission if the General Partner acted in good faith. In addition, the
General  Partner is not responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part
of its agents, provided the General Partner appointed such agents in good faith.

         The  Partnership  Agreement  also provides for  indemnification  of the
General Partner,  the directors,  officers and employees of the General Partner,
and such other persons as the General  Partner may from time to time  designate,
against any and all losses,  claims,  damages,  liabilities  (joint or several),
expenses  (including  reasonable  legal fees and  expenses),  judgments,  fines,
settlements,  and  other  amounts  arising  from  any and all  claims,  demands,
actions,  suits or  proceedings,  whether  civil,  criminal,  administrative  or
investigative,  that relate to the  operations of the  Partnership  in which any
such indemnitee may be involved,  or is threatened to be involved,  unless it is
established  that (i) the act or omission of such indemnitee was material to the
matter  giving rise to the  proceeding  and either was committed in bad faith or
was the  result of  active  and  deliberate  dishonesty,  (ii)  such  indemnitee
actually received an improper  personal benefit in money,  property or services,
or (iii) in the case of any criminal proceeding,  such indemnitee had reasonable
cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful.

SALE OF ASSETS

         Under the Partnership Agreement,  the General Partner generally has the
exclusive  authority to determine whether,  when and on what terms the assets of
the Partnership will be sold.

REMOVAL OF THE GENERAL PARTNER; TRANSFER OF GENERAL PARTNER'S INTEREST

         The  Partnership  Agreement does not authorize the Limited  Partners to
remove the General Partner and the Limited  Partners have no right to remove the
General Partner under the Partnership  Act. The General Partner may not transfer
any of its interest as General Partner and withdraw as General  Partner,  except
(a) to a wholly-owned  subsidiary of the General Partner or the owner of all the
ownership  interests in the General Partner,  (b) in connection with a merger or
sale of all or substantially  all of the assets of the General Partner or (c) as
a result of the  bankruptcy of the General  Partner.  A substitute or additional
General Partner may be admitted upon  compliance with the applicable  provisions
of the Partnership Agreement,  including delivery by counsel for the Partnership
of an opinion that admission of such General Partner will not cause (i) the





Partnership to be classified  other than as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes,  or (ii) the loss of any  Limited  Partner's  limited  liability.  The
General Partner may not sell all or  substantially  all of its assets,  or enter
into  a  merger,  unless  the  sale  or  merger  includes  the  sale  of  all or
substantially  all of the assets of, or the merger of, the  Partnership  and the
Limited Partners receive for each Unit  substantially the same  consideration as
the holder of one share of Common Stock.

TRANSFERABILITY OF INTERESTS

         A Limited Partner may transfer his interest in the Partnership without
the  consent of the  General  Partner,  unless in the opinion of counsel for the
Partnership  such transfer would require the registration of such interest under
the Securities Act or would  otherwise  violate any applicable  federal or state
securities or blue sky law  (including  investment  suitability  standards)  and
unless such transfer would have undesirable  federal income tax consequences for
the  Partnership.  The  General  Partner  may  require,  as a  condition  of any
transfer, that the transferring Limited Partner assume all costs incurred by the
Partnership in connection with such transfer.

REDEMPTION RIGHTS

         Each Limited  Partner has the right (the  "Redemption  Right"), subject
to the purchase right of the General Partner described below, to cause the
redemption of such Limited  Partner's  Units for cash in an amount per Unit
equal to the  average of the  closing  sale  prices of the  Common  Stock of the
Company on the New York Stock  Exchange  (the  "NYSE") for the ten trading  days
immediately  preceding  the date of receipt by the General  Partner of notice of
such Limited Partner's  exercise of the Redemption Right. A Limited Partner that
exercises the Redemption Right shall be deemed to have offered to sell the Units
to be  redeemed  to the General  Partner,  and the General  Partner may elect to
purchase  such Units by paying to such  Limited  Partner  either the  redemption
price in cash or by  delivering  to such  Limited  Partner a number of shares of
Common  Stock of the  Company  equal to the product of the number of such Units,
multiplied  by the  "Conversion  Factor,"  which is 1.0,  subject  to  customary
antidilution  provisions in the event of stock  dividends on or  subdivisions or
combinations  of the Common  Stock  subsequent  to issuance  of such Units.  Any
Common Stock issued to the redeeming  Limited Partner will be listed on the NYSE
and if and to  the  extent  provided  in  such  Redeeming  Partner's  Investment
Agreement,  registered  under the  Securities  Act and/or  entitled to rights to
Securities Act registration.

NO WITHDRAWAL OF CAPITAL BY LIMITED PARTNERS

         No Limited  Partner has the right to  withdraw  any part of his capital
contribution  to the  Partnership  or to  interest  thereon  or to  receive  any
distribution, except as provided in the Partnership Agreement.

ISSUANCE OF ADDITIONAL LIMITED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS AND OTHER PARTNERSHIP
SECURITIES

         The General  Partner is authorized,  without the consent of the Limited
Partners,   to  cause  the  Partnership  to  issue  additional  Units  or  other
Partnership  securities  to the  partners or to other  persons on such terms and
conditions and for such  consideration,  including cash or any property or other
assets permitted by the Partnership Act, as the General Partner deems
appropriate.

MEETINGS

         The  Partnership  Agreement does not provide for annual meetings of the
Limited  Partners,  and the General  Partner  does not  anticipate  calling such
meetings.

AMENDMENT OF PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT

         Amendments to the Partnership  Agreement may, with four exceptions,  be
made by the General  Partner  without the consent of the Limited  Partners.  Any
amendment to the  Partnership  Agreement  which would (i) affect the  Conversion
Factor or the Redemption Rights of the Limited  Partners,  (ii) adversely affect
the rights of the  Limited  Partners  to receive  distributions  payable to them
under the Partnership  Agreement,  (iii) alter the Partnership's profit and loss
allocations  or (iv) impose any  obligation  upon the  Limited  Partners to make
additional capital contributions to the Partnership shall require the consent of
Limited  Partners  owning  more  than  50% of the  percentage  interests  in the
Partnership.






BOOKS AND REPORTS

         The General Partner is required to keep at the specified  office of the
Partnership  the  Partnership's  books  and  records,  including  copies  of the
Partnership's  federal,  state and local tax returns, a list of the partners and
their last known business addresses,  the Partnership Agreement, the Partnership
certificate  and all amendments  thereto and any other documents and information
required   under   Partnership   Act.   Any  partner  or  his  duly   authorized
representative,  upon  paying  duplicating,  collection  and mailing  costs,  is
entitled to inspect or copy such records during ordinary business hours.

         The General  Partner will furnish to each Limited  Partner,  as soon as
practicable  after the close of each fiscal year,  an annual  report  containing
financial  statements  of the  Partnership  (or  the  Company,  if  consolidated
financial  statements  including the  Partnership  are prepared) for such fiscal
year. The financial  statements  will be audited by accountants  selected by the
General  Partner.  In addition,  as soon as practicable  after the close of each
fiscal  quarter  (other than the last quarter of the fiscal  year),  the General
Partner  will  furnish to each  Limited  Partner a quarterly  report  containing
unaudited  financial  statements  of the  Partnership  (or the  Company  and the
Partnership, consolidated).

         The General  Partner will furnish to each  Limited  Partner,  within 75
days after the close of each fiscal year of the Partnership, the tax information
necessary to file such Limited Partner's individual tax returns.

LOANS TO PARTNERSHIP

         The Partnership  Agreement provides that the General Partner may borrow
additional  Partnership  funds  for any  Partnership  purpose  from the  General
Partner or a subsidiary or subsidiaries of the General Partner or otherwise.

ADJUSTMENTS OF CAPITAL ACCOUNTS AND PERCENTAGE INTERESTS

         A separate  capital account will be established and maintained for each
Partner.  If (i) a new or existing  general or limited partner of the
Partnership (a "Partner" or collectively "Partners")  acquires an additional
interest in the Partnership interest in exchange for more than a de minimis
capital contribution,  (ii) the Partnership  distributes  to  a  Partner  more
than  a de  minimis  amount  of Partnership property as consideration for a
Partnership interest,  or (iii) the Partnership is liquidated for federal income
tax purposes,  the General  Partner shall  revalue the  property  of the
Partnership to its fair market  value (as determined by the General  Partner, in
its sole discretion) in accordance with applicable  federal income tax
regulations.  When the Partnership's  property is revalued by the General
Partner,  the capital accounts of the partners shall be adjusted in  accordance
with such regulations,  which  generally  require such capital  accounts to be
adjusted to reflect the manner in which the  unrealized gain or loss  inherent
in such property  (that has not been  reflected  in the capital accounts
previously) would be allocated among the partners pursuant to the Partnership
Agreement if there were a taxable  disposition of such property for its fair
market value on the date of the revaluation.

         If the number of  outstanding  Units  increases or  decreases  during a
taxable year, each partner's  percentage  interest in the  Partnership  shall be
adjusted by the General Partner  effective as of the effective date of each such
increase or decrease to a  percentage  equal to the number of Units held by such
Partner divided by the aggregate number of Units outstanding after giving effect
to such  increase  or  decrease,  and  profits  and  losses for the year will be
allocated among the partners in a manner selected by the General Partner to give
appropriate effect to such adjustments.

REGISTRATION RIGHTS

         Limited  Partners have no rights to Securities Act  registration of any
Common Stock of the Company  received in  connection  with  redemption  of Units
except as provided in their respective Investment Agreements.

TAX MATTERS; PROFIT AND LOSS ALLOCATIONS

         Pursuant to the Partnership  Agreement,  the General Partner is the tax
matters partner of the Partnership and, as such, has the authority to handle tax
audits and to make tax elections under the Code on behalf of the Partnership.

         Profit and loss of the  Partnership  generally will be allocated  among
the Partners in accordance  with their  respective  interests in the Partnership
based on the number of Units held by the Partners.






DISTRIBUTIONS

         The  Partnership  Agreement  provides  that the General  Partner  shall
distribute cash quarterly,  in amounts  determined by the General Partner in its
sole discretion,  to the partners in accordance with their respective percentage
interests in the Partnership,  except that the amount of cash distributable to a
Limited  Partner  who has not been a Limited  Partner  for the full  quarter for
which  the  distribution  is  paid  is  subject  to  pro  rata  reduction.  Upon
liquidation  of the  Partnership,  after payment of, or adequate  provision for,
debts and  obligations  of the  Partnership,  including any Partner  loans,  any
remaining  assets of the  Partnership  will be  distributed to all Partners with
positive capital  accounts in accordance with their respective  positive capital
account  balances.  If the General Partner has a negative balance in its capital
account  following a  liquidation  of the  Partnership,  it will be obligated to
contribute cash to the Partnership  equal to the negative balance in its capital
account.

TERM

         The Partnership  will continue until December 31, 2051, or until sooner
dissolved upon (i) the bankruptcy, dissolution, death or withdrawal of a General
Partner  (unless  the Limited  Partners  elect to continue  the  Partnership  by
electing by unanimous  consent a substitute  General  Partner  within 90 days of
such  occurrence),  (ii)  the  passage  of 90  days  after  the  sale  or  other
disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the Partnership, (iii) the
redemption  of all  Limited  Partners'  interests  in the  Partnership,  or (iv)
election  by the General  Partner.  Upon  dissolution  of the  Partnership,  the
General  Partner  will proceed to liquidate  the assets of the  Partnership  and
distribute  the  proceeds  remaining  after  payment or adequate  provision  for
payment of all debts and  obligations  of the  Partnership  as  provided  in the
Partnership Agreement.





ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
REAL ESTATE HELD FOR INVESTMENT

The table below sets forth a summary by major geographic market of the Company's
portfolio of apartment rental properties held for investment at December 31,
1995. The Company also held five  commercial properties for investment at
December 31, 1995,  having an aggregate cost  of $7,249,020 containing 325,000
square feet. See also Notes 1 and 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and
Schedule III - Summary of Real Estate Owned.




At December 31, 1995, the Company has six shopping centers and six apartment
properties classified in the consolidated balance sheet  as real estate held for
disposition in the amount of $51,015,137, net of accumulated depreciation in the
amount of $23,572,195 and impairment loss valuation allowance in the amount of
$1,700,000. These properties are not included in the above table.



ITEM  3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         Neither the Company nor any of its apartment communities is presently
subject to any material  litigation  nor, to the  Company's  knowledge,  is any
litigation threatened  against the Company or any of the  communities,  other
than  routine actions arising in the  ordinary  course of  business,  some of
which are expected to be covered by liability  insurance  and all of which
collectively are not expected to have a material  adverse  effect on the
business or financial  condition or results of operations of the Company.

ITEM  4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         No  matters  were  submitted  to a vote of the  Company's  shareholders
during the last quarter of its fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         The executive  officers of the Company,  listed  below,  serve in their
respective  capacities  for  approximate  one  year  terms  and are  subject  to
re-election annually by the Board of Directors, normally in May of each year.

Name                    Age             Office                           Since

John P. McCann           51    President and Chief                        1974
                                   Executive Officer

James Dolphin            46    Senior Vice President                      1979
                                   and Chief Financial Officer

Barry M. Kornblau        46    Senior Vice President and                  1991
                                 Director of Apartment  Operations

Richard B. Chess         42    Vice President and Director                1987
                                  of Acquisitions

Richard A. Giannotti     40    Vice President and Director                1985
                                   of Construction

Katheryn E. Surface      37    Vice President, Corporate Secretary
                                   and General Counsel                    1992

Jerry A. Davis           33    Vice President and Corporate Controller    1989



         Mr. McCann, a Director,  has been the Company's  managing officer since
1974,  serving as its President since 1979, its Secretary from 1974 to 1980, and
its Treasurer from 1982 to 1985.

         Mr. Dolphin, a Director, was first employed by the Company in May, 1979
as Controller and served as Corporate Secretary from 1980 to February,  1994. He
was elected Vice President of Finance in 1985 and Senior Vice President in 1987.

         Mr. Kornblau, a Director, joined the Company  in 1991 as Senior Vice
President and Director of Apartment Operations.  From 1985 through 1990, he was
President and Chief Executive Officer of Summit Realty Group, Inc. which managed
the Trust's apartment properties during that period.  He is a licensed real
estate broker and a C.P.M.

         Mr. Chess joined the Company  in October, 1987 as Director of
Acquisitions. He was elected Assistant Vice President in 1988 and Vice President
in 1989.

         Mr. Giannotti joined the Company  as Director of Development and
Construction in September, 1985.  He was elected Assistant Vice President in
1988 and Vice President in 1989.

         Ms.  Surface joined the Company in 1992 as Assistant Vice President and
Legal Counsel and in 1994 was elected General Counsel,  Corporate  Secretary and
Vice  President.  From 1986 to 1992,  she was an  attorney  with the law firm of
Hunton and Williams, the Company's outside counsel.

         Mr. Davis joined the Company  in March, 1989 as Controller and was
subsequently elected Assistant Secretary.  In 1991 he was elected Vice
President.  He is a certified public accountant.


                                       PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

         The Company's Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
("NYSE") under the symbol "UDR". The following table sets forth the quarterly
high and low closing sale prices per share reported on the NYSE for each quarter
of the last two  years.  Distribution  information  reflects  distributions
declared per share for each calender quarter and paid at the end of the
following month.

                                                                   DISTRIBUTIONS
1994                          HIGH                      LOW           DECLARED
1st Quarter                $  15 7/8                $   12 3/4         $  .195
2nd Quarter                   15 1/8                    13 3/8            .195
3rd Quarter                   14 1/4                    13                .195
4th Quarter                   14 1/2                    12 1/4            .195

1st Quarter                $  14 5/8                 $  13             $  .225
2nd Quarter                   15 3/8                    13 1/2            .225
3rd Quarter                   15                        13 1/2            .225
4th Quarter                   15                        13 1/4            .225

On March 15, 1996, the closing sale price of the Common Stock was $15.50 per
share on the NYSE. On March 15, 1996 there were 5,636 holders of record of the
56,506,249 shares of Common Stock.

The Company  pays  regular  quarterly  dividends  to holders of shares of Common
Stock.  Future  distributions  by the Company will be at the  discretion  of its
Board of Directors  and will depend on the actual funds from  operations  of the
Company, the Company's financial condition and capital requirements,  the annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant.

The Company has a Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan under which
holders of Common and Preferred Stock may elect to automatically reinvest their
dividends and make additional cash payments to acquire additional shares of the
Company's Common Stock.




ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         The  following  table sets forth  selected  consolidated  financial and
other  information  for the  Company as of and for each of the years in the five
year period ended  December 31,  1995.  The table should be read in  conjunction
with the Consolidated Financial Statements of United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.
and the Notes thereto included elsewhere herein.


Selected Financial Information



(a) All share and per share information has been adjusted to give effect to a
    2-for-1 stock split May, 1993.

(b) Reflects a provision for possible investment losses of $1,564 ($0.4 per
    share) in 1992 and a $1,700 ($.03 per share) impairment loss on real estate
    held for disposition in 1995.

(c) Funds from operations ("FFO") is defined as income before gains (losses) on
    investments and extraordinary items (computed in accordance with generally
    accepted accounting principals) plus real estate depreciation, less
    preferred dividends and after adjustment for significant non-recurring
    items, if any. This definition conforms to the recommendations set forth in
    a White Paper adopted by the National Association of Real Estate Investment
    Trusts ("NAREIT") in early 1995. FFO for years prior to 1995 have been
    adjusted to conform to the NAREIT definition. The Trust considers FFO in
    evaluating property acquisitions and its operationg performance and believes
    that FFO should be considered along with, but not as an alternative to, net
    income and cash flows as a measure of the Trust's operating performance and
    liquidity. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities
    in accorance with generally accepted accounting principles and is not
    necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs.

(d) Prior years payroll tax liability resulting from an Internal Revenue Service
    examination for the years 1993 and 1994.




ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATION

FUNDS FROM  OPERATIONS  ("FFO") is defined as income  before  gains  (losses) on
investments  and  extraordinary  items  (computed in accordance  with  generally
accepted accounting  principles) plus real estate  depreciation,  less preferred
dividends and after adjustment for significant  non-recurring items, if any. The
Company  considers FFO in  evaluating  property  acquisitions  and its operating
performance,  and believes that FFO should be considered  along with, but not as
an  alternative  to, net  income  and cash  flows as a measure of the  Company's
operating performance and liquidity.  FFO does not represent cash generated from
operating activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs.

For 1995, the Company  implemented a revised  definition of FFO and has restated
FFO for prior years to conform to the recommendations set forth in a White Paper
adopted by NAREIT (The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts) at
the beginning of the year. The impact of adopting the NAREIT recommendations was
to reduce FFO for 1995,  1994 and 1993 by $1.1  million,  $915,000 and $855,000,
respectively.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995

For 1995, the Company reported significant increases over 1994 in rental income,
income from property operations, income before gains (losses) on investments and
extraordinary  items,  net  income  and FFO.  Net  income  available  to  common
shareholders increased $7.4 million or $.09 per share over 1994. During 1994 and
1995, the Company  acquired a total of 16,308 apartment homes in 67 communities,
net  of  properties  resold,  representing  a 91%  expansion  in the  number  of
apartment   homes  owned  during  that  period.   These   apartment  homes  (the
"non-mature"  communities)  provided  a  substantial  portion  of the  aggregate
reported  increases  noted  above.  However,  the  improved  performance  of the
Company's mature group of 17,916 apartment homes in the 74 communities  acquired
prior to 1994 (the "mature"  communities)  also  contributed  to the  increases,
particularly when considered on a per share basis.

For 1995, the Company's mature  communities  provided  approximately  53% of the
Company's  rental income and 52% of its net operating income (rental income less
rental  expenses).  Total rental income from these apartment homes grew 5.0%, or
$4.9 million in 1995, reflecting an increase in economic occupancy to 94.8% from
94.1% for  1994,  and  growth in  average  rents and other  income of 4.4%.  The
improvement in occupancy  reflected  stronger  apartment markets  throughout the
Company's  region.  Occupancy  peaked in mid-1994 and remained above 95% through
mid-1995 before trending downward slighty in the second half of the year. Rental
expenses at these  communities  increased 2.6%, or $1.1 million,  resulting in a
decrease in the operating  expense ratio (the ratio of rental expenses to rental
income) of 1.0% to 42.9%.  The increase in rental expenses  reflected  increased
repairs, real estate taxes and exterior painting expenses.  These increases were
offset somewhat by lower gas,  property  management,  and  promotional  expenses
caused  primarily by the combination of stronger  occupancy and  efficiencies of
size.  As  a  result  of  an  Internal  Revenue  Service  examination,  property
management  expenses  for  the  1995  period  include  a  $395,000  payment  for
employment and other taxes associated with employee occupied apartment homes for
the 1993 and 1994 tax years. In 1995, the Company was able to internally  manage
its  mature  apartment  communities  at a cost of  approximately  2.6% of rental
income versus 3.4% in 1994.  This  reduction was achieved  through  economies of
scale,  as the Company  acquired a significant  number of apartment  communities
over the past two years without a corresponding  increase in property management
costs.  Turnover  (measured by move-outs) was 60% at the mature  communities for
1995 versus 59% in 1994. The  combination of increased  occupancy,  higher rents
and  only a  moderate  operating  expense  increase  led to an  increase  in net
operating income from mature communities of approximately $3.8 million or 6.9%.

For the 16,308  apartments in the 67 non-mature  communities,  average occupancy
was  93.1%  and the  operating  expense  ratio  was  41.3%  during  1995.  These
communities  provided  increases  of $52.1  million,  $21.6  million  and  $30.5
million,  respectively, in rental income, rental expenses excluding depreciation
expense,  and net operating  income.  For the 34,224  apartment homes in the 141
communities  owned on  December  31,  1995,  occupancy  averaged  94.0%  and the
operating  expense ratio was 42.2% for the full year 1995.  For 1994, the 29,282
apartment  homes then owned had occupancy of 93.7% and an expense ratio of 43.2%
for that year. For 1995, rental income, rental expenses excluding  depreciation
expense,  net operating income and real estate depreciation from commercial
properties decreased $1.8 million, $370,000, $1.4 million and $741,000,
respectively since 1994,  primarily due to the sales of eight shopping centers
over the past two years.

For 1995,  depreciation  of real  estate  owned  increased  $10.2  million  with
substantially all of the increase  attributable to the portfolio  expansion that
occured during 1994 and 1995.

For 1995, interest expense increased  approximately $12.1 million over 1994. The
Company used both debt and equity to finance its growth over the past two years;
however, the weighted average amount of debt employed was higher in 1995 than it
was in 1994 ($512  million in 1995  versus $392  million in 1994).  The $.15 per
share  increase in interest  expense  reflected  this higher  average  amount of
outstanding  debt in 1995  together  with an  increase in the  weighted  average
interest rate on this debt from 7.3% in 1994 to 7.9% in 1995.  The rate increase
reflected  the  Company's   heavier  reliance  on  lower  rate  short-term  bank
borrowings  in 1994 than in 1995 ($33.8  million in 1994 versus $8.2  million in
1995).

General and administrative  expenses were relatively flat in 1995, increasing by
only $62,000 over 1994. General and  administrative  expense for 1994 included a
$450,000 charge related to the adoption of SFAS No. 112, "Employers'  Accounting
for Postemployment Benefits". In 1995, the Company incurred increases in most of
its general and  administrative  expense  categories with the largest percentage
increase  attributable  to costs  related to abandoned  acquisitions,  including
$204,000  associated  with an  unsuccessful  business  combination  with another
apartment company.

During  1995,  the  Company  sold  seven  shopping  centers  and  two  apartment
communities and recognized gains for financial  reporting purposes totaling $5.1
million.  Four of the  shopping  centers  were sold to First  Washington  Realty
Trust, Inc. on June 30, 1995. In connection with the sales, the Company received
cash  and  358,000  shares  of First  Washington's  9.75%  Series  A  Cumulative
Participating Convertible Preferred Stock having a fair value of $7.7 million on
the date of  sale.  Five of the  shopping  center  sales  during  the year  were
structured  to qualify as tax deferred  exchanges  which  enabled the Company to
defer  approximately $4.5 million of capital gains for income tax purposes.  The
Company also sold two apartment communities, both of which were acquired as part
of the Clover Portfolio in 1994. No significant book gain or loss was recognized
on the sale of either property.

In  March,  1995,  the  FASB  issued  Statement  No.  121,  "Accounting  for the
Impairment of Long-Lived  Assets and for  Long-Lived  Assets to be Disposed of,"
which requires  impairment losses to be recognized for long-lived assets used in
operations   when  indicators  of  impairment  are  present  and  the  estimated
undiscounted future cash flows are not sufficient to recover the assets carrying
value.  The  statement   requires  that  impairment  losses  be  recognized  for
long-lived  assets to be disposed of when the fair value of the asset,  less the
estimated  cost to sell, is less than the carrying  value of that asset measured
at the time management commits to the sale or disposal.  On October 1, 1995, the
Company  opted  for the early  adoption  of  Statement  No.  121.  At the end of
October,  1995,  the Company  executed a letter of intent to sell five  shopping
centers in a bulk sale at an aggregate purchase price of $28.4 million.  Closing
is  expected  to  occur  in the  first  half of  1996.  Based  on a  preliminary
allocation of the sales price, the Company  recognized a $1.7 million impairment
loss associated with the disposition of one of these centers, Village Square, in
Myrtle Beach, South Carolina.  The other four centers are expected to be sold at
modest  gains.  At December 31, 1995,  an  additional  shopping  center plus six
apartment  communities  were under contracts or letters of intent to sell. These
twelve  properties  are  classified on the  consolidated  balance sheet as "Real
estate held for disposition" in the amount of $51.0 million,  net of accumulated
depreciation  and  impairment  loss  valuation  allowance.  Real estate held for
disposition  contributed  income from property  operations of approximately $4.1
million for the year ended December 31, 1995.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994

For 1994, the Company reported significant increases over 1993 in rental income,
income from property operations, income before gains (losses) on investments and
extraordinary item, net income and funds from operations.  During 1993 and 1994,
the  Company  acquired  15,450   apartment  units  (63  apartment   communities)
representing a 112% expansion in the number of apartment homes owned during that
two year period. These additional apartment homes provided a substantial portion
of the reported increases noted above. However, the improved performance of the
Company's  mature group of 13,832  apartment  homes (57  apartment  communities)
acquired  prior to 1993 also  contributed to the  increases,  particularly  when
considered on a per share basis.

For 1994, the Company's mature apartment communities provided  approximately 53%
of the Company's rental income and 51% of its net operating income. Total rental
income from these apartment homes grew 6.2%, or $4.3 million in 1994, reflecting
an increase  in  economic  occupancy  to 94.3%  compared to 91.6% for 1993,  and
growth in average rents and other income of 3.3%.  The  improvement in occupancy
reflected  stronger  apartment markets  throughout the Company's region.  Rental
expenses  at these  properties  increased  2.3%  resulting  in a decrease in the
operating  expense ratio (the ratio of rental expenses to rental income) of 1.7%
to 44.0%.  The increase in rental  expenses was moderated by lower  advertising,
rental  promotions,  electricity,  and interior  painting and cleaning  expenses
caused by the  combination  of stronger  occupancy  and lower  tenant  turnover.
Turnover was 57% for 1994. The combination of increased occupancy,  higher rents
and  only a  moderate  operating  expense  increase  led to an  increase  in net
operating income from these mature apartment homes of approximately $3.6 million
or 9.5%.

For the  15,450  apartments  in the 63  apartment  communities  acquired  by the
Company  since  the  beginning  of 1993,  average  occupancy  was  92.8% and the
operating  expense  ratio was 43.1%  during  1994.  These  communities  provided
increases of $46.2 million,  $19.9 million and $26.3 million,  respectively,  in
rental income, rental expenses excluding  depreciation expense and net operating
income.  For the 29,282 apartment homes in the 120 communities owned on December
31, 1994, occupancy averaged 93.7% and the operating expense ratio was 43.6% for
the full  year  1994.  For 1993,  the  17,914  apartment  homes  then  owned had
occupancy of 91.5% and an expense ratio of 45.5% for that year. For 1994, rental
income, rental expenses excluding  depreciation expense and net operating income
from  commercial   properties   increased   $351,000,   $130,000  and  $221,000,
respectively.

For  1994,  depreciation  of real  estate  owned  increased  $9.2  million  with
substantially all of the increase  attributable to the portfolio  expansion that
occurred during 1993 and 1994.  Interest expense increased  approximately  $11.4
million in 1994 over 1993.  The Company used both debt and equity to finance its
growth during the two year period;  however, the Company used more debt relative
to equity in 1994 than it did in 1993.  The  increase  in  interest  expense  of
approximately  $.17 per share also reflects the rising interest rate environment
of 1994 when rates were generally higher than in 1993.

General and  administrative  expenses  increased  by $1.5  million or 43% during
1994. In January, 1994, the Company adopted SFAS No. 112, "Employers' Accounting
for Postemployment Benefits" and incurred a $450,000 charge to expense. In 1994,
the Company incurred increases in most of its general and administrative expense
categories.  The largest  percentage  increase  related to employee  payroll and
related employee  overhead costs which resulted from the significant  growth the
Company experienced during 1994.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

As a qualified REIT, the Company  distributes a substantial  portion of its cash
flow to its shareholders in the form of dividends.  Over the past few years, the
Company has reduced its payout ratio (the ratio of common dividends declared per
share to FFO)  from  above 96% in 1992 to 76% for 1995.  The  Company  presently
intends to continue to reduce its payout ratio over the next few years to 70% or
below,  which  allows  for the  retention  of  sufficient  cash to cover  normal
operating  needs,  including  routine  replacements  and to help fund additional
acquisitions.  For 1995,  the  Company's  cash flow  from  operating  activities
exceeded cash distributions paid to common  shareholders by approximately  $20.7
million.  The Company utilizes a variety of primarily external financing sources
to fund portfolio growth,  major capital  improvement  programs and balloon debt
payments.  The  Company  has  frequently  utilized  its bank  lines of credit to
temporarily  finance  these  expenditures  and has  subsequently  replaced  this
short-term bank debt with longer term debt or equity. The Company has, from time
to time, used derivative  instruments to  synthetically  alter  on-balance sheet
liabilities or to hedge anticipated financing transactions. Derivative contracts
did not have a material  impact on results of  operations  during the three year
period ended December 31, 1995.

At the beginning of 1995, the Company had approximately $7.3 million of cash and
cash equivalents and $89.4 million of available and unused bank lines of credit.

For 1995,  the Company's  cash flow from operating  activities  increased  $11.9
million over the same period last year, primarily as a result of the significant
expansion of the Company's  portfolio as discussed  below and under  "Results of
Operations".

During 1995,  net cash used for investing  activities  was $183.9  million which
resulted  primarily from the Company's  acquisition of 23 apartment  communities
containing  5,142 apartment homes and several parcels of undeveloped  land for a
total cost of $198.1 million,  which includes $24.1 million of mortgage and bond
indebtedness  assumed in these  transactions.  The  Company  also  funded  $35.6
million of capital improvements to its properties during the year. This includes
$10.5 million of improvements at the Company's  17,916 mature  apartment  homes.
Excluding 11 communities that were acquired in the latter part of 1993 and which
still were  undergoing  rehabilitation  in 1995,  the  remaining  15,220  mature
apartment  homes  averaged  $424 in  capital  expenditures.  This  includes  the
following: carpet and tile replacements ($141/unit), appliances ($48/unit), HVAC
equipment ($33/unit), various interior improvements ($50/unit), various exterior
improvements including new roofs ($89/unit), various land improvements including
parking  lots  and site  lighting  ($31/unit)  and  various  other  improvements
($32/unit).  The Company also  received net cash  proceeds of $23.5 million from
the sale of real estate owned during 1995 and payments  aggregating $2.2 million
on mortgage notes receivable.

Net cash provided by financing  activities during 1995 was approximately  $113.1
million  reflecting  (i) the sale of common and preferred  stock during the year
netting  approximately  $181.1  million,  (ii) net proceeds from the issuance of
mortgage notes payable and notes payable of approximately  $31.3 million,  (iii)
net  short-term  bank  borrowings of $4.25  million and (iv) mortgage  financing
proceeds  released from construction  funds of $2.5 million.  These cash inflows
were partially offset by (i) $50.4 million of cash  distributions paid to common
and preferred  shareholders,  (ii) scheduled mortgage principal payments of $1.9
million,  and (iii)  payments  on notes  and  non-scheduled  mortgage  principal
payments of $53.7 million.  In February,  1995 the Company sold 1,360,000 shares
of its common stock to a group of  institutional  investors at a price of $131/8
per share.  Net proceeds of $17.8 million were used to curtail then  outstanding
bank debt. In April, 1995, the Company sold 4,200,000 shares of 91/4% Cumulative
Redeemable  Preferred Stock ($25 per share liquidation  preference  value).  Net
proceeds of the offering after  deducting  underwriting  commissions  and direct
offering costs aggregated  approximately  $101.5 million, of which approximately
$33.1  million was used to repay then  outstanding  bank debt and  approximately
$65.7 million was used to acquire a portfolio of nine apartment communities. The
remaining net proceeds  were  temporarily  invested in  short-term  money market
instruments   and  were   subsequently   used  to  fund   additional   apartment
acquisitions.  In September and October,  1995, the Company sold an aggregate of
4,550,000  shares of common stock in a public offering at $14.25 per share.  Net
proceeds of the offering,  after deducting  underwriting  commissions and direct
offering costs, aggregated approximately $61 million. Proceeds from the offering
were used to repay  $26.8  million of then  existing  bank debt.  The  remaining
proceeds were temporarily  invested in short-term  money market  instruments and
subsequently  used to purchase  additional  apartment  communities.  Also during
1995, the Company completed new tax-exempt  multifamily  housing bond financings
or assumed such bond  financings and  conventional  mortgage notes in connection
with  certain  acquisitions  in the  aggregate  amount  of  approximately  $45.4
million.

The Company  considers its cash provided by operating  activities to be adequate
to meet  operating  requirements  and  payments  of  distributions.  The Company
expects to acquire  5,000 to 7,000  apartment  homes during 1996 at an estimated
cost of $35,000 to $40,000 per apartment home.  While the Company used primarily
equity,  both preferred and common, to fund its acquisition program during 1995,
it anticipates that it will use a combination of equity,  debt and proceeds from
property sales to fund its 1996 acquisitions.  During the first half of 1996 the
Company  plans to  implement a  medium-term  note  program  which is expected to
include an initial $50 million 7-10 year issue.  In November,  1995, the Company
entered into a treasury rate lock  transaction  which had the effect of fixing a
10-year  Treasury rate  beginning  March 1, 1996 at 5.946%.  This  agreement was
terminated  on February 20, 1996 at no gain or loss to the Company.  The Company
anticipates a second medium-term note issue around mid-July,  1996 in the amount
of $50  million,  primarily  to repay a then  maturing  $35 million  senior note
issue. In July, 1995, the Company executed a forward starting interest rate swap
with a  notional  amount  of $50  million  which had the  effect  of fixing  the
interest rate on a 10-year Treasury starting July 15, 1996 at 6.544%.  Including
the $35 million loan, the Company has aggregate  debt  maturities of $47 million
in 1996. The maturing debt has a weighted average  interest rate of 9.26%.  When
this hedge transaction was executed,  it was intended to fix a rate on 7-10 year
debt at approximately  7.5% which is  approximately  170 basis points lower than
the weighted average interest rate on the maturing debt to be refinanced.  At
December 31, 1995, the Company had an aggregate  unrealized loss on these
derivative  instruments of approximately $4 million,  which  includes  $1.4
million  relating  to the rate  lock  agreement terminated on February 20, 1996
at no gain or loss.

The Company  currently has six shopping  centers and six  apartment  communities
under contracts or letters of intent to sell. These sales are scheduled to occur
during the first half of 1996 and will  generate  approximately  $63  million of
cash proceeds. Three of these properties are encumbered with an aggregate amount
of  approximately  $7.9 million of secured debt. If all twelve sales occur,  the
Company  will  recognize  an aggregate  gain of  approximately  $8.5 million for
financial reporting purposes. For income tax purposes,  several of the sales are
expected to be  structured  as tax deferred  exchanges.  The proceeds from these
property dispositions will be used to purchase apartment communities.  There are
no assurances that any of these sales transactions will be consummated.

Depending  upon the volume  and  timing of  acquisition  activity,  the  Company
anticipates  raising equity capital during the middle of the year through both a
public offering and private placements.

The  Company's  liquidity  and capital  resources  are  believed to be more than
adequate to meet its cash  requirements  for the next several years. The Company
expects to meet its  long-term  liquidity  requirements,  such as  balloon  debt
maturities, property acquisitions and significant capital improvements primarily
through the issuance of capital  stock and the  issuance of long-term  unsecured
notes  payable.  The Company will also rely upon (i) the  assumption of mortgage
indebtedness,  (ii) property  sales,  (iii)  distributions  reinvested  and cash
reinvested through the Company's  Dividend  Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
and (iv) retained cash flow to meet its cash requirements.

INFLATION

Management  believes  that the direct  effects  of  inflation  on the  Company's
operations have been inconsequential.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         See Index to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements and Schedule on page
F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.

                                       PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         Incorporated  herein by reference from the Company's  definitive  proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of  Shareholders  to be
held on May 7, 1996.

         Information  required by this item regarding the executive  officers of
the  Company is  included  in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in the
section  entitled "Executive Officers of the Registrant".

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         Incorporated  herein by reference from the Company's  definitive  proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of  Shareholders  to be
held on May 7, 1996.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         Incorporated  herein by reference from the Company's  definitive  proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of  Shareholders  to be
held on May 7, 1996.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Incorporated  herein by reference from the Company's  definitive  proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of  Shareholders  to be
held on May 7, 1996.


                                       PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

  (a)      (1&2)    See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and
                    Schedule on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

           (3)      Exhibits
                           .
         The  exhibits  listed  below are filed as part of this  annual  report.
References  under the caption  "Location" to exhibits,  forms,  or other filings
indicate that the form or other filing has been filed,  that the indexed exhibit
and the exhibit  referred  to are the same and that the  exhibit  referred to is
incorporated by reference.

Exhibit           Description                           Location

3(a)(i)          Restated Articles of               Exhibit 3 to the
                 Incorporation                      Company's   Quarterly
                                                    Report on Form 10-Q for the
                                                    quarter ended June 30, 1992.

3(a)(ii)         Amendment of Restated Articles     Exhibit 6(a)(2) to the
                 of Incorporation                   Company's Form 8-A
                                                    Registration Statement
                                                    dated April 19, 1990.

3(a)(iii)        Amendment and Restated Articles    Exhibit 1 (c) to the
                 of Incorporation                   Company's Form 8-A
                                                    Registration Statement
                                                    dated April 24, 1995.

3(b)(i)          By-Laws                            Exhibit 4(c) to the
                                                    Company's  Form S-3
                                                    Registration Statememt
                                                    (Registration No. 33-44743)
                                                    filed with the Commission
                                                    on December 31, 1991.

3(b)(ii)         Amendment of By-Laws               Filed herewith.

4(i)(a)          Specimen Common Stock              Exhibit 4(i) to the
                 Certificate                        Company's Annual Report on
                                                    Form 10-K for the year
                                                    ended December 31, 1993.

4(i)(b)          Form of  Certificate for Shares    Exhibit 1(e) to the
                 of 9 1/4% Series A Cumulative      Company's Form 8-A
                 Redeemable Preferred Stock         Registration Statement
                                                    dated April 24, 1995.

4(ii)(a)         Loan Agreement dated as of         Exhibit 6(c)(i) to the
                 November 7, 1991, between the      Company's Form 8-A
                 Company and Aid Association for    Registration Statement
                 Lutherans                          dated April 19, 1990.

4(ii)(c)         Note Purchase Agreement dated      Exhibit 6(c)(3) to the
                 as of February 19, 1992, between   Company's Form 8-A
                 the Company and Principal Mutual   Registration Statement
                 Life Insurance Company             dated April 19, 1990.

4(ii)(e)         Note Purchase Agreement dated      Exhibit 6(c)(5) to the
                 as of February 15, 1993, between   Company's Form 8-A
                 the Company and CIGNA Property     Registration Statement
                 and Casualty Insurance Company,    dated April 19, 1990.
                 Connecticut General Life
                 Insurance Company, Connecticut
                 General Life Insurance Company,
                 on behalf of one or more separate
                 accounts, Insurance Company of
                 North America, Principal Mutual
                 Life Insurance Company and Aid
                 Association for Lutherans

4(ii)(f)         Credit Agreement dated as of       Exhibit 6 (c)(6) to the
                 December 15, 1994 between the      Company's Form 8-A
                 Company and First Union National   Registration Statement
                 Bank of Virginia                   dated April 19, 1990.

4(ii)(g)(1)      Indenture dated as of April 1,     Exhibit 4(ii)(f)(1) to
                 1994, between the Company and      the Company's Quarterly
                 NationsBank of Virginia, N.A.,     Report on Form 10-Q for
                 as Trustee                         the quarter ended March
                                                    31, 1994.

4(ii)(g)(2)      Resolution of the Board of         Exhibit 4(ii)(f)(2) to
                 Directors of the Company           the Company's Quarterly
                 establishing terms of 7 1/4%       Report on Form 10-Q for
                 Notes due April 1, 1999            the quarter ended
                                                    March 13, 1994.

4(ii)(g)(3)      Form of 7 1/4% Notes due           Exhibit 4(ii)(f)(3) to the
                 April 1, 1999                      Company's Quarterly Report
                                                    on Form 10-Q for the
                                                    quarter ended
                                                    March 31, 1994.

4(ii)(g)(4)      Resolution of the Board of         Exhibit 4 (ii)(f)(4) to the
                 the Company establishing terms     Company's Quarterly Report
                 of the 8 1/2% Debentures due       on Form 10-Q for quarter
                 September 15, 2024                 ended September 30, 1994.

4(ii)(g)(5)      Form of 8 1/2% Debentures          Exhibit 4 (ii)(f)(5) to the
                 due September 15, 2024             Company's Quarterly Report
                                                    on Form 10-Q for the
                                                    quarter ended Septem-
                                                    ber 30, 1994.


         The Company  agrees to furnish to the  Commission  on request a copy of
any instrument with respect to long-term debt of the Company or its subsidiaries
the total amount of securities authorized under which does not exceed 10% of the
total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.


10(i)             Employment Agreement between       Exhibit 10(v)(i) to the
                  the Company and John P. McCann     Company's Annual report on
                  dated October 29, 1982             Form 10-K for the year
                                                     ended December 31, 1982.

10(ii)            Employment Agreement between       Exhibit 10(v)(ii) to the
                  the Company and James Dolphin      Company's Annual Report on
                  dated October 29, 1982.            Form 10-K for the year
                                                     ended December 31, 1982.

10(iii)           Employment Agreement between       Exhibit 10(iii) to the
                  The Company and Barry M.           Company's Annual Report on
                  Kornblau, dated                    Form 10-K for the year
                  February 1, 1991.                  December 31, 1990.

10(iv)            1985 Stock Option Plan,            Exhibit B to the Company's
                  as amended                         definitive proxy statement
                                                     dated April 13, 1992.

10(v)             1991 Stock Purchase and Loan       Exhibit 10(v) to the
                  Plan                               Company's Annual Report on
                                                     Form 10-K for the year
                                                     ended December 31, 1991.

10(vi)            Amended and Restated Agreement     Filed herewith.
                  Of Limited Partnership of 
                  United Dominion Realty, L.P.
                  Dated as of December 31, 1995

12                Computation of Ratio of Earnings   Filed herewith.
                  to Fixed Charges

21                The Company has the following subsidiaries, all of which are
                  wholly owned:
                  The Commons of Columbia, a Virginia corporation
                  UDRT of  North  Carolina,  L.L.C.,  a North  Carolina  limited
                  liability   company
                  UDRT  of  Alabama,   Inc.,   an  Alabama corporation
                  UDR of Marble Hill,  L.L.C.,  a Virginia  limited liability
                  company
                  United  Dominion  Realty,  L.P., a Virginia limited
                  partnership
                  United  Dominion  Residential,  Inc.,  a Virginia  corporation
                  UDRT  of  Virginia,  Inc.,  a  Virginia  corporation

23                Consent of Independent Auditors   Filed herewith.


Exhibits 10(i) through 10(v) inclusive,  are management contracts or compenatory
plans or  arrangements  required  to be filed as an  exhibit  to this  Form 10-K
pursuant to Item 14(c) of this report.


(b)      Reports on Form 8-K

            (i)      A Form 8-K dated December 28, 1995 was filed with the
                     Securities  and Exchange  Commission  on January 11,
                     1996 and  amended  by a Form  8-K/A  dated  March 11,
                     1996. The filing  reported the acquisition of certain
                     properties  which in the aggregate  were deemed to be
                     significant. The financial statements filed as a part
                     of this report are statements of rental operations of
                     Andover  Place  Apartments,   Mallards  of  Wedgewood
                     Apartments,  Hunters Ridge Apartments and Marble Hill
                     Apartments.


                                       SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

United Dominion Realty Company, Inc.
        (registrant)

By  /s/ James Dolphin
    James Dolphin
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
    March 29, 1996

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed  below on March 29, 1996 by the  following  persons on behalf of
the registrant and in the capacities indicated.


/s/ John P. McCann                                   /s/ R. Toms Dalton, Jr.
John P. McCann                                       R. Toms Dalton, Jr.
Director, President and Chief                        Director
 Executive Officer


/s/ James Dolphin                                    /s/ Jeff C. Bane
James Dolphin                                        Jeff C. Bane
Director, Senior Vice President,                     Director
 Secretary and Chief Financial
 Officer


/s/ Jerry A. Davis                                   
Jerry A. Davis                                       John C. Lanford
Vice President, Controller-Corporate                 Director
 Accounting  and Chief Accounting Officer


/s/ C. Harmon Williams, Jr.                          /s/ H. Franklin Minor
C. Harmon Williams, Jr.                              H. Franklin Minor
Chairman of the Board of Directors                            Director


/s/ Barry M. Kornblau                                /s/ Robert P. Buford
Barry M. Kornblau                                    Robert P. Buford
Director, Senior Vice President and                  Director
 Director of Apartments



            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.


                                                                      Page
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT

Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors                      F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1995 and 1994              F-3

Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 1995                  F-4

Consolidated  Statements of Shareholders'  Equity for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 1995                  F-5

Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1995                            F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                             F-7

SCHEDULE FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT

Schedule III - Summary of Real Estate Owned                            F-18

All other schedules are omitted since the required information is not present or
is not present in amounts sufficient to require  submission of the schedule,  or
because the  information  required is included in the financial  statements  and
notes thereto.


Report of Ernst & Young LLP,  Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying  consolidated balance sheets of United Dominion
Realty Trust,  Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 1995 and
1994,  and the related  consolidated  statements  of  operations,  shareholders'
equity,  and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1995.  Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in
the Index at Item 14(a). These financial  statements and schedule are the
responsibility  of the Company's management.  Our  responsibility  is to express
an  opinion on these  financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  the financial  statements  referred to above present fairly, in
all material  respects,  the consolidated  financial position of United Dominion
Realty  Trust,  Inc. and  subsidiaries  at December  31, 1995 and 1994,  and the
consolidated  results of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1995, in conformity  with generally
accepted  accounting  principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.

As  discussed  in Note 1 to the  consolidated financial  statements,  in 1995
the Company changed its method of accounting for impairment of long-lived assets
and long-lived assets held for disposition.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Richmond, Virginia
January 25, 1996




                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                 (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT FOR SHARE DATA)

See accompanying notes.









                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                 (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT FOR SHARE DATA)


See accompanying notes.






                   UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
          FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994 AND 1993

           (In thousands, except share and per share amounts)








See accompanying notes.







                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)


See accompanying notes.




                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

ORGANIZATION  United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. (the "Company"), a Virginia
corporation, is an owner-operator of income producing real estate, primarily
multifamily apartment communities in the mid-Atlantic and Southeastern, U.S.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION The accompanying consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned  subsidiaries.  All significant
inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

USE OF ESTIMATES The preparation of the financial  statements in conformity with
generally accepted  accounting  principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

FEDERAL INCOME TAXES The Company is operated as and annually  elects to be taxed
as a real estate  investment  trust under the Internal  Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code").  Generally, a real estate investment trust, which complies
with the  provisions  of the Code and  distributes  at least 95% of its  taxable
income to its shareholders, does not pay federal income taxes on its distributed
income. Accordingly, no provision has been made for federal income taxes.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS All highly liquid investments with maturities of three
months or less, when purchased, are considered to be cash equivalents.

REAL ESTATE ASSETS AND  DEPRECIATION On October 1, 1995, the Company adopted the
provisions  of  Statement  of Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS") No. 121
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
be Disposed of." The statement  requires  impairment losses to be recognized for
long-lived  assets used in operations  when indicators of impairment are present
and the undiscounted future cash flows are not sufficient to recover the assets,
carrying value. If such indicators are present, an impairment loss is recognized
based on the excess of the carrying  amount of the impaired  asset over its fair
value.

For long-lived  assets to be disposed of,  impairment losses are recognized when
the fair value of the asset,  less the estimated  cost to sell, is less than the
carrying value of the asset measured at the time management commits to a plan to
dispose of the asset.  Assets are  classified  as assets to be  disposed of when
management has committed to sell and is actively marketing the property.  Assets
to be disposed of are carried at the lower of carrying  value or fair value less
cost to dispose,  determined  on an asset by asset  basis.  Depreciation  is not
recorded   during  the  period  in  which  assets  are  held  for  disposal  and
gains(losses)  from initial and subsequent  adjustments to the carrying value of
the  assets,  if any,  are  recorded  as a  separate  component  of income  from
continuing  operations.  Real estate  assets held for  disposition  are reported
separately on the consolidated  balance sheet,  net of accumulated  depreciation
and impairment loss valuation allowance.

Ordinary  repairs and  maintenance  costs are expensed as incurred;  significant
improvements, renovations, and replacements are capitalized and depreciated over
their  estimated  useful lives.  Certain costs,  principally  payroll,  directly
related to real estate acquisitions and redevelopment, are capitalized.

Depreciation  is computed on a  straight-line  basis over the  estimated  useful
lives of the related assets which range from 25 to 40 years for  properties,  10
to 35 years for major  improvements,  and 3 to 15 years for fixtures,  equipment
and other assets.

INTEREST  Interest is capitalized on  accumulated  expenditures  relating to the
acquisition and development of certain qualifying properties.  During 1995, 1994
and 1993,  total interest paid was  $39,568,000,  $22,944,000  and  $14,649,000,
respectively,  which  includes  $40,000 that was  capitalized  during  1995.  No
interest was capitalized in 1994 or 1993.

DEFERRED FINANCING COSTS Deferred financing costs are generally amortized over a
period not to exceed the term of the  related  debt.  Amortization  of  deferred
financing  costs  is  classified  as  interest   expense  and  included  in  the
consolidated  statements of operations in the amounts of $1,078,000,  $1,180,000
and $707,000 for 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.









                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


INTEREST  RATE SWAP  AGREEMENTS  The  Company  enters  into  interest  rate swap
agreements  to alter the  interest  rate  characteristics  of  outstanding  debt
instruments.  The interest rate swap agreements involve the periodic exchange of
interest  payments over the life of the agreements.  Amounts received or paid on
the  interest  rate swap  agreements  that are used to alter the  interest  rate
characteristics  of  outstanding  debt are  recorded  on an accrual  basis as an
adjustment to the related interest expense of the outstanding  debt. The related
amount  payable to and  receivable  from  counterparties  are  included in other
liabilities.  Changes in the fair  value of the  interest  rate swap  agreements
accounted  for under the accrual  method are not  reflected in the  accompanying
financial statements.

INTEREST RATE RISK  MANAGEMENT  AGREEMENTS The Company enters into interest rate
risk  management  agreements  to  manage  interest  rate  risk  associated  with
anticipated debt  transactions.  The Company follows SFAS No.80  "Accounting for
Futures Contracts" which permits hedge accounting for anticipatory  transactions
meeting certain criteria.  Gains and losses,  if any, on these  transactions are
deferred and  amortized  over the terms of the related debt as an  adjustment to
interest  expense.  Changes in the fair values of interest rate risk  management
agreements are not recognized in the financial statements. In the event that the
anticipated transaction is no longer likely to occur, the Company would mark the
derivative  to market and would  recognize any  adjustment  in the  consolidated
statement  of  operations.  The Company does not enter into  interest  rate risk
management agreements for trading purposes.

INCOME PER COMMON SHARE Primary net income per common share is calculated  using
the weighted  average  number of shares  outstanding  during each year.  Options
outstanding  are not  included  since their  inclusion  would not be  materially
dilutive.

INVESTMENT IN MARKETABLE  EQUITY  SECURITIES In connection with certain property
sales during 1995, the Company received  marketable  preferred stock with a fair
value of $7.7 million on the date of receipt. These securities are classified as
available-for-sale    and   are   included   in   other    assets.    Securities
available-for-sale  are stated at fair  value.  Unrealized  gains and losses are
reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity and are not reported in
the  consolidated  statement of operations  until realized or until a decline in
fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary.

POSTEMPLOYMENT  BENEFITS  Effective  January 1, 1994,  the  Company  adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits".
This statement  requires the accrual of the estimated cost of benefits  provided
by an employer to its former or inactive employees after employment,  but before
retirement.  Adoption of SFAS No. 112 increased 1994 general and  administrative
expense by $450,000 or $.01 per share.

RECLASSIFICATIONS  Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to
conform with the current financial statement presentation.

STOCK BASED COMPENSATION  In October, 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" which is
effective for the Company's December 31, 1996 financial statements. SFAS No. 123
allows companies to either account for stock-based compensation under the new
provisions of SFAS No. 123 or under the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, but
requires  pro forma disclosure in the footnotes and financial statements as if
the measurement provisions of SFAS No. 123 had been adopted. The Company intends
to continue accounting for its stock-based compensation in accordance with the
provisions of APB No. 25. As such, the adoption of SFAS No. 123 will not impact
the financial position or the results of operations of the Company.







                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

2. REAL ESTATE OWNED

The Company operates primarily in 15 separate major markets dispersed throughout
a nine state area.  At December 31, 1995,  the Company did not own more than 11%
of its apartment homes in any one market.

The following  summarizes  real estate held for  investment at December 31, 1995
and 1994:



The following is a summary of real estate owned at December 31, 1995:



* Real estate held for  disposition  is stated at the lower of carrying value or
fair value, less cost to sell.








                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Real estate held for  disposition  includes  two parcels of land,  six  shopping
centers and six smaller  apartment  communities  which  contributed  income from
property  operations in the aggregate amount of  approximately  $4.1 million for
the year ended December 31, 1995. The sales of real estate held for  disposition
are  expected  to occur  during  the first half of 1996,  however,  there are no
assurances that these sales will be  consummated.

Subsequent to its adoption of SFAS No. 121, the Company  recorded a $1.7 million
impairment  loss  associated with management's  decision to sell a shopping
center at a discount as part of a portfolio transaction.

The following is a reconciliation of the carrying amount of real estate held for
investment:



*In connection with the acquisition of certain apartment  properties in 1995 and
1994, the Company assumed  approximately $24.1 and $60.3 million,  respectively,
of mortgage debt encumbering the properties acquired.

The following is a reconciliation of accumulated depreciation:



*Depreciation  expense  of $503,  $320  and  $248,  for  1995,  1994  and  1993,
respectively,  is  included  in "Other  depreciation  and  amortization"  in the
consolidated statements of operations.

The Company's  properties are leased to others under operating  leases.  Certain
shopping  center leases provide that tenants share certain  operating costs such
as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance by reimbursement to the Company.
Such  reimbursements  amounted  to  $887,000  in  1995,  $1,070,000  in 1994 and
$936,000 in 1993. The Company has no material net lease arrangements.

The  aggregate  cost of real estate  owned for federal  income tax  purposes was
approximately  $1.192  billion at December 31, 1995 and $987 million at December
31, 1994.

3. ACQUISITIONS

During 1995,  the Company  acquired 23 apartment  communities  containing  5,142
apartment  homes at a total cost of $195.0  million.  During  1994,  the Company
acquired 47 apartment  communities  containing 11,433 apartment homes at a total
cost of $409.3 million.  Information  concerning  unaudited pro forma results of
operations  for the years ended  December  31, 1995 and 1994 is set forth below.
For 1995, such information  assumes the acquisition of 13 apartment  communities
containing  2,417  apartment  homes at a total cost of $98.6 million,  as if the
acquisitions  had  occurred  on  January  1,  1995.  For  1994,  such pro  forma
information assumes (i) the acquisition of 41 apartment  communities  containing
9,749 homes at a total cost of $350.3 million, and (ii) the 1995 acquisitions of
13 apartment  communities  containing  2,417  apartment homes at a total cost of
$98.6 million, as if the acquisitions had occurred on January 1, 1994.







                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS




CONVENTIONAL  FIXED-RATE  MORTGAGE NOTES Conventional  fixed-rate mortgage notes
included 19 loans  encumbering  13  properties at December 31, 1995 and 22 loans
encumbering 17 properties at December 31, 1994. Mortgage notes are generally due
in monthly  installments  of principal  and interest and mature at various dates
through  2020.  At December 31, 1995 and 1994,  this debt carried fixed rates of
interest  ranging  from 7.00% to 9.625%  (8.2%  weighted  average)  and 7.00% to
12.50% (8.5% weighted average),  respectively.  During 1995, the Company prepaid
five mortgage loans aggregating $10.3 million having a weighted average interest
rate of 10.1%.

TAX-EXEMPT MORTGAGE NOTES At December 31, 1995, 17 properties were encumbered by
fixed-rate  mortgage notes which secure related  tax-exempt housing bond issues.
Interest on these notes is generally payable in semi-annual installments and the
notes  mature at various  dates  through  2025.  At December  31, 1995 and 1994,
tax-exempt  fixed-rate  mortgage  notes had interest rates ranging from 5.98% to
8.50% (weighted  average 6.9%),  and 5.91% to 10.235%  (weighted  average 7.2%),
respectively.

At December 31, 1995,  three of the  Company's  properties  were  encumbered  by
variable-rate  mortgage  notes,  which  secure  tax-exempt  housing bond issues.
Interest on these notes is generally payable in semi-annual installments and the
notes  mature at various  dates  through  2010.  At December  31, 1995 and 1994,
tax-exempt  variable-rate  notes had interest  rates ranging from 5.00% to 7.29%
(weighted   average  5.8%)  and  4.60%  to  7.29%   (weighted   average   5.6%),
respectively.

The  tax-exempt  mortgage notes contain  covenants  which require the Company to
lease or hold for lease 15% to 40% of the  apartment  homes for low to  moderate
income residents, as defined.  Certain of the Company's tax-exempt notes contain
covenants which require minimum rentals to individuals based upon income levels,
as specified.

The aggregate  maturities of mortgage notes  (conventional and bond related) for
the five years subsequent to December 31, 1995 are as follows (in thousands):

            1996                                $  7,878
            1997                                   9,701
            1998                                   7,201
            1999                                  12,677
            2000                                   2,261
            Thereafter                           140,763
                                                 -------
                                                $180,481
                                                 =======



                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

These payments  include special  principal  curtailments and balloon payments of
$5.6  million  in 1996,  $7.6  million in 1997,  $4.8  million in 1998 and $10.0
million in 1999.

5. OTHER NOTES PAYABLE

A summary of other notes payable at December 31, 1995 and 1994 is as follows:


(a)    The note had an interest rate of one month LIBOR plus 62 1/2 basis
       points.

(b)    Payable in seven equal annual principal installments of $7.4 million.

(c)    Payable in three equal annual principal installments of $2 million.

(d)    Includes $3.0 million and $3.5 million at December 31, 1995 and 1994,
       respectively, of deferred gain from interest rate hedge transaction
       discussed in Note 6.

(e)    Debentures  include an investor  put feature  which grants the
       debentureholder  a one time option to redeem debentures at the
       end of 10 years.

Information  concerning  short-term  bank  borrowings is summarized in the table
that follows:


The underlying loan  agreements  contain certain  covenants  which,  among other
things, require the Company to maintain minimum consolidated tangible net worth,
as defined, and maintain certain financial ratios.








                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

At December 31, 1995, the Company had $70 million of unsecured  revolving credit
facilities with four commercial banks. These credit agreements  currently expire
in June, 1996 and 1997, but are renewable  annually by mutual agreement  between
the  Company  and each bank.  Interest  on  borrowings  outstanding  under these
agreements are at varying rates depending on the level of the Company's debt and
the term of the  borrowing.  Generally,  loans for 30 days or more are priced at
LIBOR plus 5/8% to 1%.  Loans of shorter  duration are priced at spreads of 5/8%
to 11/8% over the  applicable  base rate.  The Company is obligated to pay a fee
equal to 1/4% per annum on the average daily amount of the unused portion of the
commitment  during the  revolving  loan period.  None of these  agreements  have
compensating balance requirements.

At December  31,  1995,  the Company  had  unsecured  lines of credit with three
commercial  banks  totalling  $33.5  million.  At December  1995,  there were no
borrowings  outstanding under these lines. Each line is subject to periodic bank
review and requires the Company to maintain a depository  relationship  with the
respective bank, however, there are no formal compensating balance arrangements.
Borrowings bear interest  generally at negotiated  rates in line with borrowings
under the Company's revolving credit facilities.

6. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL  INSTRUMENTS The following disclosures of estimated fair
value of financial  instruments  were  determined by the Company using available
market  information  and  appropriate  valuation   methodologies.   Considerable
judgment is necessary to interpret market data and develop estimated fair value.
Accordingly,  the estimates  presented herein are not necessarily  indicative of
the amounts that the Company  could  realize upon  disposition  of the financial
instruments.   The  use  of  different  market   assumptions  and/or  estimation
methodologies  may have a material  effect on the estimated  fair value amounts.
The  carrying  amounts  and  estimated  fair  value of the  Company's  financial
instruments at December 31, 1995, both on and off-balance  sheet, are summarized
as follows:



The following methods and assumptions were used by the Company in estimating the
fair values set forth above.

MORTGAGE NOTES PAYABLE  Estimated fair value is based on mortgage rates believed
to be  available  to the Company for  issuance  of debt with  similar  terms and
remaining maturities as of December 31, 1995.

NOTES PAYABLE The carrying amounts of the Company's  borrowings under short-term
revolving credit agreements and lines of credit are variable rate and therefore,
approximate  their fair values.  The fair value of the Company's fixed rate term
debt are estimated using  discounted cash flow analysis,  based on the Company's
estimated  incremental borrowing rate at December 31, 1995, for similar types of
borrowing arrangements.

INTEREST  RATE  RISK  MANAGEMENT  AGREEMENTS  Fair  value  is  based  on  market
quotations from investment banks.

Disclosure about the fair value of financial instruments is based upon relevant
information  available to the Company at December 31, 1995.  Although management
is not aware of any factors that would have a material  effect on the fair value
amounts reported herein, such amounts have not been revalued since that date and
current  estimates  of fair  value may  significantly  differ  from the  amounts
presented.




                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

INTEREST  RATE SWAP  AGREEMENTS  Interest  rate swap  contracts  with a notional
amount  of   $10,000,000   and   $20,000,000   matured  during  1994  and  1993,
respectively.  At December 31, 1995, there were no interest rate swap agreements
outstanding,  nor were there any  interest  rate swap  agreements  entered  into
during 1995.  For all periods  presented,  the Company had no deferred  gains or
losses relating to terminated  swap contracts.  Interest rate swap contracts did
not have a  material  impact on  interest  expense  or  consolidated  results of
operations during the periods presented.

INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS In 1995, the Company entered into a $50
million (notional amount) fixed pay forward starting swap agreement with a major
Wall Street  investment  banking firm in order to reduce the interest  rate risk
associated with the anticipated refinancing of fixed-rate debt maturing in 1996.
The  transaction  allowed  the  Company to lock-in a ten year  Treasury  rate of
6.544% on or  before  July 15,  1996.  The  Company  anticipates  unwinding  the
interest rate swap transaction upon refinancing of the $50 million debt in 1996.
At December 31, 1995,  the Company had a $2.6  million  unrealized  loss on this
transaction.  In  anticipation of the issuance of  approximately  $50 million of
medium-term  notes during the first quarter of 1996, the Company  entered into a
$50 million  interest rate lock agreement with one of its commercial  banks. The
transaction  allowed  the Company to lock-in a 10 year  Treasury  rate of 5.946%
beginning  on or before March 1, 1996.  At December 31, 1995,  the Company had a
$1.4 million  unrealized loss on this  transaction.  Any gain or loss from these
transactions  will be recognized  at the  transaction  date and  amortized  into
interest  expense over the term of the new debt. While the Company is exposed to
credit  loss  in  the  event  of  nonperformance  by  the  counterparties,  such
nonperformance is not anticipated as the counterparties are highly rated, credit
quality  companies.  By  entering  into  these  interest  rate  risk  management
agreements,  the Company has reduced its interest rate risk  associated with the
near-term  maturities and  additional  issuance of unsecured debt by effectively
locking in an interest  rate.  There is no credit  exposure to the Company under
these agreements at December 31, 1995.

During  1994,  the Company  entered into two  interest  rate hedge  transactions
involving  futures  contracts with a total  principal  amount of $150 million to
hedge against possible interest rate fluctuations during the period prior to the
issuance of the $150  million  Debentures.  These two  transactions  effectively
reduced the interest rate on the  Debentures  from 8.50% to 8.22% for ten years.
These  contracts were  terminated  upon issuance of the  Debentures.  Gains from
these  contracts of $3.5 million were  deferred as an adjustment to the carrying
amount of the  Debentures  and will be amortized  on a straight  line basis as a
reduction of interest expense over a ten year period.

The Company does not obtain collateral or other security to support  off-balance
sheet  financial  instruments  subject to credit  risk,  but monitors the credit
standing of counterparties.

7. INCOME TAXES

The  differences  between  net  income  available  to  common  shareholders  for
financial  reporting  purposes and taxable  income  before  dividend  deductions
relate primarily to temporary differences, principally real estate depreciation,
the accrual on the preferred stock  dividend,  and the deferral for tax purposes
of certain gains on property sales.

All  realized  gains  (losses)  on  sales  of  investments  are  distributed  to
shareholders if and when recognized for income tax purposes.  Since 1980,  gains
aggregating  approximately  $11.6  million  have been  deferred  for  income tax
purposes and are undistributed at December 31, 1995.

For income tax purposes,  distributions paid to shareholders consist of ordinary
income, capital gains, return of capital or a combination thereof. For the three
years ended  December  31,  1995,  distributions  paid per share were taxable as
follows:









                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

8. PROFIT SHARING PLAN

The "United  Dominion Realty Trust,  Inc. Profit Sharing Plan" (the "Plan") is a
defined  contribution  plan covering all full-time  employees who have completed
1,000  hours  of  service  and  are  age  twenty-one  or  older  at the  time of
enrollment.  Under  the  plan,  participants  may  contribute  a  percentage  of
compensation,  but not in  excess of the  maximum  allowed  under the Code.  The
Company may make  matching  contributions  in an amount equal to a percentage of
each participant's  elective deferral contribution  deduction for that Plan year
as determined by the  Compensation  Committee.  For the years ended December 31,
1995, 1994 and 1993, the Company matched 85%, 75% and 65%, respectively,  of the
first $1,000 annually contributed by each eligible participant. Expenses related
to the Plan and included in the Company's consolidated  statements of operations
for the three  years  ended  December  31,  1995,  1994 and 1993 were  $136,000,
$100,000, and $37,000, respectively.

The  Plan  also  allows  the  Company  to  make  discretionary   profit  sharing
contributions  to the Plan as  determined by the  Compensation  Committee of the
Board of Directors.  Contribu-tions,  if any, are allocated to each  participant
based on the relative compensation of the participant to the compensation of all
participants  (maximum  annual  compensation in the  determination  is $50,000).
Aggregate discretionary  contributions of approximately $400,000,  $250,000, and
$150,000  were  made for the  years  ended  December  31,  1995,  1994 and 1993,
respectively.

9. SHARE OPTIONS

Under the Company's 1985 Share Option Plan (the "Plan"),  as amended,  a maximum
of  2,400,000  options  could be granted,  at the  discretion  of the Board,  to
certain officers,  directors and key employees of the Company,  through 1997. On
December 12, 1995, the Board granted 286,667 incentive stock options  (ISO's)and
85,333  non-qualified  options (NQO's) to certain  officers and key employees of
the Company at $14.63 per share. These options vest on December 31, 1996. Of the
options  outstanding  at  December  31,  1995,  705,480  options  were  not then
exercisable under the provisions of the Plan.

The Plan  generally  provides,  among other  things,  that options be granted at
exercise  prices not lower  than the  market  value of the shares on the date of
grant.  Shares  under  options  which  subsequently  expire or are  canceled are
available for subsequent  grant. For options granted prior to December 12, 1995,
the  optionee  has up to five  years  from the date on which the  options  first
become exercisable during which to exercise the options. For the options granted
on December 12, 1995, the optionee has up to ten years from the date the options
were granted  during which to exercise  the options.  Activity in the  Company's
share option plan during the three years ended  December 31, 1995 is  summarized
in the following table.












                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

10. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

PREFERRED  STOCK In April,  1995,  the Company  sold  4,200,000 shares of 9 1/4%
Cumulative  Redeemable  Preferred  Stock in a public  offering  at $25 per share
("preferred stock"). Net proceeds of the offering,  after deducting underwriting
commissions and direct offering costs,  aggregated  approximately $101.5 million
of which  $33.1  million  was used to repay  then  existing  bank debt and $65.7
million  was used to fund  the  acquisition  of a  portfolio  of nine  apartment
communities.  The  remaining  net  proceeds  were used to help  fund  subsequent
apartment acquisitions.

Dividends on the preferred  stock are payable on a quarterly  basis at an annual
dividend rate of $2.3125 per share. The preferred stock has no par value, with a
liquidation  preference of $25 per share and is redeemable on or after April 24,
2000, solely from the proceeds from the sale of additional capital stock (common
or preferred).  The preferred stock has no voting rights, no stated maturity, is
not subject to any sinking fund or mandatory  redemption and is not  convertible
into any other securities of the Company.

COMMON STOCK In  September,  1995,  the Company  completed a public  offering of
4,550,000  shares of its common  stock at $14.25 per share.  Net proceeds of the
offering,  after deducting  underwriting  commissions and direct offering costs,
aggregated  approximately  $61 million  and were used to repay $26.8  million of
bank debt.  The remaining net proceeds were  temporarily  invested in short-term
money  market  investments  and  were  used  primarily  for the  acquisition  of
additional apartment communities.  In February, 1995, the Company sold 1,360,000
shares of its common stock to a group of  institutional  investors at a price of
$131/8  per share.  Net  proceeds  of $17.8  million  were used to curtail  then
existing bank debt.

All share and per share information in the accompanying financial statements has
been adjusted to retroactively reflect a 2 for 1 stock split in 1993.

OFFICERS'  STOCK PURCHASE AND LOAN PLAN At December 31, 1995,  553,000 shares of
common stock were issued under the Officer Stock  Purchase and Loan Plan.  Under
the plan,  certain  officers  have  purchased  common  stock at the then current
market price with  financing  provided by the Company at 7% interest  only.  The
underlying  notes mature  beginning in November,  1998. A total of 47,000 shares
are available for future issuance under this plan.

DIVIDEND  REINVESTMENT  AND STOCK PURCHASE PLAN As of December 31, 1995,  92,544
shares of common stock had been issued under the Company's Dividend Reinvestment
and Stock  Purchase  Plan.  Shares in the amount of  907,456  are  reserved  for
further issuance under this plan. During 1995, shares were purchased on the open
market.

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN As of December 31, 1995, 1,157 shares of common
stock had been issued under the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Shares
in the amount of 98,843 are reserved for future issuance under the plan. During
1995, shares were also purchased on the open market.

11. UNAUDITED SUMMARIZED CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA

Summarized unaudited  consolidated  quarterly financial data for the years ended
December 31, 1995 and 1994 is as follows: (In thousands, except per share data):



*      For the quarter ended June 30, 1995, the Company recognized a $4.6
       million aggregate book gain on the sales of real estate.

**     For the quarter ended December 31, 1995, the Company recognized a $1.7
       million impairment loss on real estate held for disposition (Note 2).








                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

















(a) The aggregate cost for federal income tax purposes was
approximately $1.192 billion at December 31, 1995 and $987 million
at December 31, 1994.





