10-K


a04-10115_110k.htm

10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549-1004

FORM
10-K

(Mark One)

Commission file number 1-14064

The
Estée Lauder Companies Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code 212-572-4200

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange

on which registered

Class A Common Stock, $.01 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).  Yes

ý

No

o

The aggregate market value of
the registrant’s voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant
was approximately $4.52 billion at December 31, 2003 (the last business day of
the registrant’s most recently completed second quarter).*

At August 31, 2004, 133,827,580
shares of the registrant’s Class A Common Stock, $.01 par value, and 92,612,901
shares of the registrant’s Class B Common Stock, $.01 par value, were
outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Document

Where Incorporated

Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of

Stockholders to be held November 5, 2004

Part III

* Calculated by excluding all
shares held by executive officers and directors of registrant and certain
trusts without conceding that all such persons are “affiliates” of registrant
for purposes of the Federal securities laws.

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K


Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K
includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
Such statements include, without limitation, our expectations regarding
sales, earnings or other future financial performance and liquidity, product
introductions, entry into new geographic regions, information systems
initiatives, new methods of sale and future operations or operating
results.  Although we believe that our
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our
knowledge of our business and operations, we cannot assure that actual results
will not differ materially from our expectations.  Factors that could cause actual results to
differ from expectations are described herein; in particular, see “Item 7. -
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations – Forward-Looking Information.”

PART I

Item 1.

Business.

The Estée Lauder Companies
Inc., founded in 1946 by Estée and Joseph Lauder, is one of the world’s leading
manufacturers and marketers of quality skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair
care products.  Our products are sold in
over 130 countries and territories under the following well-recognized brand
names: Estée Lauder, Clinique, Aramis, Prescriptives, Origins, M

ž

A

ž

C,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Stila, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin and
Rodan + Fields.  We are also the global
licensee for fragrances and cosmetics sold under the Tommy Hilfiger, Donna
Karan,

kate

spade

and
Michael Kors brands.  Each brand is
distinctly positioned within the market for beauty products.

We are a pioneer in the
cosmetics industry and believe we are a leader in the industry due to the
global recognition of our brand names, our leadership in product innovation,
our strong market position in key geographic markets and the consistently high
quality of our products.  We sell our
prestige products principally through limited distribution channels to
complement the images associated with our brands.  These channels, encompassing over 20,000
points of sale, consist primarily of upscale department stores, specialty
retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and, to a lesser extent,
freestanding company-owned stores and spas, our own and authorized retailer web
sites, stores on cruise ships, in-flight and duty-free shops.  We believe that our strategy of pursuing
limited distribution strengthens our relationships with retailers, enables our
brands to be among the best selling product lines at the stores and heightens
the aspirational quality of our brands.

We also sell products at
prestige salons (Aveda and Bumble and bumble) and plan to begin selling newly
developed brands, American Beauty, Flirt! and Good Skin ™, at Kohl’s Department
Stores in fiscal 2005.

In February 2004, we sold the
assets and operations of our reporting unit that sold

jane

brand products.  We acquired the brand in
October 1997.

We have been controlled by the
Lauder family since the founding of our company.  Members of the Lauder family, some of whom
are directors, executive officers and/or employees, beneficially own, directly
or indirectly, as of August 31, 2004, shares of Class A Common Stock and Class
B Common Stock having approximately 88.4% of the outstanding voting power of
the Common Stock.

Unless the context requires
otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” refer to The Estée
Lauder Companies Inc. and its subsidiaries.

Products

Skin Care

- Our broad range of skin care
products addresses various skin care needs for women and men.  These products include moisturizers, creams,
lotions, cleansers, sun screens and self-tanning products, a number of which
are developed for use on particular areas of the body, such as the face or the
hands or around the eyes.  Skin care
products accounted for approximately 37% of our net sales in fiscal 2004.

Makeup

- We manufacture, market and sell a
full array of makeup products, including lipsticks, mascaras, foundations,
eyeshadows, nail polishes and powders. 
Many of the products are offered in an extensive array of shades and
colors.  We also sell related items such
as compacts, brushes and other makeup tools. 
Makeup products accounted for approximately 37% of our net sales in
fiscal 2004.

Fragrance

- We offer a variety of fragrance
products for women and men.  The
fragrances are sold in various forms, including eau de parfum sprays and
colognes, as well as lotions, powders, creams and soaps that are based on a
particular fragrance.  Fragrance products
accounted for approximately 21% of our net sales in fiscal 2004.


Hair Care

- Hair care products are offered
mainly in salons and in freestanding retail stores and include hair color and
styling products, shampoos, conditioners and finishing sprays.  In fiscal 2004, hair care products accounted
for approximately 4% of our net sales.

Given the personal nature of
our products and the wide array of consumer preferences and tastes, as well as
competition for the attention of consumers, our strategy has been to market and
promote our products through distinctive brands seeking to address broad
preferences and tastes.  Each brand has a
single global image that is promoted with consistent logos, packaging and advertising
designed to enhance its image and differentiate it from other brands.

Estée Lauder

- Estée Lauder brand products,
which have been sold since 1946, are positioned as luxurious, classic and
aspirational.  We believe that Estée
Lauder brand products are technologically advanced and innovative and have a
worldwide reputation for excellence.  The
broad product line principally consists of skin care, makeup and fragrance
products that are presented in high quality packaging.

Clinique

- First introduced in 1968, Clinique
skin care and makeup products are all allergy tested and 100% fragrance free
and have been designed to address individual skin types and needs.  The products are based on the research and
related expertise of leading dermatologists. 
Clinique skin care products are generally marketed as part of the 3-Step
System: Cleanse, Exfoliate, Moisturize. 
Clinique also offers fragrances for men and women and a line of hair
care products.

Aramis

- We pioneered the marketing of
prestige men’s grooming and skin care products and fragrances with the
introduction of Aramis products in 1964. 
Aramis continues to offer one of the broadest lines of prestige men’s
products.

Prescriptives

- We developed and introduced
Prescriptives in 1979.  Prescriptives is
positioned as a color authority with an advanced collection of highly
individualized products primarily addressing the makeup and skin care needs of
contemporary women with active lifestyles. 
The products are characterized by simple concepts, minimalist design and
an innovative image and, through a system of color application and extensive
range of makeup shades, accommodate a diverse group of consumers.

Origins

– Origins was introduced in 1990.  It is positioned as a plant-based line of
skin care, makeup and aromatherapy products that combine time-tested botanical
ingredients with modern science to promote total well-being.  Origins sells its products at our
freestanding Origins stores and through stores-within-stores (which are
designed to replicate the Origins store environment within a department store),
at traditional retail counters, in perfumeries and directly to consumers over
the Internet.

Tommy Hilfiger

- We have an exclusive global
license arrangement to develop and market a line of men’s and women’s
fragrances and cosmetics under the Tommy Hilfiger brand.  We launched the line in 1995 with a men’s
fragrance,

tommy

. 
Today, we manufacture and sell a variety of fragrances and ancillary
products for men and women.

M

ž

A

ž

C

- M

ž

A

ž

C
products comprise a broad line of color-oriented, professional cosmetics and
professional makeup tools targeting makeup artists and fashion-conscious
consumers.  The products are sold through
a limited number of department and specialty stores, at freestanding M

ž

A

ž

C
stores and directly to consumers over the Internet.  We acquired the companies behind M

ž

A

ž

C
in three stages: in December 1994, March 1997 and February 1998.

Bobbi Brown

- In October 1995, we acquired the
Bobbi Brown line of color cosmetics, professional makeup brushes and skin care
products.  Bobbi Brown products are
manufactured to our specifications, primarily by third parties, and sold
through a limited number of department and specialty stores and directly to
consumers over the Internet.

La Mer

- La Mer products primarily consist of
moisturizing creams, lotions, cleansers, toners and other skin care
products.  The line, which is available
in very limited distribution in the United States and certain other countries,
is an extension of the initial Crème de la Mer product that we acquired in
1995.

Donna Karan Cosmetics

-

In
November 1997, we obtained the exclusive global license to develop, market and
distribute a line of fragrances and other cosmetics under the Donna Karan New
York and DKNY trademarks, including certain products that were originally sold
by The Donna Karan Company.  We launched
the first DKNY women’s fragrance in fiscal 2000 and the first DKNY men’s
fragrance in fiscal 2001.  Under this
license, fragrances have been expanded to include extensive lines of companion
bath and body products.


Aveda

- We acquired the Aveda business in
December 1997 and have since acquired selected Aveda distributors and retail
stores.  Aveda, a prestige hair care
leader, is a manufacturer and marketer of plant-based hair care, skin care,
makeup and fragrance products.  We sell
Aveda products to third-party distributors and prestige salons and spas,
cosmetology schools, certain non-U.S. department stores and specialty retailers
and directly to consumers at our own freestanding Aveda Experience Centers and
certain Aveda Institutes.

Stila

- In August 1999, we acquired the
business of Los Angeles-based Stila Cosmetics, Inc.  Stila is known for its stylish, wearable
makeup products and eco-friendly packaging and has developed a following among
young, fashion-forward consumers.  Stila
products are currently available at the brand’s flagship store in Los Angeles,
California, and also in limited distribution in the United States and certain
other countries.

Jo Malone

- We acquired London-based Jo Malone
Limited in October 1999.  Jo Malone is
known for its prestige skin care, fragrance and hair care products showcased at
its flagship store in London.  Products
are also available through a company catalogue, at freestanding stores and at a
very limited group of specialty stores in the United States, Canada and the
United Kingdom.

Bumble and bumble

- In June 2000, we acquired
a controlling majority equity interest in Bumble and Bumble Products, LLC, a
marketer and distributor of quality hair care products, and Bumble and Bumble,
LLC, the operator of a premier hair salon in New York City.  Bumble and bumble styling and other hair care
products are distributed to top-tier salons and select specialty stores.  In fiscal 2004, we opened a second
wholly-owned salon and a training and education center.  The founder and two of his partners own the
remaining equity interests and have continued to manage the domestic
operations.

kate spade beauty

- - In November 1999, we obtained exclusive worldwide rights to use the

kate spade

trademark and related trademarks for the
manufacture, marketing, distribution and sale of beauty products.  During fiscal 2002, we launched the first
products - a distinctive and personal signature fragrance and companion
products.

Darphin

- In April 2003, we acquired
Laboratoires Darphin, the Paris-based company dedicated to the development,
manufacture and marketing of prestige skin care and makeup products which are
distributed through high-end independent pharmacies and specialty stores.

Michael Kors

- In May 2003, we entered into a
license agreement for fragrances and beauty products under the “Michael Kors”
trademarks and purchased certain related rights and inventory from another
party.  All fragrances including MICHAEL
and MICHAEL for Men, as well as ancillary bath and body products, are sold in
department stores, specialty stores, at freestanding Michael Kors boutiques and
over the Internet.

Rodan + Fields

- In July 2003, we acquired the
Rodan + Fields skin care line launched in 2002 by Stanford University-trained
dermatologists Katie Rodan, M.D. and Kathy Fields, M.D.  The line offers solutions for specific skin
problems, targeting them with individually packaged and dedicated
regimens.  The line is currently sold in
U.S. specialty stores and over the Internet at www.rodanandfields.com.

In addition to the foregoing
brands, we manufacture and sell Kiton and Toni Gard products as a
licensee.  In May 2004, we signed an
agreement to create and market a new line of fragrances under the Sean John
brand as a licensee.

In fiscal 2005, as part of our
BeautyBank initiative, we plan to launch three new brands for sale at Kohl’s
Department Stores:

American Beauty -

The luxurious makeup and
advanced skin care line that celebrates the beauty of American style.  Products have been developed to meet the
needs of the modern American woman.

Flirt! -

A makeup line that is all about
experimenting with color, pop culture and trends.  With over 250 shades of lips, eyes, cheeks
and more “you can Flirt! with the possibilities.”

Good Skin ™ -

A line of skin care products
created with the expertise of a dermatologist.

This line is color-coded for ease of use.

good skin, easy to choose,
easy to use, doctor formulated for you

. ™


Distribution

We sell our products
principally through limited distribution channels to complement the images
associated with our core brands.  These
channels include more than 20,000 points of sale in over 130 countries and
territories and consist primarily of upscale department stores, specialty
retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and, to a lesser extent,
freestanding company-owned stores and spas, our own and authorized retailer web
sites, stores on cruise ships, in-flight and duty-free shops.

We maintain a dedicated sales
force which sells to our retail accounts in North America and in the major
overseas markets, such as Western Europe and Japan.  We have wholly-owned operations in over 30
countries, and controlling interests in joint ventures that operate in four
other countries, through which we market, sell and distribute our
products.  In certain countries, we sell
our products through selected local distributors under contractual arrangements
designed to protect the image and position of the brands.  In addition, we sell certain products in
select domestic and international military locations and over the Internet.  For
information regarding our net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region,
see Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is
incorporated herein by reference.  Our
net sales in the United States in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 were $2,928.7
million, $2,752.8 million and $2,663.8 million, respectively.  Our long-lived assets in the United States at
June 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002 were $416.0 million, $420.1 million and $442.4
million, respectively.

There are risks inherent in
foreign operations, including changes in social, political and economic conditions.  We are also exposed to risks associated with
changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries
where we have operations as well as, to a lesser extent, changes in United
States laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment.  In addition, our results of operations and
the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates.  Changes in such
rates also may affect the relative prices at which we and foreign competitors sell
products in the same markets.  Similarly,
the cost of certain items required in our operations may be affected by changes
in the value of the relevant currencies.

With the acquisition of Aveda
in fiscal 1998, a controlling majority equity interest in Bumble and bumble in
fiscal 2000 and Darphin in fiscal 2003, we broadened our distribution to
include new channels, namely salons and high-end independent pharmacies.  We principally sell Aveda products to
third-party distributors and prestige salons and spas, cosmetology schools and
specialty retailers and directly to consumers at our own freestanding Aveda
Experience Centers and certain Aveda Institutes.  There are currently about 7,200 points of
sale, primarily in the United States, that sell Aveda products.  Bumble and bumble products are principally
sold to approximately 1,600 independent salons, primarily in the United
States.  Darphin products are sold
through high-end independent pharmacies, principally in Europe, representing
approximately 2,500 points of sale.

As part of our strategy to
diversify our distribution, we have been selectively expanding the number of
single-brand, freestanding stores that we own and operate.  The Origins, Aveda and M

ž

A

ž

C
brands are the primary focus for this method of distribution.  At this time, we operate 435 single-brand,
freestanding stores worldwide, the majority of which are in the United States,
and expect that number to increase moderately over the next several years.

We sell some of our products
directly to consumers over the Internet through our own websites (Estée Lauder,
Clinique, Origins, Prescriptives, Bobbi Brown, M

ž

A

ž

C,
Stila and Rodan + Fields), and through Gloss.com (Estée Lauder, Clinique,
Prescriptives, Origins, M

ž

A

ž

C,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer and Stila).  Gloss.com is currently a joint venture in
which we own a controlling majority interest. 
Chanel, Inc. and Clarins (U.S.A.) Inc. became partners in the venture in
August 2000 and Chanel and Clarins products are also available on the website.

As is customary in the
cosmetics industry, our practice is to accept returns of our products from
retailers if properly requested, authorized and approved.  In accepting returns, we typically provide a
credit to the retailer against sales and accounts receivable from that retailer
on a dollar-for-dollar basis.  In
recognition of this practice, and in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles, we report sales levels on a net basis, which is computed
by deducting the amount of actual returns received and an amount established
for anticipated returns from gross sales. 
As a percentage of gross sales, returns were 4.6%, 5.1% and 4.8% in
fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Customers

Our strategy has been to build
strong strategic relationships with selected retailers globally.  Senior management works with executives of
our major retail accounts on a regular basis and we believe we are viewed as an
important supplier to these customers.


For the fiscal years ended June
30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, our three largest customers accounted for 22%, 24% and
25%, respectively, of our net sales. 
Individually no customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales
during fiscal 2004, 2003 or 2002.

Marketing

Our marketing strategy is built
around our vision statement: “Bringing the Best to Everyone We Touch.”  Mrs. Estée Lauder formulated this marketing
philosophy to provide high-quality service and products as the foundation for a
solid and loyal consumer base.

Our marketing efforts focus
principally on promoting the quality and benefits of our products.  Each of our brands is distinctively
positioned, has a single global image, and is promoted with consistent logos,
packaging and advertising designed to enhance its image and differentiate it
from other brands.  We regularly
advertise our products on television and radio, in upscale magazines and
prestigious newspapers and through direct mail and photo displays at international
airports.  In addition, our products
receive extensive editorial coverage in prestige publications and other media
worldwide.  Promotional activities and
in-store displays are designed to introduce existing consumers to different
products in the line and to attract new consumers.  Our marketing efforts also benefit from
cooperative advertising programs with retailers, some of which are supported by
coordinated promotions, such as purchase with purchase and gift with
purchase.  At in-store counters, sales
representatives offer personal demonstrations to market individual products as
well as to provide education on basic skin care and makeup application.  We conduct extensive sampling programs and we
pioneered gift with purchase as a sampling program.  We believe that the quality and perceived
benefits of sample products have been effective inducements to purchases by new
and existing consumers.

Starting with the launch of the
Clinique website in 1996, we have used the Internet to educate and inform
consumers about certain of our brands. 
Currently, we have sixteen single-brand marketing sites, eight of which
have e-commerce capabilities, and Gloss.com, our majority-owned, multi-brand
marketing and e-commerce site.

Most of our creative marketing
work is done by in-house creative teams. 
The creative staff designs and produces the sales materials,
advertisements and packaging for all products in each brand.  Total advertising and promotional
expenditures were $1,612.0 million, $1,416.1 million and $1,317.4 million for
fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 
These amounts include expenses relating to purchase with purchase and
gift with purchase promotions that are reflected in net sales and cost of
sales.

Our marketing and sales
executives spend considerable time in the field meeting with consumers and key
retailers and consulting with sales representatives at the points of sale.  These include Estée Lauder Beauty Advisors,
Clinique Consultants, Aramis Selling Specialists, Prescriptives Analysts, Origins
Guides and M

ž

A

ž

C
Makeup Artists.

Management
Information Systems

Management information systems
support business processes including product development, marketing, sales,
order processing, production, distribution and finance.  Of the many systems currently being utilized,
the most significant to our business needs are: (i) a centralized data
repository of essential attributes for each of the products we offer, or plan
to offer, which enables us to globally manufacture and market products of
consistent quality; (ii) a sales analysis system to track weekly sales at the
stock keeping unit (SKU) level at most significant retail sales locations
(i.e., sell-through data), increasing our understanding of consumer preferences
and enabling us to coordinate more effectively our product development, manufacturing
and marketing strategies; (iii) an automated replenishment system with many of
our key domestic customers, allowing us to replenish inventories for individual
points of sale automatically, with minimal paperwork; and (iv) an inventory
management system to provide us with a global view of finished goods
availability relative to actual requirements, resulting in improved inventory
control and distribution for both existing product lines and new product
launches.

The efficiencies provided by
these systems have resulted in increased sales, fewer out-of-stocks and reduced
retail inventories.  We expect that these
systems will continue to provide inventory and sales efficiencies in the short
and medium terms.

As part of our ongoing effort
to enhance these efficiencies, we are evaluating enterprise-wide global
programs that could deliver a single set of integrated data, processes and
technologies, which would be scalable and used to standardize business
processes across brands, operating units and sales affiliates.


Research
and Development

We believe that we are an
industry leader in the development of new products.  Marketing, product development and packaging
groups work with our research and development group to identify shifts in
consumer preferences, develop new products and redesign or reformulate existing
products.  In addition, research and
development personnel work closely with quality assurance and manufacturing
personnel on a worldwide basis to ensure consistent global standards for our
products and to deliver products with attributes that fulfill consumer
expectations.

We maintain ongoing research
and development programs at our facilities in Melville, New York; Oevel,
Belgium; Tokyo, Japan; Markham, Ontario; Blaine, Minnesota; and Colombes,
France.  As of June 30, 2004, we had
approximately 400

employees engaged in research and
development.  Research and development
expenditures totaled $67.2 million, $60.8 million and $61.3 million in fiscal
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  Our
research and development group makes significant contributions toward improving
existing products and developing new products and provides ongoing technical
assistance and know-how to our manufacturing activities.  The research and development group has had
long-standing working relationships with several U.S. and international medical
and educational facilities, which supplement internal capabilities.  We do not conduct animal testing of our
products.

Manufacturing
and Raw Materials

We manufacture skin care,
makeup, fragrance and hair care products in the United States, Belgium,
Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Canada and France.  We continue to streamline our manufacturing
processes and identify sourcing opportunities to improve innovation, increase
efficiencies and reduce costs.  Our major
manufacturing facilities operate as “focus” plants that primarily manufacture
one type of product (e.g., lipsticks) for all of the principal brands.  Our plants are modern and our manufacturing
processes are substantially automated. 
While we believe that our manufacturing facilities are sufficient to
meet current and reasonably anticipated manufacturing requirements, we continue
to identify opportunities to make significant improvements in capacity and
productivity.  To capitalize on
innovation and other supply benefits, we continue to utilize third parties on a
global basis for finished goods production.

The principal raw materials
used in the manufacture of our products are essential oils, alcohol and
specialty chemicals.  We also purchase
packaging components that are manufactured to our design specifications.  Procurement of materials for all manufacturing
facilities is generally made on a global basis through our centralized supplier
relations department.  A concentrated
effort in supplier rationalization has been made with the specific objective of
reducing costs, increasing innovation and improving quality.  As a result of sourcing initiatives, there is
increased dependency on certain suppliers, but we believe that these suppliers
have adequate resources and facilities to overcome any unforeseen interruption
of supply.  We are continually
benchmarking the performance of the supply chain and will add or delete
suppliers based upon the changing needs of the business.  We have, in the past, been able to obtain an
adequate supply of essential raw materials and currently believe we have
adequate sources of supply for virtually all components of our products.  As we integrate acquired brands, we
continually seek new ways to leverage our production and sourcing capabilities
to improve manufacturing performance.


Competition

The skin care, makeup,
fragrance and hair care businesses are characterized by vigorous competition
throughout the world.  Brand recognition,
quality, performance and price have a significant influence on consumers’
choices among competing products and brands. 
Advertising, promotion, merchandising, the pace and timing of new
product introductions, line extensions and the quality of in-store sales staff
also have a significant impact on consumers’ buying decisions.  We compete against a number of manufacturers
and marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products, some of
which have substantially greater resources than we do.

Our principal competitors among
manufacturers and marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care
products include:

•

L’Oreal S.A.,
which markets Lancôme, Ralph Lauren, Giorgio Armani, Garnier, L’Oreal,
Maybelline, Biotherm, Helena Rubinstein, Redken, Matrix, Kiehl’s Since 1851,
Shu Uemura and other brands;

•

Unilever N.V.,
which markets Calvin Klein, Cerruti, Vera Wang, Pond’s, Thermasilk, Vaseline
Intensive Care and other brands;

•

The Procter
& Gamble Company, which markets Cover Girl, Olay, Giorgio Beverly Hills,
Hugo Boss, Rochas, Escada, Max Factor, Vidal Sassoon, Pantene, Clairol, Wella,
Valentino, Gucci, Sebastian, Aussie and other brands;

•

Beiersdorf AG,
which markets Nivea, Eucerin, La Prairie, Juvena and other brands;

•

Avon Products
Inc., a direct marketer of Avon Color, Anew, Skin-so-soft, mark, Avon Wellness,
beComing and other products;

•

Shiseido
Company, Ltd., which markets Shiseido, Clé de Peau Beauté, Zirh, Nars, Decléor,
Issey Miyake, Jean Paul Gaultier, Helene Curtis, Za and other brands;

•

LVMH Moët
Hennessey Louis Vuitton (“LVMH”), which markets Christian Dior, Kenzo,
Givenchy, Guerlain, Benefit, Make Up For Ever, Fresh, Aqua di Parma and other brands;

•

Coty, Inc.,
which markets Lancaster, Davidoff, Isabella Rossellini, Rimmel, Astor, Adidas,
The Healing Garden, Chopard, Jennifer Lopez, Kenneth Cole, Marc Jacobs, Stetson
and other brands;

•

Revlon, Inc.,
which markets Revlon, Almay, Ultima II and other brands;

•

Chanel, Inc.;

•

Clarins S.A.,
which markets Clarins, Azzaro, Hermès, Lacoste, Burberry, Thierry Mugler and
other brands; and

•

Elizabeth Arden,
Inc., which markets Elizabeth Arden, Elizabeth Taylor fragrances, Geoffrey
Beene, Halston, Britney Spears and other brands.

We also face competition from
retailers that have developed their own brands, such as:

•

Gap Inc., which
markets The Gap and Banana Republic products;

•

Intimate Brands,
which markets Victoria’s Secret Beauty, Bath and Body Works, and, in a venture
with Shiseido, Aura Science; and

•

Sephora.

Some retailers have acquired
brands, such as Neiman Marcus Group, which acquired Laura Mercier.

Some of our competitors also
have ownership interests in retailers that are customers of ours.  For example, LVMH has interests in DFS Group
LTD, Miami Cruiseline Services, Le Bon Marché, la Samaritaine, eLuxury and
Sephora.

Trademarks,
Patents and Copyrights

We own all of the material
trademark rights used in connection with the manufacturing, marketing and
distribution of our major products both in the United States and in the other
principal countries where such products are sold, except for the trademark
rights relating to Tommy Hilfiger (including

tommy

and

tommy girl

), Donna Karan New York, DKNY,
Michael Kors and

kate

spade

,
as to which we are the exclusive worldwide licensee for fragrances, cosmetics
and related products.  Trademarks for our
principal products are registered in the United States and in most of the
countries in which such products are sold. 
The major trademarks used in our business include the brand names Estée
Lauder, Clinique, Aramis, Prescriptives, Origins, Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan
New York, DKNY, M

ž

A

ž

C,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Stila, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble,

kate spade

, Darphin, Michael Kors and Rodan + Fields and the
names of many of the products sold under each of these brands.  We consider the protection of our trademarks
to be important to our business.

A number of our products
incorporate patented or patent-pending formulations.  In addition, several products are covered by
design patents, patent applications or copyrights.  While we consider these patents and
copyrights, and the protection thereof, to be important, no single patent or
copyright is considered material to the conduct of our business.


Employees

At June 30, 2004, we had
approximately 22,200 full-time employees worldwide (including sales
representatives at points of sale who are employed by us), of whom
approximately 10,900 are employed in the United States and Canada.  None of our employees in the United States is
covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 
In certain other countries a limited number of employees are covered by
a works council agreement or other syndicate arrangements.  We believe that relations with our employees
are good.  We have never encountered a
material strike or work stoppage in the United States or in any other country
where we have a significant number of employees.

Government
Regulation

We and our products are subject
to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration and the Federal Trade
Commission in the United States, as well as by various other Federal, state,
local and international regulatory authorities and the regulatory authorities
in the countries in which our products are produced or sold.  Such regulations principally relate to the
ingredients, labeling, packaging and marketing of our products.  We believe that we are in substantial
compliance with such regulations, as well as with applicable Federal, state,
local and international and other countries’ rules and regulations governing
the discharge of materials hazardous to the environment.  There are no significant capital expenditures
for environmental control matters either planned in the current year or
expected in the near future.  Along with
other unrelated parties, we have been named as a potentially responsible party
by the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New York with regard to
two landfills in Long Island, New York. 
See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”

Seasonality

Our results of operations in
total, by region and by product category, are subject to seasonal fluctuations,
with net sales in the first half of the fiscal year typically being slightly
higher than in the second half of the fiscal year.  The higher net sales in the first two fiscal
quarters are attributable to the increased levels of purchasing by retailers
for the holiday selling season and for fall fashion makeup introductions.  Fluctuations in net sales, operating income
and product category results in any fiscal quarter may be attributable to the
level and scope of new product introductions. 
Additionally, gross margins and operating expenses are impacted on a
quarter-by-quarter basis by variations in our launch calendar and the timing of
promotions, including purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions.

Availability
of Reports

We make available financial
information, news releases and other information on our website at
www.elcompanies.com.  There is a direct
link from the website to our Securities and Exchange Commission filings via the
EDGAR database, where our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we
file such reports and amendments with, or furnish them to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Stockholders may
also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153
or call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.

Corporate
Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct

The Board of Directors has
developed corporate governance practices to help it fulfill its
responsibilities to stockholders in providing general direction and oversight
of management of the Company.  These practices are set forth in the Company’s
Corporate Governance Guidelines.  The Company also has a Code of Conduct
(“Code”) applicable to all employees, officers and directors of the Company,
including, without limitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial
Officer and other senior financial officers.  These documents, as well as
any waiver of a provision of the Code granted to any senior officer or director
or material amendment to the Code, if any, may be found in the “Investor
Information” section of the Company’s website:  www.elcompanies.com.  Stockholders may also contact Investor
Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153 or call 800-308-2334 to
obtain a hard copy of these documents without charge.


Executive
Officers

The following table sets forth
certain information with respect to our executive officers.

Malcolm Bond

became Executive Vice President –
Global Operations in July 2004.  From
January 2001 through June 2004, Mr. Bond was Senior Vice President – Global
Manufacturing and Distribution.  From
January 1999 to January 2001, he was Senior Vice President, Manufacturing,
during which time his responsibilities also included corporate engineering and
supply chain for the Company.  From
September 1997 to January 1999, he was Vice President, Focus Factories,
responsible for all of the Company’s factory operations.  Mr. Bond joined the Company in September 1995
as General Manager of the Company’s U.K. manufacturing operations, with
responsibility for South African and Australian operations as well.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bond was
responsible for European Operations at the Alberto-Culver Company and, prior to
that, was Vice President, Operations for Europe, Middle East and Africa for
Revlon, Inc. from April 1979 until October 1992.

Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne

became Group
President responsible for Estée Lauder, M·A·C and our fragrance brands
(principally Aramis, Tommy Hilfiger and Donna Karan) on a worldwide basis in
July 2001.  Michael Kors was added in May
2003 and his responsibility for fashion stores was added in July 2004.  From 1998 to 2001, he was the President of
Estee Lauder International, Inc. (“ELII”). 
From 1992 to 1996, Mr. Bousquet-Chavanne was Senior Vice President –
General Manager/Travel Retailing of ELII. 
From 1989 to 1992, he was Vice President and General Manager of Aramis
International, a division of ELII.  From
1996 to 1998, he was Executive Vice President/General Manager International
Operations of Parfums Christian Dior S.A., based in Paris.

Daniel J. Brestle

became Group President
responsible for our specialty brands, such as Aveda, Bobbi Brown, Bumble and bumble,
La Mer, Prescriptives,  Jo Malone,

kate

spade

and Stila
on a worldwide basis in July 2001.  He is
also responsible for the recently acquired brands, Darphin and Rodan + Fields,
and is responsible for BeautyBank and its brands.  From July 1998 through June 2001, he was
President of Estée Lauder (USA & Canada). 
Prior to July 1998, he was President of Clinique Laboratories, Inc. and
had been the senior officer of that division since 1992.  From 1988 through 1992, he was President of
Prescriptives U.S.A.  Mr. Brestle joined
us in 1978.

Andrew J. Cavanaugh

has been Senior Vice
President - Global Human Resources since 1999. 
He was Senior Vice President – Corporate Human Resources from 1994
through 1999.  Mr. Cavanaugh joined the
Company in 1988 as Executive Director - Human Resources.

Harvey Gedeon

became Executive Vice President
– Research and Development in July 2004. 
From January 2000 to July 2004, he was Senior Vice President – Research
and Development.  Prior to joining the
Company in January 2000, Mr. Gedeon was Executive Vice President and General
Manager, Research and Development and Quality Assurance for Revlon, Inc. from
1997 through 1999.

Richard W. Kunes

became Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer in October 2000. 
He joined the Company in 1986 and served in various finance-related
positions until November 1993, when he was named Vice President – Operations
Finance Worldwide.  From January 1998
through September 2000, Mr. Kunes was Vice President – Financial Administration
and Corporate Controller.  Prior to
joining the Company, he held finance and controller positions at the
Colgate-Palmolive Company.  Mr. Kunes is
on the Board of Directors of Make-a-Wish Foundation of Suffolk County, NY, Inc.


Evelyn H. Lauder

has been Senior Corporate
Vice President of the Company since 1989, and previously served as Vice
President and in other executive capacities since first joining the Company in
1959 as Education Director.  She is a member
of the Board of Overseers, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, a member of
the Boards of Trustees of Central Park Conservancy, Inc. and The Trinity School
in New York City (Trustee Emirata), a member of the Board of Directors of New
Yorkers for Parks, an Honorary Board Member of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories
and the Founder and Chairman of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation.

Leonard A. Lauder

has been Chairman of the
Board of Directors since 1995.  He served
as Chief Executive Officer of the Company from 1982 through 1999 and President
from 1972 until 1995.  Mr. Lauder
formally joined the Company in 1958 after serving as an officer in the United
States Navy.  Since joining the Company,
he has held various positions, including executive officer positions other than
those described above.  He is Chairman of
the Board of Trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art, a Charter Trustee
of the University of Pennsylvania and a Trustee of The Aspen Institute.  He also served as a member of the White House
Advisory Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiations under President Reagan.

Ronald S. Lauder

has served as Chairman of
Clinique Laboratories, Inc. since returning from government service in
1987.  He was Chairman of Estee Lauder
International, Inc. from 1987 through 2002. 
Mr. Lauder joined the Company in 1964 and has held various positions,
including those described above, since then. 
From 1983 to 1986, Mr. Lauder was Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
for European and NATO Affairs.  From 1986
to 1987, he served as U.S. Ambassador to Austria.  He is non-executive Chairman of the Board of
Directors of Central European Media Enterprises Ltd.  He is also Chairman of the Board of Trustees
of the Museum of Modern Art.

William P. Lauder

became President and Chief
Executive Officer in July 2004.  From
January 2003 through June 2004, he served as Chief Operating Officer.  From July 2001 until December 2002 he served
as Group President responsible for the worldwide business of Clinique and
Origins and our retail store and On-line operations.  From 1998 to 2001, he was President of
Clinique Laboratories, Inc.  Prior to
1998, he was President of Origins Natural Resources Inc. and had been the
senior officer of that division since its inception in 1990.  Prior thereto, he served in various positions
since joining the Company in 1986.  He is
a member of the Board of Trustees of The University of Pennsylvania and The
Trinity School in New York City and the Boards of Directors of The Fresh Air
Fund, the 92

nd

Street Y, Survivors of the SHOAH Visual History
Foundation and the Partnership for New York City.

Sara E. Moss

joined the Company as Senior Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary in September 2003.  She was Senior Vice President and General
Counsel of Pitney Bowes Inc. from 1996 to February 2003, and Senior Litigation
Partner for Howard, Smith & Levin (now part of Covington & Burling) in
New York from 1984 to 1996.  Prior to
1984, Ms. Moss served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Criminal
Division in the Southern District of New York, was an associate at the law firm
of Davis, Polk & Wardwell and was Law Clerk to the Honorable Constance
Baker Motley, a U.S. District Judge in the Southern District of New York.

Cedric Prouvé

became Group President,
International, effective January 2003. 
He is responsible for sales and profits in all markets outside of North
America and for all of the activities of our sales affiliates and distributor
relationships worldwide.  He also
oversees the Company’s travel retail business. 
From August 2000 through 2002 he was the General Manager of our Japanese
sales affiliate.  From January 1997 to
August 2000, he was Vice President, General Manager, Travel Retail.  He started with us in 1994 as General
Manager, Travel Retailing – Asia Pacific Region and was given the added
responsibility of General Manager of the Company’s Singapore affiliate in
1995.  Prior to joining us he spent time
with L’Oreal serving in sales and management positions of increasing
responsibility in the Americas and Asia/Pacific.

Philip Shearer

became Group President
responsible for Clinique, Origins and our On-line operations in January
2003.  He joined the Company as Group
President, International in September 2001. 
Prior thereto, from 1998 to 2001, he was President of the Luxury
Products Division of L’Oreal U.S.A., which included Lancôme, Helena Rubinstein,
Ralph Lauren fragrances, Giorgio Armani and Kiehl’s Since 1851.  He served in various positions at L’Oreal
from 1987, including management positions in the United Kingdom and in Japan.

Sally Susman

has been Senior Vice President –
Global Communications since September 2000 and is responsible for all media
relations, internal communications and consumer relations for the Company and
its brands.  Prior to joining the
Company, Ms. Susman held several high-level communications and government
relations positions at American Express Company from 1990 to 1993 and 1995 to
2000.  From 1993 to 1995, she was the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative
Affairs at the U.S. Department of Commerce. 
Ms. Susman is a Commissioner on the New York City Commission on
Women’s Issues and is a member of the Boards of Directors of Parsons School of
Design and The National Partnership for Women and Families and is a Trustee of
Connecticut College.

Each executive officer serves
for a one-year term ending at the next annual meeting of the Board of
Directors, subject to his or her applicable employment agreement and his or her
earlier death, resignation or removal.


Item 2.

Properties

.

The following table sets forth
our principal owned and leased manufacturing and research and development
facilities as of August 31, 2004.  The
leases expire at various times through 2015, subject to certain renewal
options.

We own, lease and occupy
numerous offices, assembly and distribution facilities and warehouses in the
United States and abroad.  We consider
our properties to be generally in good condition and believe that our
facilities are adequate for our operations and provide sufficient capacity to
meet anticipated requirements.  We lease
approximately 310,000 square feet of rentable space for our principal offices
in New York, New York and own an office building of approximately 57,000 square
feet in Melville, New York.  As of August
31, 2004, we operated 503 freestanding retail stores, including 17 for the
Estée Lauder brand, 17 for Clinique, 137 for Origins, 112 for M

ž

A

ž

C,
135 for Aveda, 1 for Bobbi Brown, 11 for Jo Malone, 2 for Bumble and bumble, 3
for Stila and 68 multi-brand stores.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

.

We are involved in various
routine legal proceedings incident to the ordinary course of business.  In management’s opinion, the outcome of
pending legal proceedings, separately and in the aggregate, will not have a
material adverse effect on our business or consolidated financial condition.

In July 2003, we entered into a
settlement agreement with the plaintiffs, the other Manufacturer Defendants (as
defined below) and the Department Store Defendants (as defined below) in a
consolidated class action lawsuit that had been pending in the Superior Court
of the State of California in Marin County since 1998.  In connection with the settlement, the case
has been refiled in the United States District Court for the Northern District
of California on behalf of a nationwide class of consumers of prestige
cosmetics in the United States.  The
settlement requires Court approval and, if approved by the Court, will result
in the plaintiffs’ claims being dismissed, with prejudice, in their
entirety.  There has been no finding or
admission of any wrongdoing by the Company in this lawsuit.  We entered into the settlement agreement
solely to avoid protracted and costly litigation.  In connection with the settlement agreement,
the defendants, including the Company, will provide consumers with certain free
products and pay the plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees.  To meet its obligations under the settlement,
the Company took a special pre-tax charge of $22.0 million, or $13.5 million
after-tax, equal to $.06 per diluted common share in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2003.  The charge did not have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition.  In the Federal action, the plaintiffs,
purporting to represent a class of all U.S. residents who purchased prestige
cosmetics products at retail for personal use from eight department stores
groups that sold such products in the United States (the “Department Store
Defendants”), alleged that the Department Store Defendants, the Company and
eight other manufacturers of cosmetics (the “Manufacturer Defendants”)
conspired to fix and maintain retail prices and to limit the supply of prestige
cosmetics products sold by the Department Store Defendants in violation of
state and Federal laws.  The plaintiffs
sought, among other things, treble damages, equitable relief, attorneys’ fees,
interest and costs.


In 1998, the Office of the
Attorney General of the State of New York (the “State”) notified the Company
and ten other entities that they are potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”)
with respect to the Blydenburgh landfill in Islip, New York.  Each PRP may be jointly and severally liable
for the costs of investigation and cleanup, which the State estimates to be $16
million.  In 2001,  the State sued other PRPs (including Hickey’s
Carting, Inc., Dennis C. Hickey and Maria Hickey, collectively the “Hickey
Parties”), in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York to
recover such costs in connection with the site, and in September  2002, the Hickey Parties brought contribution
actions against the Company and other Blydenburgh PRPs.  These contribution actions seek to recover,
among other things, any damages for which the Hickey Parties are found liable
in the State’s lawsuit against them, and related costs and expenses, including
attorneys’ fees.  In June 2004, the State
added the Company and other PRPs as defendants in its pending case against the
Hickey Parties.  The Company and certain
other PRPs have engaged in settlement discussions which to date have been
unsuccessful.  The Company intends to
vigorously defend the pending claims. 
While no assurance can be given as to the ultimate outcome, management
believes that the resolution of the Blydenburgh matters will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition.

In 1998, the State notified the
Company and fifteen other entities that they are PRPs with respect to the
Huntington/East Northport landfill.  The
cleanup costs are estimated at $20 million. 
No litigation has commenced.  The
Company and other PRPs are in discussions with the State regarding possible
settlement of the matter.  While no
assurance can be given as to the ultimate outcome, management believes that the
resolution of the matter will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial condition.

In January 2004, the Portuguese
Tax Administration issued a report alleging that our subsidiary had income
subject to tax in Portugal for the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2002.  Our subsidiary has been operating in the
Madeira Free Trade Zone since 1989 under license from the Madeira Development
Corporation and, in accordance with such license and the laws of Portugal, the
Company believes that its income is not subject to Portuguese income tax.  The subsidiary has filed an appeal of the
finding to the Portuguese Secretary of State for Fiscal Matters.  As of August 31, 2004, no formal tax
assessment has been made.  While no
assurance can be given as to the ultimate outcome, management believes that the
resolution of the matter will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial condition.

Item
4.

Submission of Matters to a
Vote of Security Holders

.

No matters were submitted to a
vote of security holders during the quarter ended June 30, 2004.


PART II

Item 5.

Market for
Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities.

Market for
Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Our Class A Common Stock is
publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “EL.”  The following table shows the high and low
sales prices as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape and the
cash dividends per share declared in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003.

We expect to continue the
payment of cash dividends in the future, but there can be no assurance that the
Board of Directors will continue to declare them.  In May 2002, after declaring the $.05 per
share quarterly dividend that was paid in July 2002, the Board of Directors
determined that it would pay future cash dividends on its common stock annually
rather than quarterly.  The Board of
Directors declared the first annual dividend of $.20 per share in October 2002
and it was paid in January 2003.  In
November 2003, the Board of Directors declared an annual dividend of $.30 per
share which was paid in January 2004.

As of August 31, 2004, there
were approximately 4,212 record holders of Class A Common Stock and 21 record
holders of Class B Common Stock.

Share
Repurchase Program

We are authorized by the Board
of Directors to repurchase up to 28.0 million shares of Class A Common Stock in
the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market
conditions and other factors.  As of June
30, 2004, the cumulative total of acquired shares pursuant to the authorization
was 16.7 million, reducing the remaining authorized share repurchase balance to
11.3 million.  During fiscal 2004, we
purchased approximately 2.8 million shares for $115.9 million as outlined in
the following table:

(1)

The
publicly announced repurchase program was last increased by 10.0 million shares
on May 11, 2004.  The initial program
covering the repurchase of 8.0 million shares was announced in September 1998
and increased by 10.0 million shares on October 30, 2002.  From July 1, 2004 through August 31, 2004, we
purchased an additional 1.3 million shares for $54.9 million bringing the
cumulative total of acquired shares to 18.0 million.


Equity
Compensation Plan Information

The following table summarizes
the equity compensation plans under which our securities may be issued as of
June 30, 2004 and does not include grants made or cancelled and options
exercised after such date.  The securities
that may be issued consist solely of shares of our Class A Common Stock and,
except as disclosed in note (b) to the table, all plans were approved by
stockholders of the Company.

Equity Compensation Plan Information as of
June 30, 2004

Plan Category

Number of securities

to be issued upon

exercise of outstanding

options, warrants and

rights

Weighted-average

exercise price of

outstanding

options, warrants

and rights

Number of securities

remaining available

for future issuance

under equity

compensation plans

(excluding securities

reflected in the first

column)

Equity compensation plans approved by
  security holders(a)

28,949,750(b) (c)

$36.23

4,744,246(d)

(a)

Includes
the Fiscal 1996 Share Incentive Plan (the “1996 Plan”), Fiscal 1999 Share
Incentive Plan (the “1999 Plan”), Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (the “2002
Plan”), Non-Employee Director Share Incentive Plan (the “Director Plan”), two
Sassaby stock option plans (see note (b)) and five employment agreements
entered into in 1995 prior to the initial public offering.

(b)

Includes
outstanding options in respect of 4,104 shares of Class A Common Stock that
were granted under two stock option plans assumed by the Company when it
acquired Sassaby, Inc. in 1997.  The
Company never granted any additional options under the plans.

(c)

Excludes
stock units in respect of 370,220 shares of Class A Common Stock.

(d)

The
1996 Plan, the 1999 Plan and the 2002 Plan are similar omnibus plans.  Each authorizes the Stock Plan Subcommittee
of the Board of Directors to grant shares and benefits other than stock
options.  As of June 30, 2004, there were
230,652, 169,282 and 3,520,837 shares of Class A Common Stock available for
issuance under each plan, respectively. 
Shares underlying grants cancelled or forfeited under the 1996 Plan and the
1995 employment agreements may be used for grants under the 1999 Plan or the
2002 Plan.  Shares underlying grants
cancelled or forfeited under the 1999 Plan may be used for grants under the
2002 Plan.  The Director Plan provides
for an annual grant of options and a grant of either options or stock units to
non-employee directors.  As of June 30,
2004, there were 163,105 shares available pursuant to the Director Plan.  Additionally, there were 660,370 shares
available for issuance pursuant to one employment agreement at June 30,
2004.  However, under the terms of that
employment agreement no additional grants may be made, other than dividend
equivalent stock units.  In fiscal 2004,
the dividend equivalent units granted under that employment agreement were in
respect of 1,223 shares.

If all of the outstanding
options, warrants and rights and stock units, as well as the securities
available for future issuance, included in the first and third columns in the
table above were converted to shares of Class A Common Stock as of June 30,
2004, the total shares of Common Stock outstanding (i.e., Class A plus Class B)
would increase 15% to 261,591,264.  Of
the outstanding options to purchase 28,949,750 shares of Class A Common Stock,
options in respect of 22,711,250 shares are exercisable at a price less than
$48.78, the closing price on June 30, 2004. 
Assuming the exercise of in-the-money options, the total shares
outstanding would increase by 10% to 250,238,298.

Subsequent to June 30, 2004,
the Company granted options under the terms of the 1996 Plan and the 2002 Plan
described above to purchase an additional 1,857,700 of the Company’s Class A
Common Stock with an exercise price at least equal to the fair market value on
the date of grant.


Item
6.

Selected Financial Data

.

The table below summarizes
selected financial information.  For
further information, refer to the audited consolidated financial statements and
the notes thereto beginning on page F-1 of this report.

(a)   Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted
Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 01-9, “Accounting for
Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer.” 
Upon adoption of this Issue, we reclassified revenues generated from our
purchase with purchase activities as sales and the costs of our purchase with
purchase and gift with purchase activities as cost of sales, which were
previously reported net as operating expenses. 
Operating income has remained unchanged by this adoption.  For purposes of comparability, these
reclassifications have been reflected retroactively for all periods presented.

(b)   Pursuant to Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,”
financial results for periods subsequent to July 1, 2001 exclude goodwill
amortization.  Goodwill amortization
included in fiscal 2001 and 2000 was $20.9 million ($13.4 million after tax)
and $17.6 million ($11.1 million after tax), respectively.  Excluding the effect of goodwill amortization
in these same periods, diluted earnings per share would have been higher by
$.06 and $.05, respectively.


(c)   In December 2003, we committed to a plan to
sell the assets and operations of our former reporting unit that sold

jane

brand products and we sold them in February 2004.  As a result, all consolidated statements of
earnings information in the consolidated financial statements and footnotes for
fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 has been restated for comparative purposes to
reflect that reporting unit as discontinued operations.  Earnings data of the discontinued operation
for fiscal 2001 and 2000 is not material to the consolidated results of
operations and has not been restated.

(d)   Net earnings, net earnings attributable to
common stock, net earnings per common share from continuing operations and net
earnings per common share for the year ended June 30, 2003 included a special
charge related to the proposed settlement of a legal action of $13.5 million,
after-tax, or $.06 per diluted common share.

(e)   Net earnings, net earnings attributable to
common stock, net earnings per common share from continuing operations and net
earnings per common share for the year ended June 30, 2002 included a
restructuring charge of $76.9 million (of which $0.5 million was included in
discontinued operations), after tax, or $.32 per diluted common share, and a
one-time charge of $20.6 million, or $.08 per common share, attributable to the
cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets,” which is attributable to our former reporting unit that sold

jane

brand products and is included in discontinued
operations.

(f)   Net earnings, net earnings attributable to
common stock, net earnings per common share from continuing operations and net
earnings per common share for the year ended June 30, 2001 included
restructuring and other non-recurring charges of $40.3 million, after tax, or
$.17 per diluted common share, and a one-time charge of $2.2 million, after
tax, or $.01 per diluted common share, attributable to the cumulative effect of
adopting SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities.”

(g)   During fiscal 2004, there was an increase of
approximately $17.4 million in interest expense, net and a corresponding decrease
in preferred stock dividends as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 150 (see
“Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations — Recently Issued Accounting Standards”).  Additionally, in connection with this
pronouncement, redeemable preferred stock has been reclassified as a component
of total debt subsequent to June 30, 2003. 
The provisions of SFAS No. 150 did not provide for retroactive
restatement of historical financial data.

Item
7.

Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

.

CRITICAL
ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The discussion and analysis of
our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our
consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in those financial statements.  These judgments can be subjective and
complex, and consequently actual results could differ from those
estimates.  Our most critical accounting
policies relate to revenue recognition; concentration of credit risk;
inventory; pension and other postretirement benefit costs; goodwill and other
intangible assets; income taxes; and derivatives.

Revenue Recognition

Generally, revenues from
merchandise sales are recorded at the time the product is shipped to the customer.  We report our sales levels on a net sales
basis, which is computed by deducting from gross sales the amount of actual
returns received and an amount established for anticipated returns.

As is customary in the
cosmetics industry, our practice is to accept returns of our products from
retailers if properly requested, authorized and approved.  In accepting returns, we typically provide a
credit to the retailer against sales and accounts receivable from that retailer
on a dollar-for-dollar basis.

Our sales return accrual is a
subjective critical estimate that has a direct impact on reported net
sales.  This accrual is calculated based
on a history of gross sales and actual returns by region and product category.  In addition, as necessary, specific accruals
may be established for future known or anticipated events.  As a percentage of gross sales, sales returns
were 4.6%, 5.1% and 4.8% in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.


Concentration of Credit Risk

An entity is vulnerable to
concentration of credit risk if it is exposed to risks of loss greater than it
would have had it mitigated its risks through diversification of
customers.  The significance of such
credit risk depends on the extent and nature of the concentration.

We have three major customers
that owned and operated retail stores that in the aggregate accounted for
$1,253.8 million, or 22%, of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2004 and
$166.6 million, or 25%, of our accounts receivable at June 30, 2004.  These customers sell products primarily
within North America.  Although
management believes that these customers are sound and creditworthy, a severe
adverse impact on their business operations could have a corresponding material
adverse effect on our net sales, cash flows and/or financial condition.

In the ordinary course of
business, we have established an allowance for doubtful accounts and customer
deductions in the amount of $30.1 million and $31.8 million as of June 30, 2004
and 2003, respectively.  Our allowance for doubtful accounts is a
subjective critical estimate that has a direct impact on reported net
earnings.  The allowance for doubtful
accounts was reduced by $25.6 million, $30.3 million and $24.8 million for
customer deductions and write-offs in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively,
and increased by $23.9 million, $31.5 million and $28.6 million for additional
provisions in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  This reserve is based upon the evaluation of
accounts receivable aging, specific exposures and historical trends.

Inventory

We state
our inventory at the lower of cost or fair market value, with cost being
determined on the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.  We believe FIFO most closely matches the flow
of our products from manufacture through sale. 
The reported net value of our inventory includes saleable products,
promotional products, raw materials and componentry and work in process that
will be sold or used in future periods. 
Inventory cost includes raw materials, direct labor and overhead.

We also record an inventory
obsolescence reserve, which represents the difference between the cost of the
inventory and its estimated market value, based on various product sales
projections.  This reserve is calculated
using an estimated obsolescence percentage applied to the inventory based on
age, historical trends and requirements to support forecasted sales.  In addition, and as necessary, we may
establish specific reserves for future known or anticipated events.

Pension and Other
Postretirement Benefit Costs

We offer the following benefits
to some or all of our employees: a domestic trust-based noncontributory defined
benefit pension plan  (“U.S. Plan”); an
unfunded, nonqualified domestic noncontributory pension plan to provide
benefits in excess of statutory limitations; a contributory defined
contribution plan; international pension plans, which vary by country,
consisting of both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans;
deferred compensation; and certain other postretirement benefits.

The amounts necessary to fund
future payouts under these plans are subject to numerous assumptions and
variables.  Certain significant variables
require us to make assumptions that are within our control such as an
anticipated discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and future
compensation levels.  We evaluate these
assumptions with our actuarial advisors and we believe they are within accepted
industry ranges, although an increase or decrease in the assumptions or
economic events outside our control could have a direct impact on reported net
earnings.

The pre-retirement discount
rate for each plan used for determining future net periodic benefit cost is
based on a review of highly rated long-term bonds.  For fiscal 2004, we used a pre-retirement
discount rate for our U.S. Plan of 5.75% and varying rates on our international
plans of between 2.25% and 6.00%.  For
fiscal 2004, we used an expected return on plan assets of 8.00% for our U.S.
Plan and varying rates of between 3.25% and 7.50% for our international
plans.  In determining the long-term rate
of return for a plan, we consider the historical rates of return, the nature of
the plan’s investments and an expectation for the plan’s investment strategies.  The U.S. Plan asset allocation as of June 30,
2004 was approximately 63% equity investments, 32% fixed income investments,
and 5% other investments.

For fiscal 2005, we will use a
pre-retirement discount rate for the U.S. Plan of 6.00% and anticipate using an
expected return on plan assets of 7.75%. 
The net change in these assumptions from those used in fiscal 2004 will
cause a de minimis decrease in pension expense in fiscal 2005.  We will continue to monitor the market
conditions relative to these assumptions and adjust them accordingly.

Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets

Goodwill is calculated as the
excess of the cost of purchased businesses over the value of their underlying
net assets.  Other intangible assets
principally consist of purchased royalty rights and trademarks.  Goodwill and other intangible assets that
have an indefinite life are not amortized.


On an annual basis, we test
goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment.  To determine the fair value of these
intangible assets, there are many assumptions and estimates used that directly
impact the results of the testing.  We
have the ability to influence the outcome and ultimate results based on the
assumptions and estimates we choose.  To
mitigate undue influence, we use industry accepted valuation models and set
criteria that are reviewed and approved by various levels of management.

Income Taxes

We account for income taxes in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 109,
“Accounting for Income Taxes.”  This
Statement establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the
effects of income taxes that result from an enterprise’s activities during the
current and preceding years.  It requires
an asset and liability approach for financial accounting and reporting of
income taxes.

As of June 30, 2004, we have
current net deferred tax assets of $145.9 million and non-current net deferred
tax liabilities of $26.8 million.  The
net deferred tax assets assume sufficient future earnings for their
realization, as well as the continued application of currently anticipated tax
rates.  Included in net deferred tax assets is a valuation allowance of
approximately $4.2 million for deferred tax assets, which relates to foreign
tax loss carryforwards not utilized to date, where management believes it is
more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized in the
relevant jurisdiction.  Based on our
assessments, no additional valuation allowance is required.  If we determine that a deferred tax asset
will not be realizable, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset will result in
a reduction of earnings at that time.

Furthermore, we provide tax
reserves for Federal, state and international exposures relating to audit
results, planning initiatives and compliance responsibilities.  The development of these reserves requires
judgments about tax issues, potential outcomes and timing, and is a subjective
critical estimate.

Derivatives

We account for derivative
financial instruments in accordance with SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended, which establishes
accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging
activities.  This Statement also requires
the recognition of all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities
on the balance sheet and that they be measured at fair value.

We currently use derivative
financial instruments to hedge certain anticipated transactions and interest
rates, as well as receivables and payables denominated in foreign
currencies.  We do not utilize
derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.  Hedge effectiveness is documented, assessed
and monitored by employees who are qualified to make such assessments and
monitor the instruments.  Variables that
are external to us such as social, political and economic risks may have an
impact on our hedging program and the results thereof.


RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

We manufacture, market and sell
skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products which are distributed in
over 130 countries and territories.  The
following table is a comparative summary of operating results for fiscal 2004,
2003 and 2002 and reflects the basis of presentation described in Note 2 and
Note 18 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods
presented.  Products and services that do
not meet our definition of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care have been
included in the “other” category.

In February 2004, we sold the
assets and operations of our reporting unit that sold

jane

brand products.  Prior to the sale of the
business, in December 2003, we committed to a plan to sell such assets and
operations.  At the time the decision was
made, circumstances warranted that we conduct an assessment of the tangible and
intangible assets of the

jane

business.  Based on our assessment, we
determined that the carrying amount of these assets as then reflected on our
consolidated balance sheet exceeded their estimated fair value.  In accordance with the assessment and the
closing of the sale, we recorded an after-tax charge to discontinued operations
of $33.3 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004.  The charge represents the impairment of
goodwill in the amount of $26.4 million; the reduction in value of other
tangible assets in the amount of $2.1 million, net of taxes; and the reporting
unit’s operating loss of $4.8 million, net of tax.  Included in the operating loss of the fiscal
year were additional costs associated with the sale and discontinuation of the
business.  All consolidated statements of
earnings information for the prior years presented have been restated for
comparative purposes, including the restatement of the makeup product category
and the Americas region data.

* Refer to the following tables
and discussion for further information regarding these charges.


The following table presents
certain consolidated earnings data as a percentage of net sales:

Reconciliations of Financial Results

The
following tables present reconciliations of our financial results for the
fiscal years ended June 30, 2003 and 2002 as reported in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and those results adjusted to
exclude certain charges described above each table.  We have presented these reconciliations
because of the special nature of the charges or the fact that they are not
necessarily comparable from period to period. 
We believe that such measures provide investors with a view of our
ongoing business trends and results of continuing operations.  This is consistent with the approach used by
management in its evaluation and monitoring of such trends and results and
provides investors with a base for evaluating future periods.  There were no events or transactions in
fiscal 2004 for which we believe such a presentation would be relevant.

While we
consider the non-GAAP financial measures useful in analyzing our results, it is
not intended to replace, or act as a substitute for, any presentation included
in the consolidated financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP.

Fiscal 2003

The table
below reconciles the fiscal 2003 results as reported and results prior to
adjustment for a special pre-tax charge of $22.0 million, or $13.5 million
after-tax, equal to $.06 per diluted common share, in connection with the
proposed settlement of a class action lawsuit brought against us and a number
of other defendants.  The amount of the
charge in this case is significantly larger than similar charges we have
incurred individually or in the aggregate for legal proceedings in any prior
year and we do not expect to take a charge of a similar magnitude for a single
matter like it in the near future.


Fiscal 2002

The table
below reconciles the fiscal 2002 results as reported and results prior to
adjustment for pre-tax restructuring charges of $117.4 million (of which $0.8
million was included in discontinued operations), or $76.9 million after-tax
(of which $0.5 million was included in discontinued operations), equal to $.32
per diluted common share.  The
restructuring charges were related to repositioning certain businesses as part
of a globalization and reorganization initiative and are described in greater
detail in Note 5 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  The restructuring was not considered part of
our core continuing business in fiscal 2002. Management also excludes the
related charge in evaluating its performance when comparing fiscal 2002 to
future periods.


Fiscal 2004 as Compared with
Fiscal 2003

NET SALES

Net sales increased 14% or
$694.4 million to $5,790.4 million, reflecting growth in all product categories
and all geographic regions led by double-digit growth in Europe, the Middle
East & Africa and Asia/Pacific and the inclusion of a full year of net
sales of the Darphin line of products, which was acquired during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2003.  Net sales
results in Europe, the Middle East & Africa and Asia/Pacific benefited from
the weakening of the U.S. dollar. 
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales
increased 9%.

Product Categories

Skin Care

Net sales of skin care products
increased 13% or $246.4 million to $2,140.1 million.  This increase was primarily attributable to
the recent launches of Hydra Complete Multi-Level Moisture Cream and Idealist
Micro-D Deep Thermal Refinisher by Estée Lauder and Pore Minimizer by Clinique.  Additionally, the increase was supported by
strong sales of Clinique’s 3-Step Skin Care System and the Repairwear line of
products from Clinique as well as Re-Nutriv Intensive Lift Serum and Re-Nutriv
Intensive Eye Crème by Estée Lauder. 
Also contributing to this increase was the inclusion of a full year of
net sales of the Darphin line of products, which are primarily skin care, and
growth in developing brands.  Partially
offsetting these increases were lower net sales of certain existing products
such as Advanced Stop Signs by Clinique and White Light and Lightsource product
lines by Estée Lauder.  Excluding the
impact of foreign currency translation, skin care net sales increased 8%.

Makeup

Makeup net sales increased 14%
or $260.5 million to $2,148.3 million, in part, due to strong sales of our M

ž

A

ž

C
and Bobbi Brown makeup artist lines.  The
increase in net sales also reflected the current year launches of Ideal Matte
Refinishing Makeup SPF 8 and Electric Intense LipCreme by Estée Lauder and Perfectly
Real Makeup and Colour Surge Bare Brilliance by Clinique.  Also contributing to net sales growth were
strong sales of High Impact Mascara, High Impact Eye Shadow and Skin Clarifying
Makeup by Clinique, as well as Pure Color Lip Vinyl and Artist’s Lip and Eye
Pencils from Estée Lauder.  Partially
offsetting these increases were lower net sales of certain existing products
such as So Ingenious Multi-Dimension Liquid Makeup and Pure Color Lipstick from
Estée Lauder and Moisture Surge Lipstick from Clinique.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency
translation, makeup net sales increased 10%.

Fragrance

Net sales of fragrance products
increased 15% or $161.5 million to $1,221.1 million, primarily attributable to
the current year launches of Estée Lauder Beyond Paradise, Aramis Life,
Clinique Simply and the Tommy Jeans collection. 
These product launches primarily contributed to increased fragrance net
sales outside the United States. 
Additionally, the increase in net sales benefited from improved results
from our travel retail business.  These
net sales increases were partially offset by lower net sales of Estée Lauder

pleasures

, Intuition and Beautiful, certain Tommy Hilfiger
products and Clinique Happy.  Excluding
the impact of foreign currency translation, fragrance net sales increased 10%.

Hair Care

Hair care net sales increased
9% or $20.5 million to $249.4 million. 
This increase was primarily the result of sales growth from Aveda and
Bumble and bumble products due to an increase in sales at existing salons and
spas, new salon and spa openings and the success of new and existing
products.  Aveda net sales also increased
as a result of the opening of new Company-owned Aveda Experience Centers.  Partially offsetting the increase were lower
net sales of Clinique’s Simple Hair Care System.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency
translation, hair care net sales increased 7%.

The introduction of new
products may have some cannibalizing effect on sales of existing products,
which we take into account in our business planning.

Geographic Regions

Net sales in the Americas
increased 7% or $217.0 million to $3,148.8 million, primarily reflecting growth
from our newer brands, the success of new and recently launched products and
increases from most of the Company’s freestanding retail stores, all of which
reflected the strengthening retail environment. 
Nevertheless, the prestige fragrance business in the United States
continues to be challenging.


In Europe, the Middle East
& Africa, net sales increased 24% or $363.8 million to $1,870.2 million,
primarily reflecting higher net sales from our travel retail business, the
United Kingdom, Spain, Greece and South Africa, as well as the inclusion of a
full year of net sales of the Darphin line of products.  We also benefited from the effect of
favorable foreign currency exchange rates to the U.S. dollar.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency
translation, net sales in Europe, the Middle East & Africa increased 14%.

Net sales in Asia/Pacific
increased 17% or $113.6 million to $771.4 million, primarily due to higher net
sales in Japan, Australia, Taiwan, China and Thailand.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency
translation, net sales in Asia/Pacific increased 9%.

We strategically stagger our
new product launches by geographic market, which may account for differences in
regional sales growth.

COST OF
SALES

Cost of sales as a percentage
of total net sales improved to 25.5% from 26.0% reflecting production and
supply chain efficiencies of approximately 70 basis points and lower costs from
promotional activities of approximately 60 basis points.  Partially offsetting these improvements were
changes in exchange rates of approximately 40 basis points and costs related
to  inventory obsolescence and
reconditioning and re-handling of goods of approximately 20 basis points. Also
offsetting these improvements were costs associated with higher travel retail
sales, which contributed approximately 10 basis points.  Travel retail has a higher cost of goods sold
percentage because of its higher mix of fragrance sales coupled with its margin
structure.

Since certain promotional
activities are a component of sales or cost of sales and the timing and level
of promotions vary with our promotional calendar, we have experienced, and
expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in the cost of sales
percentage.  In addition, future cost of
sales mix may be impacted by the inclusion of new brands which have margin and
product cost structures different than our existing brands.

OPERATING
EXPENSES

Operating expenses decreased to
63.4% of net sales as compared with 64.1% of net sales in the prior year.  Prior-year operating expenses included a
charge related to the pending settlement of a legal proceeding of $22.0 million
or 0.4% of net sales.  Before considering
the effect of this charge, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales
decreased 30 basis points from 63.7% in the prior year.  Operating expenses as a percentage of net
sales decreased approximately 100 basis points primarily due to the higher
growth rate in net sales, particularly in the travel retail business, as well
as our ongoing cost containment efforts to maintain expenses in line with our
business needs, partially offset by operating expenses related to BeautyBank,
the higher operating costs associated with newly acquired brands and expenses
related to compliance with new regulatory requirements (such as those arising
under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002). 
Partially offsetting the net favorability in the current year were
higher levels of advertising, merchandising and sampling expenses incurred to
support new and recently launched products of approximately 70 basis points.

Changes in advertising,
sampling and merchandising spending result from the type, timing and level of
activities related to product launches and rollouts, as well as the markets
being emphasized.

Under agreements covering our
purchase of trademarks for a percentage of related sales, royalty payments
totaling $18.8 million and $20.3 million in fiscal 2004 and 2003, respectively,
have been charged to expense. Such payments were made to Mrs. Estée Lauder
until her death on April 24, 2004, after which time the final payments ceased
to accrue and were made to a trust.  This
event resulted in a reduction of operating expenses in fiscal 2004 of $3.7
million, or $2.2 million after tax.  We
will realize a benefit from the elimination of these royalty payments in fiscal
2005.

OPERATING
RESULTS

Operating income increased 28%
or $140.3 million to $644.0 million. 
Operating margins were 11.1% of net sales in the current period as
compared with 9.9% in the prior year. 
Prior year results include a charge related to the pending settlement of
a legal proceeding of $22.0 million. 
Absent this charge, operating income increased 23% or $118.3 million and
operating margins increased 80 basis points from fiscal 2003.  These increases in operating income and
operating margin reflect sales growth, improvements in the components of cost
of sales and a reduction in operating expenses as a percentage of net sales.


Net earnings and net earnings
per diluted share increased approximately 7% and 17%, respectively.  Net earnings improved $22.3 million to $342.1
million and net earnings per diluted share increased by 17% from $1.26 to
$1.48.  Net earnings from continuing
operations increased by $49.8 million or 15% and diluted earnings per common
share from continuing operations increased 26% to $1.62 from $1.29 in the prior
year.  Absent the charge related to the
pending settlement of a legal proceeding, net earnings from continuing
operations increased by $36.3 million or 11% and diluted earnings per common
share from continuing operations increased 21% from $1.35.

The following discussions of
Operating Results by

Product Categories

and

Geographic Regions

exclude the impact of
the fiscal 2003 charge related to the pending settlement of a legal
proceeding.  We believe the following
analysis of operating income better reflects the manner in which we conduct and
view our business.  The table on page 22
reconciles these results to operating income as reported in the consolidated
statements of earnings.

Product Categories

Operating income increased 23%
to $336.3 million in skin care, 25% to $257.7 million in makeup and 59% to
$23.6 million in hair care reflecting overall sales growth and new product
launches.  Operating income decreased 23%
to $24.8 million in fragrance reflecting the softness in that product category
in the United States as well as increased support spending related to new
product launch activities.

Geographic Regions

Operating income in the
Americas increased 25% or $63.9 million to $319.2 million due to sales growth
resulting from an improved retail environment, strong product launches and
growth from newer brands.  In Europe, the
Middle East & Africa, operating income increased 21% or $46.7 million to
$274.4 million primarily due to significantly improved results from our travel
retail business, improved operating results in the United Kingdom and Spain as
well as the addition of a full year of results of the Darphin line of
products.  Partially offsetting these
increases were lower results in Switzerland and Italy due to difficult market
conditions.  In Asia/Pacific, operating
income increased 18% or $7.7 million to $50.4 million.  This increase reflects improved results in
Taiwan, Hong Kong and Thailand, partially offset by lower results in Korea.

INTEREST
EXPENSE, NET

Net interest expense was $27.1
million as compared with $8.1 million in the prior year.  The increase in net interest expense was due to
the inclusion of the dividends on redeemable preferred stock of $17.4 million
as interest expense in fiscal 2004.  This
change in reporting resulted from a change in accounting standards which
prohibits us from restating the prior fiscal year results (see “Recently Issued
Accounting Standards”).  To a lesser
extent, interest expense was also affected by higher average net borrowings and
a marginally higher effective interest rate on our debt portfolio.  In fiscal 2005, we expect a reduction in
interest expense as a result of the partial redemption of preferred stock and
the lower dividend rate on the remaining preferred stock compared to fiscal
2004.  See “Liquidity and Capital
Resources” for further details.

PROVISION
FOR INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes
represents Federal, foreign, state and local income taxes.  The effective rate for income taxes for
fiscal 2004 was 37.7% as compared with 32.9% in the prior year.  These rates differ from statutory rates,
reflecting the effect of state and local taxes, tax rates in foreign
jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses.  The
increase in the effective income tax rate was attributable to the inclusion of
the dividends on redeemable preferred stock as interest expense, which are not
deductible for income tax purposes, the mix of global earnings and, to a lesser
extent, the timing of certain tax planning initiatives.  The prior year rate included benefits derived
from certain favorable tax negotiations.

Fiscal 2003 as Compared with
Fiscal 2002

NET SALES

Net sales increased 8% or
$384.5 million to $5,096.0 million, reflecting growth in all product categories
and each of our geographic regions. 
Product category results were led by skin care, and our regions were led
by Europe, the Middle East & Africa, where results benefited from favorable
foreign exchange rates to the U.S. dollar and improvements in the travel retail
business.  Travel retail improved during
the middle of fiscal 2003 compared with lower results during the middle of
fiscal 2002 but was adversely affected during the last quarter of fiscal 2003
by certain world events, including the lingering effects of the war in Iraq and
concerns relating to SARS.  Such events
may affect our future sales and earnings. 
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales
increased 4%.


Product Categories

Skin Care

Net sales of skin care products
increased 11% or $190.4 million to $1,893.7 million, which was primarily
attributable to the recent launches of Perfectionist Correcting Serum for
Lines/Wrinkles and Resilience Lift OverNight Face and Throat Crème by Estée
Lauder, and the Repairwear line of products and Advanced Stop Signs from
Clinique.  Additionally, the increase was
supported by strong sales of Comforting Cream Cleanser, Moisture Surge Extra
Thirsty Skin Relief and Moisture Surge Eye Gel, and products in the 3-Step Skin
Care System by Clinique, as well as by Re-Nutriv Ultimate Lifting Creme from
Estée Lauder, and A Perfect World line of products by Origins.  Partially offsetting this increase were lower
net sales of certain existing products such as Stop Signs, Total Turnaround
Cream and Turnaround Cream by Clinique and Idealist Skin Refinisher by Estée
Lauder.  Excluding the impact of foreign
currency translation, skin care net sales increased 7%.

Makeup

Makeup net sales increased 7%
or $129.5 million to $1,887.8 million due to strong sales of our makeup artist
lines and fiscal 2003 launches of Dewy Smooth Anti-Aging Makeup and Colour
Surge Lipstick by Clinique, and MagnaScopic Maximum Volume Mascara and Artist’s
Lip and Eye Pencils from Estée Lauder. 
Also contributing to growth were strong sales from Estée Lauder brand
products including So Ingenious Multi-Dimension Liquid Makeup and Loose Powder,
as well as from new and existing products in the Pure Color line.  Offsetting this increase were lower net sales
of certain existing products such as Sumptuous Lipstick from Estée Lauder, and
Gentle Light Makeup and Powder and High Impact Eye Shadow Duos by
Clinique.  Excluding the impact of
foreign currency translation, makeup net sales increased 4%.

Fragrance

Net sales of fragrance products
increased 4% or $42.3 million to $1,059.6 million, primarily reflecting the
effects of favorable foreign currency exchange rates to the U.S. dollar.  The fragrance industry continues to
experience a difficult environment.  The
travel retail business, which depends substantially on fragrance products,
began to improve in the middle of the fiscal year relative to the prior year,
however the latter part of fiscal 2003 was adversely affected by international
uncertainties stemming from events in Iraq and concerns relating to SARS.  In fiscal 2003, we successfully launched
Estée Lauder

pleasures intense,

T girl by
Tommy Hilfiger, Clinique Happy Heart, Lauder Intuition for Men and Donna Karan
Black Cashmere.  Net sales also benefited
from strong sales of Beautiful by Estée Lauder and Aromatics Elixir from
Clinique.  Offsetting these increases and
sales from new product launches were lower net sales of certain Tommy Hilfiger
products, Intuition by Estée Lauder and Estée Lauder

pleasures

.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency
translation, fragrance net sales were relatively unchanged from the prior year.

Hair Care

Hair care net sales increased
6% or $13.1 million to $228.9 million. 
This increase was primarily the result of sales growth from Aveda and
Bumble and bumble products.  We also increased
the number of Company-owned Aveda Experience Centers and strategically
decreased the number of salons that offer Aveda products.  Partially offsetting the increase were lower
net sales of Clinique’s Simple Hair Care System.

The introduction of new
products may have some cannibalizing effect on sales of existing products,
which we take into account in our business planning.

Geographic Regions

Net sales in the Americas
increased 3% or $85.8 million to $2,931.8 million primarily reflecting growth
from our newer brands as well as the success of newly launched products.  Despite the increase, we continued to
experience a soft retail environment in the United States in fiscal 2003.

In Europe, the Middle East
& Africa, net sales increased 19% or $245.3 million to $1,506.4
million.  Net sales in the United Kingdom,
Spain, Italy, France, Switzerland and Greece experienced double-digit
growth.  Also contributing to the
increase with double-digit growth was our worldwide travel retail business, as
sales recovered from the levels experienced after September 11, 2001.  However, our travel retail business was
adversely affected at the end of fiscal 2003 by certain world events including
the lingering effects of the war in Iraq and concerns associated with SARS.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency
translation, Europe, the Middle East & Africa net sales increased 8%.

Net sales in Asia/Pacific
increased 8% or $47.2 million to $657.8 million primarily due to higher net
sales in Korea, Japan, Australia and Thailand. 
Despite increased net sales in Japan, the country remained a difficult
market due to local economic conditions and competition.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency
translation, Asia/Pacific net sales increased 3%.

We strategically stagger our
new product launches by geographic market, which may account for differences in
regional sales growth.


COST OF
SALES

Cost of sales as a percentage
of total net sales improved to 26.0% from 26.8%, reflecting production and
supply chain efficiencies and lower costs from promotional activities.

We continued to emphasize
sourcing initiatives and overall supply chain management which resulted in
lower manufacturing costs, whereas in the prior year we experienced
under-absorption of overhead as a result of the impact of the events of
September 11, 2001.

The inclusion of promotional
merchandise as a component of cost of sales results in lower margins.  A strategic shift to reduce these activities
in fiscal 2003 contributed to the improvement in our gross profit margin for
the year.  The inclusion of the cost of
purchase with purchase and gift with purchase merchandise as a component of
cost of sales resulted from our adoption of EITF Issue No. 01-9.  Since the cost of these promotional
activities is a component of cost of sales and the timing and level of
promotions vary with our promotional calendar, we experienced, and expect to
continue to experience, fluctuations in the cost of sales percentage.

OPERATING
EXPENSES

Operating expenses decreased to
64.1% of net sales as compared with 66.0% of net sales in the prior-year
period.  The fiscal 2003 results were
impacted by a charge related to the pending settlement of a legal proceeding of
$22.0 million or 0.4% of net sales. 
Fiscal 2002 operating expenses included a restructuring charge of $109.6
million or 2.3% of net sales.  Before
considering the effect of these two charges, operating expenses increased
slightly to 63.7% of net sales compared with 63.6% of net sales in the prior
year.  The increase in spending primarily
related to advertising, sampling and merchandising activities particularly
during the early portion of fiscal 2003 (excluding purchase with purchase and
gift with purchase activities, discussed as a component of cost of sales) which
supported our sales growth and built momentum going into the second half of
fiscal 2003.  Changes in advertising,
sampling and merchandising spending result from the type, timing and level of
activities related to product launches and rollouts, as well as the markets
being emphasized.

OPERATING
RESULTS

Operating income increased 47%
or $161.6 million to $503.7 million as compared with the prior-year
period.  Operating margins were 9.9% of
net sales in fiscal 2003 as compared with 7.2% in fiscal 2002.  These results include a charge related to the
pending settlement of a legal proceeding of $22.0 million in the current year
and a prior year restructuring charge of $116.6 million.  Absent these items, operating income
increased 15% or $67.0 million to $525.7 million and operating margins
increased to 10.3% as compared with 9.7% in fiscal 2002.  These increases in operating income and
operating margin reflect sales growth, including the benefits from favorable
foreign currency exchange rates to the U.S. dollar and gross margin improvement,
as well as benefits from our prior restructurings and our continued cost
containment efforts.

Net earnings and net earnings
per diluted share increased approximately 67% and 80%, respectively.  Net earnings improved $127.9 million to
$319.8 million and net earnings per diluted share increased by $.56 from $.70
to $1.26.  Net earnings from continuing
operations increased by $112.7 million or 53% and diluted earnings per common
share from continuing operations increased 63% to $1.29 from $.79 in the prior
year.  Before the fiscal 2003 charge
related to the pending settlement of a legal proceeding and the fiscal 2002
restructuring, net earnings from continuing operations increased 17% to $339.1
million and diluted earnings per common share from continuing operations
increased 23% to $1.35 from $1.10 in the prior year.

The following discussions of
Operating Results by

Product Categories

and

Geographic Regions

exclude the impact of
the fiscal 2003 charge related to the pending settlement of a legal proceeding
and the fiscal 2002 restructuring.  We
believe the following analysis of operating income better reflects the manner
in which we conduct and view our business. 
The tables on page 22 reconcile these results to operating income as
reported in the consolidated statements of earnings.

Product Categories

Operating income more than
doubled to $32.1 million in fragrance due primarily to improved results from
our travel retail business.  Operating
income increased 10% to $273.2 million in skin care and 13% to $206.6 million
in makeup reflecting higher net sales, partially offset by strategic spending
on advertising, sampling and merchandising, particularly in the earlier portion
of fiscal 2003.  Operating income increased
$1.1 million or 8% to $14.8 million in hair care, reflecting improvements in
Aveda and Bumble and bumble, as well as higher profits in the latter portion of
the year outside the United States.


Geographic Regions

Operating income in the
Americas increased 15% or $32.5 million to $255.3 million due to sales growth,
the benefits of our prior restructurings and continued cost containment
efforts.  Operating income also benefited
from the results of strategic efforts related to product support spending in
the earlier part of the year that led to increased net sales during the
year.  In Europe, the Middle East &
Africa, operating income increased 27% or $47.8 million to $227.7 million
primarily due to the improved operating results in the United Kingdom as well
as increased results generated from our travel retail business.  As described elsewhere, profitability in the
region has been and will continue to be affected by international
uncertainties.  In Asia/Pacific,
operating income decreased 24% or $13.3 million to $42.7 million.  This decrease reflects improved results in
Korea and Thailand, which were more than offset by a decrease in Australia,
which derived a benefit in the prior-year period from a change in our retailer
arrangements.

INTEREST
EXPENSE, NET

Net interest expense was $8.1
million as compared with $9.8 million in fiscal 2002.  The decrease in net interest expense was
primarily due to lower outstanding net borrowings and higher interest income
generated by higher invested cash balances. 
This improvement was partially offset by a higher effective interest
rate, which resulted from the increased proportion of fixed rate debt as
compared with variable rate debt in the prior year.  In May 2003, we executed a fixed-to-floating
interest rate swap on our $250.0 million 6% Senior Notes due 2012.  See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for
further details.

PROVISION
FOR INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes
represents Federal, foreign, state and local income taxes.  The effective rate for income taxes for
fiscal 2003 was 32.9% as compared with 34.5% in fiscal 2002.  These rates differ from statutory rates,
reflecting the effect of state and local taxes, tax rates in foreign
jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses.  The decrease
in the effective tax rate was principally attributable to ongoing tax planning
initiatives, including the favorable settlement of certain tax negotiations and
the reduction of the overall tax rate relating to the Company’s foreign
operations.  In addition, the tax effect
of the charge related to the pending settlement of a legal proceeding in late
fiscal 2003 contributed to an effective tax rate slightly lower than previously
expected.

FINANCIAL
CONDITION

LIQUIDITY
AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Our principal sources of funds
historically have been cash flows from operations and borrowings under
commercial paper, borrowings from the issuance of long-term debt and committed
and uncommitted credit lines provided by banks in the United States and abroad.  At June 30, 2004, we had cash and cash
equivalents of $611.6 million compared with $364.1 million at June 30, 2003.

At June 30, 2004, our
outstanding borrowings of $535.3 million included: (i) $236.6 million of 6%
Senior Notes due January 2012 consisting of $250.0 million principal,
unamortized debt discount of $0.9 million and a $12.5 million adjustment to
reflect the fair value of an outstanding interest rate swap; (ii) $197.3
million of 5.75% Senior Notes due October 2033 consisting of $200.0 million
principal and unamortized debt discount of $2.7 million; (iii) $68.4 million of
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, which shares have a mandatory redemption
date of June 30, 2015 (see “Recently Issued Accounting Standards”); (iv) a 3.0
billion yen term loan (approximately $27.6 million at exchange rates as of June
30, 2004), which is due in March 2006; and (v) $5.4 million of other short-term
borrowings.

In September 2003, we issued
and sold $200.0 million of 5.75% Senior Notes due October 2033 (“5.75% Senior
Notes”) in a public offering.  The 5.75%
Senior Notes were priced at 98.645% with a yield of 5.846%.  Interest payments, which commenced April 15,
2004, will be made semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year.  In May 2003, in anticipation of the issuance
of the 5.75% Senior Notes, we entered into a series of treasury lock agreements
on a notional amount totaling $195.0 million at a weighted average all-in rate
of 4.53%.  The treasury lock agreements
were settled upon the issuance of the new debt and we received a payment of
$15.0 million that will be amortized against interest expense over the life of
the 5.75% Senior Notes.  As a result of
the treasury lock agreements, the debt discount and debt issuance costs, our
effective interest rate on the 5.75% Senior Notes will be 5.395% over the life
of the debt.  We issued these fixed-rate
notes to lock in long-term liquidity at historically low prevailing market
rates and to mitigate future interest rate volatility.


On December 31, 2003, we and
the holders of the $6.50 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock exchanged all of
the outstanding shares of $6.50 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock due June
30, 2005 for a newly issued series of cumulative redeemable preferred stock
with a mandatory redemption date of June 30, 2015 (“2015 Preferred
Stock”).  For the quarters ended December
31, 2003 and March 31, 2004, the dividend rate on the 2015 Preferred Stock was
4.75% per annum, payable quarterly.

On April 24, 2004, Mrs. Estée
Lauder passed away.  As a result, our
right to call for redemption $291.6 million of the 2015 Preferred Stock became
exercisable and the holders’ right to put to us all $360.0 million aggregate
principal amount of the 2015 Preferred Stock became exercisable.

On June 10, 2004, we redeemed,
for cash, all $291.6 million aggregate principal amount of 2015 Preferred Stock
that could be redeemed at that time. 
Upon this partial redemption, the dividend rate on the remaining $68.4
million principal amount of 2015 Preferred Stock was reduced, for the period
from April 25, 2004 through June 30, 2004, from 4.75% per annum to 0.62% per
annum, which is a rate based on the after-tax yield on six-month U.S.
Treasuries.  So long as the remaining shares
of 2015 Preferred Stock are outstanding, the dividend rate will be reset
semi-annually in January and July at the then-existing after-tax yield on
six-month U.S. Treasuries.  The dividend
rate for the six-month period from July 1, 2004 through December 31, 2004 is
0.994%.  As a result of the redemption of
the $291.6 million principal amount of 2015 Preferred Stock and the reduction
of the dividend rate on the remaining $68.4 million principal amount of 2015
Preferred Stock, we expect to save, net of financing costs, approximately $14.0
million in fiscal 2005.

The remaining $68.4 million
principal amount of 2015 Preferred Stock may be put to us at any time at face
value, but may not be redeemed by us until May 24, 2005.  If put to us on or before June 30, 2005, we
would have up to 120 days after the exercise date of the put to pay for the
shares.  If the remaining shares of 2015
Preferred Stock are put to us or if we call those shares for redemption, we
expect to use cash on hand to fund the redemption.

We have a $750.0 million
commercial paper program under which we may issue commercial paper in the
United States.  Our commercial paper is
currently rated A-1 by Standard & Poor’s and P-1 by Moody’s.  Our long-term credit ratings are A+ with a
negative outlook by Standard & Poor’s and A1 with a stable outlook by
Moody’s.  At June 30, 2004, we had no
commercial paper outstanding.  We also
have an effective shelf registration statement covering the potential issuance
of up to an additional $300.0 million in debt securities.  As of June 30, 2004, we had an unused $400.0
million revolving credit facility, expiring on June 28, 2006, and $173.3
million in additional uncommitted credit facilities, of which $5.4 million was
used.

Our business is seasonal in
nature and, accordingly, our working capital needs vary.  From time to time, we may enter into
investing and financing transactions that require additional funding.  To the extent that these needs exceed cash
from operations, we could, subject to market conditions, issue commercial
paper, issue long-term debt securities or borrow under the revolving credit
facility.

Total debt as a percent of
total capitalization was 24% at June 30, 2004 as compared with 14% at June 30,
2003.  This increase primarily reflects the
classification of the 2015 Preferred Stock as short-term debt as well as the
issuance of the 5.75% Senior Notes in fiscal 2004.

The effects of inflation have
not been significant to our overall operating results in recent years.  Generally, we have been able to introduce new
products at higher selling prices or

increase
selling prices sufficiently to offset cost increases, which have been moderate.

We believe that cash on hand,
cash generated from operations, available credit lines and access to credit
markets will be adequate to support currently planned business operations and
capital expenditures on both a near-term and long-term basis.


Cash Flows

Net cash provided by operating
activities was $669.8 million in fiscal 2004 as compared with $553.1 million in
fiscal 2003 and $519.3 million in fiscal 2002. 
The improved operating cash flow primarily reflects increased net
earnings from continuing operations and an increase in accrued costs.  Changes in operating assets and liabilities
reflect partially offsetting increases in accounts payable and inventory in
anticipation of product launches in fiscal 2005, higher accounts receivable in
line with sales growth, and changes in other assets and accrued liabilities
that reflect receipts and accruals from employee compensation and benefit
related transactions as well as selling, advertising and merchandising
activities.  We expect cash flows from
operations in fiscal 2005 to reflect payments of approximately $47 million, net
of tax, related to deferred compensation and supplemental pension
arrangements.  The improvement in net
cash flows for fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 reflected increased earnings
and seasonal levels of operating assets and liabilities.  Operating assets and liabilities reflected an
improvement in accounts receivable collections in fiscal 2003, and a higher
level of accounts payable, partially offset by increased inventories at June
30, 2003 in anticipation of product launches in the first half of fiscal 2004
and the impact of acquisitions on required inventory levels.

Net cash used for investing
activities was $208.0 million in fiscal 2004, compared with $192.5 million in
fiscal 2003 and $217.0 million in fiscal 2002. 
Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2004 primarily related
to capital expenditures.  Net cash used
in investing activities during fiscal 2003 primarily related to capital
expenditures and the acquisition of Darphin and certain Aveda
distributors.  Net cash used in fiscal
2002 related primarily to capital expenditures.

Capital expenditures amounted
to $206.5 million, $163.1 million and $203.2 million in fiscal 2004, 2003 and
2002, respectively.  Spending in all
three years primarily reflected the continued upgrade of manufacturing
equipment, dies and molds, new store openings, store improvements, counter
construction and information technology enhancements.  In fiscal 2005, we expect our capital
expenditures to increase as a result of a company-wide initiative to upgrade
our financial systems as well as our plan to invest in leasehold improvements
in our corporate offices.  The reduced
level of capital expenditures in fiscal 2003 reflected tight control on our
spending in light of then-prevailing economic conditions, fewer retail store
openings and reduced spending related to leasehold improvements.

Cash used for financing
activities was $216.0 million, $555.0 million and $123.1 million in fiscal
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  The
net cash used for financing activities in fiscal 2004 primarily related to the
redemption of $291.6 million aggregate principal amount of the 2015 Preferred
Stock, common stock repurchases and dividend payments partially offset by
proceeds from the issuance of the 5.75% Senior Notes and employee stock
transactions.  Net cash used for
financing during fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 primarily related to common stock
repurchases, the repayment of long-term debt and dividend payments.

Dividends

On November 5, 2003, the Board
of Directors declared an annual dividend of $.30 per share on our Class A and
Class B Common Stock, payable on January 6, 2004 to stockholders of record at
the close of business on December 16, 2003. Common stock dividends paid during
the fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002 were $68.5 million, $58.3 million and
$47.6 million, respectively.  Dividends
paid on the preferred stock were $17.4 million for the year ended June 30, 2004
and $23.4 million for the years ended June 30, 2003 and 2002.  The decrease reflects an agreement to reduce
the dividend of the preferred stock made in connection with the exchange of the
preferred shares on December 31, 2003 and the redemption of  $291.6 million aggregate principal amount of
2015 Preferred Stock on June 10, 2004. 
The dividend rate on the remaining $68.4 million principal amount of
2015 Preferred Stock was reduced, for the period from April 25, 2004 through
June 30, 2004, from 4.75% per annum to 0.62% per annum, which is a rate based
on the after-tax yield on six-month U.S. Treasuries.  The dividend rate for the six-month period
July 1, 2004 through December 31, 2004 is 0.994%. So long as the remaining
shares of 2015 Preferred Stock are outstanding, the dividend rate will be reset
semi-annually in January and July at the then existing after-tax yield on
six-month U.S. Treasuries. The cumulative redeemable preferred stock dividends
declared for the year ended June 30, 2004 have been characterized as interest
expense (see “Recently Issued Accounting Standards”).

Pension Plan Funding and Expense

We maintain pension plans
covering substantially all of our full-time employees for our U.S. operations
and a majority of our international operations. 
Several plans provide pension benefits based primarily on years of
service and employees’ earnings.  In the
United States, we maintain a trust-based, noncontributory defined benefit
pension plan (“U.S. Plan”). 
Additionally, we have an unfunded, nonqualified domestic noncontributory
pension plan to provide benefits in excess of statutory limitations.  Our international pension plans are comprised
of defined benefit and defined contribution plans.


Several factors influence our
annual funding requirements.  For the
U.S. Plan, our funding policy consists of annual contributions at a rate that
provides for future plan benefits and maintains appropriate funded
percentages.  Such contribution is not
less than the minimum required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), and subsequent pension legislation and is not
more than the maximum amount deductible for income tax purposes.  For each international plan, our funding
policies are determined by local laws and regulations.  In addition, amounts necessary to fund future
obligations under these plans could vary depending on estimated assumptions (as
detailed in “Critical Accounting Polices and Estimates”).  The effect on operating results in the future
of pension plan funding will depend on economic conditions, employee
demographics, mortality rates, the number of participants electing to take
lump-sum distributions, investment performance and funding decisions.

For fiscal 2004 and 2003 there
was no minimum contribution to the U.S. Plan required by ERISA.  However, at management’s discretion, we made
cash contributions to the U.S. Plan of $33.0 million and $76.0 million during
fiscal 2004 and 2003, respectively. 
Depending upon market conditions during fiscal 2005, we expect to make
cash contributions to our U.S. Plan of $16.0 million.

In addition, at June 30, 2004
and 2003, we recognized a liability on our balance sheet for each pension plan
if the fair market value of the assets of that plan was less than the
accumulated benefit obligation and, accordingly, a benefit or a charge was
recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in shareholders’
equity.  During fiscal 2004, we recorded
a benefit, net of deferred tax, of $16.0 million, while in fiscal 2003, we
recorded a charge, net of deferred tax, of $20.3 million to accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss).

Commitments and Contingencies

On June 10, 2004, we redeemed
all $291.6 million aggregate principal amount of 2015 Preferred Stock that
could be redeemed at that time.  The
remaining $68.4 million principal amount of 2015 Preferred Stock may be put to
us at any time at face value, but may not be redeemed by us until May 24,
2005.  If shares of the 2015 Preferred
Stock are put to us on or before June 30, 2005, we would have up to 120 days
after notice to purchase such shares.

Certain
of our business acquisition agreements include “earn-out” provisions.  These provisions generally require that we
pay to the seller or sellers of the business additional amounts based on the
performance of the acquired business. 
The payments typically are made after a certain period of time and our
next “earn-out” payment is expected to be made after the end of fiscal
2005.  Since the size of each payment
depends upon performance of the acquired business, we do not expect that such
payments will have a material adverse impact on our future results of
operations or financial condition.

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes
scheduled maturities of our contractual obligations for which cash flows are
fixed and determinable as of June 30, 2004.

(1)

Refer
to Notes 8 and 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2)

Includes
operating lease commitments, and to a lesser extent, minimal capital lease commitments.  Refer to Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

(3)

Unconditional
purchase obligations primarily include inventory commitments, estimated future
earn-out payments, estimated royalty payments pursuant to license agreements,
advertising commitments and capital improvement commitments.

(4)

Share
units that were recorded as a component of Stockholders’ Equity as of June 30,
2004 have been converted to the cash equivalent value and placed in a deferred
compensation account in fiscal 2005 based on a decision of the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors in August 2004.


Derivative Financial
Instruments and Hedging Activities

We address certain financial
exposures through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use
of derivative financial instruments.  We
primarily enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts and foreign
currency options to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange
rates.  We also enter into interest rate
derivative contracts to manage the effects of fluctuating interest rates.  We categorize these instruments as entered
into for purposes other than trading.

For each derivative contract
entered into where we look to obtain special hedge accounting treatment, we
formally document the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged
item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking the
hedge.  This process includes linking all
derivatives that are designated as fair-value, cash-flow, or foreign-currency
hedges to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific
firm commitments or forecasted transactions. 
We also formally assess, both at the hedge’s inception and on an ongoing
basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged
items.  If it is determined that a
derivative is not highly effective, then we will be required to discontinue
hedge accounting with respect to that derivative prospectively.

Foreign Exchange Risk
Management

We enter into forward exchange
contracts to hedge anticipated transactions as well as receivables and payables
denominated in foreign currencies for periods consistent with our identified
exposures.  The purpose of the hedging
activities is to minimize the effect of foreign exchange rate movements on our
costs and on the cash flows that we receive from foreign subsidiaries.  Almost all foreign currency contracts are
denominated in currencies of major industrial countries and are with large
financial institutions rated as strong investment grade by a major rating
agency.  We also enter into foreign
currency options to hedge anticipated transactions where there is a high
probability that anticipated exposures will materialize.  The forward exchange contracts and foreign
currency options entered into to hedge anticipated transactions have been
designated as cash-flow hedges.  As of
June 30, 2004, these cash-flow hedges were highly effective, in all material
respects.

As a matter of policy, we only
enter into contracts with counterparties that have at least an “A” (or
equivalent) credit rating.  The
counterparties to these contracts are major financial institutions.  We do not have significant exposure to any
one counterparty.  Our exposure to credit
loss in the event of nonperformance by any of the counterparties is limited to
only the recognized, but not realized, gains attributable to the contracts.  Management believes risk of default under
these hedging contracts is remote and in any event would not be material to the
consolidated financial results.  The
contracts have varying maturities through the end of June 2005.  Costs associated with entering into such
contracts have not been material to our consolidated financial results.  We do not utilize derivative financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  At June 30, 2004, we had foreign currency
contracts in the form of forward exchange contracts and option contracts in the
amount of $593.6 million and $82.0 million, respectively.  The foreign currencies included in forward
exchange contracts (notional value stated in U.S. dollars) are principally the
Euro ($122.6 million), Swiss franc ($117.1 million), British pound ($72.8
million), Japanese yen ($66.7 million), South Korean won ($42.0 million),
Canadian dollar ($41.7 million), and Australian dollar ($33.7 million).  The foreign currencies included in the option
contracts (notional value stated in U.S. dollars) are principally the Euro
($34.1 million), British pound ($25.4 million), and Swiss franc ($12.7
million).

Interest Rate Risk Management

We enter into interest rate
derivative contracts to manage the exposure to fluctuations of interest rates
on our funded and unfunded indebtedness, as well as cash investments, for
periods consistent with the identified exposures.  All interest rate derivative contracts are
with large financial institutions rated as strong investment grade by a major
rating agency.

We have an interest rate swap
agreement with a notional amount of $250.0 million to effectively convert fixed
interest on the existing $250.0 million 6% Senior Notes to variable interest
rates based on six-month LIBOR.  We
designated the swap as a fair value hedge. 
As of June 30, 2004, the fair value hedge was highly effective, in all
material respects.

Additionally, in May 2003, in
connection with the anticipated issuance of debt, we entered into a series of
treasury lock agreements on a notional amount totaling $195.0 million at a
weighted average all-in rate of 4.53%. 
These treasury lock agreements were used to hedge the exposure to a
possible rise in interest rates prior to the September 2003 issuance of
debt.  The agreements were settled upon
the issuance of the $200.0 million of 5.75% Senior Notes and we realized a gain
in other comprehensive income of $15.0 million that is currently being
amortized against interest expense over the 30-year life of the 5.75% Senior
Notes.


Market Risk

We use a value-at-risk model to
assess the market risk of our derivative financial instruments.  Value-at-risk represents the potential losses
for an instrument or portfolio from adverse changes in market factors for a
specified time period and confidence level. 
We estimate value-at-risk across all of our derivative financial
instruments using a model with historical volatilities and correlations
calculated over the past 250-day period. 
The measured value-at-risk, calculated as an average, for the twelve
months ended June 30, 2004 related to our foreign exchange contracts and our
interest rate contracts was $9.5 million and $14.5 million, respectively.

The model estimates were
made assuming normal market conditions and a 95 percent confidence level.  We used a statistical simulation model that
valued our derivative financial instruments against one thousand randomly
generated market price paths.

Our calculated value-at-risk
exposure represents an estimate of reasonably possible net losses that would be
recognized on our portfolio of derivative financial instruments assuming
hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative
of actual results, which may or may not occur. 
It does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss
that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those
estimated, based upon actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures,
and the timing thereof, and changes in our portfolio of derivative financial
instruments during the year.

We believe, however, that any
loss incurred would be offset by the effects of market rate movements on the
respective underlying transactions for which the hedge is intended.

OFF-BALANCE
SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We do not maintain any
off-balance sheet arrangements, transactions, obligations or other
relationships with unconsolidated entities that would be expected to have a
material current or future effect upon our financial condition or results of
operations.

RECENTLY
ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

On May 19, 2004, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106-2,
“Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003” (“FSP No. 106-2”), in response
to a new law regarding prescription drug benefits under Medicare (“Medicare
Part D”) and a Federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans
that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part
D.  Currently, Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard No. 106, “Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions” (“SFAS No. 106”), requires that changes in relevant law be
considered in current measurement of postretirement benefit costs.  FSP No. 106-2 will be effective for financial
statements of companies for the first interim or annual period beginning after
June 15, 2004.  We will adopt FSP No.
106-2 in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 and will recognize the impact of the
new law under Medicare Part D, which will not be material to our results of
operations, cash flows, or financial condition. 
Therefore, any measures of the accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation or the net periodic postretirement benefit cost as of and for the
year ended June 30, 2004 do not reflect the effects of the new law.

In December 2003, the FASB
issued FASB Interpretation Number 46-R (“FIN 46-R”), “Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities.”  FIN 46-R, which
modifies certain provisions and effective dates of FIN 46, sets forth criteria
to be used in determining whether an investment in a variable interest entity
should be consolidated.  These provisions
are based on the general premise that if a company controls another entity
through interests other than voting interests, that company should consolidate
the controlled entity. We have evaluated whether the provisions of FIN 46-R are
applicable to our investments, certain of which are currently accounted for by
the equity method, as well as other arrangements, which may meet the criteria
of the interpretation, and believe that there are currently no material
arrangements that meet the definition of a variable interest entity which would
require consolidation.

In December 2003, the FASB
revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 132 (Revised 2003),
“Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and other Postretirement Benefits”
(“SFAS No. 132 (R)”), establishing additional annual disclosures about plan
assets, investment strategy, measurement date, plan obligations and cash
flows.  In addition, the revised standard
established interim disclosure requirements related to the net periodic benefit
cost recognized and contributions paid or expected to be paid during the
current fiscal year.  The new annual
disclosures are effective for financial statements of companies with fiscal
years ending after December 15, 2003 and the interim-period disclosures are effective
for interim periods beginning after December 15, 2003.  We adopted the interim disclosures for our
fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2004 and the annual disclosures for our fiscal
year ending June 30, 2004.  The adoption
of the revised SFAS No. 132 (R) had no impact on our results of operations or
financial condition.


We have adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard No. 150, “Accounting for Certain Financial
Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity” (“SFAS No.
150”).  SFAS No. 150 established
standards for classifying and measuring certain financial instruments with
characteristics of both liabilities and equity. 
Among other things, it specifically requires that mandatorily redeemable
instruments, such as redeemable preferred stock, be classified as a
liability.  Initial and subsequent
measurements of the instruments differ based on the characteristics of each
instrument and as provided for in the statement.  Based on the provisions of this statement, we
have classified the cumulative redeemable preferred stock as a liability and
the related dividends thereon have been characterized as interest expense.  Restatement of financial statements for
earlier years presented was not permitted. 
The adoption of this statement has resulted in the inclusion of the
dividends on the preferred stock (equal to $17.4 million for the year ended
June 30, 2004) as interest expense. 
While the inclusion has impacted net earnings, net earnings attributable
to common stock and earnings per common share were unaffected.  Given that the dividends are not deductible
for income tax purposes, the inclusion of the preferred stock dividends as an
interest expense has caused an increase in our effective tax rate for fiscal
2004.  The adoption of SFAS No. 150 had
no impact on our financial condition.

FORWARD-LOOKING
INFORMATION

We and our representatives from
time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including
statements contained in this and other filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, in our press releases and in our reports to stockholders.  The words and phrases “will likely result,”
“expect,” “believe,” “planned,” “will,” “will continue,” “may,” “could,” “anticipated,”
“estimate,” “project” or similar expressions are intended to identify
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These
statements include, without limitation, our expectations regarding sales,
earnings or other future financial performance and liquidity, product
introductions, entry into new geographic regions, information systems
initiatives, new methods of sale and future operations or operating
results.  Although we believe that our expectations
are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our
business and operations, actual results may differ materially from our
expectations.  Factors that could cause
actual results to differ from expectations include, without limitation:

(1) increased
competitive activity from companies in the skin care, makeup, fragrance and
hair care businesses, some of which have greater resources than we do;

(2) our ability to develop, produce and market new products on which
future operating results may depend;

(3) consolidations,
restructurings, bankruptcies and reorganizations in the retail industry causing
a decrease in the number of stores that sell our products, an increase in the
ownership concentration within the retail industry, ownership of retailers by
our competitors and ownership of competitors by our customers that are
retailers;

(4) shifts in
the preferences of consumers as to where and how they shop for the types of
products and services we sell;

(5) social,
political and economic risks to our foreign or domestic manufacturing,
distribution and retail operations, including changes in foreign investment and
trade policies and regulations of the host countries and of the United States;

(6) changes in
the laws, regulations and policies that affect, or will affect, our business,
including changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations, trade
rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or
regulatory proceedings;

(7) foreign
currency fluctuations affecting our results of operations and the value of our
foreign assets, the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors
sell products in the same markets and our operating and manufacturing costs
outside of the United States;

(8) changes in
global or local economic conditions that could affect consumer purchasing, the
willingness of consumers to travel, the financial strength of our customers,
the cost and availability of capital, which we may need for new equipment,
facilities or acquisitions, and the assumptions underlying our critical
accounting estimates;

(9) shipment
delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from
disruptions of operations at any of the facilities which, due to consolidations
in our manufacturing operations, now manufacture nearly all of our supply of a
particular type of product (i.e., focus factories);

(10) real
estate rates and availability, which may affect our ability to increase the
number of retail locations at which we sell our products and the costs
associated with our other facilities;


(11) changes
in product mix to products which are less profitable;

(12) our
ability to acquire or develop new information and distribution technologies, on
a timely basis and within our cost estimates;

(13) our
ability to capitalize on opportunities for improved efficiency, such as
globalization, and to integrate acquired businesses and realize value
therefrom; and

(14)
consequences attributable to the events that are currently taking place in the
Middle East, including further attacks, retaliation and the threat of further
attacks or retaliation.

We assume no responsibility to
update forward-looking statements made herein or otherwise.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk.

The information required by
this item is set forth in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the
caption “Liquidity and Capital Resources - Market Risk” and is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item
8.

Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.

The information required by
this item appears beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and
is incorporated herein by reference.

Item
9.

Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

None.

Item
9A.

Controls and Procedures.

Our disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rules13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) are designed to ensure
that information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit
under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The Chief Executive
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, with assistance from other members of
management, have reviewed the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures as of June 30, 2004 and, based on their evaluation, have concluded
that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of such date.

There has been no change in our
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) that occurred during the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2004 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

PART III

The information required by

Item 10

(Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant),

Item 11

(Executive
Compensation),

Item 12

(Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management),

Item 13

(Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions) and

Item 14

(Principal Accounting Fees and Services) of Form 10-K, and not already provided
herein under “Item 1. Business – Executive Officers,” will be included in our
Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be
filed within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004,
and such information is incorporated herein by reference.


PART IV

Item
15.

Exhibits, Financial
Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a)

and 2.  Financial Statements and
Schedules - See index on Page F-1.

3. Exhibits:



*  Incorporated herein by reference.

†  Exhibit is a management contract or
compensatory plan or arrangement.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K.

On April 28, 2004, we filed a
Current Report on Form 8-K.  Pursuant to
Item 12 of Form 8-K, we furnished our press release reporting our fiscal 2004
third-quarter results.

On May 11, 2004, we filed a
Current Report on Form 8-K.  Pursuant to
Item 5 of Form 8-K, we announced that we called for redemption all of our then
currently redeemable preferred stock and increased the number of shares of
Class A Common Stock authorized to be repurchased under our share repurchase
program.

On May 18, 2004, we filed a
Current Report on Form 8-K to restate our audited consolidated financial
statements for our fiscal years ended June 30, 2003 and 2002 to reflect the
effect on those statements of the discontinuation of our

jane

operations.  The filing was made in
conjunction with the filing of our Registration Statement on Form S-3 that day.

On May 19, 2004, we filed a
Current Report on Form 8-K/A.  We filed
the report solely to correct the unintentional omission of the conformed
signature included with the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the
Commission on May 18, 2004.

On June 8, 2004, we filed a
Current Report on Form 8-K.  Pursuant to
Item 5 of Form 8-K,  we reported that we
were notified that we have been named as a defendant in litigation brought by
the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New York with respect to the
Blydenburgh landfill in Islip, New York.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
date indicated.

* By signing his name hereto,
Richard W. Kunes signs this document in the capacities indicated above and on
behalf of the persons indicated above pursuant to powers of attorney duly
executed by such persons and filed herewith.

By

/s/ RICHARD W. KUNES

Richard W. Kunes

(Attorney-in-Fact)


THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

All other schedules are omitted because they
are not applicable or the required information is included in the consolidated
financial statements or notes thereto.

F-1

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and
Stockholders

The Estée Lauder Companies
Inc.:

We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Estée Lauder Companies Inc. and
subsidiaries as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended June 30, 2004.  These consolidated financial statements are
the responsibility of the Company’s management. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States).  Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation.  We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of The Estée Lauder Companies Inc.
and subsidiaries as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended June 30, 2004, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.

As discussed in Note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 150, “Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments
with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity,” effective July 1,
2003.  In addition, as discussed in Note
2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,”
effective July 1, 2001.

F-2

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-3

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-4

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-5

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-6

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 –
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

The Estée Lauder Companies Inc.
manufactures, markets and sells skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care
products around the world.  Products are
marketed under the following brand names: 
Estée Lauder, Clinique, Aramis, Prescriptives, Origins, M

ž

A

ž

C,
Bobbi Brown

,

La Mer

,

Aveda,
Stila, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin and Rodan + Fields.  The Estée Lauder Companies Inc. is also the
global licensee of the Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan,

kate

spade

and Michael Kors brands for
fragrances and cosmetics.

NOTE 2 –
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Principles of Consolidation

The accompanying consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of The Estée Lauder Companies Inc.
and its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”) as continuing operations,
with the exception of the operating results of its reporting unit that sold

jane

brand products, which have been reflected as
discontinued operations for fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 (see Note 4).  All significant intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated.

Certain amounts in the consolidated financial statements of prior years
have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation for comparative
purposes.

Net Earnings Per Common Share

For the year ended June 30, 2004, net earnings per common share (“basic
EPS”) is computed by dividing net earnings, which includes preferred stock
dividends (see “Recently Issued Accounting Standards”), by the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding and contingently issuable shares (which
satisfy certain conditions).  For the
years ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, basic EPS is computed by dividing net
earnings, after deducting preferred stock dividends on the Company’s $6.50
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, by the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding and contingently issuable shares (which satisfy certain
conditions).  Net earnings per common
share assuming dilution (“diluted EPS”) is computed by reflecting potential
dilution from the exercise of stock options.

A reconciliation between the
numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted EPS computations is as
follows:

F-7

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

As of June 30, 2004, 2003 and
2002, options to purchase 6.6 million, 13.6 million and 12.1 million shares,
respectively, of Class A Common Stock were not included in the computation of
diluted EPS because the exercise prices of those options were greater than the
average market price of the common stock and their inclusion would be
anti-dilutive.  The options were still
outstanding at the end of the applicable periods.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents
include $187.2 million and $76.2 million of short-term time deposits at June
30, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  The
Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of
three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Accounts Receivable

Accounts receivable is stated
net of the allowance for doubtful accounts and customer deductions of $30.1
million and $31.8 million as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Currency Translation and
Transactions

All assets and liabilities of
foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are translated at year-end rates of
exchange, while revenue and expenses are translated at weighted average rates
of exchange for the year.  Unrealized
translation gains or losses are reported as cumulative translation adjustments
through other comprehensive income.  Such
adjustments amounted to $36.5 million, $51.3 million and $46.0 million of
unrealized translation gains in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

The Company enters into forward
foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency options to hedge foreign
currency transactions for periods consistent with its identified
exposures.  Accordingly, the Company
categorizes these instruments as entered into for purposes other than trading.

The accompanying consolidated
statements of earnings include net exchange losses of $14.5 million, $15.0
million and $6.8 million in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Inventory and Promotional Merchandise

Inventory and promotional
merchandise only includes inventory considered saleable or usable in future
periods, and is stated at the lower of cost or fair-market value, with cost
being determined on the first-in, first-out method.  Promotional merchandise is charged to expense
at the time the merchandise is shipped to the Company’s customers.

F-8

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment
is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.  For financial statement purposes,
depreciation is provided principally on the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the assets ranging from 3 to 40 years.  Leasehold improvements are amortized on a
straight-line basis over the shorter of the lives of the respective leases or
the expected useful lives of those improvements.

Depreciation and amortization
of property, plant and equipment was $176.9 million, $156.3 million and $139.8
million in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets

The Company follows the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141,
“Business Combinations” and SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets.”  These statements established
financial accounting and reporting standards for acquired goodwill and other
intangible assets.  Specifically, the
standards address how acquired intangible assets should be accounted for both
at the time of acquisition and after they have been recognized in the financial
statements.  The provisions of SFAS No.
141 apply to all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001.  In accordance with SFAS No. 142, intangible
assets, including purchased goodwill, must be evaluated for impairment.  Those intangible assets that will continue to
be classified as goodwill or as other intangibles with indefinite lives are no
longer amortized.

In accordance with SFAS No.
142, the Company completed its transitional impairment testing of intangible
assets during the first quarter of fiscal 2002. 
That effort, and preliminary assessments of the Company’s identifiable
intangible assets, indicated that little or no adjustment would be required
upon adoption of this pronouncement.  The
impairment testing is performed in two steps: (i) the Company determines
impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying
value, and (ii) if there is an impairment, the Company measures the amount of
impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the
carrying amount of that goodwill.  Subsequent
to the first quarter of fiscal 2002, with the assistance of a third-party
valuation firm, the Company finalized the testing of goodwill.  Using conservative, but realistic,
assumptions to model the Company’s

jane

business,
the Company determined that the carrying value of this unit was slightly
greater than the derived fair value, indicating an impairment in the recorded
goodwill.  To determine fair value, the
Company relied on three valuation models: guideline public companies,
acquisition analysis and discounted cash flow. 
For goodwill valuation purposes only, the revised fair value of this
unit was allocated to the assets and liabilities of the business unit to arrive
at an implied fair value of goodwill, based upon known facts and circumstances,
as if the acquisition occurred at that time. 
This allocation resulted in a write-down of recorded goodwill in the
amount of $20.6 million, which has been reported as a component of discontinued
operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of earnings and cash
flows.  On a product category basis, this
write-down would have primarily impacted the Company’s makeup category.

F-9

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In February 2004, the Company
sold the assets and operations of its reporting unit that sold

jane

brand products. 
Prior to the sale of the business, in December 2003, the Company
committed to a plan to sell such assets and operations.  At the time the decision was made,
circumstances warranted that the Company conduct an assessment of the tangible
and intangible assets of the

jane

business.  Based on this assessment, the
Company determined that the carrying amount of these assets as then reflected
on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet exceeded their estimated fair
value.  In accordance with the
assessment, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge in the amount of
$26.4 million for fiscal 2004, which is reported as a component of discontinued
operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of earnings.  This write-down primarily impacted the
Company’s makeup product category and the Americas region.

During fiscal 2002, the Company
recorded a goodwill impairment charge related to its Gloss.com business as a
component of its restructuring expense (see Note 5).

Goodwill

The Company assigns goodwill of
a reporting unit to the product category in which that reporting unit
predominantly operates at the time of its acquisition.  The change in the carrying amount of goodwill
is as follows:

Other
Intangible Assets

Other intangible assets consist
of the following:

Pursuant to the adoption of
SFAS No. 142 and effective July 1, 2001, trademarks have been classified as
indefinite lived assets, are no longer amortized and are evaluated periodically
for impairment.  The cost of other
intangible assets is amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated
useful lives.  The aggregate amortization
expenses related to amortizable intangible assets for the years ended June 30,
2004, 2003 and 2002 were $4.0 million, $1.9 million and $1.5 million,
respectively.

F-10

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Long-Lived Assets

In accordance with SFAS No.
144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,”
long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets in question may
not be recoverable.  An impairment would
be recorded in circumstances where undiscounted cash flows expected to be
generated by an asset are less than the carrying value of that asset.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Income (Loss)

The components of accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) included in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets consist of the following:

Of the $10.2 million, net of
tax, derivative instrument gain recorded in OCI at June 30, 2004, $9.1 million,
net of tax, related to the proceeds from the settlement of the treasury lock agreements
upon the issuance of the 5.75% Senior Notes which will be reclassified to
earnings as an offset to interest expense over the 30-year life of the debt and
$1.1 million, net of tax, related to gains from forward and option contracts
which the Company will reclassify to earnings during the next twelve months.

Revenue Recognition

Generally, revenues from
merchandise sales are recorded at the time the product is shipped to the
customer.  The Company reports its sales
levels on a net sales basis, which is computed by deducting from gross sales
the amount of actual returns received and an amount established for anticipated
returns.  As a percent of gross sales,
returns were 4.6%, 5.1% and 4.8% in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

F-11

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Advertising and Promotion

Costs associated with
advertising are expensed during the year as incurred.  Global advertising expenses, which primarily
include television, radio and print media, and promotional expenses, such as
products used as sales incentives, were $1,612.0 million, $1,416.1 million and
$1,317.4 million in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  These amounts include expenses relating to
purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions that are reflected in
net sales and cost of sales.

Advertising and promotional
expenses included in operating expenses were $1,426.8 million, $1,217.8 million
and $1,113.2 million in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Research and Development

Research and development costs,
which amounted to $67.2 million, $60.8 million and $61.3 million in fiscal
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are expensed as incurred.

Related Party Royalties and
Trademarks

On April 24, 2004, Mrs. Estée
Lauder passed away.  As a result, the
royalty payments made to her since 1969 in connection with the Company’s
purchase of the “Estée Lauder” trademark outside the United States ceased to
accrue.  Royalty payments totaling $18.8
million, $20.3 million and $16.5 million have been charged to expense in fiscal
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Stock Compensation

The Company observes the
provisions of SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS
No. 123”), by continuing to apply the provisions of Accounting Principles Board
(“APB”) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” (“APB No.
25”).

The Company applies the intrinsic value method as outlined in APB No.
25 and related interpretations in accounting for stock options and share units
granted under these programs.  Under the
intrinsic value method, no compensation expense is recognized if the exercise
price of the Company’s employee stock options equals the market price of the
underlying stock on the date of the grant. 
Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized on options granted
to employees.  SFAS No. 123 requires that
the Company provide pro forma information regarding net earnings and net
earnings per common share as if compensation cost for the Company’s stock
option programs had been determined in accordance with the fair value method
prescribed therein.  The Company adopted
the disclosure portion of SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
– Transition and Disclosure,” requiring quarterly SFAS No. 123 pro forma
disclosure.  The pro forma charge for
compensation cost related to stock options granted is recognized over the
service period.  The service period
represents the period of time between the date of grant and the date each
option becomes exercisable without consideration of acceleration provisions
(e.g., retirement, change of control, etc.). 
The following table illustrates the effect on net earnings and earnings
per common share as if the fair value method had been applied to all
outstanding awards in each period presented.

F-12

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(i)

Fiscal 2004 pro forma compensation cost
includes the acceleration of exercisability of options held by an executive who
retired on June 30, 2004 based on the original terms of the option grant.

The fair value of each option
grant was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model with the following assumptions:

Concentration of Credit Risk

The Company is a worldwide
manufacturer, marketer and distributor of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair
care products.  Domestic and
international sales are made primarily to department stores, perfumeries and
specialty retailers.  The Company grants
credit to all qualified customers and does not believe it is exposed
significantly to any undue concentration of credit risk.

For the fiscal years ended June
30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company’s three largest customers accounted for an
aggregate of 22%, 24% and 25%, respectively, of net sales.  No single customer accounted for more than
10% of the Company’s net sales during fiscal 2004, 2003, or 2002.

Additionally, as of June 30,
2004 and 2003, the Company’s three largest customers accounted for an aggregate
of 25% and 28%, respectively, of its outstanding accounts receivable.

Management Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses reported in those financial statements.  Actual results could differ from those
estimates and assumptions.

F-13

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Derivative Financial Instruments

The Company accounts for
derivative financial instruments in accordance with SFAS No. 133, “Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended, which
establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments,
including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for
hedging activities.  SFAS No. 133 also
requires the recognition of all derivative instruments as either assets or
liabilities on the balance sheet and that they be measured at fair value.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

On May 19, 2004, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106-2,
“Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003” (“FSP No. 106-2”), in response
to a new law regarding prescription drug benefits under Medicare (“Medicare
Part D”) and a Federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans
that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part
D. Currently, Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 106, “Employers’
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions” (“SFAS No. 106”),
requires that changes in relevant law be considered in current measurement of
postretirement benefit costs. FSP No. 106-2 will be effective for financial
statements of companies for the first interim or annual period beginning after
June 15, 2004.  The Company will adopt
FSP No. 106-2 in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 and will recognize the impact
of the new law under Medicare Part D, which will not be material to the
Company’s results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition.  Therefore, any measures of the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation or the net periodic postretirement benefit
cost as of and for the year ended June 30, 2004 do not reflect the effects of
the new law.

In December 2003, the FASB
issued FASB Interpretation Number 46-R (“FIN 46-R”), “Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities.”  FIN 46-R, which
modifies certain provisions and effective dates of FIN 46, sets forth criteria
to be used in determining whether an investment in a variable interest entity
should be consolidated.  These provisions
are based on the general premise that if a company controls another entity
through interests other than voting interests, that company should consolidate
the controlled entity.  The Company has
evaluated whether the provisions of FIN 46-R are applicable to its investments,
certain of which are currently accounted for by the equity method, as well as
other arrangements, which may meet the criteria of the interpretation, and
believes that there are currently no material arrangements that meet the
definition of a variable interest entity which would require consolidation.

In December 2003, the FASB
revised SFAS No. 132 (Revised 2003), “Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and
other Postretirement Benefits” (“SFAS No. 132 (R)”), establishing additional
annual disclosures about plan assets, investment strategy, measurement date,
plan obligations and cash flows.  In
addition, the revised standard established interim disclosure requirements
related to the net periodic benefit cost recognized and contributions paid or
expected to be paid during the current fiscal year.  The new annual disclosures are effective for
financial statements of companies with fiscal years ending after December 15,
2003 and the interim-period disclosures are effective for interim periods
beginning after December 15, 2003.  The
Company adopted the interim disclosures for the fiscal quarter ended March 31,
2004 and the annual disclosures for the year ended June 30, 2004.  The adoption of the revised SFAS No. 132 (R)
had no impact on the results of operations or financial condition.

F-14

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The Company adopted SFAS No.
150, “Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both
Liabilities and Equity” (“SFAS No. 150”). 
SFAS No. 150 established standards for classifying and measuring certain
financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity.  Among other things, it specifically requires
that mandatorily redeemable instruments, such as redeemable preferred stock, be
classified as a liability.  Initial and
subsequent measurements of the instruments differ based on the characteristics
of each instrument and as provided for in the statement.  Based on the provisions of this statement,
the Company has classified its redeemable preferred stock as a liability in
fiscal 2004 and the related dividends thereon have been characterized as
interest expense.  Restatement of
financial statements for earlier years presented was not permitted.  The adoption of this statement has resulted
in the inclusion of the dividends on the preferred stock (equal to $17.4
million for the year ended June 30, 2004) as interest expense.  While the inclusion has impacted net
earnings, net earnings attributable to common stock and earnings per common
share were unaffected.  Given that the
dividends are not deductible for income tax purposes, the inclusion of the
preferred stock dividends as an interest expense has caused an increase in our
effective tax rate for fiscal 2004.  The
adoption of SFAS No. 150 had no impact on the Company’s financial condition.

NOTE 3 –
PUBLIC OFFERINGS

In June 2004, three Lauder
family trusts sold a total of 13,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock in a
registered public offering.  The Company
did not receive any proceeds from the sales of these shares.  The cost of this offering was borne by the
selling stockholders.

During October 2001, a member
of the Lauder family sold 5,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock in a
registered public offering.  The Company
did not receive any proceeds from the sale of these shares.  The cost of this offering was borne by the
selling stockholder.

NOTE 4 – ACQUISITION AND DIVESTITURE OF BUSINESSES AND LICENSE
ARRANGEMENTS

In December 2003, the Company committed to a plan to sell the assets
and operations of its reporting unit that sold

jane

brand products and sold them in February 2004. 
At the time the decision was made, circumstances warranted that the
Company conduct an assessment of the tangible and intangible assets of the

jane

business.  Based
on this assessment, the Company determined that the carrying amount of these
assets as then reflected on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet exceeded
its estimated fair value.  In accordance
with the assessment and the closing of the sale, the Company recorded an
after-tax charge to discontinued operations of $33.3 million for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 2004.  The charge
represents the impairment of goodwill in the amount of $26.4 million; the
reduction in value of other tangible assets in the amount of $2.1 million, net
of taxes; and the reporting unit’s operating loss of $4.8 million, net of
tax.  Included in the operating loss of
the fiscal year were additional costs associated with the sale and
discontinuation of the business.  As a
result, all consolidated statements of earnings information in the consolidated
financial statements and footnotes for fiscal 2003 and 2002 has been restated
for comparative purposes to reflect that reporting unit as discontinued
operations, including the restatement of the makeup product category and the
Americas region data presented in Note 18.

In July 2003, the Company
acquired the Rodan + Fields skin care line. 
The initial purchase price, paid at closing, was funded by cash provided
by operations, the payment of which did not have a material effect on the
Company’s results of operations or financial condition.  The Company expects to make additional
payments between fiscal 2007 and 2011 based on certain conditions.

On April 30, 2003, the Company completed
the acquisition of the Paris-based Darphin group of companies that develops,
manufactures and markets the “Darphin” brand of skin care and makeup
products.  The initial purchase price,
paid at closing, was funded by cash provided by operations, the payment of
which did not have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations or
financial condition.  An additional
payment is expected to be made in fiscal 2009, the amount of which will depend
on future net sales and earnings of the Darphin business.

At various times during fiscal
2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company acquired businesses engaged in the wholesale
distribution and retail sale of Aveda products, as well as other products, in
the United States and other countries. 
In fiscal 2002, the Company purchased an Aveda wholesale distributor
business in Korea and acquired the minority interest of its Aveda joint venture
in the United Kingdom.

F-15

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The aggregate purchase price
for these transactions, which includes acquisition costs, was $4.4 million,
$50.4 million, and $18.5 million in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively,
and each transaction was accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting.  Accordingly, the results of
operations for each of the acquired businesses are included in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements commencing with its date of original
acquisition.  Pro forma results of operations,
as if each of such businesses had been acquired as of the beginning of the year
of acquisition, have not been presented, as the impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial results would not have been material.

In May 2003, the Company
entered into a license agreement for fragrances and beauty products under the
“Michael Kors” trademarks with Michael Kors L.L.C. and purchased certain
related rights and inventory from American Designer Fragrances, a division of
LVMH.

NOTE 5 –
RESTRUCTURING AND SPECIAL CHARGES

Fiscal 2003

During the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2003, the Company recorded a special pre-tax charge of $22.0 million, or
$13.5 million after-tax, equal to $.06 per diluted common share, in connection
with the proposed settlement of a legal proceeding brought against a number of
defendants including the Company (see Note 15). 
The amount of the charge in this case is significantly larger than
similar charges the Company has incurred individually or in the aggregate for
legal proceedings in any prior year.

Fiscal 2002

During the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2002, the Company recorded a restructuring charge related to
repositioning certain businesses as part of its ongoing efforts to drive
long-term growth and increase profitability. 
The restructuring focused on cost reduction opportunities related to the
Internet, supply chain, globalization of the organization and distribution
channel refinements.  The Company
committed to a defined plan of action, which resulted in an aggregate pre-tax
charge of $117.4 million, of which $0.8 million was included in discontinued
operations, and $59.4 million was cash related. 
On an after-tax basis, the aggregate charge was $76.9 million, of which
$0.5 million was included in discontinued operations, equal to $.32 per diluted
share.

Specifically, the charge
includes the following:

•

Internet

.   In an effort to achieve strategic
objectives, reduce costs and improve profitability, the Company outsourced
Gloss.com platform development and maintenance efforts to a third-party
provider.  Additionally, Gloss.com closed
its San Francisco facility and consolidated its operations in New York.  As a result, included in the charge is a
$23.9 million provision for restructuring the Gloss.com operations, including
benefits and severance packages for 36 employees as well as asset
write-offs.  The Company also took a
$20.1 million charge to write off the related Gloss.com acquisition goodwill.

•

Supply Chain

.

Building on
previously announced supply chain initiatives, the Company restructured certain
manufacturing, distribution, research and development, information systems and
quality assurance operations in the United States, Canada and Europe, which
included benefits and severance packages for 110 employees.  A charge of $23.7 million was recorded
related to this effort.

•

Globalization
of Organization

.  The Company
continued to implement its transition, announced in fiscal 2001, to a global
brand structure designed to streamline the decision making process and increase
innovation and speed-to-market.  The next
phase of this transition entailed eliminating duplicate functions and
responsibilities, which resulted in charges for benefits and severance for 122
employees.  The Company recorded a charge
of $27.1 million associated with these efforts.

F-16

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

•

Distribution

.  The Company evaluated areas of distribution
relative to its financial targets and decided to focus its resources on the
most productive sales channels and markets. 
As a result, the Company closed its operations in Argentina and the
remaining customers are being serviced by the Company’s Chilean affiliate.  The Company began closing all remaining
in-store

tommy’s shops

and other select points of
distribution.  The Company recorded a
$22.6 million provision related to these actions, which included benefits and
severance for 85 employees.

Following is a summary of the
charges as recorded in the consolidated statement of earnings for fiscal 2002:

The fiscal 2002 restructuring
charge was recorded in other accrued liabilities or, where applicable, as a
reduction of the related asset.  During
fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, $12.3 million, $32.2 million and $9.3 million,
respectively, related to this restructuring was paid.  As of June 30, 2004 and 2003, the
restructuring accrual balance was $9.4 million and $21.9 million, respectively,
and the Company expects to settle a majority of the remaining obligations by
the end of fiscal 2005 with certain additional payments made in fiscal 2006.

During the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2001, the Company recorded one-time charges for restructuring and
special charges.  As of June 30, 2004 and
2003, the remaining obligation was $1.3 million and $2.6 million, respectively,
with remaining payments to be made ratably through fiscal 2007.

NOTE 6 –
INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes
is comprised of the following:

A reconciliation between the
provision for income taxes computed by applying the statutory Federal income
tax rate to earnings before income taxes and minority interest and the actual
provision for income taxes is as follows:

F-17

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Significant components of the
Company’s deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2004 and
2003 were as follows:

As of June 30, 2004 and 2003, the Company had current net deferred tax
assets of $145.9 million and $116.0 million, respectively, which are included
in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets.  In addition, the Company
had noncurrent net deferred tax liabilities of $26.8 million as of June 30,
2004 and noncurrent net deferred tax assets of $38.7 million as of June 30,
2003, which are included in other noncurrent liabilities and other assets, net,
respectively, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

Federal income and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on
$560.5 million, $476.6 million and $473.5 million of undistributed earnings of
international subsidiaries at June 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  The Company intends to reinvest these
earnings in its foreign operations indefinitely, except where it is able to
repatriate these earnings to the United States without material incremental tax
provision.

F-18

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

As of June 30, 2004 and 2003, certain international subsidiaries had
tax loss carryforwards for local tax purposes of approximately $24.5 million
and $14.7 million, respectively.  With
the exception of $12.1 million of losses with an indefinite carryforward period
as of June 30, 2004, these losses expire at various dates through fiscal
2017.  Deferred tax assets in the amount
of $5.7 million and $2.9 million as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, have
been recorded to reflect the tax benefits of the losses not utilized to
date.  A full valuation allowance has
been provided for those deferred tax assets for which, in the opinion of
management, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be
realized.

Earnings before income taxes and minority interest include amounts
contributed by the Company’s international operations of $523.0 million, $393.1
million and $283.4 million for fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  Some of these earnings are taxed in the
United States.

Furthermore, the Company
provides tax reserves for Federal, state and international exposures relating
to audit results, planning initiatives and compliance responsibilities.  The development of these reserves requires
judgments about tax issues, potential outcomes and timing, and is a subjective
critical estimate.

NOTE 7 –
OTHER ACCRUED LIABILITIES

Other accrued liabilities
consist of the following:

NOTE 8 –
DEBT

The Company’s short-term and
long-term debt and available financing consist of the following:

F-19

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In September 2003, the Company
issued and sold $200.0 million of 5.75% Senior Notes due October 2033 (“5.75%
Senior Notes”) in a public offering.  The
5.75% Senior Notes were priced at 98.645% with a yield of 5.846%.  Interest payments, which commenced April 15,
2004, are required to be made semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each
year.  In May 2003, in anticipation of
the issuance of the 5.75% Senior Notes, the Company entered into a series of
treasury lock agreements on a notional amount totaling $195.0 million at a
weighted average all-in rate of 4.53%. 
The treasury lock agreements were settled upon the issuance of the new
debt and the Company received a payment of $15.0 million that will be amortized
against interest expense over the life of the 5.75% Senior Notes.  As a result of the treasury lock agreements,
the debt discount and debt issuance costs, the effective interest rate on the
5.75% Senior Notes will be 5.395% over the life of the debt.

As of June 30 2004, the Company
had outstanding $236.6 million of 6% Senior Notes due January 2012 (“6% Senior
Notes”) consisting of $250.0 million principal, an unamortized debt discount of
$0.9 million, and a $12.5 million adjustment to reflect the fair value of an
outstanding interest rate swap.  The 6%
Senior Notes, when issued in January 2002, were priced at 99.538% with a yield
of 6.062%.  Interest payments are
required to be made semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each year.  In May 2003, the Company entered into an
interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $250.0 million to
effectively convert the fixed rate interest on our outstanding 6% Senior Notes
to variable interest rates based on six-month LIBOR.

In the first quarter of fiscal
2004, the Company adopted SFAS No. 150 (see Note 2 – Recently Issued Accounting
Standards) which required that the Company’s cumulative redeemable preferred
stock be classified as a liability and the related dividends thereon as
interest expense.  Restatement of
financial statements for fiscal 2003 was not permitted.  During fiscal 2004, the Company and the
holders of the $6.50 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock exchanged all of the
outstanding shares due June 30, 2005 for a newly issued series of cumulative
redeemable preferred stock with a mandatory redemption date of June 30, 2015
(“2015 Preferred Stock”) with a variable dividend rate.  This exchange transaction has been accounted
for as a modification of the terms of the cumulative redeemable preferred
stock, and accordingly, the effects of this transaction on the Company’s
operating results have been limited to the prospective change in dividend
rates.  Such dividends have preference
over all other dividends of stock issued by the Company.  On April 24, 2004, Mrs. Estée Lauder passed
away.  As a result, the Company’s right
to call for redemption $291.6 million of the 2015 Preferred Stock became
exercisable and the Company exercised this right for cash in June 2004.  Upon this partial redemption, the dividend
rate on the remaining $68.4 million principal amount of the 2015 Preferred
Stock was reduced, for the period from April 25, 2004 through June 30, 2004,
from 4.75% per annum to 0.62% per annum, which is a rate based on the after-tax
yield on six-month U.S. Treasuries.  So
long as the remaining shares of 2015 Preferred Stock are outstanding, the
dividend rate will be reset semi-annually in January and July at the
then-existing after-tax yield on six-month U.S. Treasuries.  The dividend rate for the six-month period
from July 1, 2004 through December 31, 2004 is 0.994%.  The $68.4 million 2015 Preferred Stock may be
put to the Company at any time at face value but may not be redeemed by the
Company until May 24, 2005.  As a result,
the liability is recorded at its redemption value and is classified as current
at June 30, 2004.

As of June 30, 2003, other
long-term borrowings consisted primarily of several term loans held by the
Darphin group of companies, which was acquired by the Company in April 2003
(see Note 4).  These loans had various
maturities through July 2007 with variable and fixed interest rates ranging
from 2.5% to 5.8%.  All of these loans
were repaid during fiscal 2004.

The Company maintains
uncommitted credit facilities in various regions throughout the world.  Interest rate terms for these facilities vary
by region and reflect prevailing market rates for companies with strong credit
ratings.  During fiscal 2004 and 2003,
the monthly average amount outstanding was approximately $5.1 million and $1.4
million, respectively, and the annualized monthly weighted average interest
rate incurred was approximately 5.7% and 5.4%, respectively.

Effective June 28, 2001, the
Company entered into a five-year $400.0 million revolving credit facility,
expiring on June 28, 2006, which includes an annual fee of .07% on the total
commitment.  At June 30, 2004 and 2003,
the Company was in compliance with all related financial and other restrictive
covenants, including limitations on indebtedness and liens.  The Company also had an effective shelf
registration statement covering the potential issuance of up to $300.0 million
and $500.0 million in debt securities at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively,
and a $750.0 million commercial paper program under which the Company may issue
commercial paper in the United States.

F-20

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE  9 – FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Derivative Financial
Instruments

The Company addresses certain
financial exposures through a controlled program of risk management that
includes the use of derivative financial instruments.  The Company primarily enters into foreign
currency forward exchange contracts and foreign currency options to reduce the effects
of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. 
The Company, if necessary, enters into interest rate derivatives to
manage the effects of interest rate movements on the Company’s aggregate
liability portfolio.  The Company
categorizes these instruments as entered into for purposes other than trading.

All derivatives are recognized
on the balance sheet at their fair value. 
On the date the derivative contract is entered into, the Company
designates the derivative as (i) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized
asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (“fair value” hedge),
(ii) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to
be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (“cash flow”
hedge), (iii) a foreign-currency fair-value or cash-flow hedge (“foreign
currency” hedge), (iv) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, or
(v) other.  Changes in the fair value of
a derivative that is highly effective as (and that is designated and qualifies
as) a fair-value hedge, along with the loss or gain on the hedged asset or
liability that is attributable to the hedged risk (including losses or gains on
firm commitments), are recorded in current-period earnings.  Changes in the fair value of a derivative
that is highly effective as (and that is designated and qualifies as) a
cash-flow hedge are recorded in other comprehensive income, until earnings are
affected by the variability of cash flows (e.g., when periodic settlements on a
variable-rate asset or liability are recorded in earnings).  Changes in the fair value of derivatives that
are highly effective as (and that are designated and qualify as)
foreign-currency hedges are recorded in either current-period earnings or other
comprehensive income, depending on whether the hedge transaction is a
fair-value hedge (e.g., a hedge of a firm commitment that is to be settled in a
foreign currency) or a cash-flow hedge (e.g., a foreign-currency-denominated
forecasted transaction).  If, however, a
derivative is used as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, its
changes in fair value, to the extent effective as a hedge, are recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive income within equity.  Furthermore, changes in the fair value of
other derivative instruments are reported in current-period earnings.

For each derivative contract
entered into where the Company looks to obtain special hedge accounting
treatment, the Company formally documents all relationships between hedging
instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objective and
strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction. 
This process includes linking all derivatives that are designated as
fair-value, cash-flow, or foreign-currency hedges to specific assets and
liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific firm commitments or forecasted
transactions.  The Company also formally
assesses, both at the hedge’s inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the
derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in
offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.  If it is determined that a derivative is not
highly effective, or that it has ceased to be a highly effective hedge, the
Company will be required to discontinue hedge accounting with respect to that
derivative prospectively.

Foreign Exchange Risk
Management

The Company enters into forward
exchange contracts to hedge anticipated transactions as well as receivables and
payables denominated in foreign currencies for periods consistent with the
Company’s identified exposures.  The
purpose of the hedging activities is to minimize the effect of foreign exchange
rate movements on costs and on the cash flows that the Company receives from
foreign subsidiaries.  Almost all foreign
currency contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries
and are with large financial institutions rated as strong investment grade by a
major rating agency.  The Company also
enters into foreign currency options to hedge anticipated transactions where
there is a high probability that anticipated exposures will materialize.  The forward exchange contracts and foreign
currency options entered into to hedge anticipated transactions have been
designated as cash-flow hedges.  As of
June 30, 2004, these cash-flow hedges were highly effective, in all material
respects.

F-21

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

As a matter of policy, the
Company only enters into contracts with counterparties that have at least an
“A” (or equivalent) credit rating.  The
counterparties to these contracts are major financial institutions.  The Company does not have significant
exposure to any one counterparty. 
Exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by any of the
counterparties is limited to only the recognized, but not realized, gains
attributable to the contracts. 
Management believes risk of loss under these hedging contracts is remote
and in any event would not be material to the Company’s consolidated financial
results.  The contracts have varying
maturities through the end of June 2005. 
Costs associated with entering into such contracts have not been
material to the Company’s consolidated financial results.  The Company does not utilize derivative
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  At June 30, 2004, we had foreign currency
contracts in the form of forward exchange contracts and option contracts in the
amount of $593.6 million and $82.0 million, respectively.  The foreign currencies included in forward
exchange contracts (notional value stated in U.S. dollars) are principally the
Euro ($122.6 million), Swiss franc ($117.1 million), British pound ($72.8 million),
Japanese yen ($66.7 million), South Korean won ($42.0 million), Canadian dollar
($41.7 million), and Australian dollar ($33.7 million).  The foreign currencies included in the option
contracts (notional value stated in U.S. dollars) are principally the Euro
($34.1 million), British pound ($25.4 million), and Swiss franc ($12.7
million).  At June 30, 2003, the Company
had foreign currency contracts in the form of forward exchange contracts and
option contracts in the amount of $476.7 million and $57.7 million,
respectively.  The foreign currencies
included in forward exchange contracts (notional value stated in U.S. dollars)
are principally the Euro ($114.0 million), Swiss franc ($61.9 million),
Japanese yen ($56.0 million), British pound ($49.8 million), Canadian dollar
($37.7 million), South Korean won ($37.6 million) and Australian dollar ($30.6
million).  The foreign currencies
included in the option contracts (notional value stated in U.S. dollars) are
principally the Swiss franc ($21.9 million), Canadian dollar ($21.0 million)
and Euro ($11.7 million).

Interest Rate Risk Management

The Company enters into
interest rate derivative contracts to manage the exposure to fluctuations of
interest rates on its funded and unfunded indebtedness, as well as cash
investments, for periods consistent with the identified exposures.  All interest rate derivative contracts are
with large financial institutions rated as strong investment grade by a major
rating agency.

In May 2003, the Company
entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $250.0
million to effectively convert fixed interest on the existing 6% Senior Notes
to a variable interest rate based on six-month LIBOR.  The interest rate swap was designated as a
fair value hedge.  As of June 30, 2004,
the fair value hedge was highly effective, in all material respects.

Information regarding the
interest rate swap is presented in the following table:

Year Ended or at June 30, 2004

Year Ended or at June 30, 2003

(In
  millions)

Notional

Amount

Weighted Average

Notional

Amount

Weighted Average

Pay Rate

Receive Rate

Pay Rate

Receive Rate

Interest rate swap

$

250.0

3.14

%

6.00

%

$

250.0

3.21

%

6.00

%

Additionally, in May 2003, in
anticipation of the issuance of the 5.75% Senior Notes, the Company entered
into a series of treasury lock agreements on a notional amount totaling $195.0
million at a weighted average all-in rate of 4.53%.  The treasury lock agreements were settled
upon the issuance of the new debt and the Company received a payment of $15.0
million that will be amortized against interest expense over the life of the
5.75% Senior Notes.

Fair Value of Financial
Instruments

The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair
value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to
estimate that value:

Cash and cash equivalents:

The carrying amount approximates fair value, primarily because of the
short maturity of cash equivalent instruments.

F-22

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Long-term debt:

The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt was estimated based on
the current rates offered to the Company for debt with the same remaining
maturities.

In fiscal 2004, the fair value of redeemable preferred stock was
estimated based on a recent private transaction and is included in the current
portion of long-term debt pursuant to the provisions of SFAS No. 150.

Cumulative redeemable preferred stock:

In fiscal
2003, the fair value of the cumulative redeemable preferred stock was estimated
utilizing a cash flow analysis at a discount rate equal to rates available for
debt with terms similar to the preferred stock.

Foreign exchange and interest rate contracts:

The fair value
of forwards, swaps, options and treasury rate locks is the estimated amount the
Company would receive or pay to terminate the agreements.

The estimated fair values of
the Company’s financial instruments are as follows:

NOTE 10 – PENSION, DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT
PLANS

The Company maintains pension plans covering substantially all of its
full-time employees for its U.S. operations and a majority of its international
operations.  Several plans provide
pension benefits based primarily on years of service and employees’
earnings.  In certain instances, the
Company adjusts benefits in connection with international employee transfers.

Retirement Growth Account Plan (U.S.)

The Retirement Growth Account Plan is a trust-based, noncontributory
defined benefit pension plan.  The
Company’s funding policy consists of an annual contribution at a rate that
provides for future plan benefits and maintains appropriate funded
percentages.  Such contribution is not
less than the minimum required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended, (“ERISA”) and subsequent pension legislation and is not
more than the maximum amount deductible for income tax purposes.

Restoration Plan (U.S.)

The Company also has an
unfunded, nonqualified domestic noncontributory pension Restoration Plan to
provide benefits in excess of Internal Revenue Code limitations.

International Pension Plans

The Company maintains International
Pension Plans, the most significant of which are defined benefit pension
plans.  The Company’s funding policies
for these plans are determined by local laws and regulations.

F-23

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Postretirement Benefits

The Company maintains a
domestic postretirement benefit plan which provides certain medical and dental
benefits to eligible employees. 
Employees hired after January 1, 2002 are not eligible for retiree
medical benefits when they retire. 
Certain retired employees who are receiving monthly pension benefits are
eligible for participation in the plan. 
Contributions required and benefits received by retirees and eligible
family members are dependent on the age of the retiree.  It is the Company’s practice to fund these
benefits as incurred.  The cost of the
Company-sponsored programs is not significant.

Certain of the Company’s
international subsidiaries and affiliates have postretirement plans, although
most participants are covered by government-sponsored or administered programs.

The significant components of
the above mentioned plans as of and for the year ended June 30 are summarized
as follows:

F-24

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In determining the long-term
rate of return for a plan, the Company considers the historical rates of
return, the nature of the plan’s investments and an expectation for the plan’s
investment strategies.

Assumed health care cost trend
rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care
plans.  A one-percentage-point change in
assumed health care cost trend rates for fiscal 2004 would have had the
following effects:

F-25

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The projected benefit
obligation, accumulated benefit obligation, fair value of plan assets and the
other comprehensive loss due to change in minimum liability recognition for the
Company’s pension plans at June 30 are as follows:

International pension plans
with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of the plans’ assets had
aggregate projected benefit obligations of $139.4 million and $137.8 million,
aggregate accumulated benefit obligations of $120.3 million and $119.1 million
and aggregate fair value of plan assets of $85.0 million and $68.9 million at
June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

F-26

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The target policy was set to
maximize returns with consideration to the long-term nature of the obligations
and maintaining a lower level of overall volatility through the allocation to
fixed income.  During the year, the asset
allocation is reviewed for adherence to the target policy and is rebalanced
periodically towards the target weights.

401(k) Savings Plan (U.S.)

The Company’s 401(k) Savings
Plan (“Savings Plan”) is a contributory defined contribution plan covering
substantially all regular U.S. employees who have completed the hours and
service requirements, as defined by the plan document.  Effective January 1, 2002, regular full-time
employees are eligible to participate in the Plan on the first day of the
second month following their date of hire. 
The Savings Plan is subject to the applicable provisions of ERISA.  The Company matches a portion of the
participant’s contributions after one year of service under a predetermined
formula based on the participant’s contribution level and years of
service.  The Company’s contributions
were approximately $9.1 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2004 and
2003 and $6.7 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002.  Shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock
are not an investment option in the Savings Plan and the Company does not use
such shares to match participants’ contributions.

Deferred Compensation

The Company accrues for
deferred compensation and interest thereon and for the increase in the value of
share units pursuant to agreements with a key executive, a former executive and
outside directors.  The amounts included
in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets under these plans were $135.4
million and $109.2 million as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  The expense for fiscal 2004, 2003, and 2002
was $16.6 million, $17.4 million and $11.6 million, respectively.

NOTE 11 –
POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN TO RETIREES

The Company provides certain
postemployment benefits to eligible former or inactive employees and their
dependents during the period subsequent to employment but prior to
retirement.  These benefits include
health care coverage and severance benefits. 
Generally, the cost of providing these benefits is accrued and any
incremental benefits were not material to the Company’s consolidated financial
results.

NOTE 12 –
$6.50 CUMULATIVE REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK, AT REDEMPTION VALUE

Effective July 1, 2003, in accordance with SFAS No. 150, the $6.50
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock was reclassified to long-term debt (see
Note 8).  Such shares of preferred stock
were exchanged for the 2015 Preferred Stock on December 31, 2003.

As of June 30, 2003, the Company’s authorized capital stock included
23.6 million shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, of which 3.6
million shares were outstanding and designated as $6.50 Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock.  The outstanding
preferred stock was issued in June 1995 in exchange for nonvoting common stock
of the Company then owned by The Estée Lauder 1994 Trust.

Holders of the $6.50 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock were
entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at a rate of $6.50 per annum per
share payable in quarterly installments. 
Such dividends had preference over all other dividends of stock issued
by the Company.  Shares were subject to
mandatory redemption on June 30, 2005 at a redemption price of $100 per
share.  Following such date and so long as
such mandatory redemption obligations had not been discharged in full, no
dividends could be paid or declared upon the Class A or Class B Common Stock,
or on any other capital stock ranking junior to or in parity with such $6.50
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock and no shares of Class A or Class B
Common Stock or such junior or parity stock could be redeemed or acquired for
any consideration by the Company.  Under
certain circumstances, the Company could redeem the stock, in whole or in part,
prior to the mandatory redemption date. 
Holders of such stock could put such shares to the Company at a price of
$100 per share upon the occurrence of certain events.

The Company recorded the $6.50 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at
its redemption value of $360.0 million and charged this amount, net of the par
value of the shares of nonvoting common stock exchanged, to stockholders’
equity in fiscal 1995.

F-27

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 13 – COMMON STOCK

As of June 30, 2004, the Company’s authorized common stock consists of
650 million shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, and 240
million shares of Class B Common Stock, par value $.01 per share.  Class B Common Stock is convertible into
Class A Common Stock, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time at
the option of the holder, on the basis of one share of Class A Common Stock for
each share of Class B Common Stock converted. 
Holders of the Company’s Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote
per share and holders of the Company’s Class B Common Stock are entitled to ten
votes per share.

Information about the Company’s common stock outstanding is as follows:

On September 18, 1998, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a
share repurchase program to repurchase a total of up to 8.0 million shares of
Class A Common Stock in the open market or in privately negotiated
transactions, depending on market conditions and other factors.  The Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase of up to 10.0 million additional shares of Class A Common Stock in
October 2002 and another 10.0 million in May 2004 increasing the total
authorization under the share repurchase program to 28.0 million shares.  As of June 30, 2004, approximately 16.7
million shares have been purchased under this program.

NOTE 14 – STOCK PROGRAMS

The Company has established the Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan, the
Fiscal 1999 Share Incentive Plan, the Fiscal 1996 Share Incentive Plan and the
Non-Employee Director Share Incentive Plan (collectively, the “Plans”) and,
additionally, has made available stock options and share units that were, or
will be, granted pursuant to these Plans and certain employment agreements.  These stock-based compensation programs are
described below.

Total net compensation expense attributable to the granting of share
units and the increase in value of existing share units was $7.8 million and
$1.4 million in fiscal 2004 and 2003, respectively.  Total net compensation income attributable to
the granting of share units and the related decrease in value of existing share
units was $0.2 million in fiscal 2002.

F-28

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Share Incentive Plans

The Plans provide for the issuance of 30,750,000 shares to be awarded
in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights and other stock awards
to key employees and stock options, stock awards and stock units to
non-employee directors of the Company. 
As of June 30, 2004, 4,083,900 shares of Class A Common Stock were
reserved and were available to be granted pursuant to the Plans.  The exercise period for all stock options
generally may not exceed ten years from the date of grant.  Pursuant to the Plans, stock option awards in
respect of 2,693,500, 6,651,200 and 2,175,300 shares were granted in fiscal
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and share units in respect of 62,100, 57,800
and 50,000 shares were granted in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.  During fiscal 2004, there
were no share units converted while in fiscal 2003, approximately 800 share
units were converted into shares of Class A Common Stock.  During fiscal 2002, 40,700 share units were
cancelled without the issuance of any shares, but the value of such units was
transferred to a deferred compensation account. 
Generally, the stock options become exercisable at various times through
February 2008, while the share units will be paid out in shares of Class A
Common Stock at a time to be determined by the Company.  In the case of
one senior executive, his share units may be converted by the Company into a
cash equivalent amount that would be placed in his deferred compensation
account.

In addition to awards made by the Company, certain outstanding stock
options were assumed as part of the October 1997 acquisition of Sassaby.  Of the 221,200 originally issued options to
acquire shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock, 4,100 were outstanding as
of June 30, 2004, all of which were exercisable and will expire through May
2007.

Executive Employment Agreements

The executive employment agreements provide for the issuance of
11,400,000 shares to be awarded in the form of stock options and other stock
awards to certain key executives.  The
Company has reserved 660,400 shares of its Class A Common Stock pursuant to
such agreements as of June 30, 2004.  In
accordance with such employment agreements approximately 1,200, 1,400, and 900
share units were granted in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  The reserve is solely for dividend
equivalents on units granted pursuant to one of the agreements.  Most of the stock options granted pursuant to
the agreements are exercisable and expire at various times from November 2005
through July 2009.  The share units may
be paid out in shares of Class A Common Stock at a time to be determined by the
Company, but no later than 90 days subsequent to the termination of employment
of the executive, or the Company may convert all or some of the share units
into a cash equivalent amount that would be placed in the executive’s deferred
compensation account.

A summary of the Company’s
stock option programs as of June 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, and changes during
the years then ended, is presented below:

(a) Does not include
approximately 1,467,300 shares which will become exercisable on July 1, 2004
due to the retirement of an executive on June 30, 2004, based on the original
terms of the option grant.

F-29

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Summarized information about
the Company’s stock options outstanding and exercisable at June 30, 2004 is as
follows:

Outstanding

Exercisable

Exercise

Price Range

Options (a)

Average

Life (b)

Average

Price (c)

Options (a)

Average

Price (c)

$3.10

4.1

3.3

$

3.10

4.1

$

3.10

$13.00 to $20.813

1,369.3

1.4

13.05

1,369.3

13.05

$21.313 to $30.52

5,024.7

3.1

23.89

4,625.4

23.39

$31.875 to $47.625

16,313.2

7.0

36.05

7,820.5

37.12

$49.75 to $53.50

6,238.5

5.1

51.74

5,688.5

51.93

$3.10 to $53.50

28,949.8

36.23

19,507.8

36.49

(a)           Shares in thousands.

(b)           Weighted average contractual life remaining in years.

(c)           Weighted average exercise price.

NOTE 15 –
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Total rental expense included in the accompanying consolidated
statements of earnings was $166.8 million in fiscal 2004, $147.5 million in
fiscal 2003 and $142.5 million in fiscal 2002. 
At June 30, 2004, the future minimum rental commitments under long-term
operating leases are as follows:

In July 2003, the Company
entered into a settlement agreement with the plaintiffs, the other Manufacturer
Defendants (as defined below) and the Department Store Defendants (as defined
below) in a consolidated class action lawsuit that had been pending in the
Superior Court of the State of California in Marin County since 1998.  In connection with the settlement, the case
has been refiled in the United States District Court for the Northern District
of California on behalf of a nationwide class of consumers of prestige
cosmetics in the United States.  The
settlement requires Court approval and, if approved by the Court, will result
in the plaintiffs’ claims being dismissed, with prejudice, in their
entirety.  There has been no finding or
admission of any wrongdoing by the Company in this lawsuit.  The Company entered into the settlement
agreement solely to avoid protracted and costly litigation.  In connection with the settlement agreement,
the defendants, including the Company, will provide consumers with certain free
products and pay the plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees.  To meet its obligations under the settlement,
the Company took a special pre-tax charge of $22.0 million, or $13.5 million
after-tax, equal to $.06 per diluted common share in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2003.  The charge did not have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition.  In the Federal action, the plaintiffs,
purporting to represent a class of all U.S. residents who purchased prestige
cosmetics products at retail for personal use from eight department stores
groups that sold such products in the United States (the “Department Store
Defendants”), alleged that the Department Store Defendants, the Company and
eight other manufacturers of cosmetics (the “Manufacturer Defendants”)
conspired to fix and maintain retail prices and to limit the supply of prestige
cosmetics products sold by the Department Store Defendants in violation of
state and Federal laws.  The plaintiffs
sought, among other things, treble damages, equitable relief, attorneys’ fees,
interest and costs.

F-30

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In 1998, the Office of the
Attorney General of the State of New York (the “State”) notified the Company
and ten other entities that they are potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”)
with respect to the Blydenburgh landfill in Islip, New York.  Each PRP may be jointly and severally liable
for the costs of investigation and cleanup, which the State estimates to be $16
million.  In 2001, the State sued other
PRPs in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York to recover
such costs in connection with the site. 
In June 2004, the State added the Company and other PRPs as defendants
in this matter.  The Company and certain
other PRPs have engaged in settlement discussions which through August 6, 2004
have been unsuccessful.  The Company
intends to vigorously defend the pending claims.  While no assurance can be given as to the
ultimate outcome, management believes that the resolution of the matter will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial
condition.

In 1998, the State notified the
Company and fifteen other entities that they are PRPs with respect to the
Huntington/East Northport landfill. The cleanup costs are estimated at $20
million.  No litigation has
commenced.  The Company and other PRPs
are in discussions with the State regarding possible settlement of the
matter.  While no assurance can be given
as to the ultimate outcome, management believes that the resolution of the
matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated
financial condition.

In January 2004, the Portuguese
Tax Administration issued a report alleging that a subsidiary of the Company
had income subject to tax in Portugal for the three fiscal years ended June 30,
2002.  The Company’s subsidiary has been
operating in the Madeira Free Trade Zone since 1989 under license from the
Madeira Development Corporation and, in accordance with such license and the
laws of Portugal, the Company believes that its income is not subject to
Portuguese income tax.  The subsidiary
has filed an appeal of the finding to the Portuguese Secretary of State for
Fiscal Matters.  As of August 6, 2004, no
formal tax assessment has been made. 
While no assurance can be given as to the ultimate outcome, management
believes that the resolution of the matter will not have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition.

The Company is involved in various routine legal proceedings incident
to the ordinary course of its business. 
In management’s opinion, the outcome of pending legal proceedings,
separately and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s business or consolidated financial results.

NOTE 16 – NET UNREALIZED INVESTMENT GAINS

Under SFAS No. 115, “Accounting
for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” available-for-sale
securities are recorded at market value. 
Unrealized holding gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, on
available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and are reported as a
component of stockholders’ equity until realized.  The Company’s investments subject to the
provisions of SFAS No. 115 are treated as available-for-sale and, accordingly,
the applicable investments have been adjusted to market value with a
corresponding adjustment, net of tax, to net unrealized investment gains in
accumulated other comprehensive income. 
Included in accumulated other comprehensive income was an unrealized
investment gain (net of deferred taxes) of $0.1 million and $0.7 million at
June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

NOTE 17 –
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

Supplemental disclosure of
significant non-cash transactions

As a result of stock option
exercises, the Company recorded tax benefits of $19.3 million, $7.9 million and
$2.9 million during fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, which are
included in additional paid-in capital in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements.

As of June 30, 2004, the
Company had a current liability and an equal and offsetting decrease in
long-term debt of $12.5 million reflecting the fair market value of an interest
rate swap which was classified as a fair value hedge of the 6% Senior Notes
(see Note 8).  As of June 30, 2003, the
Company had a current asset and an equal and offsetting increase in long-term
debt of $8.1 million reflecting the fair market value of an interest rate swap
which was classified as a fair value hedge of the 6% Senior Notes.

F-31

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 18 –
SEGMENT DATA AND RELATED INFORMATION

Reportable operating segments,
as defined by SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information,” include components of an enterprise about which separate
financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief
operating decision maker (the “Chief Executive”) in deciding how to allocate
resources and in assessing performance. 
As a result of the similarities in the manufacturing, marketing and
distribution processes for all of the Company’s products, much of the
information provided in the consolidated financial statements is similar to, or
the same as, that reviewed on a regular basis by the Chief Executive.  Although the Company operates in one business
segment, beauty products, management also evaluates performance on a product
category basis.

While the Company’s results of
operations are also reviewed on a consolidated basis, the Chief Executive
reviews data segmented on a basis that facilitates comparison to industry
statistics.  Accordingly, net sales,
depreciation and amortization, and operating income are available with respect
to the manufacture and distribution of skin care, makeup, fragrance, hair care
and other products.  These product
categories meet the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s definition of
operating segments and, accordingly, additional financial data are provided
below.  The “other” segment includes the
sales and related results of ancillary products and services that do not fit
the definition of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care.

The Company evaluates segment
performance based upon operating income, which represents earnings before income
taxes, minority interest and net interest income or expense.  The accounting policies for each of the
reportable segments are the same as those described in the summary of
significant accounting policies, except for depreciation and amortization charges,
which are allocated, primarily, based upon net sales.  The assets and liabilities of the Company are
managed centrally and are reported internally in the same manner as the
consolidated financial statements; thus, no additional information is produced for
the Chief Executive or included herein.

F-32

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

F-33

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 19 –
UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA

The following summarizes the
unaudited quarterly operating results of the Company for the years ended June
30, 2004 and 2003:

NOTE 20 –
UNAUDITED SUBSEQUENT EVENT

On August 24, 2004, the
Company’s Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved the
conversion of $16.1 million in share units into a cash equivalent amount to be
placed in a deferred compensation account. 
This conversion will be reflected in the Company’s first quarter of
fiscal 2005 and does not affect the classification of these share units as of
June 30, 2004.

Pursuant to the Company’s
authorized share repurchase program, subsequent to June 30, 2004 and through
August 31, 2004, the Company purchased an additional 1.3 million shares of
Class A Common Stock for $54.9 million bringing the cumulative total of
acquired shares to 18.0 million under this program.

F-34

Report
of

Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and
Stockholders

The Estée Lauder Companies
Inc.:

Under date of August 6, 2004,
we reported on the consolidated balance sheets of The Estée Lauder Companies
Inc. and subsidiaries as of June 30, 2004 and 2003, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive
income and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended June
30, 2004, as contained in the annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
2004.  Our report refers to a change in
accounting for goodwill and intangible assets in fiscal 2002 and a change in
accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of both
liabilities and equity in fiscal 2004. 
In connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated
financial statements, we also audited the related consolidated financial
statement schedule (Schedule II – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts).  This financial statement schedule is the
responsibility of the Company’s management. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on this financial statement
schedule based on our audits.

In our opinion, such financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

S-1

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

SCHEDULE
II

– VALUATION AND QUALIFYING
ACCOUNTS

Three Years Ended June 30, 2004

(In millions)

(a)

Includes
amounts written-off, net of recoveries.

(b)

Included
in other accrued liabilities.

S-2

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

INDEX TO EXHIBITS

*  Incorporated herein by reference.

†  Exhibit is a management contract or
compensatory plan or arrangement.